# How to USE Productivity Advice (Instead of Just Consuming It)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0QdUE8q5Tpc
How do you actually USE the productivity tips and advice that you're consuming? In this video, I'll share a process for doing just that.
📺 Watch this video without AdSense on Nebula: https://nebula.tv/videos/thomasfrank-how-to-use-productivity-advice-instead-of-just-consuming-it

🛠 COURSES AND RESOURCES: 
Notion channel - https://www.youtube.com/c/ThomasFrankExplains
Free Notion templates - https://thomasjfrank.com/templates/
Learn Notion - https://thomasjfrank.com/fundamentals
Productivity and Habits courses - https://thomasjfrank.com/courses/

🦙 SPONSOR: 
Get a 2-month free trial of Skillshare with unlimited learning by signing up here: https://skl.sh/thomasfrank24

🐦 SOCIAL STUFF:
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly
Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Music Channel ➔ https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCmqK2G-3AL_WP5KffH_wqAA
Spotify Study Playlist ➔ https://open.spotify.com/user/thomasfrank09/playlist/4ETfiRPHVmUFLF6q0g8Fux?si=IPfx3dAgQ1SIUwhh5YEQMQ

🔗 VIDEO LINKS:
My reading challenge: https://collegeinfogeek.com/25pages/

👐 BUSINESS:
Please contact my agent at thomasfrank@standard.tv

💰 I'm fortunate enough to work with great sponsors who support my work, so I don't use Patreon or any other crowdfunding service. However, if you'd like to support a worthy cause, consider donating to help more children get access to a high-quality education: https://fundraise.pencilsofpromise.org/fundraiser/1489730
**Keywords:** thomas frank, productivity, education, how to learn, productivity tips, productivity advice, life hacks, life advice, how to take action, how to stick to your goals, habits, stick to your habits, how to actually study, how to actually do your work, just do it, laziness, how to stop being lazy, 
**Date:** 2019-06-26

## Transcript
 Hey, what was going on guys? So, do you ever feel like there's just no point to reading productivity in self-improven articles? I mean, you pull it up, you read it, or scan through it, you get vaguely motivated for 10 minutes or so. But after that, it really does nothing to change your life. And all these articles, even though they're important to be really, really helpful, don't actually seem to be helping. Well, that's what I want to talk about today. I want to talk about how to actually use the productivity tips in the self-improven advice that you read. And to start out, I want to share one of my favorite quotes in the world, which comes from Derek Sivers, who is a writer, and who's also the guy who founded CDBaby.com and subsequently sold it for millions of dollars about 20 years ago. The quote goes like this, if more information was the answer, then we'd all be billionaires with perfect abs. And I think that today, this quote is more pointing that it has ever been because we now have unprecedented access to information and more specifically self-improven advice. 50 years ago, people probably had the ad copy of how to win friends and influence people sitting on their bookshelves, but now, in less than 30 seconds, you can bombard your eyes with more productivity tips in life hacks than you can handle. And literally, right now, someone's probably publishing another one of those articles about 47 habits that will make 2019 your best year ever. Oh, and don't forget that number 18 will literally blow your mouth. But again, if you're like most people, you probably scan through that article and then proceed to do absolutely nothing with it. I remember time back in college when a teacher of mine was lamenting a very similar problem in one of my classes. He said, if I have 100 students in this room, probably only 75 are actually going to pay attention to what I'm saying. And of those 75 people, probably 20 of them will remember what I said after the test is over. And of that group, maybe one or two actually apply it over the long term. In fact, the matter is, very few people actually use the information that they intake. And the problem is exacerbated on the internet because there's just so much of it going around. There's so much to take in and you can feel absolutely overwhelmed when you read these kinds of articles or watch these kinds of videos. So that begs the question, how do you make sure that you are among that group of one or two people who actually applies the information and makes meaningful improvements in your life? Well, today, I want to share a process that can help you do that. So here's how to actually use the productivity tips that you find on channels like mine or anywhere else Step number one, find the one problem or goal that you want to solve above all others and prioritize it. As the author Greg Macauan talks about in his excellent book Essentialism, a true priority is singular. You need to make a decision here and note that decision originally comes from a Latin word meeting to cut off. You need to pick one path right now and cut off the others. Now note that this isn't a permanent choice. You can change your priorities later. And it also doesn't mean that you can't be working on more than one thing at once. But to make notable progress quickly, you want to know ahead of time which one is most important. Otherwise, you're going to run into that all two common part of the day where you have very little time or energy left over, but you still have to read and meditate and exercise. Oh, and practice guitar as well. And then you don't really know which one to cut. So by setting a priority, and by knowing the answer to that question of which one is most important, before hand, you're going to save yourself a lot of time and a lot of dead ends. All right. So once you've decided on your priority, it's now time to go and try to find resources or tutorials and guides that can help you make that goal or reality. And if you're a beginner, it could be a really good idea to go out and find somebody else's tutorial or someone else's tips and follow them exactly. But if they don't work, then you don't want to reject them outright. Instead, you wanted to still down their basic concepts and then try to use those concepts in a way that works for you to adapt them. So for example, let's say that I tell you that I get up every morning, really early and I read for an hour. And you want to do the same, but you have class or work really early in the morning, and you just can't make that work with your sleep schedule. Well, realize that the point here is that I'm carving out a specific time in the day where no one can interrupt me, where I can actually make that reading happen, not that I'm doing it in the morning. So how could you work with your own schedule and your own constraints to gain that same benefit? Maybe instead of in the morning, you read after lunch or after school. The specific way that I'm implementing the technique often isn't the point. So you look a little bit deeper and find the logic behind why I'm doing what I'm doing and then adapt it to your own specific situation. Case in point, the third step of my process has a specific prescribed number in it, because I think a really great way to build a habit to actually put a productivity technique into action is to do a 30 day challenge around it. Through this, you want to find a way to break your goal down into measurable steps and then take at least one of those steps every single day for 30 days. And while you do this, you also want to keep track of your progress on a calendar or a habit tracking app or whatever else works for you. I've had some great results doing challenges like this. For one on Instagram last year, I did a challenge called CIG 30 Day where I made sure to do some intense exercise every single day for 30 days and put it on Instagram and doing that helped me get back into the habit of doing intense exercise on a daily basis, which I'd kind of fallen out of at the time. And for another example, that actually tweaks the concept a little bit a couple of years ago, I gave myself a three month reading challenge where every day for three months I had read 25 pages of a non-fiction book. I could not fail, otherwise I'd have to pay my best friend Martin $100. And I didn't. And it also helped me to build a really strong reading habit going forward. Now, I do want to give you a couple of tips for doing this successfully. First, it can be a really good idea to decide beforehand what part of the day you're going to practice your habit or take the steps you decided to take. When you decide beforehand when you make a plan, like I'm going to do it in the morning or I'm going to do it before bed, then you often find the motivation to do it is a lot higher. There's a concrete plan up in your head. Secondly, at least in the beginning, make your steps small and input-based, meaning that they can be accomplished with just an input of time or effort instead of a specific outcome. So, for example, if your goal is to write a novel, then a beginning step that's probably going to be pretty difficult to accomplish each day is right in an entire chapter. But something that's definitely doable is right 100 words, or even 500 words. That brings us to the fourth step in the process, which is this. Don't wait for the perfect time to start. Instead, just get started now. Even if there's a constraint, just start now. Realize of the time at which you get the idea or the motivation to do something is the time where you're going to be the most excited to get started. So, even if you're going on vacation in two days from now, or you have a bunch of homework to do, if you can carve out the time to do those beginning steps, then start right now. Take advantage of that initial motivation and the novelty factor that you're experiencing in the moment. Also, right at the beginning, find a way to keep yourself accountable. Again, you can mark things off in a calendar, you can use a habit tracking app, or you can even keep it journal. And if you need an extra push, it can be a really good idea to ask somebody who cares about you, maybe a friend, or your parents, or even a teacher, to be an accountability partner, to at least review your entries, or ask you from time to time how you're doing. Finally, have a way to review your progress yourself. And remember, the 30-day challenge or any similar commitment device isn't the goal in itself. It's just the device to help you build the habits and actually make progress, but there should be a larger overarching goal, something that you want to eventually achieve. So, at regular intervals, sit down and review your progress. Ask yourself, is doing what I'm doing now, even if it's been working really well for 30 days, is it actually getting me any closer to my goal? If I've been writing five hundred words a day, do these 500 words even matter? Do I need to shift gears now and actually start editing whatever it down, or should I keep forging ahead? And even if things are going well, you should still continue to write down your progress at regular intervals. Because by doing this, you're going to get a record of your successes, which can help to motivate you on any particularly difficult days in the future, or on the next time you read a productivity tips article that makes you want to switch gears and go do something entirely different. And by successfully avoiding that temptation and keeping your motivation levels high through these reviews, you will continue to actually make progress on your goals. So, like I mentioned earlier in the video, one of the methods that I've used to actually spur action is the 30-day challenge. Things like my 30-day exercise challenge, or my reading challenge. These types of challenges are a great way to get started on something, to stay motivated, and to see significant progress in a relatively short amount of time. And if you want to learn how to set yourself up success with this particular type of challenge, then you might want to go watch through Rich Armstrong's course on Skillshare, called the Perfect 100 Day Project. In it, he teaches you how to intelligently pick the right challenge, how to structure it, and how to give yourself the best chance of sticking with it the entire time. Plus, since Rich's course is on Skillshare, taking it means you'll also have access to more than 28,000 other courses, many of which can help you make progress on your individual goals. If you're trying to improve your web development skills, there's a course for that. If you want to learn how to make great YouTube videos, there are courses for that too. And if you just want to learn how to get organized and stay on top of things, well, I made a course for you all about that, which has already been taken by almost 20,000 people. A premium membership on Skillshare, it gets you unlimited access to that entire library of courses, and it's really affordable as well, as their annual subscription is less than 10 bucks a month. And if you'd like to give it a try first, you can use the link in the description down below to get a two month unlimited trial for free. Big thanks goes out to Skillshare as always for sponsoring this video, and being a big supporter of my channel, and thank you for watching as well. Hopefully this video in particular was helpful, hopefully it helps you to cut through all the clutter and actually start making some progress, and if you enjoyed it, definitely hit that like button and get subscribed right there so you don't miss out on future videos when they come out. You can also click right there to get a free copy of my book on how to earn better grades, and also join my weekly newsletter, or click right over here to get one more video on this channel. Last but not least, to do I listen to our latest podcast episode, you can check that out right over here. Thanks again for watching, and I will see you in the next video.
