# How to Stop Being Constantly Overwhelmed
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1f8pBiCS9HQ
Get access to over 2,000 documentaries for 30 days on CuriosityStream: https://curiositystream.com/thomas - and use code "thomas" when you sign up!

Huge thanks to CuriosityStream for sponsoring this video and supporting my channel.

If you feel constantly overwhelmed - like you've always got too much to do and not enough time to do it in - then you're in the same boat that I've found myself in for several months.

Today, I'll walk you through the plan that I've been putting into action in order to strike a better work-life balance.

Get my book "10 Steps to Earning Awesome Grades" FREE: 
https://collegeinfogeek.com/get-better-grades/

Follow Me:
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly
Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Podcast ➔ https://www.youtube.com/TheCollegeInfoGeekPodcast

Get the "Never Stop Learning" shirt and more:

http://collegeinfogeek.com/merch

Subscribe to My Channel:
http://buff.ly/1vQP5ar

Links from the Video:

Podcast episode on burnout: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=goQs1SUsN98

Matt D'avella's video on burnout: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zHMfmcIWXT8

Strides habit tracker: https://www.stridesapp.com/

My Video Gear:
https://www.amazon.com/shop/thomasfrank

I used these icons in the thumbnail:

- https://www.toicon.com/icons/isometric_buy
- https://www.toicon.com/icons/flat-shadows_finish
- https://www.toicon.com/icons/isometric_chart
- https://www.toicon.com/icons/isometric_schedule
- https://www.toicon.com/icons/isometric_send
- https://www.toicon.com/icons/isometric_wait
**Keywords:** thomas frank, productivity, education, how to learn, studying, work life balance, overwhelmed, overwhelm, stress, too much to do, too much work, narrow down, opportunities, burnout, burn out, mental fatigue, mental burnout, priorities, how to choose priorities, how to prioritize, productivity tips, destress, less stress, habits, morning routine, daily habits, habit tracker, how to say no, say no, work life, work hours, working too many hours, working too much, 
**Date:** 2019-02-28

## Transcript
 For the past five or six months, I've spent the majority of my time feeling somewhat overwhelmed. Pretty much every single day I wake up and I feel like there's just too much to do, too much on my plate, and not enough time to get it all done. And this is a situation that I really can only blame myself for. For about the past six years, I've been a self-employed entrepreneur, which means there's no boss breathing down my neck. There's nobody specifically telling me that I have to get things done, because they want me to do them. It's really just me taking on more than I can handle. And I'm still kind of in this situation. But for the past few weeks, I've been taking some steps to rectify it, to actually fix the situation and bring back some balance into my life. So really what this video is going to be is me sharing the plan that I've outlined for myself, because I know that I'm not the only person dealing with this. I got a lot of emails, a lot of tweets, a lot of DMs on Instagram, from people who feel overwhelmed in their own lives, as well. So like I said before, a few weeks ago, I sat down, opened every no document, I started creating a plan for bringing back some balance into my life. And the first step to that plan was doing something that I'm going to call a reset sprint. Now, somewhat coincidentally, my friend Matt Dihevella just released a video on his channel a few days ago about burnout. And in that video, he talked about the reason for why so many people end up burning out. And the reason is that they keep sprinting. When you're an ambitious person, when you're an entrepreneur, trying to build a business, or you're student trying to get ahead, you have a lot on your plate, or you're just a professional who has a lot of things going on, you often take on sprints, where you make sacrifices. You don't get to the gym as often as you should, or you're making really quick, not so healthy meals. You're not sleeping as much as you should. And you have to make those sacrifices to get ahead. Sometimes extraordinary action is what is required for extraordinary results. But the problem is, once you get those extraordinary results, there are still more opportunities. In fact, once you become successful, there are more and more and more opportunities. And it's very tempting to take those on. And the situation that a lot of people find themselves in is that they keep taking these opportunities and the sprints never end, which leads to burnout and eventually leads to this feeling of being overwhelmed. So the key to not burning out is to make sure you're not always sprinting. Do sprints sometimes, but then eventually back off from that and actually bring some balance back into your life. So this is one thing that I'm definitely trying to do. But I did realize that if I wanted to really bring balance back into my life, there was one last sprint that I needed to do right now. And it was a reset sprint. I needed to put some time into reorganizing my life, because over the past several months, I've had so many different projects going on that a lot of my organizational systems kind of decay. I love that entropy that I like to talk about, seeped into them. So the first part of my plan has been reorganizing things, doing a little bit of a sprint to reorganize my to-do system, to reorganize my ever-note. Because I just moved to a new house, it's also a good time to evaluate what I own, see what I need to reorganize physically or get rid of or donate or just otherwise give away. So step number one, if you are constantly overwhelmed, then carve out some time to do one of these reset sprints. Evaluate all of your systems, your file organization system, your physical living space, and your workspace, your task manager, all of these things, and take some time to get them back into a state where they reflect reality and they are actually useful to you. All right. So after the reset sprint is done, step two of the plan is to re-establish your routine. This was really big for me because I was so overwhelmed because I constantly felt like I had to get things done at so much on my plate. I kind of let my routine fall by the way side. I would wake up each and every morning and think I have to get to work immediately. Otherwise, I'm going to run out of hours in the day. And the ironic part is this attitude of thinking I need to work all the time actually made me less effective. I know I wasn't using every single one of my hours as effectively as I possibly could. So letting my routine go to the wayside was really, it didn't gain me anything at all. So I have made a commitment to myself to rebuild my morning routines, rebuild my daily routines. And I know that even if I have a lot to do, that one to two hours window in the morning when I should be doing my habits is kind of off limits. Now, one thing that I want to bring up about doing this is that if you're going to re-establish your morning routine that used to be quite complicated, if you had a lot of habits that you were juggling and then they all sort of fell by the wayside because you got overwhelmed, it's probably not a good idea to try to pick up all of them at the same time again. And there's a concept from one of my favorite books, The Motivation Hacker by Nick Winter, called Success Spirals. And the often talks about how when you're building new habits, you have to start small and eventually you proved to yourself that you can remain consistent on a small number of habits or something that's kind of a small commitment. And over time, you add more and more difficulty. Maybe take on more habits or you add more difficulty to habits that are already in your routine and you kind of spiral up. But, crucially, if for some reason you fall off the horse, you're probably not going to be able to climb back on it at the exact same level you were. You have to go back to the beginning of the spiral and start easy again. Now, some people may be able to climb right back up and do exactly what they're doing before and that's great. But if you try it and it doesn't work, then go back to basics. Establish a really simple morning routine or a really simple set of habits, prove to yourself that you can do those going forward and then slowly work your way up from there. So, in my case that meant number one, getting on a habit tracker once more and I'm personally using an app called Strides for this. But number two, establishing a morning routine that was really simple at first. It was just waking up early, drinking a glass of water, taking care of my plants and doing some push-ups. That was it. I wasn't reading, I wasn't writing, I wasn't doing instrument practice. These are things that I want to bring back into my routine. But I knew when I was starting, if I wanted to remain consistent, it had to be simple. Of course, now that I've been doing those things for a few weeks and I've actually proved to myself that I can do them consistently, I've started to add some more things into the routine. So, now I'm waking up and I'm also reading for 25 minutes. I'm making sure to write for 10 minutes and I'm also practicing piano every single day. So, in summary, step two, re-establish your routines. And I think that even if you're spending time on your routines, remember that when you have these routines, you're a little bit more grounded. There's more structure in your life. And I think you're going to be able to be more efficient with your normal working hours when you have that structure. That brings us to my third step of the plan, which I think for me is actually the hardest one. And it's to define your priorities and learn to say no more often. So, one of the things that I really struggle with is that as my business has become more successful as the audience has grown, the opportunities have increased as well. And every time there's an opportunity, there's this little voice in my brain saying, you should go for that. Like, there's no reason not to go for that. You would be leaving money on the table or you'd be not helping as many people as you could if you left that opportunity on the table. But I also realized that one of my big priorities in life is the process of discovery, learning new things, of being able to pick up new skills. For example, like I said, I'm practicing piano every single day. This is something that's pretty recent in my life. And even though I'm basically completely new at it, it is a lot of fun. And I've noticed that every single time I sit down to the piano and practice, there's a breakthrough. Like, just the other day, I figured out how to play a three, two polyrhythm on the piano. And if you're somebody who's been playing the piano for quite a while, then that probably seems pretty trivial to you. But for me, it was something that my brain just could not do for like the first hour while I tried to do it. And when I finally figured it out, when I finally realized that one hand was doing one, two, one, two, and the other hand was doing one, two, three, one, two, three, one, two, three, at the same time, it was amazing. That feeling of discovery is something that I crave. And one of the problems is that with all the opportunities that come up in my business, there's like this voice in the back of my head that's kind of telling me, any time you spend on things you're not already good at, on things you're not already established at, like, playing the piano is wasted time. Because you could be using that time to make another video, you could be using that time to improve your website, to train your employees, all this kind of stuff. Why would you be using it on something that you're not established in? Your business is a force multiplier, and you're not using it. Plus there's zillion other people out there who are already way better at piano than you'll ever be, why would you do that? And this voice is toxic. And I realize that if I continually listen to it, if I continually put all my time into my business, just because I feel that the force multiplier is there, just because I feel like there's more opportunity there, I'm going to burn out. I'm going to feel overwhelmed because the desire for discovery is not going to go away. It's just going to be kind of stifled, but it's still going to be there and it's still going to cause me stress. So step three of the plan is to say no to more opportunities in my business, even if they are lucrative. Even if it seems like I would be a fool to leave them on the table. I have to learn to say no, because I need to have priorities. And one of those priorities is the joy of discovery. So I've actually printed out a list of my current priorities, and I've put it on the wall right there, and it says practice piano. Get back to a weekly schedule on the YouTube channel. Make sure I'm doing the things that are actually important to me and say no to anything that is going to block those. So hopefully this has helped pull in some way to you, and just to summarize really quick here, step one, do a reset sprint, get your systems back in order to be a physical or digital. It takes some time to really do this step two, re-establish your habits and routines. Don't give into temptation to let those things fall to the wayside because you feel like you don't have enough hours to do your work. Have work hours and have hours for your routines. And then finally step three to find your priorities going forward and then learn to say no more often. It's really difficult, but it's worth it. And if I might make a suggestion, one of those priorities should be, as my shirt says, to never stop learning, to maintain that constant joy of discovery. This is something that's really important to me, and I'm really trying to make more of a priority in my life. So if you aren't doing this already, then try to learn something new every single day, or at least every week. If you're like me, maybe start playing the piano, or pick up a new book, or possibly start watching a documentary on a service like CuriosityStream. CuriosityStream is an extensive and constantly updated collection of exclusive and high quality documentary. That was actually created by John Hendrix, who's the founder of the Discovery Channel, which was my absolute favorite TV channel when I was a kid. Now, unlike normal TV channels with CuriosityStream, you can access those documentaries on all of your devices whenever you want. They're in your web browser, they're on iOS and Android, they're on Roku, and on many other platforms as well. And once you start digging into the library, you're going to find tons of different documentaries and topics ranging from science, technology, to nature, and lots, lots more. And if you're looking for a recommendation of work to start, a documentary that I really enjoyed recently was called Order and Disorders, specifically the episode on the story of information, which traces the development of how we communicate with each other. Membership on CuriosityStream is really affordable. I just $2.99 per month. And if you go over to CuriosityStream.com slash Thomas and sign up, you're going to get 30 days of completely unlimited free access. So it's a great way to try out the service. A big thanks goes out to CuriosityStream for sponsoring this episode and being a big supporter of my channel. And as always, thank you guys so much for watching. Hopefully you found something useful in this video. And if you did, maybe consider hitting that like button or getting subscribed right there to get new videos from the coming out every single week. You can also click right there to get a copy of my book on how to earn better grades for free. Click right here to get one more video on this channel or follow me on Instagram at Tom Franklin. Thanks once again for watching guys, and I will see you in the next video.
