# The 5 Hour Rule
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=27fQl4oRlBI
Are the robots really coming for your job? While automation has been eliminating jobs for years, the answer isn't simply, "Yes" - especially if you can find a way to keep advancing alongside automation tech.
📺 Watch this video ad-free on Nebula: https://nebula.app/videos/thomas-frank-the-5-hour-rule

🛠 COURSES AND RESOURCES: 
Notion channel - https://www.youtube.com/c/ThomasFrankExplains
Free Notion templates - https://thomasjfrank.com/templates/
Learn Notion - https://thomasjfrank.com/fundamentals
Productivity and Habits courses - https://thomasjfrank.com/courses/

🦙 SPONSOR: 
Be one of the first 200 people to sign up to get 20% your annual Brilliant subscription: https://www.brilliant.org/thomasfrank

🐦 SOCIAL STUFF:
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly
Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Music Channel ➔ https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCmqK2G-3AL_WP5KffH_wqAA
Spotify Study Playlist ➔ https://open.spotify.com/user/thomasfrank09/playlist/4ETfiRPHVmUFLF6q0g8Fux?si=IPfx3dAgQ1SIUwhh5YEQMQ

🔗 VIDEO LINKS:
Michael D. Simmons' original article: https://medium.com/accelerated-intelligence/the-5-hour-rule-if-youre-not-spending-5-hours-per-week-learning-you-re-being-irresponsible-791c3f18f5e6

👐 BUSINESS:
Please contact my agent at thomasfrank@standard.tv

🎞 SPECIAL THANKS
Thanks to TanRu Nomad for graciously providing the VisiCalc footage - watch his video here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ii3PDjJCCQ4
Thanks to Charles Cornell for the cameo: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC4PIiYewI1YGyiZvgNlJNrA

💰 I'm fortunate enough to work with great sponsors who support my work, so I don't use Patreon or any other crowdfunding service. However, if you'd like to support a worthy cause, consider donating to help more children get access to a high-quality education: https://fundraise.pencilsofpromise.org/fundraiser/1489730
**Keywords:** thomas frank, productivity, education, how to learn, studying, automation, five hour rule, 5 hour rule, warren buffett, bill gates, oprah, obama, constant learners, constant learning, never stop learning, how to learn faster, learn faster, learn new skills, skill acquisition, knowledge, self improvement, personal development, self discipline, wake up early, self help, life lessons, how to live well, 
**Date:** 2020-07-20

## Transcript
 This video is sponsored by Brilliant. The robots are coming. You've read the headline, of course. You've heard all the hyperbole. The robots are coming, and well, you'd better bat down the hatches and stock up on the canned beans, because they're coming for our jobs. And for some jobs, well, that's absolutely true. The transportation industry, just to give you one example, will largely be powered by self-driving tech in your future, obviating the need for human drivers. And for something that might hit bit closer to home for those of you with more desk-bound jobs, there are now algorithms that can even write news reports. In fact, in 2016, the Washington Post's Heliograph bought wrote over 850 sports articles, and that was four years ago. How long until robots can create convincing online videos? In fact, how do you know that I'm human? It's not all bad news, though. And don't worry, I'm actually human. I'm not a robot. Like you, I enjoy ingesting organic material, both for enjoyment and refreshment and hydration. Ah, necessary. But more importantly, there is a simple rule that you can follow to ensure that your opportunities for employment and success in your career, continue to be plentiful, even as automation tech improves, and competition for jobs heats up. It's called The Five Hour Rule. And in this video, we're going to explain exactly what it is and how you can use it in your own life. But first, let's sit the stage with a little story. Hit your arrows. Can I control you for one of those flashback sounds real quick? Sure thing. It's 1978, and all over the world, accounting clerks are recording data and spreadsheets. Except, these spreadsheets are written on paper. Physical paper. And even a small recalculation can require hours to spend tediously erasing and refilling cells, which is a huge reason why these clerks are employed full-time. When you're later, the world's first electronic spreadsheet is released. It's called Visicalk. And it becomes known as the world's first killer app. Just as Halo made the Xbox a must buy back in 2002, Visicalk helped make the Apple II computer a success. It also erased hundreds of thousands of jobs. All those accounting clerks who have once made their living writing, racing, and rewriting data into paper spreadsheets, saw their jobs taken over by Visicalk and its many successors, which could do the work much faster. But that's not the end of the story. While it may be true that there are 400,000 fewer accounting clerk jobs in the US today than there were back in 1980, it's also true that there are now over 600,000 additional regular accounting jobs. While the electronic spreadsheet may have eliminated some kinds of jobs, it also created others as well. With the ability to quickly make changes and run calculations on a computer, the demand for high-level accounting, financial analysis, and a lot of other really quite nerdy services, but also quite useful services went way, way up. Accountants could now do things that were either impossible, or at the very least, very time-consuming in the past. As the podcaster Tim Hartford once put it, automation reshapes the workplace in ways much subtler than a robot took my job. Automation can also lead to the creation of jobs that involve more creativity and more strategic thinking, both of which humans are pretty good at, but that also leads us to a conclusion. If you want to succeed in an automation-driven future, then you must keep learning. You have to maximize your ability to think creatively, and you have to become adept at working with these new tools and systems, and it's not just automation driving this need for increased learning either. If automation is the rock, then our increasingly connected economy, which enables remote work and a vastly larger talent pool, is the hard place. If you rest on your laurels, you'll find yourself caught between them. And that brings us to the five-hour rule. This rule simply states that you should dedicate one hour per day to learning five days per week. The author Michael D. Simmons came up with this rule after observing that Ben Franklin dedicated one hour per day on his daily schedule to reading and generally expanding his knowledge. He also noticed a similar pattern in figures like Barack Obama, Oprah Winfrey, Bill Gates, and Warren Buffett. His conclusion is that the constant among all these people's success is their commitment to continually learning, proving their skills and their general knowledge across the entirety of their careers. And by doing so, they're always opening themselves up to new opportunities. They're never resting on their laurels. So that's really the five-hour rule in a nutshell. It's an incredibly simple idea. In fact, you could print it on a t-shirt, and in fact, I actually do. But there are probably two big questions sticking in your mind right now. One of them being, how do I make time for constant learning, especially if you're somebody who's really busy with work already? And number two, what should I be learning? So what I want to do with the rest of this video is answer both of those questions, and let's first start with how to make time. First, you have to acknowledge the trade-off. In Simmons article about the five-hour rule, he notes that Franklin's daily hour of work actually caused him to accomplish less in terms of short-term productivity. However, over time, the gains he made through that constant learning accelerated they added up, and they propelled him to greater heights than that extra hour ever could have. Franklin understood that learning, constant learning, is a long-term investment. All right, on to more practical advice, starting with this tip, which is upside down, I guess. But do it first thing in the morning. If you find it hard to make yourself disciplined enough to do your independent learning after work, then get up a little bit earlier in the morning and do it first. I have found that like the blood pulling into my head, making me less and less eloquent and able to think over time as I do this particular shot, as the day wears on, my willpower tends to go down. But if I have a deadline or a boss or some kind of assignment, hang over my head, the lack of willpower doesn't matter so much. So take advantage of the maximized willpower at the beginning of the day and do your learning then. Secondly, work to eliminate low value activities from your life. See, even if you've made that trade-off acknowledgement in your head on an individual day, it's quite easy to say, I just don't have time for that hour of learning. I just have so much work to do. This is also a justification we tend to use for skipping workouts, particularly when it's leg day. But I would encourage you to examine that claim for yourself. And if possible, test it. You can actually do this using an app like rescue time, which will track the time you spend on the apps and websites that you go to. And when you see just how much time you spend on things like social media or mindless YouTube binges of which this could be one, well, you're going to find out that you do in fact have the ability to cut some of those low value activities from your life and make time for that hour of learning. The brings us to question number two. What should you be learning with this dedicated daily learning time? Well, since we're talking about increasing your career opportunities, even as automation takes over more and more low-level jobs, I want to talk about three specific types of learning. First, learning that directly impacts the skill set you're currently using in your career. For example, as a YouTuber, my main technical skill set is making videos, setting up lights, turning on the camera, all that kind of stuff. As a YouTuber, the technical requirements for getting videos made are pretty low. But that didn't stop me from taking a full week earlier this year to read this workflow guide put out by a company called frame.io. And this is a 100,000 word guide that goes through the process used by professional filmmaking teams, like actual Hollywood studios and documentary crews, and helps them get their bigger works completed and put on to platforms like Netflix and the big screen movie theaters. And not only does this guide go through the entire process, starting with filming, going to editing, covering color rating, sound, VFX, it also gets into really technical territory, exploring color spaces, bit depth, and garbage maths, and all kinds of stuff that I'd really never heard before, or at least had never explored. And again, as a YouTuber, my productions are a lot smaller, and I didn't really need to learn this stuff in order to do my job, but learning it improved my craft. I actually able to learn some things that helped me to make the workflow that we use for my channel a lot more efficient. For just one tiny example we found after reading this guide that the video code that we were filming with was actually pretty bad for editing, and that was why we were having a lot of sluggishness in Premiere Pro. Well, one of the reasons why the other reason being Premiere Pro. But once we changed to a more edit-friendly codec, things got a lot better. And if this example teaches you anything, it's that no matter what field you're in, there's always some area where you could broaden or deepen your knowledge, so go find it. Secondly, we have learning that decreases domain dependence. Essentially, domain dependence is what happens when a person has a ton of expertise and skills in one particular area, but they have an inability to transfer those skills to new fields, even if the two fields have a lot of underlying similarities, and people with domain dependence are not very adaptable. But luckily, the fix here is pretty simple. You seem to take your skills that you already have, and spend some time applying them to challenges that are slightly different than what you're used to. In other words, you want to put yourself in what's called a wicked learning environment, which is the opposite of a kind learning environment. Kind environments have well-defined rules and often perfect feedback mechanisms that show you exactly what you did wrong when you made a mistake. The game of chess is a great example here. But if you spend all of your time in environments like these, then you're never really developing your ability to deal with unforeseen challenges. So, find a way at least sometimes to make your learning environment a bit more wicked. For instance, switching up the tools that you use sometimes. I've found that the time I've spent building spreadsheets and big formulas in Google Sheets has actually made me better able to think about the templates and databases that I've built inside of Notion. These are two very different tools, but they share a lot of the same underlying structures. And I found that time spent in either one makes me better at both of them. Finally, we have time spent learning skills that I think everyone should know. These are skills that will both improve your life, but also sometimes expand your career opportunities. I'm talking about skills like public speaking, like being able to evaluate statistics well, budgeting and investing your money wisely, learning how to think logically, and to bring this all-around full circle, learning how to make and use spreadsheets. Seriously, a good working knowledge of Excel and Google Sheets can be a really helpful thing. Right now, my fiance and I are actually starting to look at buying a house and the housing price calculator that I built for myself in Google Sheets, which honestly wasn't that hard to do, has been really helpful for showing us how much we probably pay per month given certain house prices and certain down payment amounts. Whatever you decide to learn, the important thing is that you commit to life long learning. I've seen a lot of people graduate school land a comfortable job and then become complacent, which is a dangerous state to be in. So whatever you do, just keep learning. Now, if you're already committed to continue learning, then one resource you may want to check out to further that is brilliant. We talked earlier about how creative and analytical thinking are both hugely beneficial as automation technology advances, and these are the exact types of thinking that brilliant is designed to help you improve. For example, their computer science fundamentals course doesn't just throw a bunch of code to you. Instead, it helps you think about algorithms abstractly, so you understand how they work at a fundamental level. And having a firm grasp in these concepts is even more important than knowing how to code in any one particular language. These concepts make you more adaptable. Though I will note that Brilliant does have a great Python programming course. And that course, alongside Brilliant's other courses, across math, science, and computer science, all focus on active hands-on learning. So you'll find yourself progressing more quickly and staying interested for longer. In the library, you're going to find a full math suite ranging from basic number theory, all the way up to vector calculus and finance maths. So you can use that to progressively go through entire math education along with science courses, including one on electricity and magnetism, and computer science courses covering machine learning, search engines, and, like I said before, algorithms. So if you want to start improving your problem-solving abilities and learn an active hands-on way, then get started by going over to Brilliant.org slash Thomas Frank, which you will find in the description down below. And if you're one of the first 200 people to use that link to sign up, you're even going to get 20% off their annual premium subscription. Guys, that's it. Thank you so much for watching. If you enjoyed this video and found it helpful, maybe consider gently fist bumping that like button with your middle knuckle, you do have to be specific here. And if you're looking for something additional to watch, I'm now doing some Q&A videos over on my Instagram, multiple videos per week. So if you want to follow me down in the description down below, I'll have a link and you can get those videos whenever I post them. Beyond that, subscribe right there. If you haven't done so already, otherwise click the other videos I've got linked on the screen right now. If you want to keep watching stuff here on YouTube, or don't do any of that and go do whatever you want, as always, I'm not your dad.
