# 5 Powerful Quotes That Changed the Way I Think
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4yTphp5cgE0
Get a free audiobook and 30 days of Audible by signing up at https://www.audible.com/thomas or texting "thomas" to 500-500.

Huge thanks to Audible for sponsoring this video and supporting my channel!

Today I'm sharing 5 of my favorite quotes of all time. Some of these come from personal friends and mentors, some come from public figures I admire, but all of them have helped me improve some aspect of my life substantially - be it my work ethic, my decision making skills, or my ability to change my mind and accept being wrong.

Listen to the podcast episode that inspired this video - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UfrAwxhBKvE

Get my book "10 Steps to Earning Awesome Grades" FREE: 
https://collegeinfogeek.com/get-better-grades/

Your Brain is a Library of "Stuff That Works" - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A-PY9VCh3-o

Follow Me:
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly
Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Podcast ➔ https://www.youtube.com/TheCollegeInfoGeekPodcast

Subscribe to My Channel:
http://buff.ly/1vQP5ar

Links from the Video:

HPMoR - http://www.hpmor.com/

My Video Gear:
https://www.amazon.com/shop/thomasfrank

Background music via Musicbed. Get a 30-day free trial of awesome music for your videos: https://mscbd.fm/thmsfr
**Keywords:** thomas frank, productivity, education, how to learn, studying, best quotes, inspirational quotes, top quotes, life changing, charisma on command, will smith, bruce lee, tao of jeet kune do, charlie houpert, eliezer yudkowsky, eliezer yudkowsky rationality, methods of rationality, quotes, famous quotes, sayings, motivational quotes, motivation, life quotes, inspiration, good quotes, 
**Date:** 2019-03-29

## Transcript
 If you've been following my channel for any length of time, then you probably know already that I am a sucker for a good quote. I love putting them in my script, I love building little animations for them. So today I'm going to double down on that love of quotes and share five quotes that are very, very meaningful to me. Some of these quotes come from people that I know personally, some come from just public figures and famous people that I admire, but each quote on this list represents an idea that has helped me to make a big improvement to some area of my life. Be it to my work ethic or my ability to make decisions or my ability to update my beliefs. These are all things that I try to live by and that's why I want to share them with you today. And to start things off, let's just jump immediately to my favorite quote of all time, which comes from Bruce Lee in his book The Doubt of G2Kudo. Research your own experience. Absorb what is useful, reject what is useless, and add what is essentially your own. This quote from Bruce Lee is a constant reminder of the fact that as we go through life, we're essentially building a library of stuff that works in our brains, which means that not all the advice we receive from other people as we go through life is going to be useful to us. Not all advice is applicable in every single situation or to every single person. And if you want a great example of this, picture the CEO of a giant corporation like markbeniafsalesforce.com or Jeff Bezos talking to a brand new entrepreneur, somebody who's maybe 19 years old just getting their start. If Jeff Bezos or Markbeniafs said, the best thing you can possibly do right now to help your company grow is higher a bunch of assistance so you can delegate all of your work. Well, that would be terrible advice for that person who was just getting started. Because somebody like Jeff Bezos has a lot of money, has a lot of capital resources, but doesn't have a whole lot of personal time given all the responsibilities and projects he's got going on. So for Jeff Bezos or Markbeniafs, some powerful CEO delegation hiring people, that makes a lot of sense. But for that scrappy first time entrepreneur is just trying to get their business off the ground, they probably don't have a whole lot of capital in the bank, but what they do have is time. Maybe some time after work every single night where they can work on their thing. So for them being scrappy, having that DIY mindset is a much better course of action to take than to attempt to use what little funds they have to hire someone. All right, so the second quote on my list actually comes from my friend Charlie Hooper, who runs the excellent channel charisma on command. And it's very, very simple. He told this to me, I think two years ago at VidCon. He simply said, what is your art and what is your ego? And he said this in response to me kind of telling him how I was having trouble delegating the editing duties on my channel, which I have since done, but back then I had a lot of work on my plate editing videos took way more hours than it should have and I had other projects that I was kind of letting kind of go to the back burner. And I had this feeling at the time that me editing my own videos. And basically, having my hand in every single element of the production of my videos was what made my channel successful. But of course, this is entirely ego talking. I'm not the only person in the world who can edit video. In fact, there are many more talented editors out there than myself. And that is a statement that is true for basically every other part of a production process. They're better writers. They're better hosts. They're better editors animators. Whatever role you can think of, there's somebody out there more talented than me. And Charlie understood this before I did and better than I did, which is why he told me, ask yourself, what is your art? What is the thing that you can contribute the best to the thing that you're creating? And what is just your ego? What elements in the process are you doing just because you have this false belief that you need to be doing them? And I sat back and asked myself, what is my am? What is my ego? And I came to the conclusion that, well, what I really contribute, what I really bring to the table more than anything else is my ability to do research to maybe combine it with jokes and references and things that make the overall script entertaining and then my hosting, the actual filming of the video. So those the areas where I should really be focusing my time and energy and attention and anything else should be outsourced to somebody who could do it better than me. Now, if you're not an entrepreneur, if you're not running your own business, then you might be asking yourself, how does this apply to me? Because I have a boss who delegates things to me, I have to do what they say. And that's true, but you might have built this identity up for yourself that you're the best person for your particular role. And a lot of people get this into their heads and then they don't actually want to move up or branch out or accept new responsibilities because they think that they're the only person who can deal with the current thing that they are doing in their job. So this isn't advice that's only for entrepreneurs or business owners. This is really for anybody because we can all come to conclusions, we can all hold ideas in our head that are in fact supported only by our ego. So when we really challenge the foundation of those ideas, we may realize that what we're doing actually isn't the best use of our time or attention or energy. And speaking of time and energy, the third quote on my list is one that comes to my end time that I'm feeling lazy. And it's the one that has, I think more than any other helped me to develop a strong work ethic. So this quote is from the actor Will Smith. And it goes the only thing that I see that is distinctly different about me is I'm not afraid to die on a treadmill. I will not be outward, period. You might have more talent than me, you might be smarter than me, you might be sexier than me, you might be all those things. You got it on me in nine categories. But if we get on the treadmill together, there's two things. You're getting off first, or I'm going to die. So this isn't one of those quotes that dolls out some sort of wisdom you never really knew about before. It's kind of obvious. We all know we need to work hard, but I love having reminders. The fact there are people out there who understand that hard work beats talent when talent doesn't work hard. Your high school coach is probably told to that a zillion times. I know my wrestling coach told me that, but I have to be reminded of it every so often because sometimes I find myself leaning on my talents, or leaning on what I've already built in the past. And I realize that that is just resting on my laurels. And I need to actually be working. Furthermore, this is a reminder of what we can actually control. Even if you start from a less advantageous place, even if you come from a less wealthy background, or you have less innate talent, quote unquote, you're not as good looking as somebody out there, what you can really control is how hard you're willing to work, how much you're willing to focus, how much you're willing to push out distractions, how much you're willing to prioritize what you really want. These are the things you truly have control over so that things that you should focus on improving. All right, that brings us to quote number four on the list. And this comes from my previous boss at Iowa State University, back when I was a student, but also a new student orientation assistant. And she was basically the director of the entire new student programs department. And I remember this very distinctly. We were getting ready to build this entire event for all the new freshmen coming into campus. And we were writing in a golf cart over to the next thing we needed to do. And we happen to start talking about this whole idea of it's the thought that counts, right? The actual gift you give somebody or the presentation or whatever doesn't matter so much as the thought, right? And I will never forget this. She turned to me and she said, it's not the thought that counts. Presentation matters. And then she continued to tell me that if I couldn't wrap a present correctly, then I needed to go learn how to do it. My grandma was good at it and it would be unacceptable for me to be terrible at it. And for most of my life, I never thought this way. I did think it was the thought that counts. It doesn't matter if I wrap a present terribly. I'm giving a present to the person that I like, which means that I love them, right? They should know that. It's the thought that counts. But listening to her, I realized, it's the thought that counts is kind of like the whole saying like that person has a heart of gold. It's an excuse for what would be considered unacceptable behavior by people who don't already maybe know you or love you or excuse that behavior because of that foundation of love. So this really stuck with me. It's not the thought that counts. The presentation matters. And in fact, if you love somebody, if you're giving them a gift or doing something to show your appreciation for them, then it should be immediately apparent from the presentation of that gift, from the gift itself that you do care. You shouldn't have to make an excuse like, oh, it's the thought that counts. It should be readily apparent. So anyway, her telling me that, much like Charlie telling me to examine my ego, was something that made me really challenge my beliefs and I had to change them afterward because I knew what she said was true. And that actually brings me to my fifth and final quote on this list, which comes from the Artificial Intelligence Researcher and Rationality Writer, L. E. Azer, E. Kowski. Do not flinch from experiences that might destroy your beliefs. The thought you cannot think controls you more than thoughts you speak aloud. Submit yourself to or deals and test yourself in fire. Relinquish the emotion which rests upon a mistaken belief and seek to feel fully that emotion which fits the facts. To put this in some simpler words, essentially think like a scientist in everything you do. Scientists follow the scientific method where they form hypotheses, but then they test those hypotheses and they use the evidence they gather to update their beliefs. They don't fall victim to dogma, but instead they are constantly seeking objective truth. Now this specific quote from Udkowski with something that I came across a little bit after I really started to learn about rationality and about these ideas. My original exposure to them was his fan fiction called Harry Potter and the Methods of Rationality, which is frankly a pretty well written story, at least for fan fiction standards, but it's also a pretty thinly veiled attempt to teach people about rationality and heristics and biases and all these kinds of things. And I read this back in I think 2013 right around the time I was about to graduate from college and it was kind of a revelation to me. I mean in the past I had always thought of myself as rational but really digging into these ideas and challenging some of my longstanding beliefs, asking myself why was I afraid to go down certain avenues of inquiry really showed me that I wasn't quite as rational as I had thought. And this is now sort of part of my core beliefs of how I should act as a human being. I should constantly be seeking out points of view or perspectives or avenues of inquiry that do challenge my beliefs. So they have the potential to shatter them because if my beliefs aren't rooted in truth then I shouldn't have them in the first place. Now if you're also interested in learning about human rationality and heristics and biases, well you are in luck. And I've got two specific recommendations for where you might want to start. One is something written by Elie Azeria Kowski himself and for a really long time he really only wrote directly about these topics on less wrong.org in blog post form but he recently took all those blog posts and turned them into a book called rationality from AI to zombies. Now while I have benefited greatly from many of the essays in that book I will say that if you were to say listen to it, it is 49 hours long and it's still not the most cohesive thing in the world. So there's some real gems in it but if you want a really good place to get started to start learning about these topics then I would suggest Dan Ariel is book predictably irrational. And the great thing is you can start listening to either of these titles completely free today by starting a free 30-day trial on audible and you can do that by going to audible.com slash Thomas or by texting Thomas to 500-500 on your phone. Audible is the best place on the internet to get your hands on audio books. They have an unmatched library of titles across all the different genres that you're going to want. They've got biographies, psychology titles, science fiction, fantasy, all the best sellers and lots of more obscure books including one that may or may not have been written by yours truly. With your membership each month you'll get one credit that is good for any title in their library plus two audible originals that you cannot get anywhere else and access to audio workout programs. Additionally you'll be able to use their excellently designed app which in addition to many other features has the ability to add notes to specific timestamps in your audio books. So if you come across a great quote that you want to remember you can easily do that. So to get started with a 30-day free trial of their service and one free audio book download of your choosing doesn't have to be the ones I recommended but it could be headed over to audible.com slash Thomas or text Thomas to 500-500 on your phone. Think thanks as always to Audible for sponsoring this week's episode being a huge supporter of my channel and as always thank you guys so much for watching as well. You can subscribe right there to get new videos when they come out and also click right there to get a free copy of my book on how to earn better grades. You can also watch one more video on this channel right here or you can listen to the podcast episode that we did a few weeks ago which inspired this video on six very powerful quotes that changed our lives. I highly recommend going to listen to that one if you enjoyed this video. So that's it. Hopefully you found something useful in this video and I will see you in the next one.
