# Q&A: Meditation, Balancing School and a Job, Cooking
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=58Ra-cNqZZY
Martin and I answer some of your questions. This was streamed live earlier today, and we'll probably do more live streams in the future.

Check out our podcast for more study tips and other conversations: https://www.youtube.com/TheCollegeInfoGeekPodcast

My Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Martin's Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/mpvboehme

Timestamps:

3:17 - Martin's introduction
5:41 - My educational background
7:42 - Balancing school and full-time/part-time jobs
13:51 - How we approach meditation
21:13 - Tips for final exams
21:45 - Work for money, or work for love?
25:20 - How to enjoy cooking
28:35 - Mario Kart 8 vs. Zelda

My book "10 Steps to Earning Awesome Grades" is completely free, so check it out if you're interested in improving your grades!

http://collegeinfogeek.com/get-better-grades/

-----------

If you want to get even more strategies and tips on becoming a more productive, successful student, subscribe to my channel right here:

http://buff.ly/1vQP5ar

Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly

~ created by Thomas Frank

STUFF PEOPLE ALWAYS ASK ME ABOUT

My wallpaper ➔ http://i.imgur.com/M6tL2a8.png

Extension for better control over playback speed (if I'm talking too fast) ➔ https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/video-speed-controller/nffaoalbilbmmfgbnbgppjihopabppdk?hl=en
**Keywords:** thomas frank, college info geek, college tips, studying, university, how to cook more, cook more frequently, I hate cooking, how to like cooking, how to enjoy cooking, meditation tips, how to start meditating, how to meditate, meditating properly, why meditate, work life balance, school and work, full time job and college, full time job and classes, 
**Date:** 2017-05-28

## Transcript
 Okay Now you all live and this time it's for real and actually public. Oh, is it really? Well, it's just I think it's actually gonna work this time. All right, which means I Still can't see it, but I don't think so that the what like our plus of testing Yeah, finally paid off kind of yeah, yeah, so you look at all this there's a lot of check coming in Hello everybody on the chat You all are very very early Oh my oh my god See, okay, it's all highs right now, which is good Yeah, you already have a question such as why am I ginger? I could say genetics or I could say maybe you fell into a that of red dye Fair things like that do happen like the Joker, you know, that's not genetic All right, it says three are watching. I don't believe that because they're there's a lot of people in the chat. Oh my gosh Okay, but yeah, I do I do think we need to wait a little bit before be like start doing things and There is a different URL. I bet you the one that I gave you works, but apparently there's also a YouTube.com slash C slash Thomas Frank slash live. Oh, so that's pretty cool. So wait. All right. We now have 550 people watching right now That's pretty cool. I'm gonna go ahead and toss this link over on Twitter Just in case people don't happen to have notifications. I may just tell them. Hey, all doing a quick live stream and some Q and A All right There will be both cues and a yes. Yeah, so your job is to help me get questions and maybe like Save them in a note or something because yeah the chat is like insanity right now I'll get a little tech. I'll get a text editor. Yeah, I'm gonna bring up a little text edit window as well Just so I can maybe oh wait. Yeah, maybe pull a few out and save them because things stink these things take a while Anyway Skyrim or fall for is a question for you. I like Skyrim though, but I personally don't like fallouts aesthetic Yeah, fallout is very it's all so weak. It's like the bleakest grayest thing and I don't know about you guys, but I'm it makes sense I like happy so any fun adventure like venture full bright games. I like some vibrance to my games Yeah, like I'm playing now. Day of sex man kind of I'd right now and even that While a pretty bleak game that it's subject matter the world is filled with neon and bright screens and just like the most I don't know. It's it's super cool. Lookin. Yep pretty colors. Anyway. Okay, so Hi guys, we're gonna do some Q and A today, but I just want to make clear This is like an absolute test stream and We're doing this because Martin really wants me to do live podcasts. It's all your fault actually. Yeah. I would just like to sit like a Commudgeon in my room and record things and let people hear it for I don't know. Eons afterwards Long after I've become a dead skeleton. Yes, but YouTube seems like life things. I like trying new things and you're up for life things. So yeah Since this is on the main channel. I think a lot of people don't actually know who you are unless they're one castless nerds So yeah, do you want to introduce yourself? I'm a good sir. Hello. I'm Martin. I do stuff. I'm on a podcast. Yeah Check it out. I used to say you're my roommate, but you're actually not anymore. Yeah, but you're my apartment building neighbor Yeah, how do you neighbor and I guess like partner and crime over here at College in Fogic lots of crime. So yeah, he helps me edit my podcasts and he helps me do this now And post the podcast and I guess we're gonna try out some live stream stuff I think what we may do with this video. We actually have a recording on another camera behind the webcam So I'm thinking I might upload this to some channel at some point in better quality and then We're mainly gonna use it as a test for a potential live streaming podcast solution at some point and We'll see what happens. So let's see here. What are there's an easy question. What are you guys drinking? Water that's easy question. I'm drinking winter chai. There's a yes. There's a cool tea house It's called kucha. Yes, kucha. See house in Boulder, Colorado, and they sell four or five different kinds of chai And I wanted to get the spiciest one that they sell so oh Yeah, we do look out of focus. I don't think we can get close enough to the world. Yeah, I think the webcam is a built for the second camera Is going to be in focus. This is so this is a test. We're working on we're basically using what we have I'm doing what I What I got and I'm pounding on new sounds. I never stop if this works out well I may just go by better streaming cameras my camera back there. My good one Does not who I want to do my good camera can't do live streaming because it doesn't have like this clean HDMI outport. So oh, yeah, I'm out of luck there. Yep. Well, okay, never mind. It can but You there is no way to not have all like the you can see the gump right like the all the words and texts and a little blinking red icon Yes, that like will always be on the output even if you try to turn off the LCD It'll always be there so we can't turn off the hood first. Yeah, so I basically need to get a different A different camera that will work. So there's a there's a question here that I think is pretty good From all the what is your educational background? I get this question a lot and I think people might be interested in what yours is as well Okay, so people sometimes think that I'm like a psychology major or Education major actually graduated in something called MIS which is management information systems So I wanted to be an IT guy Like I basically wanted to run the networks at a big corporation and then I did that during one summer as an intern and I hated it So I decided to do this instead and I have really no formal background and education, but a lot of good stuff is on the internet and Google is your friend and I know where to find scientific studies, so I was able to just kind of create things up On my own yeah, yeah, I bet you the same exact thing same thing but you took a pretty different approach to it Because MIS wasn't your initial intention right now I started out majoring in the French and then I changed to MIS and then I was just gonna learn French on the side And do all that stuff because I figured a degree in French Wasn't I wanted the degree in computer stuff because I knew I could very easily pay off my loans with the computer stuff I knew how to do yeah, so and when did that linguistics before French or something like that? I consider that a lot, but I didn't end going with it and I Now that we know our linguistics friend Well And I maybe I would know our linguistics friends had I done that that's true actually yeah butterfly effect right there But yeah, MIS Language stuff and web development. That's pretty much so yes, the The two study guys on YouTube did not major an education at all All right, so here's a good question I'm an older student. I'm in my mid-50s. Do you have any recommendations for adults returning To student life as full-time workers so and I guess this is this is good for any student That's also working part-time full-time How do you balance full-time work with your studies? Is this full-time studies and is it a university or community college these things that change the equation a little bit because I know a lot of old There's students at community college much more so than in my university. It does change the equation a bit in terms of the intensity I think but there's still some general Guidelines we can probably give for how you balance work and studying and yeah, and You worked right I'm gonna have to bet right in college. I worked after three months First three months. I was being used to it. Okay. I got a job. I had a job before college started at my college Yeah, at the college you were going at the college. You started. Yes, because So I had in my head that I was gonna be a bus driver for the college because bus drivers make I think like 14 or 15 bucks an hour and My conception of college could job was You flip burgers or you sat groceries or you mullons or something like that and I was like Those all pay basically nothing so I'm going to go be a bus driver and then my friend was like Hey, did you know that the IT center on campus higher students to fix computers and I was kind of like I can sit on my butt and fix computers and you paid for it as a student So I applied I got my job and they hire a bunch of new students every single semester Before this semester starts to help with everyone else coming in because all the new freshmen aren't gonna know how It's hope they're xbox up. Yeah, I'll forget their password every five minutes So they need all these kind of people and So I started that and it was really helpful for me because the job did not have set hours They had like this crazy calendar that would open up every single week and it was like a shark feeding frenzy Everyone could go in claim as many hours They wanted and once they were claimed like they were gone. No stable at all. It was yeah Absolutely not stable. I was like sitting on my computer hitting refresh over and over and over again Right before the calendar would open and What that ended up doing was I wasn't able to get the same hours every week. I wanted them for the most part But I couldn't get them so I had to get like super serious about Google calendar and Right off the bat. I had color-coded calendar Which I definitely recommend doing with my work hours and then I with my class schedule in there and every day at a glance I could see all right I'm working from this time to this time and I'm at class from this time to this time So I can plan an advance when I need to do my homework and when I need to maybe batch smaller tasks together So I actually have time for homework. Yeah, yeah, when I was running when I was doing a job And I was studying a bunch of languages on the side and I was taking my classes I also had like Google calendar has very specific times here's a study time for this language Here's a study time for this language. Here's my homework for this class It's very specific because otherwise it's really easy to get overwhelmed by like the 40 things you could be doing And then do none of them instead and then hours of past while you decide what you're supposed to be doing So time management via calendars. Yeah, I think the other thing I want to mention here is some online classes are pretty great Yeah, actually when you're in university There are at least our university had a lot of online classes you could take as part of yeah Being at the university, which seems kind of counterintuitive because you don't get a class or like well There were somewhere like you take the tests. You go. Yeah, you go to the locker test area But you don't you meet like actually you know what the online classes. I took it. I was state I did never professor So I could physically go to office hours So the only thing I really lost out on was time in class with Other people like other students. Yeah, I didn't have that so that was good But the other thing I wanted to mention is that I've noticed a lot of my friends who have part-time jobs now Our full-time jobs. Sorry. They come home and they're too tired to do oh any other things they aspire to do So I kind of view going to university as like that side project to your full-time job, especially if you are full-time and Yes, you may have to put a lot of that work after your work hours But if you can maybe wake up when you're like a little fresher in the morning and do an hour of work or something like that Yeah, so that you're not already like done thinking for the day. Yeah, because it's easy to feel drained Exactly like in my case I do my reading every morning before I start my work because I don't want to read after my brain is all Drain from all the days work I do a morning when I'm fresh all my good habits are first thing. Mm-hmm. Then I work I think if you can take anything that has more structure and control to it external to like your own willpower and put that later on in the day Then that structure motivates you to get things done Whereas the things that are more up to you You want to give yourself as much mental energy to deal with those and to discipline yourself to do them Yeah, and I found that when I was working and I had stuff to do after we're even at school If I was working I knew I had homework right now. I had some stuff to do later While I was working I would dread the homework and stuff coming up a lot more just because I'm like I'm already tired now. I've got to work another three hours and there's that stupid paper I did not write yet Yeah, so it just it feels worse and kind of emotionally drained me prior to doing the homework which wasn't helpful So we have some eggplant emojis in the chat and some eggplants is healthy Yeah, yeah, and just so you guys know Anybody who's coming to the chat like later on our camera literally cannot focus far enough to get our faces and focus and that's just I could do this. Yeah, I just like come forward like that there you go. Is that what you guys want for me? Yeah, like it's something for my art. Anyway, it's a webcam and we wanted it to be like we wanted to be further enough back from the computer That we both be in view. So eventually I will invest in a better camera and also if the audio and video are out of sync We did spend about 20 minutes trying to get them in sync by adding delays to the audio, but it's tough to test So yeah, we'll keep working on it. It's a working progress It'll get this is a very much a working progress We didn't even know we were doing this until like this morning when we really let's just do it Somebody in the chat said is Martin the the mezone plus mezone plus yes You definitely need a false dude and yes, I am looking at the chat guys, but the chat is going really fast So it's very tough for me to see anything here. Yeah, I have noticed a couple of questions on meditation here and I know we talked about this on the podcast recently, but because a lot of people don't listen to the podcast Let's talk about that Okay, what are you how do you meditate and what do you get out of it? How do I meditate? Well? I'm gonna take when I get right out of the shower because I have these cool meditation pants and I feel when I feel cleaner It's easier for me to like Throw out all other feelings. I can't meditate and like have really gross hair or something at the same time So I get out of the shower. I put on my cool Thai fishermen pants that I meditate in they're really comfortable I just looked at meditation pants on Amazon I didn't specifically look for Thai fishermen pants, but they're really comfortable and I You did I go out and I I sit on my Zafu, which is a little a little cushion That you sit on so that you can you know you'll see like on TV or in video games people meditating or they'll have their legs Crossed up on each other in full lotus position or you'll have one leg on the other in half lotus and a Zafu with that cushion does is makes it Easier for you to sit like that While maintaining balance because if you do it straight on the floor, it's gonna be harder in your joints Yeah, and Zafu is a very traditional so I sit on the Zafu and then Sometimes I'll use brain FM because I really like the brain FM music and the You know he's canceling headphones that I have because then I can Explosively drown out everything else in a focus, but if I have specific meditation. Yeah, I'll use their focus tracks They have meditation stuff. They have it might be under relaxation. I'm not sure But I also do the one where you can pick your theme a lot. Yeah, so I'll do like times and bells Or stuff like that, but they've got a meditation section and I'm either doing that or I'm just Enjoying the silence of the morning and I'm usually just focusing on my breath Noticing the positions of all the parts of my body and or if I want to ahead of time I'll decide this is one where I'm gonna think about a problem and I meditate on a specific thing And so in one way I gain peace in relaxation it relaxes my muscles and it helps me Separate between two tasks so if I've just done all of my habits in the morning shower and then meditate It gets me I clear out all the habits I did that morning and now I'm mentally more ready to get to work You do it after the morning routine then like after everything else. Yeah for the most part Okay, I'll prefer to do a lot of things before that and then That will help me separate things. I like to use meditation to separate two different topics So that my brain isn't yelling about what I just got done doing. Yeah So serious question here What's all like I mean what's the point of like the pants and the Zoff who and like all the the pants is just comfort because I was like I don't I don't want to wear shorts It's not as comfortable for me and I don't want to wear jeans meditating That's definitely not comfortable when I'm sitting on the toes and make sense the pants are just for comfort The Zoff who is there because it's the way I'm sitting is important because I like sitting half-loadess Okay, so you just personally enjoy I personally prefer it and I meditate better that way. You can meditate just laying down or sitting on a regular chair or doing whatever Yeah, I think a lot of people have this view of meditation is like if you're not I don't know sitting on the edge of a mountain Watching the sun rise with your fingers and like this position and Sitting cross leg it then you're like doing it wrong now. We were saying on the podcast the other day It's not about looking like a Tibetan Buddhist monk It is mostly about resentering yourself and sometimes training yourself to focus. You're to explicitly trying to Focus on one thing or nothing so that you get used to not picking up distractions every three seconds Yeah, but Yeah, you can have not a lot of being Dalsim right you don't need to be dull seam and shoot yoga fireballs I have tried a lot of techniques none of them work for shooting yoga fireballs out of my mouth or hands Yeah, so I'll get back to you guys if I were to figure that out Yeah, I just I want to point that out because I think like there's a lot of things you can do Meditation for like a lot of reasons and Some people literally just want to be at peace Yeah, maybe just take a break from all like the external stimuli that they indulge in YouTube or video games or whatever for me It is purely to train my focus muscle essentially You're doing a vegetarian. Yes, I can I focus on one thing that is boring isn't like a video game or music For a period of time and for me, it's just five minutes and I find that tough because my mind is very active So I sit on the couch sometimes sometimes I'll sit cross like I'm on the floor, but I'm not as flexible as you or oh, yeah You said you don't you don't feel comfortable doing. No. I'm not a flexible person. No, I ain't enjoying So we're a good we're good counterbalance. I'm into all the like peace. Yeah, float is nonsense But time just wants to sit on the couch and train his focus muscle. Yeah, it's all it is. It's just for both of us I just like breathe slowly and I did I remember reading a study once Where this woman went out and she actually observed people in coffee shops and she noticed that when people are on their computers They're doing their work or they're doing whatever they tend to breathe shallowly Like consciously they just start breathing a lot more shallowly and they're not taking deep in Deliberate breasts and that shallow breathing is tied to Anxiety in the central nervous system which can cause all sorts of stress problems and she She did notice that like trained musicians especially ones like that played woodwind instruments or any sort of like breath instrument or Trained athletes They tended to not have this problem where even when they're in grossed in YouTube or in grossed in their work They would breathe deeply and normally that's so a lot of sense so you're absolutely getting all anxious because you're breathing shallow Exactly, or you're just not thinking about that And I notice like whenever I play Overwatch, I'll start breathing very shallowly and I'll get really stressed out Well, yeah, it's killing Overwatch. I'm yeah. I'm just constantly getting killed and I it's terrible So I consciously try to breathe while I play that game but also during meditation It's all about slow deep deliberate breaths in yoga class. They taught us yogic breath Which is filled the diaphragm let the chest rise to both things and let them all come out I'm gonna be honest. I'm trying to get the plane to come out my mouth like seriously that is a cool super power and I need it Honestly like everything I've done so far. It's just been secretly to get super powers somehow and I feel like if I get famous enough I can meet all like the secret super power givers that probably work for the government. Yeah, that's what I'm trying to say here But I Focus on my breath and so it's a dual purpose thing train that deep breathing that can apply to my work later on the day and also train my ability to focus on that breath which is boring. Yeah, like my work a lot of the times a lot of times writing a script or editing a video or whatever it is is boring and I want to Train myself to be okay with that and not feel like I have to go over to Twitter every five seconds or yeah Watch the next year. It's gonna help you work better or focus better on anything yeah Even just a TV show so that you don't feel the need to I'm gonna take my Twitter while I'm watching a movie I really wanted to watch if you teach yourself to focus you can actually enjoy Just relaxing to It frustrates me to know when people pull out their phones during a movie. Yeah, especially if it didn't move me that I asked them to watch with me Oh, isn't it not really watching exactly. Yeah. Oh, y'all I watch. I saw that scene. I thought that was that was important Yeah, exactly We have a lot of questions and I have I have a cool question that I wanted to pull out of the chat a lot of people are asking about exams and stuff I've got if you just go to the home page of the channel. I've got a whole playlist on exam prep So check that out and actually that reminds me. We have a whole page on the site for example, don't we? Pretty sure we have it. I don't remember. Yeah, we do have a video. It's actually on the front page of the website Oh, yeah, that I'll throw in the chat. It'll probably get buried in like two seconds, but yeah, yeah Bam somebody asked work for money or work for love Um Well, it's good question. I guess I do run a money podcast. That's a tough question for me personally I would be okay doing a job that wasn't my favorite if it enabled me to do stuff that was my favorite on the side If you can do both at the same time, obviously, that's awesome and some people obviously sacrifice money for their what they want to work on But yeah, like what wasn't there was some like really well-known artists that said that recently that I was I shared to you. I can't remember I don't remember who was and I don't want to I don't want to like have a bunch of dead air from us trying to think of it But I do remember it said there was some pretty well-known artists who they make their living making art So they are in that camp, but they did say like You don't necessarily have to get paid and make a living doing what you love to do You can have a job that maybe you enjoy maybe you get some fulfillment out if you feel competent or have some autonomy in Yeah, but that just pays the bills and enables you to do what you want to do Yeah Making videos isn't always what I want to do. I do like doing it, but I mean I've been doing it for Three years at this point and I do have other interests on the side like right now I'm playing guitar and I'm learning game development and I have Zero intention you don't need to be paid for becoming a musician or become a game developer or like becoming a dancer or anything I don't want to become like a pro DDR player. I love doing those things. Yeah, he does but he does doesn't know What that I'm gonna be a pro DDR player. I know you you want it. I think the DDR scene is basically dead at this point So I think there's no way to leave you away to become the best So I guess like there isn't a hard and fast answer that question, but I do want to say that I want to put a counterpoint out there to all the people who say like you have to follow your passion and do what you love for living It depends on what your passion is If it's something that doesn't really have like a clear cut Monetary path like yeah, you don't have to go for it now. I don't want to discourage anybody who's like really Gung-ho about that You know my cousin was like super in the music and he spent a few years of his life touring the country playing in a metal band and Now he's not doing that for a living but like he got Like a pretty cool-life experience out of that. Yeah, but you don't have to I guess like the point is you don't have to feel bad if what you do for a living isn't what you love No, I don't think it's bad because if everybody only did what they love to do there would be plenty of jobs That weren't filled anymore plenty of skilled positions that you need You know, I don't think every welder out there loves to well Yeah, it's like they're passionate, but they go and they do a good job They're probably proud of the work they do you know or like repairing air conditioners You might not like have a passion for repairing air conditioners, but you might like enough Like the mechanical tinkering process To get some fulfillment out of it. Yeah, or let's say you're Your web developer, but you don't like programming, but web development allows you to work remotely Which allows you to travel and you really love traveling. Yeah, you learn the skill that enabled what you want Okay, so um and I've been looking at the chat, but I can't look at the chat You know, we should do we should like hire a moderator Or something so yeah, hold good questions out at some point that may it be like a good That'd be nice to put down for future episodes We have three and a half minutes left before that camera will turn off so I want to be able to like end The the stream before that camera turns off so we have the good audio and video so I'm gonna do one more question How do you make yourself enjoy cooking? How do I make myself enjoy cooking? Yeah, because I had this problem for a long time And I've just started to get into cooking and then enjoying it so I have some thoughts, but I used to hate it. Yeah, I Guess you probably have more relevant thoughts. I started the love cooking one I was vegetarian and college and I loved it because I was learning about so many new foods. Okay, but that's That I haven't cooked much recently since moving everything's still being set up Yeah, but you just learned to like to cook and you hated it before Which is different so I went from like neutral. I'm lazy to liking to cook But you went from hating it to liking to cook. So what what are you doing? I think the big thing is Mental commitment upfront Because I think the main reason I've always hated cooking is because it takes a long time There's a lot of steps Part of it is with a lot of recipes. You just have to wait But it's like yeah, it's like it's not the kind of waiting word like with the lasagna I can throw it in the oven 45 minutes. I don't have to do anything so I can go to what I want that's fine But the first step of lasagna is Constantly moderating the sauce you might have to like cook it for 30 minutes But you know you're stirring it every minute so it's just coming back to it But I found that Before the main reason I hated cooking is because I would want to be doing other things and I never really Committed to like I'm gonna spend the next three hours cooking it was more like a Maybe I can make dinner in 20 minutes and then go back to playing Overwatch or go back to work Yeah, yeah, so when I decide that all right the work days finished at six I'm gonna go cook dinner and you know what I might not get to do anything else tonight I might not cooking is its own acting. I might be able to like watch one episode of Avatar with Anna later on like nine o'clock It might take me three hours to cook this meal and that's fine And once I did that like setting my intention allowed me to be a lot more Meditative about the process of cooking and now I'm finding that I actually enjoy it because I'm picking recipes Not based on their quickness, but just based on them being a challenge for me And then when they turn out well, it's like whoa, I just made something that is really good Like that's that's a lot of good positive reinforcement and then the other thing that we've been doing is we don't cook every night because it gets exhausting So we just cook all that's fair. So I made a Ukrainian recipe called borscht and I ended up with enough of that for a week and Then we also make big lasanias and that's also probably enough food for a week. So I can cook sundae and then be good Yes, so you can pretty much afford to give the time You have something fancy on sundae if you know what's gonna save you time the next several Yeah, and again, is that batching concept if you batch your tasks Then you can concentrate on them in one block of time and free up a whole lot of other time So if I'm batching one giant cooking session where I get a week's for the food That's seven days worth of not washing dishes That's seven days worth of not chopping up vegetables mincing up herbs and spices and stuff like that It's all concentrated in one period of time So I can tell myself you only got to do this once you have the entire rest of the week to play video games or practice guitar or go How it hang up with friends forever. Yeah, because the food that you make in that several hour period may be On sundae is so much better than the divided what could you have made in 20 minutes seven days a week? Exactly. Yeah, so we are just about out of time I think that is where we're probably going to end to this stream. I know like oh ps I saw some Zelda or Mario if you have to pick Zelda, but Mario cards also great just saying yeah Mario Kart it is amazing and we are both like yeah We're planning to have sex with it. You have to pick though, but Zelda Breath of the Wild is like one of the greatest games I've ever played so So are we can't do more questions once I got a camera that can record for more than half an hour? We can boost the length of these and that's a big thing because the podcast is actually usually longer than half an hour But if you look down on the description of this video You'll find a link to our podcast or just go to youtube.com slash the college info gate podcast and we have I don't know what like 60 some episodes on the channel. There's a hundred past episodes on our feed that we haven't put on the channel So yeah, oh in a couple of questions I saw running through there that we don't have time to answer right now are in my plans for the next several podcast episodes So just saying so yeah, so guys, thank you for watching Also find both of our Twitter accounts down in the description below so check those out and We'll see you next time we go live. So thanks for watching
