# The Best Note-Taking App for the iPad
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5900CpVbvGU
Today, we'll be diving into the BEST note-taking app for the iPad: Notability. We'll also share five more advanced note-taking tips. You can use all of these with Notability, and most of them work with other note-taking apps as well.
📺 Watch this video ad-free on Nebula: https://nebula.tv/videos/thomas-frank-the-best-notetaking-app-for-the-ipad

🛠 COURSES AND RESOURCES: 
Notion channel - https://www.youtube.com/c/ThomasFrankExplains
Free Notion templates - https://thomasjfrank.com/templates/
Learn Notion - https://thomasjfrank.com/fundamentals
Productivity and Habits courses - https://thomasjfrank.com/courses/

🦙 SPONSOR: 
Get two months of unlimited learning on Skillshare for free: https://skl.sh/thomasfrank27 

🐦 SOCIAL STUFF:
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly
Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Music Channel ➔ https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCmqK2G-3AL_WP5KffH_wqAA
Spotify Study Playlist ➔ https://open.spotify.com/user/thomasfrank09/playlist/4ETfiRPHVmUFLF6q0g8Fux?si=IPfx3dAgQ1SIUwhh5YEQMQ

🔗 VIDEO LINKS:
- Notability: https://www.gingerlabs.com/
- Noteshelf (my previous favorite, and the best one for Evernote users): http://www.noteshelf.net/
- GoodNotes 5: https://www.goodnotes.com/
- Apple Notes (it's free and has wonderful organization features)
- Watch my previous iPad note-taking video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LoRl9uL1J0w
- I also tested the Paperlike V2 screen protector while working on this video. Spoilers: it's kind of amazing. Check out my friend Ali Abdaal's review: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-hzWbMy0CBg
- Lastly, check out my editor Tony's review of the 2019 base model iPad: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sE1h5kP-m6E

👐 BUSINESS:
Please contact my agent at thomasfrank@standard.tv

💰 I'm fortunate enough to work with great sponsors who support my work, so I don't use Patreon or any other crowdfunding service. However, if you'd like to support a worthy cause, consider donating to help more children get access to a high-quality education: https://fundraise.pencilsofpromise.org/fundraiser/1489730
**Keywords:** thomas frank, productivity, ipad note taking, ipad, ipad notes, ipad productivity, ipad pro, ipad pro vs air, ipad vs ipad air, ipad pro vs ipad, apple pencil, apple pencil note taking, notability, best notes app, best note taking app, best handwriting app, handwritten notes, document scanning, best ipad app, best ipad apps, ipad for students, note taking tips, note hacks, taking notes, ipad pro for students, ipad for college, paperlike, 
**Date:** 2019-11-27

## Transcript
 Oh, I know you guys, so about a year ago, I did a video about the iPad Pro and how it works as a note taking device versus paper notebooks, and you guys really like that video, so I thought it was high time to do another one, but as an entrepreneur, I believe in delegation, so I delegated not just the editing, but the script writing and research process for this video to my editor Tony, and I thought it was only fair that you get to be on camera for this one. Yes, because you know, I did the research. Yeah, I think you actually know more about this than I do. So what we were originally going to do was a video breaking down what we thought were the top five or six note taking apps for the iPad, both for the Pro and the base model. We're going to talk a little bit later in the video about how these two devices are kind of different, but when you're doing the research, you kind of found a clear winner, right? Yeah, so like right away, I immediately thought the modability had not only the most features, but it just felt really good to use as well. And that's actually kind of a departure from that original iPad Pro note taking video that we did, where I use note shelf, and I think note shelf is a fantastic app, and it's definitely one of the top three that I would recommend if you weren't going to go with noteability, but when we were doing the research, you brought noteability, I checked it out, and it is kind of hands down the best app, oh yeah. So what we're going to do in this video is break down five kind of advanced note taking tips for the iPad, and we're going to use noteability as the example app here, but I do want to note that for most of these tips, you can do either the same thing or something very similar in other apps out there. But real quick, lighting on here, we'll be your top three recommendations for apps for people who are not going to use noteability. All right, so if you're not using noteability, like Tom said, you use note shelf, that's a good one. You can also go with good notes five, which is also another app that I use intensively, and as well as does the built-in Apple notes app because that you can still write and also type notes. And it's the only one there that's free. So yes, we're sorry. Keep in mind a lot of these, actually, I love that we're recommending are paid. Yeah, but let's get to these tips starting with the first one, which is going to be to use the magnifier tool. Now, the problem I have with writing on an iPad, and I guess I have a couple of problems, because honestly writing on note book paper feels amazing. But one of the big problems is that I don't want to have to constantly pinch and zoom to be able to write within these lines here, and I'm not going to be able to write legible text here. So a lot of these apps saw this problem by giving you a magnifier tool. And in noteability, you can just come down here, you have the pencil tool active, click here, and you get this little window where you can just create notes. So I'll just go over here and why don't I make a list of groceries not to buy later. One of the things I really like about this app is there's this little blue area on the right. And once your pencil goes into it, it's actually going to move the magnifier either to the right, or it's going to go to the next line if you're already at the right. And it's adjustable. So if you want to have it here instead of here, you can do that. So I'm going to go there, or you can just hit one of these buttons to go over or down if you want to manually. I haven't figured out how to make this like, means like how long the thing worked. So it's a little bit of a thing. But you know, let's just go with like a porcupine deals. So I'm already, this is like, again, it's not as good as running a paper for me, but this is kind of a nice experience. And I think with somebody other tips we're going to talk about, the slight tradeoff and convenience might be worth it for some people. Yeah, definitely. I mean, again, it's not going to replace paper, but a lot of these features actually adds on to the fact that you're using an iPad as post-paper. So we're going to move on to the second tip, which is being able to do audio recordings as you're writing your notes and have the audio mesh that no say you are writing. So up here on top, this is like my finger feature. Yeah, this is the game changing feature, specifically with notability, which is amazing. So we're going to go ahead and click this little microphone up top, and it's going to start audio recording everything that I'm saying, or, for example, as if your teacher was saying, if you got permission in class to do so. So we're going to go and just go ahead and start writing. So let's say, we write a list of things you do want to buy a store. I'm going to keep going with my list of things that I don't want to buy because I don't know, like I also don't want to buy like poison, or I don't know, like maybe like Kenny Loggins box sets. Yeah. All right. So we're recording. Here's the thing about notability, because no shelf can record and attach to notes as well. And with any app, you could just record a voice note in the background and then just look at it later. Is that boat notability? Once you're done recording, your recording is actually synced with the speed at which you took your notes. So if you go in here and you replay, it's going to show now class. I'm going to give you a list of little overlay. I mean, take this volume down just a little bit. It's going to show a kind of like a great out version of what you took. And then if you tap on the text, it will skip to the audio that was happening at the time. You wrote that, which is pretty amazing. Exactly. Because now you don't have to scrub through like half an hour or an hour of lecture material, you can just be like, all right, I can't remember what the professor said at this point. Or maybe they were talking too fast. Like, I probably am right now. And you only got a little bit written down. Well, you can go back in time essentially and see what they were saying. And then you could fill out your notes even more completely, which is kind of a game changer. Okay. So to number three, and I'm going to use my hand that's not holding the apple pencil. I was going to like, there we go. I can do it. This three fingers. Yeah. Tip number three is to use the split screen multitasking features in the iPad to bring up reference material. Maybe in a browser or in a different app. So in this case, I'm just going to, I guess close out. So in this case, I'm just going to bring up Safari at the left of my notes. I'm going to change the screen size a little bit. And now if I am, say, researching this article about how to create a great city space, I can do that over here. And I can easily take notes over here. But that's not the coolest part. The coolest part is that you can actually bring in text images from whatever other apps you are using. So if I want to bring in this image here, I can just hold it and then drag it in. And there it is. And if I want to crop it, I could go it to crop. I can maybe cut it down a little bit. I can add a caption where I can just move it around. And I'm good to go. I can also highlight actual text content. So let's just take a couple of paragraphs here. Do the exact same thing, hold that down and drag it in and becomes playing text. And now, this isn't going to work with your handwriting, but with images, you can actually move them around and do text wrapping. So you can kind of form it. You're not the way you want, which is not some of you can do on paper. Now, one thing that I liked about noteability, particularly, that I didn't find in other apps with the ability to actually bring in gifts. Some other apps with lady pictures, but with lady gifts. And you know, sometimes you just want to bring in like a Thanos gift into your notes. That's very important, right? And then all that for a drop of cloud, all that for a drop of cloud. More importantly, though, I think is the ability to scan in documents. Now, I was thinking I was going to have to use something like scanbot and then import documents myself like manually. Yeah. But there's actually a document scanning feature. So if you get a handout in class, or you just have a piece of paper that you want to put in your notes, you can usually open this and you can just create a document scan. And with that, we're going to go into tip number four, which is being able to drag from the left side of your note. And right here, you can see all the notes that you already have that was previously made and you can go ahead and click and drag the notes. And now you have multi-tasking of being able to go from one note to the other, simply by clicking, writing on one, click on the other one and do the exact same thing. And something I really like about that is in the ability. And this is something that is in note shelf and some other apps as well. You can import PowerPoint presentation. You can import PDFs. So if you have reference material, if you have slides from your lecture that have been given to you ahead of time, you can usually bring in, say, PowerPoint presentation, have that on the left. And now you have the ability to mark up and highlight anything you want in your PowerPoint presentation. You can follow along in class. But you can also write in your actual note document and follow along with your slides, which is pretty sweet. Another thing that you can do is use this little scissor tool here. And you can highlight pieces of the PowerPoint presentation. Or really anything you want, copy it and bring it over into your regular notes. And from there, you can add annotations, captions. You could put plain text next to it. Do kind of whatever you want. And that brings us to our last tip, which is to do all of it. All of it at the same time, which is a little bit easier on the pro. I'm not going to lie. Yeah, it really is. But you can indeed do an audio recording, open up the magnifier, have two things open to the same time, and still use iPad level multitasking. So let's see, you had a really important piece of reference material that was in Safari. Also had class slides that you're referencing. And you still want to take notes. You still want that audio recording. You can do all those at the exact same time, which is kind of awesome. Yeah, I'm not going to lie. And again, I'm following a long and I'm using the smaller 7th gen iPad that isn't as bad as his. But I'm going to tell you to keep up with this. So the idea is you can do so much with this happy, garless of using all the hardware and still keep up the pace with everyone else. So we'll talk about the differences between the base model and the pro. Obviously, the pro is a bigger screen. So it's more screen real estate. It's going to be easier to write on. But you have to spend a lot more money to get the pro. Now this is my pro. And this base model is actually on loan from Apple. So we can do a review of it and we've got some other videos coming in the near future. In fact, you did a full review. Yeah, there's an interesting channel. Feel free to put that in the description down below. Yeah, what are the main differences besides just the screen space? I mean, so in reality, what you're going to be paying for is on this one as close to this one is you're getting an OLED display on here. On the base model, you're also getting a processor that is three years old. So imagine having an iPhone 7 processor in this tablet. It's not horrible. So keep in mind that no matter what though, Apple really has a good reputation of having processors that last and long time. And never once using this, that I feel like a hiccup, they're slowed me down. Now I do a screen protector on this, which is called the paper like and my friend Ali Abdullah is the one who told me about this thing. It's essentially a screen protector that tries to create a paper like texture. And I think it does a pretty decent job. Oh yeah. Again, I would prefer to write on regular paper, but I think we all agree with that. Yeah, this this is, you know, this is actually better than writing on the the glass itself. Okay, I have to issue a small correction since we filmed yesterday. I've taken a lot more notes with the paper like protector and noinability. And honestly, this thing rocks. It is almost as good to me as normal notebook paper and may make me take a lot more notes on my iPad going forward. So keep that in mind. Now, one thing that I like to do on my iPad in addition to note taking, and possibly even more than note taking, is drawing, especially since there's an app on here called Procreate. And I know both of our girlfriends use Procreate. I think my girlfriend uses a different one now, but I use Procreate on occasion to make illustrations for this channel. And I actually made one for the digital file organization video, which was a lot of fun. Yeah. So Procreate is definitely an app that I would get if I was going to use an iPad on a basis. And if you want to learn how to use it and subsequently improve your drawing skills as well, there is a great class on Skillshare all about how to draw with Procreate and how to get kind of good at it. It covers all the fundamentals. And since it's on Skillshare, you're also going to have unlimited access to thousands of different that can improve your skills and also your ability to compete in the job market. There are tons of courses on the platform, including courses on video editing, marketing, on analytics, animation, photography, tons of different stuff. And you get access to all of it for less than 10 of bucks a month. And there are also productivity courses, including one from my friend friend Chesco on the basics of Notion, which is I think for two hours long, so there's plenty of content in there. And my course, which is all about how to build an entire productivity system. And tease something that's coming up in your future. I actually have a new course launching on Skillshare in January, so you're going to want to keep your eyes peeled for that. And the best way to do it, we decided up with the link down below. We're just going to get you a two month unlimited free trial of access to their platform. And there is a heck of a lot that you can learn in two months. So sign up with that link down below, get that two month free trial. And as always, thanks to Skillshare for sponsoring this video and supporting my channel. Thank you as well for watching. Hopefully you found something useful here. And if you haven't subscribed yet, click the picture of me that is over my face, because I think that's kind of thematic. Do whatever you're face up with my face. And you'll get notifications. Maybe if you two decide to send them when I have released new videos. Otherwise, you can check out one more video on this channel by clicking right over here. I am going to cover your face. Yeah, that's fine. But I will subscribe to this channel. And I will see you in the next video. Thank you.
