# 5 Lessons from "The Power of Habit" by Charles Duhigg
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5Ws2WfeD6d8
Habit loops, experiments on monkey brains - the science of habit formation is both fascinating and useful. Today, we'll break down five of the most important lessons in "The Power of Habit" by Charles Duhigg.

Also, welcome to the start of a new series called "5 Lessons"! Whenever I finish a book I think would be useful to students, I'll create a video like this one to break down some of the key lessons in it. These will be IN ADDITION to regular Thursday videos.

Hopefully, these videos will spur your on to actually read those books :)

The Power of Habit - Amazon link: 

http://amzn.to/1KpbQO2

^buying through that link supports this channel at no extra cost to you :)

Blog post with a summary of these lessons:

http://collegeinfogeek.com/power-of-habit-5-lessons/

My essential reading list for students:

http://collegeinfogeek.com/essential-books-for-students/

-----------------

My book "10 Steps to Earning Awesome Grades" is now out and it's free! Get it here (and get a copy of my graduation planning spreadsheet as well):

http://collegeinfogeek.com/get-better-grades/

If you want to get even more strategies and tips on becoming a more productive, successful student, subscribe to my channel right here:

http://buff.ly/1vQP5ar

Connect with me on Twitter!

https://twitter.com/TomFrankly

~ created by Thomas Frank
**Keywords:** The Power Of Habit: Why We Do What We Do In Life And Business (Book), Charles Duhigg (Author), habits, build habits, break bad habits, book review, business books, study habits, how to study, motivation, thomas frank, book summary, book notes, power of habit summary, 
**Date:** 2015-09-01

## Transcript
 Hey there guys, today I wanted to give you five lessons that I learned from reading the book The Power of Habit by Charles Duig. Now I read this book a little while ago. I took a lot of notes on it and learned a ton from it and it actually helped me start to change a lot of my habits which led to some pretty drastic changes in my life. So I wanted to share some of them most important things that I've learned from this book. And the first lesson is simply that all habits can be broken down into a three step process. Habits are triggered by cues which then lead into a routine and the routine ultimately culminates in a reward. One of the key things to note in this lesson is that habits are delicate things. They don't trigger unless the cue triggers them. So if you don't expose yourself to a cue, you're not going to do a habit. Now this is important for both good habits and bad habits. So you need to build cues that trigger good habits and you want to try to avoid cues that trigger the bad ones. Now speaking of cues that trigger habits, the second lesson I learned from this book that I want to share with you is that almost all cues fall into one of five different categories. They either fall into the category of location, time, emotional state, actions of other people, or the immediately preceding action. Knowing these five categories of cues is useful when you want to start changing bad habits because they'll allow you to pick out the cues of each individual specific habit that you're targeting. Now the third lesson that I learned from this book is that there's actually a fourth component of the habit loop. Whenever the first chapter presented the first three parts of that loop, but then later on in the book you learn about the fourth one which is craving. Through an experiment that on a monkey scientists have been able to figure out that in the initial stages of building a habit, the brain receives a spike of activity basically a dopamine surge when the actual reward of the habit is achieved. However, time goes on and the habit is done over and over and over again and becomes more ingrained, the spike of activity starts to come before the routine is even gone through and comes when the cue happens. And what this means for you is that when you're exposed to a cue for a habit you've already had for a while and have gone through many different times, your brain gets that spike of activity before even going through the routine. At that point you get this craving, this need to get the reward, and it's a self-perpetuating cycle that keeps the habit going. Now the book talks a lot about how to change your habits, that actually break bad habits and start building new ones, but one of the most interesting parts of this that I read about which I want to make the subject of this fourth lesson is that people who want to break bad habits or are trying to make a change in their life are often more successful if they plan in advance what they're going to do when there's a pain point when something difficult comes up. The example to hit game in the book was that people who had knee replacement surgeries, people who had the surgery have to go through lots of painful rehabilitation and walking exercising to actually regain full functionality of their knees, but this rehabilitation is actually really painful and a lot of patients just can't muster the willpower to go through it. Now what researchers found is patients who actually wrote down a plan of what they were going to do at specific times during the day to rehabilitate their knee were much more likely to go through that painful rehabilitation process and were interned much more likely to recover. And finally the last lesson that I want to share from this book is that some habits have a tendency to spawn other habits and these habits are called keystone habits. The book mentions that for people trying to lose weight one of the most successful methods that has been used is simply having them keep a daily food journal. By establishing this one little easy to maintain habit, dieters were actually able to recognize patterns in their life they hadn't noticed before, and that spurred them on to start making more positive changes to tackle those patterns. Essentially Keystone habits helped to create small wins, which in turn boosts your overall motivation and give you some momentum to build even more habits in your life. To give you a personal example, I started getting serious about building new habits back in 2014 and my Keystone habit was simply waking up early every day. By establishing that habit, I was waking up early and feeling really productive in the morning and that gave me the motivation to start creating morning routine full of other good habits. So those are my five lessons I wanted to share from you from the power of habit. Overall, I learned a lot from this book and I highly recommend reading it, and if you want to find it, I've linked to it down in the description below. By the way, this video is a start of a new series on this channel that I'm calling five lessons. Essentially, when I finish a book that I really want to share lessons from with you guys, I'm going to create a video that shares those lessons. And I'm doing this because I'm not really that good at criticizing books. I'm not really a reviewer of sorts, but I am a good curator and I do like sharing the things that I learned. Now, these videos won't be replacing the weekly videos that are already coming out on this channel that actually be in addition to those videos, and they won't be weekly themselves because I don't read a book every single week. I actually take my time read books, and I make sure to take really good notes on them, and I think that'll enable me to share better lessons from them as well. So if you're already a subscriber to this channel, don't worry. The other content's not going away. This isn't really in addition to it. And if you're new here, this channel is actually all about studying more effectively and being a better student. So if you enjoyed this video and you want to learn how to learn more effectively, try subscribing. Also, if you've already read this book, or you're a voracious reader, and just want more book recommendations, I've got a whole list of books that I've enjoyed and think are really good for students on my site, and you can click the card or the link down in the description to find them right now. That's all I got. So thanks so much for watching, and I'll see you on Thursday. Hey guys, thanks so much for watching this inaugural video on my five lesson series. Now, if you enjoyed it, you can support this channel by leaving a light, and if you want to get more videos on being a more effective student every week, and more five lessons videos in the future, click the big red subscribe button right there. If you want to read a book on earning better grades, I happen to write one, and it's absolutely free. So if you want to copy, click the picture of the book, and I will send you one. If you want to read a summary for all five of these lessons, and get links to this book if others I recommend, click the orange logo right there to go to the gaming blog post. You can click the thumbnail to see another video of mine with book recommendations, and if you want to connect, I'm on Twitter, or you can leave a comment below with any questions you have. Thanks.
