# Tips for Managing School Stress - ft. Study With Jess
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=775zUGnTXW8
Classes, exams, and homework can all cause a lot of stress - here's how to deal with it.

This video is a collab with my friend Jess, who has a postgraduate degree in Psychology and runs her own education/study tips channel called Study With Jess!

If you enjoy it, check out Jess' channel here:

https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCLE6bDbrn5kNG94-1VlH_XA

Also, I made a video for her channel that's going live today right along with this one. It's about how to take better notes, and I'm way more excited than I need to be about the new whiteboard I got for the drawings in it:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sJCVeV2eIzU

----------

If you want to get even more strategies and tips on becoming a more productive, successful student, subscribe to my channel right here:

http://buff.ly/1vQP5ar

Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly

~ created by Thomas Frank
**Keywords:** school stress, academic stress, college stress, eustress, distress, cortisol stress, Yerkes-Dodson, final exams, exam stress, study with jess, study tips, exercise and stress, anxiety, school anxiety, minimize stress, manage anxiety, deal with anxiety, test anxiety, 
**Date:** 2015-12-11

## Transcript
 Hey, what's up guys and welcome to my second video this week. I know that's pretty rare and to make it rare Still, this is actually my first full collaboration video. So this week, I partnered up with my friend Jess who runs another channel about studying and learning called fittingly studying with Jess. And I thought I'd be really cool to do a video on how to manage stress since we're just about into finals right now. And hopefully you'll be able to use some of the tips in this video to manage any stress that you're feeling. Hi, everyone. So it went out studying my postgraduate diploma of psychology. I like a great deal about stress, but also some really effective techniques that you can implement throughout the year to help you feel more calm and stay on top of your stress levels. So I'm going to be showing you my top five tips for reducing stress and staying calm throughout the busy school year. But before I get into that, I actually wanted to cover what is stress and what happens in our body when we start to feel stressed. So it's to go around. So what is stress? Stress is your body's reaction to any change in the environment that requires an adjustment or a response. The body then reacts to these changes with either physical, mental, or emotional responses. So in daily life, we often use the term stress to make something negative. But that's not actually the case. Stress can add to me positive or negative. Learn as you stress or distress. So you stress is the term used for describing positive stress. And this is the kind of stress that motivates us, increases our focus, gets us excited and increases our performance. Some examples of you stress could be receiving a promotion, starting a new job, or having a child. In contrast to you stress, distress is the term used for describing negative stress. And this is the kind of stress that impairs our focus, leaves us feeling anxious on nervous, often is perceived as outside of our coping abilities and impairs our performance. And some examples of distress could be losing a job, sickness, or the death of a loved one. So what happens to our body when we start to feel stressed? In the event of stress, our body's defense systems are activated in a rapid and automatic response, known as the fight or flight mode. Your body then releases stress hormones called cortisol and adrenaline, which causes your heart to be faster, your breathing to quicken, your blood pressure drives, and your senses begin to sharpen. Also, your body is preparing you to either fight or flee the situation. So how much stress is too much stress? Some stress is good. In fact, it actually helps to impregnate the formers and increase our focus so that we can execute a task more effectively. But at what point does having too much stress impair our performance? The inverted U-model, or Yerks does in law, shows the relationship between stress or arousal and performance. This model demonstrated by a bell shaped curve, says that up to a point, stress actually improves our performance, but when it becomes too high, it makes our performance drop rapidly. So now to put this graph into perspective, show it. For example, you sit down your desk to take an exam. As you turn that page over, you can feel your heart start to be a little bit faster. You can feel your breath starting to quicken, you feel why awake and focus, and maybe even a little bit eager to keep turning those pages in tackle that exam. This scenario would be demonstrated by the middle of the curve, showing that you've experienced an optimal level of stress and your performance is actually improving. But what if we actually turned up the level of cortisol and adrenaline pumping through your body? This time, you sit down at your desk to take an exam, and as you turn that page, you're breathing quickens. You feel a pit at the bottom of your stomach, and the thought of actually trying to further what these questions are becomes overwhelming. This scenario would be demonstrated by the bottom of the curve, showing that you've actually experienced too much stress and your performance is impaired. So how can we manage stress to stop it from getting the better of us? Well, here are my top five tips. Tip number one is to do some deep breathing. So when doing deep breathing, you're actually switching on your power sympathetic nervous system to create a calming effect. Try to increase your accelerations to be longer than your inhalations. Breathing into the can of four, and then breathing out to the can of six, can have a really calming effect on the mind. Tip number two is to use positive self-talk. Right down at a set of flashcards, some positive statements starting with this way, you can pull them out at any time that you need and read over them to get you into a more positive mindset. Some examples of what you might like to write down, especially if you're just about to have a test would be, I know that I have studied to the best of my abilities, or I have survived exams before, and my favorite is I'm going to ask this exam. Tip number three is to seek support. So talking to a family member, a friend, or even a staff member, can be really effective because it reminds us that we're not alone, and often they'll come up with some really effective strategies as well. The next tip is to exercise and get outdoors regularly. So when you exercise, you're able to reduce your cortisol levels and also produce indoor funds to make you feel better. The other great thing about exercising regularly is that it promotes a good night's sleep. Tip number five is to engage in self-care. Make sure you set aside at like 30 minutes every day to do something nice for yourself. Don't get consuming all of your work and end up neglecting your own personal needs. It's important to prioritize yourself and have some important me time every day so that you don't end up feeling burnt out or run down close to the end of the year or even sooner. Some examples of what you might like to do for yourself could be to read a book, go to the park, play with a pet, or even see your friends. So then my top five tips for managing stress, and I hope you found them helpful. Alright, I'm going to hand you back over to Thomas. Alright guys, so I really hope you enjoyed Jess's part of the video. Before I close this video out, I just got a couple of different things I want to mention. Number one, if you're looking for some more note-taking hacks, I actually made a video about that topic on her channel so you can click right there to watch it. And also, I just really encourage you to go over to Jess's channel and check out some of videos and subscribe if you like them because she's one of the few people that it's also dedicating all of her time to making videos about studying and learning here on YouTube. That has all I've got for this video, so thanks so much for watching, and as always, I will see you next week. Hey there guys, thanks so much for watching this video. If you enjoyed it, it would be awesome if you gave it a like to support this channel and you can also subscribe using the big red button right there to get new tips of being a more effective student every single week. You can also pick up a free copy of my book on learning better grades by clicking the picture in the book. And if you missed the other video I did this week, it's over how to build a study schedule for your final. So definitely check it out. Lastly, I'm Tom Franklin and both Instagram and Twitter are going to connect or you can just leave a comment down below.
