# What I'm Struggling With (and What I'm Doing About It) - College Info Geek
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8IJ-WOJKAVc
This video is my attempt to just be honest about some of the struggles I'm dealing with at the moment, mainly related to time management and goals. 

The friends I talk with each week:

Zach Sexton ➔ https://twitter.com/zwsexton
Stefano Ganddini ➔ https://twitter.com/stefanoganddini
Stephen Warley ➔ https://twitter.com/stephenwarley

My book "10 Steps to Earning Awesome Grades" is completely free, so check it out if you're interested in improving your grades!

http://collegeinfogeek.com/get-better-grades/

Companion blog post:

http://collegeinfogeek.com/what-im-struggling-with/

If you want to get even more strategies and tips on becoming a more productive, successful student, subscribe to my channel right here:

http://buff.ly/1vQP5ar

Bonus resource:

http://harry-potter-sounds.ambient-mixer.com/ravenclaw-common-room

Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly

~ created by Thomas Frank
**Keywords:** struggle, time management, goals, goal setting, just being honest, 
**Date:** 2015-10-08

## Transcript
 Good morning guys! Oh, we're doing this a 10 different video today! What's up guys? I want to do a little bit different of a video this week because, well, I don't have a script in mind, I don't have a full outline of what I want to talk about in mind, but I do have a couple of ideas that I got from a weekly call that I do every single week. I guess that's what we call it weekly. With a few friends of mine, I talk with Zach from Asian Efficiency, my friend Stefano from College Topia and my friend Stephen, who used to run a podcast called Unstuckable. And every morning, we got on Skype and have what you could, I guess, call a mastermind group of sorts. I don't really like that term very much, but basically it's a more structured meeting every week instead of just hanging out and chatting. We want to help each other. We want to tell each other what's going right in our lives, what's going wrong, analyze struggles and figure out how we can each get more progress towards our goals. And this week, I was sort of in the hot seat of sorts, and they kind of pointed out some of the things that I'm struggling with. It's nothing serious, it's nothing like life-threatening or anything, but what I've realized is there's a few problems that I have not been taking the time and putting the effort into solving and this week, I'm taking that time. Just to let some off the main ones that I've been bugging me recently, I haven't been reading books like I want to, especially nonfiction. I haven't been going about my morning routine as diligently. There's also some bigger projects that don't really have the weekly deadlines that I put on my video production, such as getting a print version of my book available on Amazon. I really want to do that because people have requested it, and I need to a lot of time for that. So this week, I'm taking the time to do that. That's why this video is a little bit less polished, I suppose. A little bit less like the other ones. And the reason for that is that I want to take some time to point out the inefficiencies in my production process, and then develop some systems for making that work better. And it's a truck driver, I'm at school. But yeah, there's some inefficiencies that I want to take the time to straighten them out. So one of those things is creating a more effective default template for my videos that has all the sound effects and graphics that I use on a regular basis already in them. So I don't have to recreate that project from scratch every time. And I guess if you want to pull anything from this video, I mean, this is kind of just me trying to figure out what the heck is wrong with my life and how I can fix it. If you have processes that you go through on a regular basis and you realize that there's some inefficient parts of that that are taking too much time, then taking some time off to fix those is investment. Like you do have to stop or slow down the regular work for a while to take the time to do this, but it's an investment that pays dividends later on down the road. It's much like college, right? Like when you go to college, you're kind of taking four years off from the time that you could be working and making money to do some concentrated study that will pay dividends down. The line and this is the same exact thing. If I take the time now to figure out what's wrong in my process is in fix it, then I'm going to be able to do more work and better work down the line and also be able to fit in bigger projects that aren't weekly. One other thing I've been noticing is that with video every single week, I go through the same exact process where I sort of trick my brain into thinking that it's going to get the video done like on Monday. Like I'll say, oh, it's Monday. I'm going to get the video done today. So that way, the Tuesday Wednesday Thursday that I usually spend editing, I can work on bigger projects. And what always happens inevitably is I end up spending Monday through Thursday on video inefficiently. And this reminds me of something called Parkinson's Law, which essentially boils down to work fills the time that you a lot to it. If I lot four days to work, if it's Monday and I start doing a video and I tell myself it's going to go up on Thursday, then more from the not, I kind of inefficiently work on it four days. Whereas if I work on big projects on Monday and Tuesday and say, all right, Tom, you've only got Wednesday and Thursday to do the video. It's getting done much more quickly. I find that inspiration really hits me when there's a little bit of a deadline, a little bit of time pressure. So think about that in your work as well. So that's all I got for this video, except for the fact that there's going to be a little bonus resource at the end of the video after the end card. Now I'm not going to tell you what it is, so just stay to the end and check it out. But if you want the ideas from this video, essentially what I'm trying to do is point out those efficiencies, take the time to fix them. Also, knowing that Parkinson's Law is a thing and structuring my work time so that I do have a little bit of time pressure. And also, if you don't have a structured group or call every single week or mastermind, I guess you can call it. With people who have the same motivations or similar levels of drive that you have, I think that's a really valuable thing. I've found a lot of value in getting with those guys every single week and talking through our goals and struggles. And if you haven't done that yet, then I would suggest maybe trying it. So as always, guys, thanks so much for watching this video. I'll see you next week with a more regular, collagen book geek type video until then. Stay cute. Hey guys, thanks for watching this video. If you want to get new videos every single week, I'm being a more effective student. If you put that big red subscribe button right there. I also wrote a book on how to get better grades. And if you put the picture of it, you can get a free copy over my website. Also, my website, you'll find the companion blog post with a summary of this video. And you can put the orange logo right there to get through. And last week's video, we went over five ways. You could increase your reading speed. So check it out if you haven't seen it. And if you'd like to connect your ass questions, I'm on Twitter, At Tom, frankly, or you can hit the comment down below. Alright, bonus resource. As promised, I was browsing Reddit the other day. And I found something that I think you'll like. So if you go over to ambientmixer, ambient-mixer.com, There's a Ravenclaw common room soundscape. And I mean, over here, there's some other ones right there. There's like, there's like, slitter in and there's like, Craving door, but who cares about that? Ravenclaw is the best. And yeah, I had a link in the description. Also in the blog post, so check it out if you like ambient soundscapes for studying in lieu of music or a sponsor could even combine it with music.
