# What's in My Bag - My Work Gear & Every Day Carry (2021)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9a8m9XTR4qc
I've finally ditched the backpack.
📺 Watch this video ad-free on Nebula: https://nebula.app/videos/thomas-frank-whats-in-my-bag-my-work-gear-every-day-carry-2021

🛠 COURSES AND RESOURCES: 
Notion channel - https://www.youtube.com/c/ThomasFrankExplains
Free Notion templates - https://thomasjfrank.com/templates/
Learn Notion - https://thomasjfrank.com/fundamentals
Productivity and Habits courses - https://thomasjfrank.com/courses/

🦙 SPONSOR: 
🔥 Get ad-free, extended videos with the CuriosityStream + Nebula bundle for less than $15/year: https://www.curiositystream.com/thomas

Thanks to my editor Tony for the cameo - check out his channel! https://www.youtube.com/c/TonySantosSpider

🐦 SOCIAL STUFF:
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly
Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Podcast ➔ https://www.youtube.com/TheCollegeInfoGeekPodcast
Music Channel ➔ https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCmqK2G-3AL_WP5KffH_wqAA
Spotify Study Playlist ➔ https://open.spotify.com/user/thomasfrank09/playlist/4ETfiRPHVmUFLF6q0g8Fux?si=IPfx3dAgQ1SIUwhh5YEQMQ

🔗 GEAR (nothing here is sponsored or affiliate links):
Ortlieb Commuter Bag: https://www.ortlieb.com/en_us/commuter-bag-two-urban
iPhone wallet: https://www.apple.com/shop/product/MHLR3ZM/A/iphone-leather-wallet-with-magsafe-black
Pocket Tripod: https://pocket-tripod.com/
Dash wallets: https://dashwallets.com/
Secrid wallet: https://secrid.com/en-us/slimwallet-prism-black
Phone clamp for tripod: https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B073533Z5R
Switchpod: https://switchpod.co/
Selfie stick: https://store.insta360.com/product/invisible_selfie_stick_tripod
1.25lb weights: https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B07VFCLCXD/
Weight belt: https://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B01HE1FX0E
Wrist wraps: https://www.roguefitness.com/rogue-wrist-wraps-red-black

👐 BUSINESS:
Please contact my agent at thomasfrank@standard.tv

💰 I'm fortunate enough to work with great sponsors who support my work, so I don't use Patreon or any other crowdfunding service. However, if you'd like to support a worthy cause, consider donating to help more children get access to a high-quality education: https://fundraise.pencilsofpromise.org/fundraiser/1489730
**Keywords:** thomas frank, productivity, edc, every day carry, edc 2021, whats in my bag, tech bag, productivity gear, productivity bag, tech gear, 2021 backpack, 2021 gear, 
**Date:** 2021-07-09

## Transcript
 This video is sponsored by CuriosityStream and Nebula. Hello and welcome to get another what's in my bag video. It's been two years since I did a what's in my backpack video and for the first time in this series I'm not showcasing a backpack. I've actually switched from using a backpack for pretty much my whole life to a brand new bag. So in this video we're gonna go through my bag what's in it, what I carry with me on a daily basis when I go about my work, my EDC, the things that are not in the bag but on my person. And I'm also going to explain why I switched over to this weird looking bag instead of sticking with my tried and true backpack. And I think we're actually going to start with this. So this is an Orlib city commuter panier bag for a bike and it's got this killer feature here which is the ability to automatically hook on to a bike rack. So if you have a bike with a rear rack, this can just clip on. It's got this cool click release system so it can just easily be put on there. But once it's on there, it is completely secure. So the reason that I'm using this which you may have seen me talk about in other videos is that I recently bought an e-bike and I've been commuting to a downtown office about 44 miles round trip on the days when I'm not in the studio filming. And I love doing that but biking with a backpack in the summer is a recipe for becoming a complete hot sweaty mess no matter what kind of backpack you get. So this thing's killer feature is the ability to go onto the rear rack and allow me to bike with having nothing on my back which is pretty sweet. It's also completely waterproof so even when I've been caught in rainstorms, I don't worry about all the stuff inside. Anyway, let's talk about what I'm packing on a daily basis. So the main thing about this bag is it's pretty much just one big cavernous space on the inside. There are a couple of pen holders, there's a couple of hidden pockets, but in terms of bags with like secret tech and all the stuff, this doesn't really bring that to the table. It's just sort of cavernous space that hooks onto your bike. But it is pretty big so I'm able to fit pretty much everything that I need on a daily basis into it. So that includes a 16 inch MacBook Pro. A couple of years ago I had this brief flirtation with a Windows laptop. That was very brief. This is just so much better in terms of portability and build quality. Then any Windows laptop I have tried so even though I am still a PC user when it comes to desktop side, I'm full on Apple when it comes to anything portable. We also have the 11 inch iPad Pro. And on a lot of days, if I'm just going to go to a coffee shop or something, I will often not bring the laptop because this thing functions as a pretty complete laptop replacement as long as I don't need to edit or do some kind of like photo manipulation or anything. If I'm just researching, I did a whole video about this earlier this year. This thing is actually perfectly adequate for research and in some cases, even better than the MacBook because of an app called Command, which allows me to highlight passages in my browser and then send them over to Notion via a pretty cool integration. I've also found that the Apple keyboard case is actually really nice. My hands are kind of big, so at first it took me a little bit to get used to the keyboard here since it is smaller than a standard size keyboard. But now that I am used to it, I can type pretty much as fast as I can on my regular mechanical keyboard and because of the pencil, it's great for if I want to draw or take handwritten notes. I don't do that too often, but sometimes I'll get an idea for a diagram that I want to sketch out and the iPad is absolutely device for that. Next up, we have a couple of books. This is a random walk down Wall Street and then we have Seth Goatins, The Dip. Highly recommend this book. I actually reread this book very recently because I was contemplating whether or not to quit something in my life and I'm going to be doing a summary video of this book pretty soon. So get subscribed if you want to see my take on it, but also you can rate this book in like an hour and it's very well worth your time. Next up, we've got trusty wireless headphones. And I'm actually in the process of testing new wireless headphones because my trusty Bose QC35s are starting to die and there are newer ones on the market. So these are the Apple AirPods Max and I'm currently testing these and then I will be testing the Sony XM4s and the Bose 700. I'm going to whole video about those and basically give you my opinion in which one's best. So again, get subscribed if you want to see that in the future. These are pretty annoying when it comes to the case. This case is absolutely ridiculous. It baffles me why they design it this way, but gotta say the sound so far is pretty stellar. So even though these are goofy and expensive, they are definitely a contender and I'll give you my full opinion when I test the other ones and get my whole verdict sort of knocked. Now one thing that I mentioned in my last backpack video is that I always have a folder. This one has a Saturn made out of pizza with a metal ring. I'm not sure why, but it's always good to have a folder in your backpack. Even if you're a completely digital person because you're always going to come across random bits of paper that you may need to save. I've got like floor dimensions for my house and here from long time ago, but most recently some receipts for some things that I need to expense later on. So keep a folder in your bag and your life will be better. A clean cantine water bottle always good to have. This is usually living on the water bottle rack on my bike, but it's in my bag right now. And finally, chargers. One for the MacBook Pro. Oh, I will show you this thing. I don't know if you can zoom in very well on it, Tony. I don't know where to get this, but you can get this little hippo thing that goes in the end of your cord. It just keeps the USB-C connector from getting bent in fraying that cord connection. I got it as a stocking stuff for a couple years ago for Christmas so I don't know where you would get it, but it's great and I was going to mention it. And last but not least for the bag, a pen. So that is the stuff that lives in my bag every day. Let's now move into the other bag that I keep with me because basically every time I go somewhere, I also have this bag, which is just one of those like cheat drawstring bags, and it's just my workout bag. So there's a couple of interesting things in here. First and foremost, because I work with a coach who is in Springfield, Missouri and I'm in Denver, Colorado, I have to film my sets when I work out. So I can send them to him for critique. So I've got this cool little contraption that gives me a super portable tall tripod that fits right into this bag. It is the SwitchPod, which is actually created by my friend Pat Flynn and Caleb Bogek, and it is one of my favorite pieces of video gear ever made. It's kind of like the Gorilla Pod if it was even better paired with the selfie stick that comes with the Insta360 camera. And on the end of that is just a really cheap phone mount that I got from Amazon. So by basically taking the selfie stick and screwing it into the bottom of the SwitchPod with twist rod here, you get a tripod of sorts and then this thing and telescope. So when I'm in the gym, I need to film a squat set or deadlift set or anything else. I can create this tripod and then break it down so it fits into this tiny little bag. Also within this bag, we have got a lifting belt, which is great if you're doing heavy barbell training. This one's for Amazon, it's pro fitness, it's pretty cheap, but it gets the job done. We also have some wrist wraps. These are great for supporting your wrists when you're doing heavy presses or heavy bench presses. So those always go with me. And I didn't know these existed until my coach told me to buy them. You can get 1.25 pound plates. So if you do something like shoulder press, where your gains typically don't come five pounds at a time, these allow you to go up just two and a half pounds, which means you can keep the rep range that you are doing with your programming while still going up consistently in weight every week. So that just leaves the EDC portion, which stands for everyday carry. And there are a few things that I do carry on my person, which are interesting, so we're going to add them into this video as well. The first thing is the phone. So you know, phones aren't all that interesting, but I will say that I did opt for the iPhone 12 mini when I upgraded my phone earlier this year. And hot take, the mini is the best size of the iPhone. If you haven't tried it seriously, give it a try. If it's in your pocket so much better, and it's just the best size of phone. But cool in the phone is this little Magsafe wallet that you can get for Apple, which slaps onto the back of it and gives you the ability to carry one or two credit cards on the back of your phone. But what I've actually got in the back of my wallet is probably the coolest thing in this video. It's this thing called the pocket tripod. So it looks like a credit card. It's about the thickness of maybe one and a half credit cards. But if you transform it like this, you get an instant tripod. So if we put it down here and we slap the phone in it, now you have a tripod. Well hello there. So you can easily film something. And I was actually filming a little bit of footage for my headphone review video in the coffee shop today. Next up, we have the AirPods Pro, which are one of my favorite things that I own actually. And these things last forever in terms of battery. And the noise cancellation is a game changer when I'm in places where I don't necessarily have my big headphones, but might need some cancellation. So love having these, the pretty much always in my pocket. Additionally, always in my pocket is this pocket knife. So I usually keep this on my left pocket. It's great for opening boxes. And this is the Ontario Knives Rat 2. And I guess Rat stands for Randall's Adventure Training. I'm not sure who Randall was, but he makes a pretty good knife. It's like $20. I bought this for Christmas present for several different people. And I've had this one myself for probably three, four years now. It's a great knife. Sharpen it sometimes. Just useful tool. Speaking of useful tools, this one on my wrist is probably one of the most useful ones that I have. So the Apple Watch number one tells the time he has me the weather, but also tracks my exercise. And as you can see, I have not yet done enough exercise today, which is not good for me because I'm currently in a fitness competition with Brian from Real Engineering. So I will be going to the gym right after filming this, so I don't fall behind the competition. But in addition to the exercise tracking here, I have the ability to tap one button and get to my voice memos. So I'm constantly recording voice memos. I've got tons of ideas for videos. And like I said, in my iPhone apps round up video from last week, I do like using auto more than the built-in voice memos app. But if I'm driving or if I'm on the bike, you can just don't have quick access to my phone. I'll hit this and in a pinch, I'm able to record my thoughts and save them. So I can turn them into a video or a song idea or what have you. That brings us to the wallet. So this is a dash wallet, which I believe is like 20 bucks. I got mine on Amazon. It's a pretty cool minimalist wallet that actually holds quite a few cards. But before I talk about a few that are in here, I do want my editor Tony to talk about his wallet because it is honestly cooler than mine. Alright, so with this wallet, it's called, I think it's called the Secret or Say Creed wallet. I don't know how to pronounce that. But this wallet is a wallet I got in Canada when time and I went a couple years ago. And the cool thing about this wallet is that it keeps everything inside a little slit. So when you actually need to get your your cards, there's a little button right here in the bottom. All you do is pull down and your wallet's shoot up. And the cool thing about this is you can fit out to five cards in this wallet. But then if you need additional little bit like a little bit more space, what you do is just open it up and you have a little bit more space. If you want to put some money right here in this little flap and then just extra card slots. Anyway, in my wallet, which is way too full of cards for that wallet, I think. There are a couple of interesting cards that I will point out. So recently, I switched over to the so-fi card for my main credit card. The reason I'm using this one is it gives you two percent cashback as long as you use it to buy stocks. And I was using the capital one quick silver card which gives you 1.5 percent cashback. So as long as I'm investing my rewards, I'm getting 0.5 percent cashback on every single purchase when I use this card. So it's now my main card. Another cool card actually, probably a cooler card is the carrot card. So this is a credit card specifically for creators. And it gets me a pretty decent percent cashback on tech and travel. But the coolest thing is I got to engrave my little sunglasses llama right onto the front of the card. And they actually let you engrave pretty much any design you want. So this is probably my favorite credit card. It's also metal. So I try not to drop it because it's basically like a throwing last but not least is this Canadian $10 bill which is of pretty much no use to me except for the fact that it contains hidden guitar picks. That is pretty much my EDC. There's also some keys. You can get these at your local hardware store until they probably will not be identical to mine. At least that's how I would like it. And I know I kind of rushed through everything in this video. So over on Nebula, I actually have a collab with my friend Ali Abdullah where each of us go through our daily gear in more detail. And that is live on Nebula now. So if you want to get that video plus add free versions on my YouTube videos before they go live here on YouTube, you are going to want to get on Nebula. If you haven't heard about it, it is a streaming service that I built with some of my awesome creator friends. Brian from ill engineering, Sam from Winter Reproductions, Marquez Brownlee from MKBHD and tons of other creators that you know and love. On Nebula, you get ad free versions of our videos before they go live here on YouTube, but you also get exclusive videos that are only on Nebula. And that is because Nebula is a platform that we the creators actually own. And that allows us to experiment and branch out from our normal content bubbles, which makes Nebula the best place to follow my content along with the content from tons of other great creators. And the best way to get Nebula is actually to get CuriosityStream. Because we have teamed up with the folks over at CuriosityStream to offer a bundle, where when you use the link in the description down below, you get a full year of both CuriosityStream and Nebula together for over 26% off the normal price, less than 15 bucks a year. And for that price, not only do you get access to Nebula, you also get access to all the high quality documentaries on CuriosityStream. There are thousands of them. CuriosityStream is the best place on the internet to get documentaries. And one that I have to recommend this week is actually Nick Offerman's history of the home. Number one, Nick Offerman is my home's patron saint. I've got a picture from over my fireplace, so I always got to give a shout out to my boy, Nick Offerman. But also, I've been doing a lot of work on my own home studio recently, so I thought it would be a great recommendation for you. And in addition to that documentary, there are thousands of others covering history, nature, science, technology, so it is a great platform for expanding your knowledge. And again, once you get that, you also get access to Nebula. So once again, use the link in the description down below to sign up to get a full year of both CuriosityStream and Nebula for 26% off. And in doing so, you'll also be supporting my channel and a ton of other great educational creators. Thanks as always for watching. Hopefully you found something interesting in this video. It's always a pretty interesting format to do, and maybe you found something that you're going to be adding to your bag, your EDC, or maybe I convinced you to try biking to work, or biking to school, or wherever you have to go, because that's something that I'm pretty passionate about, getting more people to bike, and drive less often. Anyway, thanks again for watching, and I will see you in the next video. Stay cute.
