# 5 Resume Mistakes You Need to Avoid
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9tdyZWbGWO0
The first 100 people to use this link will get 10% off their first domain name at Hover: https://hover.com/thomasfrank

Big thanks to Hover for sponsoring this video!

Your resume is a key tool for impressing recruiters and landing jobs, internships, and sometimes even scholarship. Yet people often make HUGE mistakes on them - mistakes that can land their resume in the trash.

Today, we'll cover five of those mistakes, and I'll share tips and examples for how you can avoid them.

If you're curious, here's my resume:

https://drive.google.com/file/d/0B98GpsX1yQlqNnNBRnBzNXZTYTQ/view

You can also check out my personal website here:

http://thomasjfrank.com/

My book "10 Steps to Earning Awesome Grades" is completely free, so check it out if you're interested in improving your grades!

http://collegeinfogeek.com/get-better-grades/

Check out our latest podcast episode:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pp5LEbGwduA

Read the companion article:

https://collegeinfogeek.com/resume-mistakes-to-avoid/

Connect with me:

Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly

----------

Videos you might want to watch next:

Why "Find Your Passion" is Bad Advice: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FlosFuyuPpk

How to Be More Confident Than Anyone You Know: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IjB-JRU-_dY

----------

If you want to get even more strategies and tips on becoming a more productive, successful student, subscribe to my channel right here:

http://buff.ly/1vQP5ar

Background music by Broke for Free: http://freemusicarchive.org/music/Broke_For_Free/

Extension for better control over playback speed (if I'm talking too fast) ➔ https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/video-speed-controller/nffaoalbilbmmfgbnbgppjihopabppdk?hl=en

~ created by Thomas Frank
**Keywords:** resume, resume tips, job interview, job application, cv, how to get a job, how to get hired, how to write a resume, work history, no work experience, internship advice, internships, career fair, college tips, university tips, college internship, high school job, student job, on campus, hiring, scholarships, education, extracurriculars, volunteering, resume length, resume pages, how many pages, how long resume, resume review, cover letter, 
**Date:** 2017-09-23

## Transcript
 Let's talk about resumes. At some point in your life, probably sooner than you think, you're going to have to write one of these things. And whether you're applying for a job, or an internship, or in some cases even a scholarship, your resume is likely to be the first thing that the decision-maker sees when they're evaluating you, which means they're important. Now because these things are so important, then any recruiter or hiring manager is obviously going to give every single one they receive the utmost care and attention, right? Wrong. In reality, most resumes are never actually seen by a human recruiter. And if those actually do make it to a recruiter's desk, most are unceremoniously thrown in the trash after just a few seconds. And this is just a numbers game. In fact, Google alone gets over 1 million resumes per year, and that breaks down to over 2700 a day. Now, those numbers seem daunting, and that can be a little bit intimidating, but there is some good news, because a lot of people make some really common mistakes on their resumes that can put them out of the running. And if you could learn to avoid those mistakes, you're going to have a huge leg up on the competition. Today, we are going to over 5 of the worst resumes mistakes you can make, and we're going to talk about how you can avoid them so that you get that dream job that you are going for. The first big mistake we're going to go over is the tendency for people to write their experience section in a way that lists their job duties rather than their jobs accomplishments. But the thing is, employers do not care about what you were expected to do at your last job. They care about what you can do for them, and they want to see concrete examples from your past experience that point to that. And since most of them are not Albus Dumbledore, and they don't have a penceaf sitting in the corner, they can't just peer into the past and watch you at work, which means it's your responsibility to clearly and simply show what you accomplished in that little amount of space you have. Here's an example from my own resume. During my senior year, I had a job on campus at a research department. I got hired as a web developer, and I did maintain the website. I did make changes to it, but at one point I also had a small, probably three-hour project where I created an automation script that ended up saving the company about 240 hours of work. And since people there are getting paid about 9 bucks an hour, you can do the math on how much money that saved. Now, even though that project only took me a few hours to do, and the eyes of a hiring manager, it would have been by far the best indication to my creative problem-solving abilities and my ability to save their company money in the future out of anything I did there. Now, you might be thinking to yourself right now, I don't have a story like this. I haven't saved the company a ton of hours or thousands of dollars yet, but what you do have is the ability to make your achievements as concrete and as specific as possible and to quantify them. To look at another example from my resume, during my junior year, I was a resident advisor at my university. And I could have just said, helped to smoothly run a community of students, but I put 62 students because that gives a more concrete and quantified example of how many students I was managing. Big mistake number two is, believe it or not, typos and grammatical errors. And you might be thinking this is the most obvious boring tip that could ever be on a video like this, but it needs to be said because I myself have fallen victim to it. During the summer before my sophomore year, I was getting ready for the career fair and I had created what I thought was the perfect resume. At a ton of experience, tons of clubs, tons of part-time jobs that I could show off. I was thinking, I'm going to go into that career fair and I'm going to crush all the competition, but to check off all the boxes, I decided to get a resume review from my career counselor first. So I go into our office, I sit down and I'm thinking, this is going to be a five minute meeting. A gold star and say, Thomas, this was the best resume I've ever reviewed. But instead, she pulls out a red pen and starts marking stuff up. And as she's marking things, I start to see that she's marking out typos, things that I did not catch myself. And I thought my resume was perfect. So if you can get your resume reviewed by your career counselor and if you can't at least have somebody that you trust who isn't you run over it before you start handing it out to because we are always more scrutinizing and more careful when we're proofreading somebody else's work than our own. The third big mistake is listing all of your experience in purely chronological order instead of its relevancy to the position you're applying to. A lot of people think they're actually supposed to list their experience in chronological order, but this is something that you shouldn't do because you really don't have a whole lot of time to catch the recruiters' eyes. So you want to put the most relevant thing first. In fact, according to a study done by the ladders.com, recruiters spend an average of just six seconds looking at a resume before throwing it into the trash and going on to the next one. For science major applying for a job and last summer you did an internship in software development where you literally built and shipped software, but then after that you just like worked at Burger King during the year, you definitely want to put that software development internship at the top because the recruiter at a computer science company is not going to care so much about Burger King. Now you can definitely go too far here, which means that there is a balance that has to be struck. In fact, I got an email from somebody in their mid 20s recently who asked me if it would be a good idea to put a mission trip they did when they were 11 years old on their resume. As I was trying to answer that person's question, I imagine myself as the hiring director looking at that person's resume. And all I could think of is that something like that on a resume is going to look like just grasping its straws. I'm going to think, why isn't there anything else you've done in the intervening 15 years that deserves to kick that thing off the resume? Now maybe this doesn't apply to people who have already had long and illustrious careers who have 20 page CVs and tons of awards on their shelf in their office, but if you are just looking for an entry level position or you're just a few years into your career, then the recent see does matter. The fourth big mistake that has really common to students especially is placing too much emphasis on paid work. A lot of students think that if they didn't get paid for it, it doesn't really count and it doesn't belong in that experience section. But here's the thing, employers don't actually look at it that way. Maybe you're like Ron Swanson, you've been working in the quarry since you were 12 years old and you have tons of part-time jobs that you are paid for that you can put on your resume. But most students don't have that kind of experience. For the most part, when students are looking for their first entry level job, they don't have a whole lot of paid work on their belt. And when they do, it's often stuff like working at Subway or flipping burgers or working at a cashier. Honorable work to be sure, but it often doesn't exemplify the traits that recruiters are looking for in more technical positions. But many times those same students have volunteer experiences, extracurriculars and clubs where they did gain experience and what the recruiters are looking for. And if that's you, you should definitely put those experiences right at the top of your experience section. And that brings us to our final big mistake on the list, which is using the same resume to apply for every single position you go for. This is a huge mistake, because again, you've got just six seconds to catch your recruiters eye. So make sure you're tailoring your resume to every single position that you're applying for. If you're an active student and it's more than likely you have a diverse set of experiences and skills. So when you're going for a position, ask yourself, what are the exact skills that are going to look the best to a recruiter hiring for this position and make sure you tailor your resume to show those things first. If you have both freelance writing experience and coding experience, then a writing job is going to take a different resume than a coding job. And the other important thing to note here to be honest is that using the same resume to apply for every single job is downright lazy. And it shows, which is bad, because honestly, one of the top qualities that recruiters across every single industry is looking for is a clear indication that this candidate is going to go above and beyond. And I can kind of weigh in here myself at this point, because I actually have eight people on my team now. And when I'm looking to hire somebody, the top qualities in my mind are clear work ethic, a clear ability to solve problems independently, and culture fit. If somebody doesn't take those three boxes, then their technical skills don't really matter to me. And on the flip side, if they do check those boxes and they have a slight deficiency in the technical skills, that often doesn't matter, because I know, as long as they're a quick learner and solve problems, I can train them in those technical areas. Now when it comes to your resume, the best way you're going to demonstrate these qualities is by letting your past accomplishments speak for themselves, by making sure that experience section shows off accomplishments in a very clear and specific way. But tailoring your resume to the company and showing that you put effort into the application process goes a long way as well. Now that being said, when it comes to showing off those more intrinsic qualities, your resume is not the best tool for the job. Honestly, those are probably going to come out most in the interview when you have real face-to-face interaction with that hiring manager, but before the interview happens, another great tool for showing those qualities is having a website. If you have your own website, then you can build a portfolio that shows off your work in the way that it was meant to be seen. You can show it off in all its details, and you can also show the process that you used which shows your work ethic and your problem solving abilities. It also just gives you a much more customized and vibrant way to present yourself as you can see from my website here, which is why I think that every ambitious student should have their own website. Now, if you're in high school or you're early on a college and you're not ready to build a website for yourself, just yet, I do think that you should at the very least go and secure your domain name. I was born just a bit too late to get Thomas Frank.com, but I was able to get my hands on ThomasJFrank.com, which is pretty good. And the early that you go and get your domain name, the less likely it's going to be, that someone's going to take it before you have the chance. Now when you are ready to go secure that domain name, the best place to do it is over at hover. With hover, buying a domain is easy, it's quick, and best of all, it doesn't involve a bunch of annoying upsells. I want to come to pick it out that domain name. You have a ton of choice, as hover has hundreds of extensions ranging from the fun ones like that band, dot limo, two of the classics that we all know and love like dot com, and dot me. Also, with however, you can get a personalized email address with your domain name, which can further boost your professional presence. And if you want, you can even set it up so that you can send and receive email straight from your Gmail inbox, which I've been doing for years, and I absolutely love. Coming with you already to build that website, hover's connect future will I to easily attach your domain name to tons of different web services, including Squarespace and Shopify. So if you do want to go lock down that domain name, then go over to hover.com slash Thomas Frank, and the first 100 people to do so are going to get 10% off of their first order. Thanks so much to hover for sponsoring this video and helping to support this channel, and as always, guys, thank you so much for watching. For something I didn't cover in this video that you think would be helpful, definitely share it in the comments down below, and if you'd like this video, give it a like to support this channel. You can also subscribe right there to get new videos every single week, or go right there to get a free copy of my book on how to earn better grades. If you want, you can also check out our latest podcast episode right there, which is on how to be a better, significant order, or if you don't want to do any of those, YouTube has algorithmically selected a video for you to watch right there, so click it and keep on watching. So thanks for hanging out today, guys, and I will see you as always next week.
