# How to Learn Faster with the Feynman Technique (Example Included)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_f-qkGJBPts
If you want to cut your study time, using the Feynman Technique is a great way to do it. Named after the physicist Richard Feynman, it revolves around explaining a concept in simple language as if you were teaching it to someone else.

In this video, I'll show you exactly how to use the Feynman Technique.

Want examples? You can find them here:

https://collegeinfogeek.com/feynman-technique/

My book "10 Steps to Earning Awesome Grades" is completely free, so check it out if you're interested in improving your grades!

http://collegeinfogeek.com/get-better-grades/

----------

Videos you might want to watch next:

5 Tips for Acing Multiple Choice Tests: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q1y8c_MZYvE

The Most Powerful Way to Remember What You Study: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eVajQPuRmk8

----------

If you want to get even more strategies and tips on becoming a more productive, successful student, subscribe to my channel right here:

http://buff.ly/1vQP5ar

Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly

~ created by Thomas Frank

Music: "Nola" by Broke for Free: http://brokeforfree.com/
Graphics: https://paper.dropbox.com/doc/081-The-Feynman-Technique-tKx0c7JzZ6rzkraWIZ1Bm

My wallpaper: http://i.imgur.com/M6tL2a8.png
**Keywords:** thomas frank, college info geek, college tips, studying, university, feynman technique, richard feynman, nobel prize, study tips, revision, learning, learn faster, study faster, study less, math tips, how to learn math, science tips, 
**Date:** 2017-02-07

## Transcript
 There's this pretty well known quote that gets thrown around a lot and it's often attributed to Albert Einstein. It goes, if you can't explain it simply then you don't understand it well enough. Now whether or not Einstein was the person who actually said this, let's be real, he probably wasn't. It's still really insightful and reversing it reveals a pretty powerful piece of study advice. If you want to understand something well, explain it. Now this idea is something I touched on briefly back in my video summary of the study study, smart lecture by Dr. Marty Labdell because in that lecture he talked about one of the most effective study techniques being to teach what you're learning to someone else. So in this video I wanted to deeper into the idea and share with you a step-by-step process for doing this which has been called the Feynman technique. Now this technique is named after the physicist Richard Feynman who was in his own right a great scientist. In fact back in 1965 he won a Nobel Prize for his work in quantum electro dynamics which is something I had to practice saying a couple of different times and he contributed to science in a number of different ways including the development of or called Feynman diagrams which are basically graphical representations of the math behind how subatomic particles work. But in addition to being a great scientist he was also a great teacher and a great explainer and in fact one of his nicknames was the great explainer because he was able to boil down incredibly complex concepts and put them in simple language the other people could understand and that's why he's one of those great scientists who's also known as a very good teacher and in fact even in his own learning Feynman was famous for tirelessly working through equations until the concept he was wrangling with was intuitively easy to understand in his mind. So that's why this technique is named after him but you don't have to be a physicist or you don't have to be working on math or science problems to use this technique because explaining a concept works to improve your understanding of that concept in basically any area be it history or be it math or be it web development doesn't matter and it also works for multiple different purposes. If you're shaky on a concept and you want to quickly improve your understanding you can use it but if you already have a pretty confident grasp of a subject and say you've got a test coming up soon you can also use it to test your understanding and challenge your assumptions. As fireman himself said the first principle is that you must not fool yourself and you are the easiest person to fool. The ultimate way to ensure that you actually understand all the little nitty-gritty details of a concept in your head is to explain it to someone else or to at least pretend you're doing so and that is the crux of the fireman technique. So let's get into it. It's a process of four steps and the first step is to simply get up a piece of paper and write the name of the technique down at the top. And in the example I filmed here we're going to use the Pythagorean theorem because it is simple and won't get in the way of the actual steps we're going to go through. Step two is to explain the concept and to do it in simple plain English or French or really whatever language you happen to speak. But the idea here is to do it in a way that's easy to understand as if you were teaching someone else and don't just settle with defining the concept either. Also work through examples and make sure that you're able to use the concept in practice as well. For step three, identify any of the areas that you're shaky on after your explanation or identify areas that you got stuck on which halted your explanation and go back to the source material or go back to your notes or work through examples until your understanding of these sub areas is just as solid as all the other areas. And finally step four is to look at your explanation and try to identify any areas where you've resorted to using technical terms or convoluted language and then challenge yourself to break down those terms and explain them and simplify it easy to understand words. Remember, the key here is simplicity. The active explaining a topic as if you were teaching it to somebody who didn't have the same base assumptions and base knowledge that you have is the ultimate test of your own knowledge in that subject. And that's pretty much it. That's all there is to the Feynman technique. Now using this technique is incredibly helpful because at number one helps you to quickly overview the concept and see where your knowledge is solid but number two helps you to instantly pinpoint the areas where you're shaky and where you need to do extra work. And that makes this technique a great first step in reviewing a concept because it's very efficient and it helps you waste less time. I did want to give you guys one extra suggestion though and it relates to how you frame your mind going into step four. Instead of just thinking how can I make this simple, how can I put it in plain English, also think how would I explain this to a kid? Why? Well besides asking questions like can I have another Oreo or kind of go watch Dragon Ball Z, a kid's going to ask, why? Why does that work? And that's going to help the challenge your assumptions. For instance, going back to our Pythagorean theorem example, maybe you know the formula, but a kid would ask you, why does that formula work? Why does the Pythagorean theorem hold as rule for all right triangles? And yeah, maybe you understand that intuitively, maybe you can bust out the proof by rearrangement, but maybe you can't. Maybe you've always just looked at the formula and taken it at base value in which case you have some more learning to do. Now speaking of the Pythagorean theorem, maybe there was a bit too simple of an example for you and you'd like to see this technique apply to something more complex or something that has nothing to do with math at all. If that's you, in the companion article for this video, I've included a couple of different examples, one going through base rule, which is a concept and probability theory and statistics, and one going over the CSS box model, which is related to web development and not related to math at all that you can check out. So if you want to see those, you can click the card on screen right now to get over to the article or you can find the link down the description below. Beyond that, if you enjoyed this video and found it helpful, definitely give it a like to support this channel. And if you have additional tips or ways that you use this technique personally, I would love to hear from you down in the comments below. Additionally, if you're not subscribed with this channel yet, you want to get new tips on how to be a more productive student. You can click right there, subscribe, and you can also click right there to want to get a free copy of my book on how to earn better grades. Otherwise, you can click right around there to find another video, which you'll probably find interesting. Thanks for watching, and I will see you in the next one.
