# Your Brain is a Library of "Stuff That Works" - College Info Geek
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=A-PY9VCh3-o
Since you expose yourself to a unique set of learning resources and have your own goals, what "works" for you will be different than what the next person finds useful.

This means that no learning resource can be perfect - but that you can derive something of worth from almost any resource. It also means, however, that you have to be discerning about what you add to your library of "stuff that works".

My book "10 Steps to Earning Awesome Grades" is now out and it's free! Get it here (and get a copy of my graduation planning spreadsheet as well):

http://collegeinfogeek.com/get-better-grades/

If you want to get even more strategies and tips on becoming a more productive, successful student, subscribe to my channel right here:

http://buff.ly/1vQP5ar

Connect with me on Twitter!

https://twitter.com/TomFrankly

Companion blog post with notes and resource links: 

http://collegeinfogeek.com/stuff-that-works/

~ created by Thomas Frank
**Keywords:** Michel De Montaigne (Author), montaigne, french philosophy, lesswrong, less wrong, confusion, learning, library, college, education, goals, learning resources, bruce lee, how to learn, trust, Graduation, Student, University, 
**Date:** 2015-04-16

## Transcript
 Here's a question that I think is pretty important to ponder. How should you fill your brain? Or more specifically, who should you trust to learn from? What qualifies a learning resource as worthy of your attention? And once that qualification is set, how much of what they communicate should you actually incorporate into your own life? These questions can be thought of in the context of an idea I had a while ago, which I like to call the stuff that works library. Your brain, on the sea of all of the brains out there, hold a unique mix of facts and concepts and practices, advice and anecdotes that you've heard throughout your life and that you deem to be particularly useful to your situation. It's different from all the content and all the other brains out there because you have your own unique set of learning resources that you expose yourself to, in addition to your own unique set of goals and aspirations and limitations and environment, relationships, etc. Now, as a content creator, this actually takes a lot of pressure off of my shoulders because I know I'm allowed to be imperfect as a teacher. There's no way I could ever be perfect. And in turn, you can allow yourself to learn from me even though you know my output can never be 100% correct, true, and applicable to your specific situation. If I put a video with five tips on how to focus better, the average viewer might only get use out of one or two of them. And that's okay, because another viewer might get use out of the other ones. When I go into the content creation process, it's a lot easier for me to flesh out my ideas knowing that no matter how hard I try, not every single person is going to get you set of every single idea I put out there. But in all likelihood, there's probably one or two things in each video that you as an individual will find helpful. However, this puts a bit of responsibility on you as the learner, because it means that yes, you can learn from anyone, but you have to be discerning about what's said to you no matter what source it comes from. You should look for the logic and objective truth in a statement rather than just judging it on the merits of the source that it came from. Logos, not ethos. The French philosopher on Tane wrote, we take other men's knowledge and opinions upon trust, which is an idol and superficial learning. We must make them our own. We were just like a man who, needing fire, went to a neighbor's house to fetch it, and finding a very good one there sat down to warm himself without remembering to carry any back home. What good does it do us to have a belly full of meat if it is not digested, if it is not transformed into us, if it does not nourish and support us? The stuff that works concept encourages us to dig past implicit trust and to think critically, too, as Bruce Lee once said, adapted as useful, project what is useless, and add what is specifically your own. So don't take things at face value and don't think that the learning resource isn't all or nothing deal. Take a my channel for example. You might find one video to be incredibly useful, but another video is completely useless for you. And that's okay. Remember, you're a unique individual, and that means you're learning requirements and the things that are going to help you are different from the next person. But as a content creator, I'm trying to make things that can teach people on a large scale. In addition, I'm also imperfect as a person, so I can't always be right 100% of the time. Additionally, learn to recognize when you're confused. If you hear something that doesn't really jive with your model of reality, that doesn't match up, then stop and actually think about that. If a red flag pops up in your head, don't ignore it. When that happens, either your model of reality is wrong or what you just heard is wrong. One of them needs to be reconciled, and it's not always going to be your model of reality. Think critically about whether something deserves to become part of your own personal stuff that works library, even if it's from a source you already trust. The proper state of mind for learning well is a mix of humility, open mindedness, and healthy skepticism. So, hey, thanks for watching this video. I know it's a bit more philosophical than usual, but I hope you found it useful, and next week we'll be tackling something I've gotten a lot of requests on, test anxiety. So if you want to get that video, make sure you subscribe, and thanks for watching this one. Hey guys, thanks so much for watching my video. If you want to get new videos every single week, I'm being a more effective student, and you can click that big red subscribe button right there. You also want to get a 300 plus page book on getting better grades. I wrote one, and I would love to send you a free copy, so just have to picture the book. You can also get links to anything I talked about in this video and notes by clicking the orange logo to go to the companion blog post right there, and if you missed last weeks video, as a clip of the plane, so definitely check it out. Last day, do you want to connect or suggest new topics for new videos? I'm on Twitter at Tom Frankley, or you can just leave comment. Thanks.
