# How to Exercise More as a Student - College Info Geek
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ArcO5LeBpDU
Wondering how to find more time and motivation to work out in college? This video is for you.

My book "10 Steps to Earning Awesome Grades" is now out and it's free! Get it here:

http://collegeinfogeek.com/get-better-grades/

If you want to get even more strategies and tips on becoming a more productive, successful student, subscribe to my channel right here:

http://buff.ly/1vQP5ar

Connect with me on Twitter!

https://twitter.com/TomFrankly

Companion blog post with notes and resource links: 

http://collegeinfogeek.com/exercise-time-and-motivation/

You mirin?

~ created by Thomas Frank
**Keywords:** exercise, working out, workout, motivation, time, time management, organization, fitocracy, fitness buddy, habitrpg, habits, morning routine, ritual, 7 minute workout, seven minute workout, swole, mirin, college, university, students, procrastination, optimized, brain, body, elliott hulse, strength camp, Graduation, bodyweight, 
**Date:** 2015-02-26

## Transcript
 I get inspiration from a lot of people, one of those people is Elliot Holse, a strong man, and YouTuber who's simple, no-frill style of teaching and very minimalistic editing this videos gave me the confidence that I actually needed to start making videos without thinking that I needed to insane editing and huge budgets and all the crazy stuff that a lot of other channels use. Now, if you watch the trailer over at this channel, strength camp, you'll hear I'm say something that has become the cornerstone of my own exercise philosophy, and it's the most important part of the game is your game piece. And it makes sense, doesn't it? Because if your life is a game, then the hardware you play with is your body and your mind, and if they're not in good working order, you're not going to be able to play the game very well. Now, I make this point for an important reason, it's this, as students who are busy and who are young, we make a couple of really fiendish excuses in our lives when it comes to exercising. One, we say that we're young, our bodies are going to take care of themselves. We don't need to take care of them as much as not as much of a priority. And two, we feel that we're too busy to make time for exercise that I can come later after we've put in all this grunt work to become successful. If you've made those excuses before or you're making other excuses that cause you to work out less than you want to, then I'm here to help you squash those excuses. In this video, I want to help you do two things. One, make more time to work out and two, gain the motivation to do so. So let's start with time. And the first thing that I'm going to say is the same thing I said in my video on high density fun. You need to schedule time to exercise. And I'm not talking about just saying, oh, I'm going to work out three times this week at some point. Use the time management skills you're building and actually look at your week schedule actual times you're going to work out and make sure you're in the gym or wherever you work out at those times. Just like scheduling fun, scheduling your exercise time will necessitate that you work more efficiently when you're actually studying or getting homework done. Now, if you're finding that becoming a more efficient person and scheduling your workouts isn't enough and you're really, really busy, then do what I do. Every morning I wake up and as part of my morning routine, I do something called the seven minute workout. It's actually just seven minutes and I use an app on my iPhone to guide me right through it, which I'll link to in the blog post for this video. And it's part of my little 10 minute block with my meditation that I do for three minutes. You have a nice thing about the seven minute workout that is that it's all body weight exercises. I actually do it right here in this office and I don't need anything except for my body weight and a wall to do wall sits and a chair to do chair stand up exercise things. I'm not really sure those are called chair step ups. So let's move on to the topic that most people probably have more trouble with, which is motivation and I've got four ways you can increase your motivation to exercise, get a buddy, externalize your motivation, tackle the ignition costs first and make exercise fun. So getting a workout buddy is seemingly simple. You just find a friend who also wants to exercise and go to the gym with them. But one thing I want to caution you on this is you need to find somebody who's not going to bring your own motivation levels down. If you find that the person who wants to go to the gym with you is actually making it harder for you to get to the gym than if it would be on your own then don't go to the gym with that person unless you want to make a conscious effort to help them get fit. But if you're trying to bolster your own motivation you need to find somebody who's going to provide a positive influence. One thing you can try is actually getting a buddy who isn't really a good friend. I found my workout buddy when I was on the Iowa State's subreddit one year and we ended up going to the gym together for six months. Since I didn't know really well I couldn't just walk into his room and say hey I'm not feeling it today. I had to show up if I didn't want to embarrass myself and actually having a workout buddy is one way you can externalize the motivation to workout. But let's talk about a couple of others. Basically externalize your motivation is going to come through commitment devices committing prior to the actual workout so you have to go do it. One way I did this is a sophomore was signing up for an ROTC physical fitness class. So as a civilian I actually worked out with the army cadets and did the exact same workouts they did at six a.m. and yes it was hell but I was really fit that semester. And later some of the semesters I signed up for a lifting class which met three days a week and while it wasn't at six a.m. it was a really good way to stay in shape and I got an extra credit to boot. If you don't have access to workout partner or classes you can sign up for you can also use apps as commitment devices. And I'll talk about some other apps I really like at the end of this video but the ones I want to talk about right now are B-Minder and Gympacked. B-Minder I've talked about before and it's a general commitment device app where you can pledge money towards a certain goal and Gympacked is an exercise specific goal where you pledge money to go to the gym a certain amount of times a week. Third on our motivation list is dealing with ignition costs. So tell me if you feel the same way that I do. I think that the actual active getting ready to work out putting on my gym clothes taking up my regular clothes and walking to the gym is actually more difficult than the actual active lifting the weights. This is a common problem for a lot of things we want to do. The active preparation of getting ourselves into the task and getting ready for it is often harder to summon the motivation for than doing the actual task. To account for this there are a couple of things you can do and the first thing I would do is split it into two different tasks. Respect the ignition cost as a task of its own and the actual workout as a second task. If you keep something like an accomplishment journal and you track your tasks and habit RPG and give yourself rewards then give yourself a reward for finishing the ignition and then give yourself a second reward for doing the actual workout. You can also put that secondary task the actual workout out of your mind altogether and simply commit to finishing the ignition. I know a lot of people who say to themselves I'm just going to walk into the gym with gym clothes on and count that as a win if I can do it. But once they're actually in the gym they're already there so their mind goes at what the heck I'm going to work out. I won't go into it too much here but this is an example of BJ Fox tiny habits model and if you want to learn more about it I'll probably do a video in the future but I'll also link to some resources in the blog post for this video. So the last thing I want to mention about motivation before I talk about apps is the active finding ways of exercising that are actually fun. A lot of people think exercising and working out is strictly limited to jogging in the treadmill or going to the gym and lifting weights but if that's not something you enjoy you're probably not going to do it no matter how much motivation you try to summon or at least you're not going to do as often as you want. So regardless of the schedule you set up for actual traditional working out find something you enjoy and augment your exercise schedule with that. If you're in college there are probably a bazillion intermereal sports leagues you can join you can go hiking or you can do what I do and play lots and lots of DDR. So before we finish this video and I tell you to get off your button hit the gym let's talk about a couple of apps that can help you keep motivated to exercise. Now I talk a lot about habit RPG on this channel because I really like it for general habit building but I've actually sort of modified it and turned it into a workout tracker as well for my own uses. If you take a look at my habits column I have a couple of standard habits there that I track but for the most part I list individual exercises and give myself credit when I get them down to the gym. If you want to take this concept a set further than check out fedocracy. I used to use fedocracy all the time and it's basically the best way to turn exercise into a video game that I've ever seen. By tracking the sets and reps you do you can get experience you level up and you can also get achievements and go on quests. It's actually pretty similar to habit RPG but it's focused on exercise. The last one I'll mention is an app called Fitness Buddy which my friend young town told me about and if you're looking for an app that will give you specific workout routines and also show you how to do specific exercises it's an amazing resource. All right so hopefully this video will help you create more time and motivation to exercise more in college because seriously having your body in mind and good working order is the foundation to being able to use all the other techniques I talk about on this channel. If you have other tips and things that have worked for you that I didn't mention in this video then feel free to share them down on the comments and I will see you next week. Hey there thanks for watching my video on exercising more in college. Now I thought this video was a bit of a departure from the specific studies strategies I usually talk about on this channel but if you liked it and you want to get more tips on being an awesome college student then hit that subscribe button right there. I also wrote a 300 plus page book on getting better grades so if you would like to get a copy click the picture of the book and I'll send you you can also find links to any resources I mentioned in the video by going to the companion blog post right there and if you missed last week's video that you put in the plan so definitely check it out. Lastly if you want to suggest topics for new videos or just connect with me then I'm at the Tom Frankly on Twitter or you get me to comment. Thanks!
