# How I take notes from books
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ATDCsY-VJPA
Today we're taking a look at how I take notes from the non-fiction books I read.
📺 Watch this video ad-free on Nebula: https://nebula.app/videos/thomas-frank-how-to-take-better-notes-from-books

🛠 COURSES AND RESOURCES: 
Notion channel - https://www.youtube.com/c/ThomasFrankExplains
Free Notion templates - https://thomasjfrank.com/templates/
Learn Notion - https://thomasjfrank.com/fundamentals
Productivity and Habits courses - https://thomasjfrank.com/courses/

🦙 SPONSOR: 
Be one of the first 100 to try Trade Coffee and save 30% off your first bag: https://cffe.me/2XUvsFA

🐦 SOCIAL STUFF:
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly
Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Music Channel ➔ https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCmqK2G-3AL_WP5KffH_wqAA
Spotify Study Playlist ➔ https://open.spotify.com/user/thomasfrank09/playlist/4ETfiRPHVmUFLF6q0g8Fux?si=IPfx3dAgQ1SIUwhh5YEQMQ

🔗 VIDEO LINKS:
My public book notes and summaries: https://thomasjfrank.com/notes/
My video on Roam Research: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vxOffM_tVHI

👐 BUSINESS:
Please contact my agent at thomasfrank@standard.tv

💰 I'm fortunate enough to work with great sponsors who support my work, so I don't use Patreon or any other crowdfunding service. However, if you'd like to support a worthy cause, consider donating to help more children get access to a high-quality education: https://fundraise.pencilsofpromise.org/fundraiser/1489730
**Keywords:** thomas frank, productivity, how to learn, book notes, note-taking, note taking, note taking system, books, how to take notes from books, take notes while reading, reading notes, remember what you read, remember more, improve memory, book summaries, book summary, learning tips, productivity tips, roam research, highlighting, highlighting tips, 
**Date:** 2020-05-24

## Transcript
 Thanks to Trade Coffee for sponsoring this video and supporting my channel. In a couple of my recent videos, I've mentioned that I spend time every single morning reading. And recently, I've gotten back into the habit of taking detailed notes when what I'm reading is non-fictional. Now, I found that this is a habit that is tough to stay in and easy to fall out of, because taking detailed notes on what you read requires effort and self-discipline, especially given the fact that I no longer have any exams or professors forcing me to do so. It's just something that I want to do. But that being said, taking notes on what I read is an incredibly useful habit to be in. So today, I want to share how I take notes from non-fiction books. I'm going to give you the details of my system, talk a little bit about how I decide what to record, versus what not to record, and hopefully give you some ideas about how you can take notes on the books that you read, whether they're assigned in class or just books that interest you. And my system breaks down into a four-step process. Read, highlight, record, and synthesize. So we're going to start off with the reading part. Now, since this is a video on note-taking, you might think we could just skip past this part and go straight to highlighting, but you know what they say. Garbage in garbage out. And in this case, I'm not talking about garbage books per se, but rather about garbage comprehension. Because if I'm reading in a way that doesn't promote good comprehension, I'm not going to be able to take good notes. So this part of the process is just as important as the note-taking process. When I read, I'm trying to promote the best possible comprehension. So I read in the morning, which is what I found to be the best time of the day for me to engage with the material and stay focused. And if I need to, I will move around my office. If I'm sitting in my chair, and it's a little bit too relaxing. I'm getting a little bit too daydreamy. I will sometimes pace around the office while holding the book and still reading it. Or sometimes I'll sit on the floor just to get into a different position. All right, step two of the process is to highlight to which I actually do simultaneously while I read. I keep a pen with me, which I used star areas in the margins, that I want to draw my eye to later on when I'm actually taking my notes. And yes, I actually do write in the margins of my book. And I will also underline key terms, so I can further draw my eye to exactly what the idea was. Now, if you don't want to write in the margins, number one, you could just get e-books because the Kindle app and the i-books app, and basically every electronic app out there will let you create little highlights. Personally, I like to write in physical books better. And then there are also these little book flags. So these things can non-destructively allow you to mark places in a book. And there are many different colors, so you can use one for, say, quotes, one for just interesting things. And on that note, I actually have a system of symbols that I use. So I use stars for general highlights that I want to draw my eye to later on. And then I use EX for examples. So in a book, if there's an example that is backing up a main point that I want to remember, I'll mark that with an EX, I use the letter F for further reading. So if a book is mentioning, say, another author or a book that they draw inspiration from, or maybe just a paper, I'll put an F there so I can remember to follow up and maybe check that out later on. Q is for quotes. Now, when I go and I write my notes, I generally try to put the notes in my own words as much as I possibly can. But sometimes there's a great quote, and I want to remember it exactly as it was stated. So I'll use a Q for that. I'll use question marks if there's a passage in a book that I disagree with or that confuses me. That will allow me to dig in and maybe try to verify a claim, see if I was wrong or if the author was wrong. And finally, sometimes I will write actual notes in the margin of the book. These will not be lengthy, but occasionally I really want to get something out of my head that relates to a specific area on a page. So I'll just write a little margin note that kind of primes me to elaborate on that point a bit more when I'm doing the actual recording. And that happens in the recording stage, which is the third step of the process. So once I'm done reading and highlighting a chapter, I will sit down on my desk. I'll go back through the chapter, and I'll use my highlights and my margin symbols to guide my eye to what I want to take notes on. And I take notes in an app called Rome Research, putting them in an outline style. Now, what I like about Rome, and I made a video about this tool very recently, is that I can very easily make links to any other page I have just by putting brackets around a term or by using a hashtag to use a tag. They're kind of the exact same in Rome. So if I have say a queue somewhere, I know that's a quote. I will put that quote in my notes, and I'll give it the quotes tag, so I can easily look up quotes later on. Or if there is something that refers back to a page that I've already taken notes on, say caffeine, I can easily put brackets around the word caffeine and link to my caffeine page. And over time, this creates this interconnected web of knowledge that kind of represents the way that knowledge is organized in the brain. I do have to note that right now, Rome Research isn't closed beta with a wait list, and there are details about that that I can put in the description down below. I'm not going to fill up too much time with them, but just here is that other than that linking system, you can recreate these outline style notes in basically any other note taking app. The main idea is I'm writing down what I highlighted, so I'm interacting with the material one more time, and step four here, I'm synthesizing it. So this is the last step in the process where I'm trying to find a way to connect the information I've just learned and recorded to what I already know, or otherwise finding a way to utilize it, to wrangle with it, to kind of retrieve it, have to work with it. So one thing that I will do is I'll write my own thoughts in my notes in italics. If there's a point that I have a little bit of my own input on, I will put that right in the notes right under my recording of the point, and this helps me to connect my own ideas and things I already know from other sources to what I've just read. I'm building more pathways to it, and I'm more likely to remember it long term. And if you want to see an example of how I take these notes and how I go about this process of synthesizing what I've learned and connecting it to my own thoughts and opinions, I just recently finished reading the book Hiper Focus by my friend Chris Bailey, very good book, and I took very detailed notes on this book, which I posted on my website, and I'll have that linked in the description down below. The one last thing that I would like to note here is that this entire note taking process, especially the part where I'm adding in my own thoughts and opinions, and using the little question mark symbol to mark spots where I have a disagreement, is kind of an embodiment of my absolute favorite quote by Bruce Lee, which goes like this. Adapt what is useful, reject what is useless, and add what is specifically your own. That is exactly how I try to go about the learning process and how I think you should as well. Now, if you'll excuse me, I've got some more reading to go do, which also means that it's time to brew a fresh cup of coffee. And luckily, I've got some brand new beans to try, thanks to Trade Coffee. With Trade Coffee, you get to discover new roasts from some of the nation's best roasters, instead of just buying the same old beans in the store every time, or just randomly guessing whenever you want to try something new. And for me, making coffee is one of my favorite parts of the day. But when it comes to my knowledge of coffee, I would say that I know enough to be dangerous. I know a little bit about the different roast types, and at least grind my own beans at home, but it still seems that whenever I want to try something new, when I grab something random off the shelf, half the time it ends up being something that I don't really like. That's why Trade's Coffee Quiz is great. When you sign up, it asks you a few simple questions about your tastes, and then it builds a taste profile for you, so that the rotation of coffee roasts they conveniently deliver to your door is always something you're going to like. And you can even rate each bag to improve which you'll get in the future. This bureau setup was a lot of work. All right, ever a taste test. Okay, yeah, that's good. So if you want to try some great new coffee and support my channel, then give a try to try to use the link in the description down below. And if you're one of the first 100 people to use that link, you're even going to get 30% off your first bag. Just take the quiz, and that promotion will be automatically applied, plus you're even going to get free shipping. All right, guys, that is it. So hopefully enjoy the video. And thank you so much for watching. If you did enjoy this video, hit that like button to show the YouTube algorithm what's up. You know, just get subscribed right there. It's kind of hard to talk, and I'm bending over and basically breaking my spine right now. But look how much effort I'm putting in for you. There's also more videos on this channel. So check them out right here or here. As always smashing your face through the phone screen is more effective than using your fingers with thumbs. So do that or don't because there's always I'm not your dad.
