# 3 Books Every Student Should Read - College Info Geek
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AzP-q7Cfhdw
These books helped me become a more effective student, and I think you'll find them useful as well.

(The audio and sparse editing this week is due to moving into a new house)

Here's my entire list of essential books for students:

http://collegeinfogeek.com/essential-books-for-students/

My book "10 Steps to Earning Awesome Grades" is now out and it's free! Get it here (and get a copy of my graduation planning spreadsheet as well):

http://collegeinfogeek.com/get-better-grades/

If you want to get even more strategies and tips on becoming a more productive, successful student, subscribe to my channel right here:

http://buff.ly/1vQP5ar

Connect with me on Twitter!

https://twitter.com/TomFrankly

Companion blog post with notes and resource links: 

http://collegeinfogeek.com/3-books-for-students/

~ created by Thomas Frank
**Keywords:** books for students, books for college, student books, book recommendations, book recs, college, high school, student debt, loans, charles duhigg, zac bissonnette, josh kaufman, the personal mba, debt-free u, debt free, power of habit, habits, habit building, break bad habits, study tips, studying, Book, University, 
**Date:** 2015-04-09

## Transcript
 Hey guys, so it finally happened. I finally moved into a new house and don't let this backdrop to see you. My room actually looks like this right now. Things are definitely still in flux. I'm not even near finished setting up this room. So this week I wanted to bring you a quick video where I recommend three of the books that really helped me become a more effective student. And I'm going to go ahead and say that each of these three books is something that you should read if you're a student. So my first book recommendation is the power of habit by Charles DuHig. And as I've said before, and if you're on my mailing list, you know that I think habits are one of the core things that form your ability to become a successful student. Your habits and the patterns that are ingrained up in your head are largely what to find what you do on a day-to-day basis. And as time goes on, the accumulations of those actions really define whether or not you achieve your goals. The reason I love the power of habit is because it explains how habits are formed. It goes over something called the habit loop and shows how routines are formed in your head. They're triggered by certain things and they end up leading to certain rewards. It also shows you how you can start changing your habits with the knowledge of this habit loop, how you can break bad habits, or start building good habits that you don't have yet. My second book recommendation is one I mentioned last week, the personal MBA by Josh Kaufman. Now, the personal MBA is the author's attempt at building a education in a book that can sort of replace actually going back to graduate school for an MBA. And while he's not very serious about that claim, obviously isn't saying that two years of intense graduate-level education is going to be replaced by this book, what he wants you to realize is that there are certain foundational concepts to each aspect of business, accounting, working with others, sales, marketing, value creation. And in my opinion, all these aspects of business are useful to know no matter what your major is. And the reason for this is that you probably want to job after you graduate. No matter what your major is, you're looking to get hired by a company that has to conduct a business. So if you understand the fundamentals of business, if you understand value creation, value delivery, if you understand how marketing works, if you understand how your brain works, how to work with others, and how to work with yourself, all concepts that are gone over in this book, then you're going to be a better candidate. It's going to complement the actual in-class information you get that's specific to your major. And my final book recommendation is debt for you by Zach Bisonette. Now this book, I think, is the most essential book for anyone looking to go to college in the US. I can't really say that it's essential for people in other countries because I know that the financial situation with education is different, but for US students, at least read this book. It can save you thousands and thousands of dollars. The book contains a wealth of information about student loans, the cost of debt, and how hard it might actually be to pay off. And most importantly, whether or not you actually need to take debt to get a good education. He breaks down a lot of the flaws in the college rankings that drive a lot of students' college decisions and shows how you can get a really good education at an in-state public university or even a community college. He also shows an actual detail how you can afford the education without taking on debt. Now so far, this channel has been mostly about studying and productivity, but that's only one of the focuses I have with my website, College InfoGeek. I also want to teach students how to become better job candidates and how to become financially stable, and the first step is helping them stay out of student debt or pay it off as quickly as possible. That's why debt for you is probably my favorite student focus book of all time. And if you've ever seen my essential reads for student's list, which you can read by clicking the card right now, you'll see it right at the top above my own book. So that's it for this video. Hopefully you find these books useful and you'll find other recommendations over on my essential reads page. You can also get my book 10 steps to earning awesome grades while studying less for free, and while I'm not going to list my own book as essential for students, I do think you'll find it useful. So I'm going to get back to cleaning this house up and building a proper backdrop for next week's video, so I will see you in that video. And also, if you're waiting on the 10,000 subscriber bonus video it is coming, these past few weeks have been really hectic and I haven't had time to film it, but I will be getting it out as soon as I can, and I'll show you how I actually shoot these videos. So look forward to that. Hey everybody, thanks for watching this video on my full recommendations. If you want to get new videos every single week, I'm being a more effective student, then you can click that big red subscribe button right there. If you want to get links to these books and also see the other books I recommend for students, then go to the companion blog post for this video by clicking the orange logo right there. If you also want a copy of my book and I'm proving your grades, just look for a picture and I'll send you a copy. You can also check out last week's video on building your ability to focus if you missed it. And lastly, if you got ideas for new videos, I just want to connect. I'm Tom Franklin on Twitter or you can leave a comment. Thanks.
