# How I'm Learning Faster with the Improved Feynman Technique
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B8V5EfJLX9U
My tweaked version of the Feynman Technique for getting a huge ROI on my study time.
📺 Watch this video ad-free on Nebula: https://nebula.app/videos/thomas-frank-how-to-learn-faster-the-improved-feynman-technique

🛠 COURSES AND RESOURCES: 
Notion channel - https://www.youtube.com/c/ThomasFrankExplains
Free Notion templates - https://thomasjfrank.com/templates/
Learn Notion - https://thomasjfrank.com/fundamentals
Productivity and Habits courses - https://thomasjfrank.com/courses/

🦙 SPONSOR: 
🔥 Start improving your problem-solving skills with Brilliant: https://www.brilliant.org/thomasfrank

🔗 Companion article (with sources): https://thomasjfrank.com/feynman-technique-lpc-method/
🔗 Original Feynman Technique Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_f-qkGJBPts

🐦 SOCIAL STUFF:
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly
Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Podcast ➔ https://www.youtube.com/TheCollegeInfoGeekPodcast
Music Channel ➔ https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCmqK2G-3AL_WP5KffH_wqAA
Spotify Study Playlist ➔ https://open.spotify.com/user/thomasfrank09/playlist/4ETfiRPHVmUFLF6q0g8Fux?si=IPfx3dAgQ1SIUwhh5YEQMQ

⏱ TIMESTAMPS:
00:00 - Intro
01:08 - Feynman Technique Refresher
01:43 - The LPC Method
02:37 - Example from My Studies
04:56 - LPC Method vs. Original Feynman Technique
06:05 - Multi-Modal Learning

👐 BUSINESS:
Please contact my agent at thomasfrank@standard.tv

🎞 SPECIAL THANKS
Select video clips supplied by Getty Images

💰 I'm fortunate enough to work with great sponsors who support my work, so I don't use Patreon or any other crowdfunding service. However, if you'd like to support a worthy cause, consider donating to help more children get access to a high-quality education: https://fundraise.pencilsofpromise.org/fundraiser/1489730
**Keywords:** thomas frank, productivity, education, how to learn, studying, feynman technique, feynman, lpc method, learning faster, learn faster, study tips, study faster, how to study, 
**Date:** 2021-08-30

## Transcript
 Thanks to Brilliant for sponsoring this video and supporting my channel. A few years ago, I made a video about something called the Feynman Technique. This is a simple but highly effective study technique where you deepen your own understanding of a concept by attempting to simplify it and explain it to someone else. In other words, you teach to learn. In this video, I want to present a modified version of that original Feynman Technique that I've been using in my own independent learning projects as of late. Conceptually, it is very similar to the original Feynman Technique, but in execution, it is quite different. So, I'm going to give it its own name to keep things distinct. And that name is the LPC method, which stands for Learn, Present, Critique. And I've been using this LPC method in my own studies of anatomy, biomechanics, and bio-energetics as part of my goal to earn both CSCS and PBC certifications, which if you're curious or certifications in the strength training and coaching industry. And I've learned through using this that this technique has a very high ROI on helping me retain lots of information without having to spend a lot of time actually studying it. So, I'm going to walk you through exactly how to use the LPC method along with some examples, and I'm also going to compare it to the original Feynman Technique. You can see in the timestamps below exactly where those sections are. But first, if you haven't seen my original video or if it's been a while, I want to give you a very quick refresher on what the Feynman Technique is. But hard of the technique can be found in a quote that is often attributed to Albert Einstein, though he probably didn't actually say it. But it goes like this. If you can't explain it simply, then you don't understand it well enough. The idea behind the Feynman Technique is to break down a concept and simplify it to the point where you can easily explain it to a lay person. If you can't do that, then you don't understand it well enough yourself. And then going through this exercise, actually trying to explain it on a piece of paper, you expose gaps in your understanding, which you can then go and try to show up. So again, conceptually the LPC method is very similar to the Feynman Technique. We're trying to achieve the same goal, except for replacing the act of writing on paper, drawing diagrams with actually presenting to a camera. Here is the TLDR version of the LPC method. First, you go out and learn. Go to the lecture material, watch a video, read a book, take your notes as normal. Second, present a concept, present something you've learned to your phone camera as if you are explaining it to a friend or explaining it to a classroom, like a speech. And third, upload that video, paste it into your notes, and finally watch it and critique it. And in your critique, you're looking for three different things. Number one, any errors, factual errors that you need to correct. Number two, any areas where you are vague, where you can add clarification. And number three, any questions that your critique brings up after the fact that you can then go and learn about through supplemental material or through revisiting the actual material you're learning from. So here's a real world example from my own study of human anatomy. If you look through my notes here on note, you'll see lots of different videos where I'm explaining lots of concepts. But the one that I want to show you here is my explanation of the different moving joints in the human body, which are called senovial joints. So first, I went through that learning process. In this case, the material that I'm working through is Barbell Logics Principles course, which goes through pretty much everything you need to learn to become a beginner strength coach. So biomechanics, bio-internetics, the basics of human anatomy, as well as how to coach the four main powerlifting lifts. So I'm going through this course, and I'm taking my notes on the different joints in the body and how they move. And I use a pretty typical outline style note taking technique here in Notion with the one exception that I often will clip a lot of screenshots and add a lot of multimedia elements into my notes to take advantage of multi-modal learning, and I'll touch on that a little bit later. Now it's time to move on to step two, which is present. At this point, I want to put my phone on a tripod and pick a concept or a set of facts to present and explain to my phone as if I were explaining it to you or to a friend. So in this case, I picked the six different diathrodial joints in the body and explained how they work in the video. So the way to imagine a saddle type joint and how it moves is if you took your knuckles here and took the other knuckles here and sort of sandwiched them together. Now this is my own analogy that did not teach this in the course, but it sort of is analogous to how you'll see illustration. Once I've done recording, I use the YouTube app to upload an unlisted copy of this video to a second YouTube channel I have specifically for my own learning and for this LPC technique. And because it's on YouTube, I can then go ahead and paste it into my notion, which will embed it. And that brings us to step three, critique. At this point, I'm going to watch through the video and I'm going to look for again three things. Number one, factual errors. So for example, at one point in the video, I mentioned the carples of the hand and the carples of the feet, those are the tarsals. I'm going to also look for anything where I could be a little bit more clear or more correct in my explanation. So at one point, I mentioned the joint between the metacarpal and the phalangial bones here in the thumb. Well, that is a joint, but it's called the metacarpal phalangial joint. So I should actually use the name of the joint. And finally, number three, if I have any questions that come up in this critique process and I almost always do, I want to go out and get answers to those questions. And this is just another way that encourages me to deepen my understanding often by using supplemental resources. So how is this method better than the original Feynman technique? Well, I am not going to stand by that claim for every subject or every concept out there. But I do think that for certain types of information, certain concepts, this is much better than the Feynman technique in terms of ROI. And it's because you're using a different mode of learning or mode of act of learning specifically to deepen your understanding of the subject material. Going back to my example of the Sonovial joints in the body. If I get on camera and I verbally explain how these joints work, but also use body language to demonstrate how they work and point out where they are on my own anatomy, I am using multi-modal learning to deepen my own understanding. If I wanted to do that with the Feynman technique, I would have two different options. I would either have to write out in text how these things work. And that's a very abstract way of learning. It's going to take me a lot longer or I would have to draw them. That is a more iconic type of learning using iconography. It's much better in terms of maybe being able to visually see how something works, but drawing takes a lot more time than just pointing out and moving my arm to show how a hinge joint works. So in terms of time spent studying versus retention of information for certain kinds of topics, this is going to be superior. Though I think the real improvement to the Feynman technique here is to combine your use of both of these techniques, either separately based on the type of concept you're studying or maybe even lumping them all into one big technique. There is nothing stopping you from breaking out a whiteboard and actually writing out or diagramming while you film yourself, but the extra step of critiquing yourself afterwards is another thing that's going to help deepen your understanding. In general, you want to pursue a multi-modal learning strategy because no one way of learning is better than any other. You may have seen this often cited learning pyramid floating around the internet where people will say things like, you only retain 10% of what you hear, 20% of what you read, etc. Well, as it turns out, the original version of that pyramid, number one, it wasn't even called a pyramid, it was a cone, it's about the cone. But number two, do not include those percentages at all and as far as research has been able to find, those percentages are completely made up. The original version of the cone was called the cone of experience, was created by Edgar Dale, it was a very well-respected education researcher and its whole point in creating this cone was to just create a model that showed visually the differences and levels of abstraction between different methods of learning. It would be verbal or text-based or audio-visual and as whole point was that mixing up different methods of learning is more powerful than using any one. In fact, back in 1969, he wrote that direct hands-on experience what we often think of as the gold standard for learning anything is often not the best way to learn something and more recent cognitive research has confirmed this and shown that for basic concepts, a more abstract learning model is actually better than what you get into higher order-learning concepts than hands-on experiences better. So as far as cognitive research has found, a multi-modal approach truly is the best. So talk about what you're learning, demonstrate it with body language, draw it, find a way to get a new perspective and a new view on what you're learning and you're going to find that your long-term memory, your long-term ability to retain and recall information and master it truly understand it is going to improve as well. Before I end this video, I want to let you know about one more resource that I'm using in this independent learning project of mine and that is brilliant. Specifically, their chemistry course, because, believe it or not, I never took chemistry in college and in my current study of bio-energetics, I am learning that a little bit of chemistry knowledge is actually very useful. So I'm currently going through Brilliant's Chemistry course and I'm finding it very helpful for understanding how chemical reactions work. I'm also using some more passive supplementary sources, lecture materials, videos, but brilliant is built with active learning in mind, which means while I'm going through their course, I'm constantly being quizzed. I'm constantly being asked to solve problems. And if you know anything about the cognitive science behind active learning, you will know that this is a much more effective, efficient and interesting way to learn and it is the methodology they use to build all the courses in their library of which they're more than 60. So if you want to get better math at science, at computer science, you're going to want to check out Brilliant. In all the courses, you're going to find logically sequenced, bite-sized quizzes and interactive puzzles that keep you actively engaged and help you to master the material more effectively. And by solving problems more frequently, you become a better problem solver overall. So if you want to get started learning today, go over to Brilliant.org slash Thomas Frank to sign up and to support this channel. Hopefully you found this video helpful. I'm finding this very helpful in my own study, so hopefully you will as well. If you enjoyed this video, like some comments, definitely help the algorithm and I'll have one more video right here and another one right here if you want to keep watching stuff on this channel. Thanks as always for watching and I'll see you in the next video.
