# Should You Change Answers on Multiple-Choice Exams? - College Info Geek
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bjwUfRTnKEA
If you've already answered a question on a test, but now you're thinking about changing it, should you? Or should you "stick with your gut?"

There's lots of actual research on this question, and it reveals not only the answer, but some interesting cognitive biases that wrongly influence our decisions.

My book "10 Steps to Earning Awesome Grades" is now out and it's free! Get it here (and get a copy of my graduation planning spreadsheet as well):

http://collegeinfogeek.com/get-better-grades/

If you want to get even more strategies and tips on becoming a more productive, successful student, subscribe to my channel right here:

http://buff.ly/1vQP5ar

Connect with me on Twitter!

https://twitter.com/TomFrankly

Companion blog post with notes and resource links: 

http://collegeinfogeek.com/changing-answers-on-tests/

~ created by Thomas Frank
**Keywords:** multiple choice, exams, tests, mistakes, changing answers, switching answers, go with your gut, first impressions, finals, final exams, sat, sat prep, act, study tips, exam tips, test tips, college, high school, undergrad, education, Test (assessment), Student, University, Students, School, why we make mistakes, josheph hallinan, regret, memory bias, kruger, cognitive bias, system 1, brain, brain bugs, 
**Date:** 2015-05-07

## Transcript
 Let's get right to it. So you're taking a test. You're looking at a question you've already written an answer for and you're not quite sure about that answer. Should you change that answer? Conventional wisdom says no, but I'm going to spoil it right from you. Yes, in most cases you should change your answers. Many, many studies have been conducted on this question over the past 70 years and the data from those studies is clear. Most answer changes are from wrong to right. That means students who actually do change their answers on tests tend to score better and get better grades. This documented fact goes completely against the advice that test takers have been given for years. We're often told to go with our gut, you know, stay with your instincts, go with your first answer because if you want to change it, you're probably just worried at least second guessing yourself. Teachers, parents, and even SAT prep guides have been getting out this advice for years. And here's the most interesting part of this and also the most sad. Even though I'm giving you the data, even though I'm telling you and showing you, and even if you believe it, you're not likely to start changing your answers. You're actually likely to keep sticking with your initial answer in future tests. So we're really trying to explain two things here. Number one, why people tend to stick with their original answers in the first place. And number two, why even when presented with the data to show they should change them, they tend to not do it. Now out of all the research that's been done on this topic specifically, and all the information out there on cognitive biases, the brain bugs that form the underlying foundation of the problem, the most distinct answer that I found was in a book called Why We Make Mistakes by Joseph T. Hallen. I'm going through this book right now, and so far it's a fascinating overview of many of the mistakes we make in our everyday lives, and the cognitive biases that cause them. But the specific mistake of sticking with your first answers on tests, though, Hallen identifies two underlying causes of the problem. Number one, the power of first impressions, and number two, the fear of regret. First impressions are so powerful because our brains can look at a situation and make a snap decision on it very quickly. In addition, we also tend to take limited information and then fill in the gaps with conclusions of our own. This phenomenon has explained pretty well on Daniel Conneman's book, Thinking Fast and Slow, where he outlines the differences between the brain's system one and system two, system one being the one that makes the snap decisions. The big player here, though, is the fear of regret, and specifically, people tend to regret mistakes that come about through action rather than those that come about through inaction. Essentially, if something's going to go wrong, we would prefer that it happened because we didn't do something rather than because we did something. These feelings of greater regret from actions actually cause a memory bias, and instead he's done on his topics, students tend to overestimate the inmate of times they've changed answers from right to wrong and underestimate the opposite. It's this memory bias that leads people to continue sticking with their original answers, even when they're presented with the facts that show that changing them is probably a better course of action. So if there's any real advice here, it's that if you feel like you should change an answer in a test and you feel justified in doing so, you should probably do it. Additionally, if you're feeling resistance towards changing that answer, realize that it's probably caused by your own cognitive biases. Now this doesn't mean that you'll always be right when you change your answer in a test, but statistically, most of the time, you will be. So that's it for this video. Hopefully you find these tips useful while you're next exam, and next week's video will be the start of my accelerated Japanese Challenge Review, which will actually be coming to you from Japan, so look forward to that. If you want to get links to the book I mentioned or any of the other research I did for this video, then head over to CompanionBlog post by clicking the orange logo right there. If you missed last week's video, it's over how to avoid making stupid mistakes in your exam, so if you haven't seen it definitely check it out, and if you'd like to connect or suggest ideas for new videos, I'm on Twitter at Tom Frankley, or you can leave a comment on this video. Thanks for watching.
