# The Easiest Way to Double Your Productivity
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=c92hhEFCcGw
In this video I explain a simple tactic that can help you get more done without needing to work harder.
📺 Watch this video ad-free on Nebula: https://nebula.app/videos/thomasfrank-the-easiest-way-to-double-your-productivity

🦙 SPONSOR: 
🔥 Start making better content with Storyblocks: https://storyblocks.com/thomas

🛠 COURSES AND RESOURCES: 
Notion channel - https://www.youtube.com/c/ThomasFrankExplains
Free Notion templates - https://thomasjfrank.com/templates/
Learn Notion - https://thomasjfrank.com/fundamentals
Productivity and Habits courses - https://thomasjfrank.com/courses/

🐦 SOCIAL STUFF:
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly
Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Podcast ➔ https://www.youtube.com/TheCollegeInfoGeekPodcast
Music Channel ➔ https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCmqK2G-3AL_WP5KffH_wqAA
Spotify Study Playlist ➔ https://open.spotify.com/user/thomasfrank09/playlist/4ETfiRPHVmUFLF6q0g8Fux?si=IPfx3dAgQ1SIUwhh5YEQMQ

🔗 VIDEO LINKS:
The Productivity Project: https://www.goodreads.com/en/book/show/25733994-the-productivity-project

👐 BUSINESS:
Please contact my agent at thomasfrank@standard.tv

🎞 SPECIAL THANKS
Video clips supplied by StoryBlocks and Getty Images

💰 I'm fortunate enough to work with great sponsors who support my work, so I don't use Patreon or any other crowdfunding service. However, if you'd like to support a worthy cause, consider donating to help more children get access to a high-quality education: https://fundraise.pencilsofpromise.org/fundraiser/1489730
**Keywords:** thomas frank, productivity, education, how to learn, studying, thomas frank task batching, simple way to do more, how to be productive, what is task batching, 
**Date:** 2022-01-27

## Transcript
 Most of the advice you hear in the realm of productivity boils down to work more intensely and get rid of distractions. But amongst all that more pedestrian advice, there is actually one technique that can truly help you get more under to do as done in a lot less time with barely any additional effort. In fact, it might actually make your work quite a bit easier. All there requires is some good planning. Today, I'm going to teach you all about that technique, but first, let's start things off with the story. More than a hundred years ago, Henry Ford adopted a technique that would change manufacturing forever, the assembly line. Taking a cue from meatpacking plants from places like Chicago and Cincinnati, four place workers in stationary positions and then brought pieces of the car to them along a moving line. And the results were incredible. When Ford applied this technique to the building of the chassis for the model T, workers went from taking more than 12 hours to assemble a single chassis down to just 93 minutes. Lowing cars to not only be produced much more quickly, but a much lower cost as well. And Ford certainly didn't invent the assembly line. He did popularize it. And what he also did was give us a tangible nuts and bolts example of a technique that we can actually apply to virtually any kind of work. With Ford's assembly line really leveraged with task batching. Task batching means organizing your tasks into groups or batches so that you can work more efficiently and get more done in less time. Batching some of our tasks together saves you time first by bundling the startup and the cleanup costs associated with each task. See, almost anything you do requires some kind of setup time, a startup cost. You have to get out the correct tools. You have to set up your workspace. Sometimes you even have to get yourself the correct location in the first place. For example, when I'm filming a video, I haven't had a list of shots that I have to get that goes over the payroll. This talking head portion, so it's more interesting to watch the video. And I could film all these shots in their chronological order, the way that you'd see them in the final video. But a better way to do it is actually to figure out first what location each shot needs to be in and then film all those shots in one big batch. Batching also has a couple of less obvious benefits. One being that when you batch similar tasks together, you deal with less cognitive switching. Now, if you've seen any of my videos on how focus works, you probably know that when you switch tasks, you get this cognitive switching penalty. Where you're bringing takes a while to really sink into the next task and you're a little bit less productive for at least a few minutes. And I've absolutely experienced this, even when filming videos. When the times that I'm in gathering shots for a video when I was too lazy to batch them, I remember getting a shot or two with my camera and then going over to the computer to take a screen recording. But, of course, I couldn't help checking Twitter for a few minutes first. And when I batch everything together, I gave myself far fewer opportunities to get distracted like that. Another interesting benefit comes when you batch by time. So, say you decide to process your email at 9 a.m. every single day. By setting a time for that task, you're also implicitly defining when you don't check your email. So, how do you start batching your tasks? Well, the first step is to define different contexts for your work. A context defines different aspects of a task, and there are all sorts of different contexts that we can use. But, for now, I just want to cover some of the most useful ones. First, there is energy. Some tasks require a huge amount of mental energy, while others are a bit more low energy. For me, writing is probably the highest energy task that I do. I've also been like doing my bookkeeping is a much lower energy task. And by batching my tasks by energy level, I can be a bit more efficient. And batching tasks by energy level is especially useful if you know your biological prime time, which is a term from Chris Bailey's book, The Productivity Project. Like most people, you probably have a window of time during the day where you feel the most on the most focused. So, if you can figure out what that window is, you can do your higher to tasks then and say the low energy tasks for later. Another great context is location where you have to do the task. Like, I need to be right here on set to film these videos, while I can be almost anywhere where I can get an internet connection to research or write the scripts for them. Tools require it is a similar one for some tasks. I need a camera on the lights, like here on the set, for others I need my computer, and for some I might even need a power drill. And finally, I'm going to mention social interaction. When I'm writing, I am almost always in total isolation. But for other things, like answering my emails or checking with my team, I have to be in a more social frame of mind, so it's good to batch things that way as well. Editing Tom here, and realized there was one additional context that I didn't want to leave out of the video. And that is batching work that does require the internet and work that doesn't. Remember that your environment is a huge factor in your ability to focus on your work. So if you can batch your tasks and get rid of the worst influencing factor on your ability to focus all the better. You can actually use these contexts by applying them as a label on each of your tasks. To do this, even let's you do this by default. You can create labels, you can apply them each task, and then you can view each label to see your task batches really easily. Next, you want to decide when you're going to take care of the tasks in each context. There are a couple of good ways to do this. First, you can set up a specific time, like processing all over email at 9am each day, or even simpler, you can just decide the order in which you're going to tackle each context. And to give you an example of that, let's actually go back to how I batch the different shots for my videos. And I actually want to show you the system that I've set up to do this inside a notion. So here is a video project for the team series video we did last year. Here in our notion set up. And we've got a whole lot of stuff here in the project area. We've got project tasks. We've got an area for a script and research. But what I want to show you is this little area called B-roll. This is where we create ideas for all the different B-roll shots, animations, little on-screen text pop ups. Anything that isn't just me talking straight to the camera. And you will notice, I can make this bigger here, that we have a chronological ordering, based on the timestamp in which it's going to go in the video. And this is actually great from editor Tony, because once we have all the B-roll gather, you can just go on down the timeline and drag and drop things on in chronological order. It's fantastic for that purpose. But again, it's not so great for actually gathering the different shots, because sometimes we need to film things, sometimes we need to take screen recordings, sometimes we need to develop animations, what have you. So what we actually do is take about five minutes before we start gathering to tag each of these ideas with things like film or overhead, whiteboard, archive, reporting stuff from our server, stock footage from different stock footage websites, like story blocks. And then we can actually create a different view with a different sort criteria. So note that this chrono view is sorted by timestamp first. But when it's time to actually gather that B-roll, we switch over to our gather view. And this view, as you can see, is sorted by the tags. So we have a sort criteria where tags are first and then location is second. And by doing it this way, I can see everything I need to film in one big batch. And I can even break it down further. So for this video, we had several different locations, one being the office. So here are all different things we had to film in the office, and then I can move over to the edit bay into the studio, and then move on to other action types. Overhead shots, whiteboard shots, things we're going to pull as our Kyle footage from the server, and by backing, we're able to gather stuff much more quickly. Now, you probably noticed that like the video project we just looked at in notion, this video also contained a lot of that B-roll I was talking about. And some of it was B-roll that we did shoot ourselves, but we were also able to get a lot of it from Storyblocks, which is a service that I have been using for years and who have been kind enough to sponsor this video. If you are a creator, you definitely want to check out Storyblocks. They let you download unlimited creative assets, stock footage, sound effects, music after effects templates from library of more than one million assets to choose from. So if there's a shot that you just can't get for a video project, they probably have something you can use. For just one example, back in 2020, we shot this video that I am insanely proud of, called the skill you are slowly losing. But one shot that I couldn't get while I was there, that I really wanted was an aerial shot of all the trees in the mountain area. I couldn't get that because number one, I don't have a drone license in number two. A lot of the mountains in Colorado are actually illegal to use drones in because they're state parks. So Storyblocks to the rescue, I found this great shot that fit in perfectly with the video with just a little bit of extra color grading. And I made the video so much better. And in addition to getting you shot that you just couldn't get in your own, Storyblocks can also simply help you save time in the production process. They have this diverse, ever-growing library of assets for nearly any purpose. And the best part is that they have subscriptions that will fit any budget. So whether you're just getting started as an any creator, or you're running a small team like we are, or even if you're looking for enterprise licensing for a bigger team, they've got a plan for you. So if you want to check out their library and start producing better content, head over to Storyblocks.com slash Thomas and sign up. If you found this video helpful, hit that like button for the YouTube algorithm, and if you're looking to learn even more, check out this video right here, which is the ultimate guide to manage in your calendar, or here's that when we just looked at my notion set up on how to optimize your workspace for better productivity.
