# Why it's so hard to stick to your workout routine
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cNUPmmc5b3c
Learn to make consistent, measurable progress on your fitness goals.
📺 Watch this video ad-free on Nebula: https://nebula.app/videos/thomasfrank-why-its-so-hard-to-stick-to-your-workout-routine

🛠 COURSES AND RESOURCES: 
Notion channel - https://www.youtube.com/c/ThomasFrankExplains
Free Notion templates - https://thomasjfrank.com/templates/
Learn Notion - https://thomasjfrank.com/fundamentals
Productivity and Habits courses - https://thomasjfrank.com/courses/

🦙 SPONSOR: 
Visit https://skl.sh/thomasfrank10211 and be one of the first 1,000 to sign up to get a free 1-month trial of Skillshare!

🐦 SOCIAL STUFF:
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly
Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Music Channel ➔ https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCmqK2G-3AL_WP5KffH_wqAA
Spotify Study Playlist ➔ https://open.spotify.com/user/thomasfrank09/playlist/4ETfiRPHVmUFLF6q0g8Fux?si=IPfx3dAgQ1SIUwhh5YEQMQ

⏱ TIMESTAMPS:
00:00 - Intro
01:18 - Not Knowing Where to Start
02:38 - My Actual Workout Routines
03:24 - Not Seeing Results
05:08 - Too Much Friction
06:43 - It's Too Easy to Fail

🔗 VIDEO LINKS:
Habitica - https://habitica.com/
My workout routine Notion template - https://thomasjfrank.com/workoutdb

👐 BUSINESS:
Please contact my agent at thomasfrank@standard.tv

🎞 SPECIAL THANKS
Video clips supplied by Getty Images

💰 I'm fortunate enough to work with great sponsors who support my work, so I don't use Patreon or any other crowdfunding service. However, if you'd like to support a worthy cause, consider donating to help more children get access to a high-quality education: https://fundraise.pencilsofpromise.org/fundraiser/1489730
**Keywords:** thomas frank, workout routine, workout discipline, workout motivation, fitness routine, fitness habit, workout habit, apple watch, weightlifting, I can beat The Rock in an arm wrestling match, 
**Date:** 2022-01-30

## Transcript
 In this video, we're going to be answering the question of why it's so hard to stick to a workout routine over long-term. And this is a problem that I've actually struggled with for most of my life. I've always been a pretty active guy, but when it comes to actually sticking to a workout routine and seeing progress over long-term, I've always had a problem with it. However, back in 2020, I actually did start a routine that I've stuck to for the past two years, and that has come with some results. I've gained about 30 pounds of mostly mass in that time, going from around 185 pounds to 215, I've achieved the 300-pound bench press, a 350-pound squat, and a 440-pound deadlift, and I've managed to improve my cardio at the same time. Most of the things to picking up tennis, which is now my favorite sport. So today, I'm going to share what I've learned with you, including sharing some of my actual workout routines, within a notion template, of course, because hey, it's me. And along with that, I also want to share some of the tricks that I've learned for making sticking to that routine a lot easier. And I want to start by first breaking down the problem, because as I see it, there really are four main sub-problems that make it so hard to stick to a workout routine for a lot of people. And those problems are, number one, you don't know what to do or where to start. Number two, you aren't seeing any of results when you do stick to the routine. Number three, there's too much friction involved. And number four, you're making it too easy to fail. So let's tackle these one by one, starting fittingly with not knowing where to start. Now, there is more fitness advice in the internet than there are grains of sand on a beach. And no matter what routine you pick, it seems like athlete and ex is going to be out there telling you that it's killing your gains. And part of the problem, part of what causes this is that it seems like people think there are these vastly different things you need to do depending on what you want. Like if you want to gain mass, it requires following a much different routine than you follow if you wanted to get stronger or if you wanted to lose weight. And while that is true at a certain level, the fact is that most people, and that included me, especially at the sort of 2020, aren't at that level yet. And that means the basic strength training routine with some added cardio is likely going to help you improve in nearly every area you want. Strength, lean body mass, cardio, even weight loss, which to be honest is more function of diet anyway. And if you are at that more advanced level already, where specialization truly is important, you're probably not watching this video. You're probably off watching Jeff Nipperd instead. So for the rest of us, I want to make this as easy as possible. And to do that, I'm going to actually share a couple of the routines that I have been following over the past couple of years, including my current routine, which does require some dim equipment, at least a power rack and a bench, along with my original lockdown quarantine workout, which needed nothing more than a single kettlebell, like this one right here. And one of those doorframe pull-up bars that costs around 20 or 30 dollars. And what I've actually done is put these into a notion page that you can find over at ThomasJFrank.com slash workout DB. And there I've got each workout with its exercises, its sets, and its reps. The ones that I actually followed. And there are also some sample weights that I have used. So you'll probably want to adjust these so that they're right for you. And lastly, I've included both a video tutorial from Strength Coach, along with a clip for my own recordings for every exercise. So you have multiple references for how to do these. And I wanted to share my actual routines, because while there are a ton of different routines out there, tons of fitness advice, literally thousands of people on the internet giving it out, these are what I have actually done, which is why I feel most comfortable putting them out there. They're what have actually given me the results that I've seen. And they were also programmed by my coach who is an expert strength coach. Our second sub problem is that a lot of us deal with not seeing any results. And if you're not seeing any positive changes, then what's the plan of putting in all this effort, right? Well, one of the biggest reasons a lot of people don't see any progress is that they're not recording it. See, in strength training, and in pretty much every other skill area as well, you make progress by using a technique called progressive overload. And this is just a fancy way of saying, you push yourself to near your limit so your body is forced to get stronger. It's an adaptive response. But the problem is that a lot of people don't actually commit to progressive overload. A lot of people just show up with the gym and decide on the fly where they're going to do. And for those that actually do show up with a predetermined routine, a lot of them get stuck following the same routine with the same numbers for months, without seeing any real gains. And the reason for this is that they're not recording their progress. When they don't do this, if you don't record your progress, then you don't really know what you're doing or how you're doing. And you can't make intelligent decisions that are going to help you get stronger. So, if you want to see results start recording your progress. Now, since I work with a coach, I actually use their app, the barbell logic app to do it through my phone. But you can also do it with an old school trusty notebook as well. Just record your sets, your reps, and your weight, fridge exercise. Maybe time and distance for things like cardio. And then use that data to push yourself. For example, here's my journal for a workout where I hit three sets, five reps at 275 on the squat. So, on the next workout, I, or actually my coach in this case, bumped that up to 280 pounds for a three by five. And then 285 on the next one. Now, we'll also note that recording my progress in this way has caused me to be more excited to get into the gym. Because while changes in my overall body composition are really slow and take a long time to notice, I can see changes in my numbers pretty quickly when I'm recording them. And that gets me excited to see them improve. Now, a third sub problem here is that there's often too much friction involved in getting into the gym or getting started with your routine. And you probably have a lot of days where you feel like this, where you feel like you're just too busy to work out, or you just can't fit into your schedule. I know I do. And that's why it's crucial to do anything you can to reduce that friction. This is actually why I built a garage gym recently. It's at home, so there's very little preventing me from just getting out there and getting my routine done. The commute has been eliminated, so it's not a potential source of an excuse. Now, you don't have to build a home gym like I did just to reduce friction because smaller changes can help as well. Like, for example, laying out your gym clothes and packing your bag before you go to bed, so it's already the moment you wake up. Also, keep in mind the actual problem you're trying to solve here. Because in the beginning, what you're really trying to do is build and stick to an exercise routine. So, if you feel another just too much friction right now because your routine is too long or too difficult, just remember that doing something is better than doing nothing at all. Case in point, my best friend Martin doesn't like going to gyms and he wanted something dead simple to start with because he hadn't really exercised at all in quite a while. So, back in December, he literally started just running in place in his apartment and to keep things a little bit exciting. He put on these videos from YouTube channel called Virtual Run TV to make it a little bit less boring, but that's it. And crucially, he started out running for just three minutes a day. Now, that doesn't sound like a whole lot, but it helped him build the habit. And as of today, he's been doing this for 45 days in a row and is up to running for about 23 minutes at a time. So, his endurance has improved quite a bit. Finally, our last sub problem here is that probably too easy for you to fail. Ask yourself, what happens if you decide to push a workout off into the next day or you skip it all together? Well, if you're like most people, the answer is probably nothing other than the fact that you don't make any progress from that workout. And that's a problem. If you want a more reliably stick to your routine, you need to make it somewhat harder to fail, which means that you need to introduce some accountability into the mix. And this is actually probably the number one reason why I've been able to make so much progress over the last couple of years. I have people in my life that hold me accountable to my work at routine. Now, the primary source of that accountability is my lifting coach Matt, who actually coaches me remotely. I've got adrenaline sets in my reps, and then I actually film the final set of each exercise. And the next morning, I get a form critique on that video and updated programming for the next workout. But the most important thing I get is the knowledge that he's actually expecting me to turn in my workout log. Now, in addition to my coach, I do have one other big source of accountability in my life. And that is the activity sharing feature on my Apple Watch, which I use to share on my exercise data with a few different friends and who do the same with me. And this actually brings in a different dimension of accountability and support. As we typically don't how many each other and we don't do a workout, but we do send each other emojis and other support and we do complete our workouts. And that's something that I feel doesn't actually get talked about as much in the realms of habits and productivity. It's useful and not only have accountability to know that somebody is going to hold your feet to the fire, but also to have positive encouragement from people who care about you as well. Those positive messages can really keep you going. So, if you can find a way to get both of those by enlisting other people, that's going to help you really stick to your routine. You can work with a coach like I do, but there are other methods as well, like getting a workout partner using the Apple Watch thing, or maybe even using the social features in an app like Habitica to party up with other people and track habits together. If you want to learn even more about how you can build strong habits in any area of your life, I also have a full one hour class on Habit Formation over on Skillshare, who have sponsored this video. In this class, we'll teach you how to take any goal you have, define it more clearly, and then break it down into actionable habits that you can work on every single day. You'll also learn how to stick to those habits over long-term by using external accountability systems, by anticipating and dealing with pain points ahead of time, and by gracefully dealing with failure, so it doesn't completely derail you. And because of my classes on Skillshare, you're also going to get access to thousands of other classes that can help you learn new skills and really make 2022 a year of personal growth for yourself. For instance, one of my favorite creators, MKBHD, has a class on Skillshare about how to craft great YouTube videos from start to finish, and you're also going to find classes on illustration, personal finance, and even how to grow your social media presence. Skillshare is completely ad-free. They've got new premium classes that are added every single week, and the best part is that if you're one of the first 1,000 people to use my link and sign up, you're even going to get a free one month trial, which means that you can take my class, and all my other classes completely for free during that first month. So, to get started, use it link in the description down below, or click right there to sign up and start learning and support my channel. You can also check out one of these videos right here, and I will especially recommend this one on the five levels of self discipline, which is a great follow-up to this video. Thanks as always for watching, hit that like button for yield, algorithm, and I will see you in the next one.
