# The One Hour Night Routine
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CQqdmDjgx9k
A quick, sensible night routine that helps you get to sleep on time, in addition to preparing you for the next day.
📺 Watch this video ad-free on Nebula: https://nebula.app/videos/thomas-frank-the-one-hour-night-routine

🛠 COURSES AND RESOURCES: 
Notion channel - https://www.youtube.com/c/ThomasFrankExplains
Free Notion templates - https://thomasjfrank.com/templates/
Learn Notion - https://thomasjfrank.com/fundamentals
Productivity and Habits courses - https://thomasjfrank.com/courses/

🦙 SPONSOR: 
Be one of the first 200 people to sign up and get 20% off your annual Brilliant subscription: https://www.brilliant.org/thomasfrank

🐦 SOCIAL STUFF:
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly
Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Music Channel ➔ https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCmqK2G-3AL_WP5KffH_wqAA
Spotify Study Playlist ➔ https://open.spotify.com/user/thomasfrank09/playlist/4ETfiRPHVmUFLF6q0g8Fux?si=IPfx3dAgQ1SIUwhh5YEQMQ

🔗 VIDEO LINKS:
The Martin System for tracking habits: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0bxIg3M_MHY
NSF sleep recommendations: https://www.sleepfoundation.org/press-release/national-sleep-foundation-recommends-new-sleep-times

👐 BUSINESS:
Please contact my agent at thomasfrank@standard.tv

🎞 SPECIAL THANKS
Thanks to Matt D'Avella and Ali Abdaal for the cameos!
Matt: https://www.youtube.com/user/blackboxfilmcompany
Ali: https://www.youtube.com/user/Sepharoth64

💰 I'm fortunate enough to work with great sponsors who support my work, so I don't use Patreon or any other crowdfunding service. However, if you'd like to support a worthy cause, consider donating to help more children get access to a high-quality education: https://fundraise.pencilsofpromise.org/fundraiser/1489730
**Keywords:** thomas frank, productivity, sleep, better sleep, sleep tips, how to get to sleep, how to fall asleep fast, night routine, night routine 2020, morning routine, evening routine, bed, bed time, bed routine, optimize sleep, sleep cycle, rem sleep, sleep stages, routines, productivity tips, stop being tired, tired all the time, get more sleep, brain fog, afternoon slump, 
**Date:** 2020-09-01

## Transcript
 Thanks to Brilliant for sponsoring this video and supporting my channel. You've probably already heard about the magical life-changing powers of Mourning Retime. It's a phenomenon that scientists don't quite understand yet, but when you wake up early, brew a cup of coffee using the most hipster method possible, and copy the Mourning Retime of a powerful CEO or YouTuber, then you're virtually guaranteed to become just as successful as they are. Why else would Mourning Retime videos be so popular? But, if you've already created a Mourning Retime for yourself and you haven't yet gained your guaranteed fame, success, and superpowers, it might be because you skipped out on the most important step. A good night's sleep. Many animals have evolved to be nocturnal, but humans are not among them. Still, that hasn't stopped us from covering our cities and homes with a blanket of artificial light, and concocting an ever-expanding number of reasons to remain awake long after the sun has gone down. And so often we do this at our detriment, delaying the onset of sleep, even as tomorrow's work keeps our wake-up time stubbornly fixed in place. So many of us can't seem to break this habit, our good intentions being overwhelmed by short-term desires and pleasures. If you're anything like me, then you probably find yourself dealing with this problem on a fairly regular basis. You should be going to bed, but there are just so many more interesting things to do at night. So what can we do about this problem? Well, one simple solution is to create a night routine. A night routine is just like a morning routine, but in reverse. Instead of helping you wake up and get ready for the day, it helps you to smoothly end your day and also make sure that you get to bed in time to get enough sleep. But there is another benefit to having a good night routine. In addition to helping you wind down today, it also helps you pair for the next day as well. So just like we did with my one hour morning routine video, today we are constructing a one-hour night time routine. And with this routine, we've got three different goals in mind. Number one, wind down the day, so you feel relaxed when it's time to go to bed. Number two, actually get yourself in bed on time, so you're getting enough sleep. And number three, do a few things to help you prepare for the next day. And to achieve all those goals, we first have to go through a couple of preparatory steps. Number one, you need to figure out what time you should go to bed. Everyone has a specific and unique amount of time when they're getting the optimal amount of sleep. We're all unique in that way. But according to the National Sleep Foundation, there are some generally recommended times for each age group. So if you have a specific wake-up time in mind, you can use the information on this charge to figure out when in general you should be heading to bed. Beyond that, it's also worth knowing a little bit about the sleep when we sleep, we go through a cycle of stages. A couple of lighter stages at first, and then moving into a stage of deep sleep, finally moving into that REM stage where you dream and you also consolidate memories. And the main thing you want to know about this sleep cycle now is that on average, it takes about 90 minutes to complete. And ideally, you want to be waking up near the end of one of those cycles. If you have an alarm that forces you awake during one of the deep stages, then you're not going to have a good time. Anyway, armed with this knowledge, you can now start to hone in on an ideal bed time for yourself. And once you know that, it is time for the other preparatory step, which is to create a wind down alarm. Or as my friend Martin, who wrote the first draft for this video called it, a start winding down Yadufus alarm. And personally, I think I'm going to use that name for my own wind down alarm. So you want to set this for about an hour before your bedtime. And when it goes off, give yourself about 10 minutes to wind up whatever it was that you were doing. At this point, it's also a good time to be done with screens for the night, because the artificial light emitted by screens can mess with this circadian rhythm, and sometimes even harm the quality of your sleep. And while features like the iPhone's night shift can help somewhat, simply just being done with screens near bedtime is going to help a lot more, especially if you're someone who finds it hard to fall asleep. If you're one of those people who just is out like a light, the moment your head hits the pillow, well, number one, lucky you. And number two, maybe this isn't going to matter that much. But it's at least good to know. So, like I mentioned earlier, one of the qualities of a good nighttime routine is that it prepares you for the next day. And that is what this next 15 minute chunk is all about. And I think this starts with cleaning up your workspace and in general, resetting your environment. This evokes a concept called Meazon Plus, which roughly translates to everything in its place, and is a huge concept in the world of professional cooking. Chefs and professional cooks know that to work clean, to constantly reset the environment, to make sure everything is in its place before work starts, is going to number one cut down on friction, number two, reduce accidents, and number three, just make everything work more efficiently. And this is a concept that is not limited to just professional kitchens. Everyone can use this to their advantage. So, I think it's a great idea to take some time before you go to bed to clean up a little bit, tidy up your desk, do the dishes, basically reset your living space so it's not stressing you out next day. You can also get ahead a little bit and cut down the number of decisions you have to make in the morning by number one laying out your clothes for the next day. And number two, if you need to go somewhere packing up your bag. Though personally, I work from home now and I think a lot of you are working from home or doing school from home. So maybe that one doesn't apply right now, but hey, one can dream, right? The next 15 minute segment should be dedicated to reviewing how your day went. So if you track your habits, with maybe a habit tracking app, or maybe a pen and paper system, like the Martin system that I made a video about earlier this year, now is a great time to make sure that everything has been checked off for the day. Additionally, this is also a good time to ask yourself if there's anything that you can improve going forward. For example, if something popped up today, unexpected that prevented you from getting everything done on your plan, you can make a note about it and hopefully it's not going to do real you in the future. After that, take five minutes to do whatever it is you got to do to get ready for bed, like as Del the funky homo sapiens once said in that song that was I think in Tony Hawk's Pro Skater 3, you got to brush your teeth. So, you know, at least do that. And then finally take 15 minutes to just relax. Do some light stretches. Do some yoga, read a fiction book. Whatever it is, just do something that relaxes you and puts you in a state where it's easy to fall asleep. This nighttime routine isn't some hardcore regimen with a ton of habits, but it really doesn't have to be. For me, all it needs to do is help me get to bed on time and allow me to start the next day with a plan and a clean workspace. And as I mentioned in my last morning routine video, when I do start that new day, one of the best parts of that morning routine is the time that I spend on independent learning projects. I never want to rest on my laurels. I always want to be learning something new for the rest of my entire life. And if you are the same way that one resource that you might want to check out is brilliant. Brilliant has a library of more than 60 courses that can help you gain a deeper understanding of the complex topics within math, science, and computer science in a way that's different from most traditional methods. All librarians courses are based on active learning principles. Quickly throwing you into smartly laid out sequences of problems and interactive challenges that let you actually use your learning basically right away. And this is one of the most effective ways to learn. By getting your hands dirty right away, instead of passively taking material, you learn more quickly, you stay interested for longer, and you've been developed this universally applicable problem-solving skill set along the way. And this month I want to recommend one of their newest courses, which is all about the mathematics behind uncertainty. I have always been fascinated with how people make decisions, and our decision-making process is often guided by irrational thinking. And this course is especially the section on Bayesian thinking. We'll help you to start taking a more scientific and probability-driven look at the decisions that you make in your everyday life. And if you want to start taking that course or any of the other courses in Brilliant's Library, you can start by signing up over at Brilliant.org slash Thomas Frank. And if you're one of the first 200 people to sign up with that link, you're going to get 20% off your annual premium subscription. Thanks so much for watching this video. If you found it useful, hitting that like button gently with your middle knuckle is always appreciated, and let's the YouTube algorithm know that this video is, well, I guess good as good as a robot can think it is, but it will maybe push it out to more people, so that's always appreciated. But again, thank you just for watching and paying attention to the stuff that I threw up on the internet. Seriously, you guys are awesome. If you haven't subscribed already, and you want to get new videos when they come out, I'll have a subscriber link right over there. I'll also have my music channel right over there, if you want to check that out. Also, on my Instagram, over at Tom Frankly, I'm doing question and answer videos every single week. So if you have a question that I could answer a bit more quickly, then I would normally take to make a big video like this, then it might get turned into a video over there, and you may want to go following me there. And last but not least, I'll have a couple more videos on screen that you can smash your face into your phone screen to watch. But of course, if you don't want to do that, then I don't know, go skateboard and empty pool or something because I'm not your dad.
