# My Hack for Waking Up at 6 A.M. Every Day - College Info Geek
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DZPNqJc-Jeg
100% of the time.... it works every time.

My book "10 Steps to Earning Awesome Grades" is coming out in January and it's free! Get it here:

http://collegeinfogeek.com/get-better-grades/

If you want to get even more strategies and tips on becoming a more productive, successful student, subscribe to my channel right here:

http://buff.ly/1vQP5ar

Connect with me on Twitter!

https://twitter.com/TomFrankly

Companion blog post with notes and resource links: 

http://collegeinfogeek.com/early-wake-up-system/
**Keywords:** waking up, early morning, alarm clock, wake up, get out of bed, on time, 6am, 5 am, 5am, 6 am, studying, college, education, university, student, school, morning, habits, morning routine, buffer, twitter, ifttt, beeminder, habitrpg, 
**Date:** 2014-12-18

## Transcript
 So here's the thing about waking up early. If I have to do it if I have a event that I have to get to then I can easily get myself out of bed at like 3 a.m. If it's a early flight or or a 6 a.m. If I have to be to work by 7. But if I'm left my own devices getting up early is only going to happen if I'm forced to do it. If I have to be somewhere at a certain time. Maybe you're just like me in that respect and maybe you also want to be able to get yourself up in the morning before you have to be somewhere. So you actually have time to do some things like eat breakfast or maybe work out or even just read book. Well, I definitely wanted that for myself. So in this video I'm going to show you a technique that I've been using that 100% absolutely gets me up at 6 a.m. every single morning during the week. Completely crazy, you say? Well, it's been working for six months. So here it is. The basis of my system uses an app called buffer, which is a social media scheduler. And I have a tweet set up in buffer that goes to my Twitter account, which basically says, Hey, I'm sleeping in because I'm lazy. If you reply to this tweet, I will give you five dollars via PayPal assuming that my alarm did not malfunction. The tweet is scheduled for 6.10 a.m. So I have to get up every morning before that goes out. Get over to my computer and set it to go out the next day instead of today. I also have the hashtag sleeping in on that tweet. And I'm using an app called if it to watch for tweets that have that hashtag from my account. If it sees it tweet like that, then it'll send an email over to BMinder, which is a service I've talked about before, which tracks your goals and actually charges you money if you fail on them. So if I sleep in, I will guarantee you to be charged five bucks from BMinder, and also be charged five dollars from anyone who sees my tweet and wants me to pay them. And an added incentive that comes from offering to pay people if they reply to me is that there's a threat of social shame and embarrassment if I have to do it. I'm essentially using the threats of both monetary loss and social shame to force myself to get up every morning. And I've been doing this for about six months now and 100% of the time that I have set the tweet, I have gotten up on time. And only one time that I actually forget to move the tweet, I probably got distracted by my email or something. And I did pay five dollars to the person who responded. So since then, I have always remembered to move my tweet forward. I have a reminder set up and have it RPG to do it. And every single morning, I'm up on time doing my morning routine. So if you're looking for a method that will actually make you get up in the morning without having to rely on an actual obligation, try my method out. I just have one warning that will give you before you actually start using it. You have to be 100% honest when you use this method because if you let the tweet go out and then lie about it later, you're essentially breaking the method for all future instances. If you know that you've broken in the past, then you're probably gonna break it again in the future. So if you try to adopt this method, realize that it's kind of a nuclear option for getting yourself up and respect its power. If you want to know more about how I use this method, I actually wrote a blog post about it over at College InvoGeek with a little bit more detail. And this video serves as a bit of an update to let you know that yes, it's been working for about six months now. Check that post out. And if you want to get more videos every single week on being an awesome college student and building better habits, then hit the subscribe button below. Otherwise, I will see you in the next video. Well, hello there, and thanks for sticking around to the end of my video on how to wake up early. If you plan on putting my system into action, then I would love to hear about it, and you can follow me on Twitter over at Tom Franklin, and let me know that you did it. I'll be up tomorrow morning at that time, so I will definitely respond to you. If you want to stay up to date and get new videos every single week, then hit the subscribe button right there. And you can also get links to any resources and a summary of this video over at the companion blog post, which you can get to by clicking the orange button right there. If you missed last week's video, there's a clip of it playing, and you can click that clip to watch it, and also if you would like to get a free copy of my book, 10 steps to earning awesome grades, just click the picture of it, and you can get it right there. Thanks for watching.
