# 8 Things I Did RIGHT as a Student
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e3mYvWUgZs8
The first 83 people to sign up with this link will get 20% of their annual subscription to Brilliant: https://brilliant.org/thomasfrank

Huge thanks to Brilliant for sponsoring this video and supporting my channel!

A while ago I made a video called "8 Mistakes I Made as a Student" - and that was certainly not an exhaustive list of mistakes by any means.

However, there are also a few decisions that I feel I got right during my time as a college student. So, to complement that video, this one will go over some of those correct decisions - including ways that I handled career fairs, where I chose to live during my freshman year, how I built relationships with professors, and more.

Get my book "10 Steps to Earning Awesome Grades" FREE: 
https://collegeinfogeek.com/get-better-grades/

Follow Me:
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly
Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Podcast ➔ https://www.youtube.com/TheCollegeInfoGeekPodcast

Subscribe to My Channel:
http://buff.ly/1vQP5ar

Links from the Video:

My Video Gear:
https://www.amazon.com/shop/thomasfrank
**Keywords:** thomas frank, productivity, education, how to learn, studying, college, university, student tips, study tips, school tips, do better in school, ace college, ace school, get ahead, part time jobs, internship, calendar, schedule, planning, planning tips, plan with me, 2019, scholarships, pay for college, dorms, apartment, dorm vs apartment, freshman year, sophomore year, senior year, extracurricular activities, campus, on campus, career fair, job advice, internship advice, class tips, 
**Date:** 2019-02-20

## Transcript
 If you can't tell by the abrupt set change, I have moved. And I am currently in the process of building a new studio, but right now, it's, well, kind of a mess. So bear with me for a while. I've got this temporary set for a couple of days, and then once I get this video out, I will have time to build a proper set once again. But in the meantime, we got to talk about some things that I did right in college. Now a few months ago, I did a video called Eight Mistakes that I made as a student. And that is a pretty big number of mistakes, and I certainly made more than that. But I also did a few things right. So today to sort of create a complement to that video, I wanted to go through eight things that I think that I did correctly as a student. And I think that you might want to apply a few of these lessons to your own life if you are a student. And some of these might even be apical to you even if you're not a student. So let's get into them. Alright, so the first thing that I want to go ahead and pat my 18 year old self on the back for is taking jobs that existed outside of my area of focus or my major. Now when I went into college, I majored in something called Management Information Systems, which is basically the IT major. My goal originally was to become a network technician. So I was looking for jobs specifically in the IT area. And my first job in college was actually working for the campus tech support department, where I removed viruses from people's computers and took support calls and answered emails, and basically told people to turn it off and on again. Have you tried turning it off and on again? But during that same exact year, I also got a job that was at my school called being a cyclone aid because we were the Iowa State Cyclones. And this job was basically working as a student orientation assistant. So during the summer, I gave campus tours, I set up in front of tons of parents and students and answered all kinds of questions about the college experience. And I also helped set up basically the entire freshman orientation program. We booked speakers, we set up event areas. It was a job where I had to wear a lot of hats. And I also think it was the most useful part-time job that I worked in college. Now, I did all kinds of other stuff as well. I worked as a web developer, both freelance and employed. I was an RA and I had lots of other jobs in the side. But that job in particular gave me leadership skills, gave me communication skills, both interpersonal communication skills and in the realm of public speaking. And in general, it made me forced me to become a more organized person. And these qualities, organization and leadership and communication and lots of others, employers are looking for these qualities in addition to domain-specific experience. So yes, your major is important. And getting experience in that major area is something that I definitely recommend you do as soon as you possibly can. But also looking for other jobs and experiences that give you the opportunity to build those other qualities that are really, really important. Secondly, I got really, really serious about using my calendar correctly during my freshman year. And this was something that was kind of forced on me because right when I came into college, I got a job at the Campus IT Center, like I just said. And every single week, this free-for-all calendar of hours would open up. And it was kind of a first-come-first-surf thing. So if you were there, the moment the calendar opened up, you could get whatever hours you wanted. You can kind of tailor it around your class schedule, which was awesome. But if you waited too long, usually you were just picking up the scraps and working midnight shifts, or 730 AM shifts, which you know what those are kind of okay for me. But still, it was nice to have choice. And the moment that I would grab a slot on that work calendar, I would go and replicate that work slot on my personal Google Calendar. And this was really important because my work schedules changing every single week as a result, and I also had a pretty complicated class schedule. But that wasn't all I was doing with my calendar. And the tip that I want to share with you here was something that I started doing really early on, which was looking ahead at the academic calendar and at other calendars for organizations, and other things like that, and putting events on my calendar well in advance. For example, I went and found the date at which I could sign up for the next semester's classes, and I got that on my calendar, and made sure I was awake and ready to sign up for classes, the moment I could. Again, it was kind of a first come-first surf thing, and my wanted to be first. All right, I had a number three on the list. I optimized my time and my schedule for extra curriculars rather than a heavy course load. Now, there are going to be people in the comments who are really gung-ho about double majoring, and I'm sure many people have had a great experience doing so, or compressing their classes into fewer semesters so they could cut the cost of college. But for me, I viewed college as a concentrated bundle of opportunities. I was basically placing myself in a geographical space where there is just all kinds of opportunity around me, and I realized that classes were the only kind of opportunities. I knew that if I dedicated some of my time towards extra curriculars, towards participating in clubs, and being in the leadership boards of those clubs, towards personal projects, like building my website, college and pho-geek, which eventually became my career, or even part-time jobs on campus, I knew that it would get a much more well-rounded experience in college. Plus, I knew that employers were looking for real world experience. They were looking for impressive projects where this student took initiative, and you can get those in classes, but you can get a lot more of them outside of class. So, I think that it's a good idea to have a balance between coursework and extra curriculars. Now, we're moving on to item number four. It's a brand new John Cena poster for my door, of course. Actually, item number four was that I kept applying for scholarships all throughout my college career. Now, a lot of high schoolers go really hard on the scholarship application train up until they get to college. A lot of people think that scholarships are something that you worry about when you're in high school, and then you don't worry about funding once you're in your university experience. But there are a lot of scholarships out there for current college students, and even for graduate students. And in fact, I won far more scholarships during my college career than I ever did in high school. During college, I won two different entrepreneurship scholarships. One I think was for my freelance web design business, and then the second one later on was four college input geek. And aside from those, which obviously did involve a lot of extra curricular work, I also applied for general college of business scholarships. So, I just had to fill out a basic application, and I won a couple off of that as well. So, I think that it would be advisable to fall the path that my 19 and 20 and 21 year old self took. Keep applying for scholarships all throughout your educational career, unless the funding is completely taking care of, you kind of owe it to yourself to do it. All right, item number five. As often as I could, I introduced myself to my new professors and teachers assistants at the beginning of each semester's classes, and I also went to office hours. And I didn't just go to office hours to ask for help. I would occasionally drop by office hours just to chat with the professor, because I wanted to build relationships. Now, looking back on all those efforts, I don't have ongoing relationships with every single professor that I ever had in college, but I do still stay in contact with a few of them every now and then, and a lot of really good stuff came out of those relationships as well. Some of them were happy to write letters of recommendation for internships and scholarships when I asked them, because they knew me and they knew a little bit of my work, and I was even invited to speak at the classes of a couple of them after I graduated from college. So, I know this takes a little bit of effort, but everything worth doing does, whenever you start a new semester, make it a point to at least introduce yourself to your professors and try to build that relationship. All right, item number six, which might be a bit of a controversial item, but I at least stand by it. I chose to live on campus in the dorms for my first two years of college, and I have this decision on the list because it wasn't my original plan. Back when I was in high school, I had plans to get an off-campus apartment with one of my friends from high school. We were both going to get part-time jobs on campus, and we were just going to pay the monthly rent to live off campus, which was a little bit cheaper than the dorms, and which would have allowed us to pay monthly rather than all of front each semester. And that was big because we didn't want to take on loans. And I kind of had this entirely debt-free mindset going into college, which was why I was going to move three miles off campus, was going to get the part-time job, all that stuff. But then, during the summer, leading up to my freshman year, I decided to go and read every college prep book my public library had. And one of those books was the naked roommate by Harlan Cohen. And I remember one of the pieces of advice in that book, being to live on campus for at least the first year. And his justification for that was that it puts you in the middle of the action, all the opportunities are so much closer to you. If there's an event on campus, you don't have to do the mental calculus of whether or not it's worth it to drive 30 minutes there and back, all that kind of stuff, you are just there. And also, if you live in the dorms, you can have your door open all the time, and a lot of people will just end up wandering in, and that's how you make friends. So I took that book's advice. And yes, I did end up taking a couple of student loans to make that work in hindsight, it probably could have paid for it with part-time job earnings anyway. So I would count that as a little bit of a mistake, but I'm very glad I lived on campus. I met friends who are still some of my best friends today, and that book was right. I was placed right in the middle of the action, and at the drop of a hat, I could go take advantage of an opportunity, which I did many many times. Now, again, I realized this particular tip might be controversial, both for the financial aspect of it, and for the fact that many campuses do things differently. My campus was a very kind of insular environment. Some campuses are just in the middle of cities, and it makes sense to get an apartment that isn't affiliated with your school. So the lesson that I really want to share here isn't to make sure you're living in on-campus dorms per se, but it's to do whatever you can to put yourself in the middle of the action. Put yourself as close to the potential opportunities as you can, especially during that first and second year when you haven't really figured out what you want to do, you haven't made as many friends yet, you're still kind of trying to establish yourself. Item number seven, which is quite related to item number six. I was constantly keeping my eye out for opportunities. A lot of the buildings on my campus had bullet boards that I was constantly looking at, and I also went and proactively followed a lot of the on-campus departments and clubs on Twitter and Facebook, and I kept tabs on the things that were going on. But I didn't just keep tabs mentally, and what I want to share here is to keep an eye out for opportunities, but then put them on your calendar. And if you're not sure whether or not you want to do them, or if you have time, just mark them as TVA, and maybe even put them on a specific calendar for on-campus events. That way, on a day-to-day basis, you can go and look at what's going on on your personal calendar, where it's all nice and collected, and decide whether or not you can actually make it to the things that you put on that calendar. All right, finally, number eight. I went to every single career fair that I could. I've put this item on the list because I remember distinctly during my freshman year, a lot of my friends said, I don't need to go to the career fair this year, because I'm only planning on getting an internship after my sophomore year, after my second year of college. So what's the point of going to the career fair now? It's just the waste of my time, right? But I saw it differently. I too only intended to get an internship after my sophomore year, because I was doing that student orientation job the summer after my freshman year, but I wanted to go to the career fair to meet people as early as I could, because I figured if I met recruiters during my freshman year, then I would go to the career fair during my sophomore year again, and they would recognize me. And the more they recognize me, the more rapport we established, the higher up I was probably going to be on the short lists of the hiring managers that they talked to. Additionally, going to every single career fair meant that I was getting a lot more practice talking with recruiters, pitching myself, telling them what I wanted to do, what my skills were, what my experience was. This is kind of difficult when you don't have a whole lot of practice doing it. So by going to every single career fair, every single networking event that you have access to within your major and otherwise, you're going to get a lot of practice. And even if you end up talking with recruiters at companies that you don't really care about, you're going to one make a connection, but two, you're going to get practice that will be applicable for the recruiters and the companies that you really do care about. So my suggestion is to go to every career fair that you can, even if you aren't intending to get a job or an internship for a couple of years, it's just good practice. Now in the first tip of this video, I talked about a few of the qualities that hiring managers and recruiters are looking for beyond simple major level or domain level experience. Things like organizational skills or communication ability. In addition to those, these hiring managers are also looking for things like adaptability and problem-solving skills. They want to know if you can independently apply yourself to a new and novel problem and solve it, because if you can, then you're advancing their business and they're probably going to want to hire you. And luckily problem-solving and adaptability, these are traits that you can learn and get better at through practice. And if you're looking for a great resource for building those skills, you should check out Brilliant. Brilliant is an excellently designed learning platform for anyone who wants to improve their abilities in the areas of math, science, and computer science. And what I love about Brilliant is they approach their course design process with the principle of active learning in mind. This means that from the moment you start one of their in-depth courses, you are going to be solving problems. You won't be sitting back, passively in taking information. You're going to have to sync your teeth into something that you might get stuck on. Now, these problems are bite size, so they're not designed to frustrate you, but they are designed to keep your interest level high, and they're also designed to improve your problem-solving skills along the way. Within their library, you're going to find a ton of different courses that you can take from calculus, to statistics, to waves, and light, to even computer science fundamentals. But this year, they also launched a new feature called Daily Problems. This is a section of the website where every single day they publish a few new problems in broad areas for you to sync your teeth into, such as this one, on whether or not sound travels farther in the cold, or this one, where you have to figure out what happens if you cut a movie strip in half. These problems don't take up a whole lot of your time, so they're great for building a daily learning habit, and most importantly, they're from a broad array of subjects. So, if you're stuck within a couple of subjects within their in-depth courses, this can be a great feature for expanding your horizons, and maybe finding something new that you might be interested in it. So, if you want to try your hand at some of those daily problems, or get into one of their in-depth courses, then go over to brilliant.org slash Thomas Frank and sign up. And if you're one of the first 83 people who does so, you're also going to get 20% off their annual premium subscription. Big thanks to Brilliant for sponsoring this video, and being a huge supporter of my channel and the work that I do, and as always, guys, thank you so much for watching. If you liked this video, definitely hit that like button, so more people can find this channel, and you can also subscribe right there if you want to get new videos every single week when they come out. You can also click right there to get a free copy of my book and how to earn better grades, watch one more video on this channel right over here, or follow me on Instagram at Tom Franklin. Thanks for watching, and I will see you guys in the next one. Bye!
