# 5 Ways People Manipulate You (And How to Resist Them)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e8tyOzkJsMw
When you understand these persuasion tactics, you'll make better decisions.
📺 Watch this video ad-free on Nebula: https://nebula.app/videos/thomas-frank-5-tactics-people-use-to-manipulate-you

🛠 COURSES AND RESOURCES: 
Notion channel - https://www.youtube.com/c/ThomasFrankExplains
Free Notion templates - https://thomasjfrank.com/templates/
Learn Notion - https://thomasjfrank.com/fundamentals
Productivity and Habits courses - https://thomasjfrank.com/courses/

🦙 SPONSOR: 
Get 41% off a year of CuriosityStream and Nebula! https://curiositystream.com/thomas

📃 ARTICLE VERSION:
https://collegeinfogeek.com/principles-of-influence/

🐦 SOCIAL STUFF:
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly
Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Podcast ➔ https://www.youtube.com/TheCollegeInfoGeekPodcast
Music Channel ➔ https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCmqK2G-3AL_WP5KffH_wqAA
Spotify Study Playlist ➔ https://open.spotify.com/user/thomasfrank09/playlist/4ETfiRPHVmUFLF6q0g8Fux?si=IPfx3dAgQ1SIUwhh5YEQMQ

⏱ TIMESTAMPS:
00:00 - Intro
01:25 - Commitment
03:20 - Reciprocity
05:38 - Social Proof
07:58 - Authority
11:12 - Liking

🔗 VIDEO LINKS:
Influence: The Psychology of Persuasion - https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/28815.Influence

👐 BUSINESS:
Please contact my agent at thomasfrank@standard.tv

🎞 CREDITS AND SPECIAL THANKS
Written by Ransom Patterson and Thomas Frank
Edited by Tony Santos
Video clips supplied by Getty Images

💰 I'm fortunate enough to work with great sponsors who support my work, so I don't use Patreon or any other crowdfunding service. However, if you'd like to support a worthy cause, consider donating to help more children get access to a high-quality education: https://fundraise.pencilsofpromise.org/fundraiser/1489730
**Keywords:** thomas frank, Robert Cialdini, Influence, The Psychology of Persuasion, persuasion, manipulation, how people manipulate you, psychology, persuade, persuasive, authority, liking, scarcity, social proof, social media, authority symbols, authoritative, reciprocity, reciprocation, gifts, tripwire, marketing, marketing tactics, sales tactics, sales strategies, 
**Date:** 2021-04-20

## Transcript
 This video is sponsored by CuriosityStream and Nebula. So in the movie Ratatoui, there's the scene where the villain, Chef Skinner, tries to pryling Gweenie for information about Zarrat. And to do it, he uses one of the oldest and most obvious persuasion tactics in the book. They get some drunk. And unfortunately, for Chef Skinner, this does not work. He wasted the entire bottle of wine and learns basically nothing. So perhaps, instead of using alcohol, he should have used one of the more successful and subtle persuasion tactics that have been used for thousands of years to successfully persuade people to buy things, to go along with ideas. So that is what we're going to talk about in this video. We're going to go over five of the most common and most successful persuasion tactics that you and I and basically everyone else in the world are exposed to a daily basis. Now, I've been running my own business for 10 years, so I have some personal experience with persuasion tactics. But the insights in this video are going to come from a much more authoritative and thorough source, which is Robert Shildini's book influence the psychology of persuasion. This has long been considered one of the pun intended, most influential books on the science of persuasion. So it's a great read if you're looking to dig into more detail on this topic. But in this video, we're going to keep it short and sweet. We're going to go over these five persuasion tactics. And we're also going to talk about how to defend against them or at least to realize their influence on you. So when making a decision, you can divorce the merit of the message from the persuasion tactics that are being used. So with all that said, let's give to our first one, which is called commitment and consistency. As human beings, we have this natural tendency to act consistently with our past actions and with what we've said in the past. And this makes perfect sense. We want people to act consistently on unconscious level so we can trust them. So this is really a good thing at its core, but people can also exploit it. So for example, I just got this sticker in the mail as part of a swag package for an online course that I'm taking. And if you ever bought an Apple product, you will know that you're going to know that you get an Apple sticker very similar to this one in the box with the phone or the computer that you've bought. And Apple is not putting that sticker in there just because they're trying to be nice to try to give you something for free. They're hoping that you put that sticker on something you own. I've seen people put it on their cars, on their laptops, on all kinds of stuff. Maybe even their babies forehead, I don't know. But when you put a sticker on something that you own, it's almost the same thing as writing out of statement that I am an Apple person. And when you've made a public commitment like that, you are much more likely to act in accordance with that commitment with your future decisions. This is also why you see a lot of what are called tripwire products. These are products that are very, very cheap. They're very easy sales to make. And what they do is they turn you from being a prospect into a customer. And it's this little commitment you have to make. Maybe it's a dollar purchase within an online game like Fortnite or a mobile app or something like that. But it makes this mental shift happen. It changes yourself identity. You go from being a prospect to a customer who is now more likely to make bigger purchases in the future. So the defense here is to realize that when somebody is offering you a small gift or favor, or there's a free trial or really cheap offer, it is more likely than not going to be something that is designed to get you to make commitment. And that commitment is going to make you more likely to pay big bucks for their bigger offerings down the line. This doesn't mean you shouldn't take these offerings, but you should keep this in mind when the next pitch comes. The second manipulation tactic we're going to talk about also praise upon one of our natural tendencies. And that is reciprocity. As humans, we have this natural inclination to repay favors or repay small gifts that have been given to us. There's this great book called Death The First Five Thousand Years by David Grayburn. He argues that basically everyone is always in debt to each other. You do a small favor for me. I do something for you. And it's almost always out of balance. And he actually kind of muties up the situation because it allows us to wipe out the debt and the ledger. And that can actually allow relationships to be broken up. In pre-money societies, everyone's just kind of lending each other things, borrowing things. Everyone's always in some amount of debt to one another, but we never really know where we all stand. But what we do know is that we should reciprocate when somebody does us a favor or gives us a gift. This is a good thing. But again, it is vulnerable to exploitation by people who have something to sell. My people who want to manipulate our emotions for their own gain. For example, if you've ever gone to a card dealership, you will know that one of the first things they do is offer you free coffee or free water. They are not a coffee shop, but they gladly do it because it results in a lot more profit when it actually comes down to the sale. And the reciprocity principle in our minds is not naturally even. We don't think, oh, I know, oh, that guy a cup of coffee. We're just going to feel indebted and feel like we should pay them back. So what it's going to make you more likely to do is actually get into a car and take a test drive, but they offer one. And if you are ready to buy, you're going to be less likely to negotiate hard when it comes to the price. And more likely to just say, yes, when they pitch you services like expensive warranties. And because of this, they come out way ahead, do the reciprocity principle. And it should be noted that in the ratatouille scene, Chef Skinner tries to use this as well, giving him free wine. And it's not inexpensive wine either. It's some pretty great wine. Unfortunately for him, it doesn't work. And hopefully for the next car salesman that you talked to, it doesn't work too well for them as well because you want to learn how to defend against this. And here's how you do it. Number one, realize that if somebody is offering you a favor or a free gift and it's in the sales or a marketing context, they're probably trying to play on our natural tendency to reciprocate. So be wary of that. And number two, realize that a small gift is often being leveraged to get you to give something much, much bigger and return. Another tactic that you really want to learn how to defend against is the exploitation of social proof. As humans that live in complex societies, we know unconsciously that we often can't rely on our animal instincts or our personal knowledge alone to know what to do in certain situations. So we often look at social cues. We look at what other people are doing to guide our decisions. If you've ever been in a concert and you've looked at where other people are lining up to get in to figure out where you should stand, then you have benefited from social proof. But again, this is a concept that is open to manipulation. You've probably seen commercials with testimonial videos from people who are just like you. But what you often don't see is very small, fine print text at the bottom of the screen saying that they are paid actors and it often goes way further than that. Marketers that don't have an ethical bone in their body will often make up fake testimonials and then just put stock photos right next to them. I know this because it's somebody who designed websites for a long time. I often went through stock photo websites trying to find photos for clients and later on life I would see sales pages with stock photos next to their testimonials and I'd say, hey, I actually recognize that photo, that's from a stock photo website. So people will often straight up lie to try to engage the social proof that we are manipulated by. And even when it's real, you still have to be skeptical. Only happy customers tend to write testimonials and in many cases customers can be incentivized to write testimonials. So whenever you're looking at an instance of social proof that's trying to sway your decision making when it comes to a product or an idea or whatever it is, ask yourself, what is the incentive for number one, this person to say what they've said and for number two, for me to be able to see it in the first place, why was it placed on the sales page? It doesn't mean that the product isn't worth your time, but again, you want to force the merit of the message, the actual factors that go into your decision that will affect your life from the social proof elements. In many cases, you may want to also seek out dissenting voices or at least more critical voices, less biased sources, reviews on third-party websites that don't use affiliate links, that kind of thing. And going back to the Ratatouille example, Chef Skinner does use some elements of social proof on Linguini as well here, when he pours the wine, he says you have to be an idiot of elephantian proportions, not to enjoy this particular wine, which is mostly using the next tactic we're going to talk about, but it does have some elements of social proof in there as well. I like this wine, everyone likes this wine, you have to be an idiot, not to enjoy this wine. Mostly what he's engaging here is our fourth tactic, which is authority. Now, I live in the United States, and in Western culture, we have this very individualistic nature. We like to think that we have contempt for authority, and we make our own decisions independently, but the reality often couldn't be further from the truth. We defer to sources of authority all the time, and use them to aid our decision-making. This happens from the moment we're born, we have no choice, but to defer to our parental figures for not only physical, care, but also for helping us make decisions, and stopping us from doing stupid stuff like putting our fingers into outlets. As adults, we also defer to figures of authority all the time. We defer to our doctors authority. We trust cooks at restaurants, to cook our food, to a safe temperature, and not ruin it, because none of us is an expert on everything, so we have to put trust in other people to help us live the lives we want to live. But the problem is, authority is very easy to exploit, because we usually place trust in the symbols of authority, not in the substance. This book has a lot of citations, to psychological research, and peer-reviewed journals to back up its claims. So, there's a lot of authority here, but when we make decisions on a daily basis, we often aren't looking for the substance. Instead, we unconsciously place trust in the symbols of authority, and those are much easier to fake. We place trust in confidence. We place trust in labels. We even place trust in the way people dress. This outfit communicates something that the previous one didn't. So, if someone's trying to convince you that they know how to make a lot of money, or that they have a lot of business experience, they're probably going to be wearing something like this, maybe even filming their video inside of a Bentley, because that establishes a certain amount of authority. And this effect is even more powerful when it comes to occupation-specific attire. Take for example, the classic white lab coat. If you've ever seen a commercial for a weight loss supplement, you're almost always going to see a doctor on screen talking about how great that medication is, and they're wearing that lab coat, and it says they're a doctor, and in many cases, yeah, they're a doctor, but they're a doctor with a completely different specialization, or they may be have the relevant qualifications to talk about weight loss, but they're being paid to endorse this medication. So, how can you defend against implicitly placing trust in figures of authority? Well, it's really too fold. Number one, learn to recognize when the symbols of authority are really doing the heavy lifting, and the substance is not. Many times, the symbols can be faked, they can be easily gained, qualifications are easy, putting on a suit is easy, but real authority with real substance, that takes a lot more work. Secondly, even when the authority source is legit, ask yourself, is this person using their authority in my best interests, or are they using it for their own personal gain? From there, you can divorce the authority, again, from the merit of the actual message, and make a better decision. Just like Linglingy did, when he did not reveal any information about Zahat to Skinner. And I don't think this was a conscious decision on his part. He was a little tipsy in that scene, but it is absolutely true that Skinner was trying to use authority as part of his manipulation. This was established from the get-go in the movie. He's got this fancy office with all these symbols of authority in it, and in this interaction, he uses it to imbue the wine that he's offering Linglingy with a bit more legitimacy. But really what he's using here is the final tactic that we're going to talk about, which is liking. In this scene, Skinner is trying to get Linglingy to like him. He is complimenting him, which is very uncharacteristic for Skinner. He's giving him free wine. He's saying, let's toast to your non-ideacy. Everything he's doing here is an attempt to establish rapport, to establish a relationship because we are more likely to comply with requests from people that we like. We have to recognize that like ability is another area that has ripe for exploitation. Let's go back to the car dealership example. The moment you walk into that dealership, the car salesman is going to try to get you to like him. It's going to shake your hand, it's going to compliment you, it's going to ask you about your interests. He may just so happen to have the same favorite sports team or same favorite movie that you have. This is all an attempt to get you to like him and to build rapport so you're more likely to buy a car from him. So to defend against this, if you notice that you're starting to like somebody suspiciously quickly in an interaction, especially one where there might be a sale on the line, you need to step back and ask yourself, what are those persons incentives for being so friendly right now? Are they truly interested in my life or are they just trying to get me to like them so they can close a sale? Now this can be pushed too far. If you're always wary of everyone, you're going to become a skeptical person and you might find it hard to make friends and build good relationships. But a healthy dose of skepticism in this context is very, very useful. Now there is one other huge manipulation tactic that is often used in conjunction with all the others that we've talked about in this video. And that is the principle of scarcity. The less abundant something is, the rare it is, the more we inherently value it and want it. And marketers love exploiting this. So if you'd like to see some examples of scarcity tactics in action and also learn how to defend against them, you'll find all that in the extended version of this video on Nebula. Where that bonus section actually replaces this ad because Nebula is ad free. Recall in these extended sections Nebula plus. And you're going to see them in all my new videos going forward. Their places where I can share extra details that come with a research process. But artificial scarcity can be used to have people make bigger decisions that often have huge financial consequences. Or make videos that are just too long for YouTube's algorithm. And that really is what Nebula is all about. It's a streaming service that I built with other creators, like Ali Abdullah, Winter Productions, BrainCraft, Tearsu, and lots of others. And it gives us the opportunity to experiment to the try things that just wouldn't work on YouTube where they would get demonetized. And that includes extended versions of videos, yes, but it also includes originals. In fact, a great follow-up to this video and a place where you can start applying what you've learned here is Tom Scott's original game show money, which creates a great opportunity for some creators that you probably recognize, like Mike Boyd or Sam from Whenever Productions, to try manipulating each other to win some prize money. And what's even better is that we've teamed up with CuriosityStream, which is the go-to resource for the best documentaries on the internet. The team over at CuriosityStream absolutely loves supporting educational content. So we got together and we formed a deal where when you go to CuriosityStream, use a link in the description down below and you sign up, you get access to Nebula for free. And here's a relatively harmless example of scarcity in action. Right now, CuriosityStream is running a sale for Earth Day, where when you go to CuriosityStream.com slash Thomas, you can get a full year of both CuriosityStream and Nebula for less than $12. That's a whopping 41% off. And once you're in your get-up access, it's in the best documentaries on the internet for people like David Atmbro, Sigourney Weaver, and my home's actual patron saint Nick Offerman. So again, if you use that link down in the description to sign up, you're going to get a full year of both CuriosityStream and Nebula, all the ad free videos, extended sections, originals, for 41% off. Or you can go over to CuriosityStream.com slash Thomas to get that same landing page. Doing so is a great way to support both my channel and educational content in general. So if you do, thank you. So to wrap up, I do have one question for you. What is your best real-world example that you've experienced of one of these manipulation tactics in action? Leave your answer down in the comments below and together we can all learn and become a little bit more perceptive. Beyond that, I've got a playlist of additional videos in decision making that you can check out right here if you want some extra content to watch. Subscribe there or do literally none of that and go do anything you want because as always, I'm not your dad.
