# Defeat Procrastination by MAKING Yourself Have Fun - College Info Geek
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Efr9II6mS3I
By deliberately scheduling "high-density" fun into your day, you can create time pressure that eliminates distractions, helps you get more done, and reduces stress.

My book "10 Steps to Earning Awesome Grades" is now out and it's free! Get it here:

http://collegeinfogeek.com/get-better-grades/

If you want to get even more strategies and tips on becoming a more productive, successful student, subscribe to my channel right here:

http://buff.ly/1vQP5ar

Connect with me on Twitter!

https://twitter.com/TomFrankly

Companion blog post with notes and resource links: 

http://collegeinfogeek.com/high-density-fun/
**Keywords:** Procrastination (Quotation Subject), procrastination, productivity, distractions, facebook, twitter, reddit, wasting time, online, internet distractions, getting things done, how to have time, how to make time, how to get more done, less time, college, education, studying, working, exams, university, students, thomas frank, 
**Date:** 2015-02-05

## Transcript
 Once the last time that you played Slide 2, Band of Thieves for the PS2, huh? All right, actually I'm not expecting to play that exact game, except for I do really like it. What I do want to talk about in this video really quickly to be honest is that you should be having fun. Seriously, you should be having a real fun, and in this video I want to emphasize a specific type of fun that I like to call high density fun. So here's the common problem I hear a lot about, and let me know if you have in the same problem because I hear it a lot from friends. So basically, they will say, oh, I want to play this new game, or I want to see this new movie that's come out, or I want to do this fun thing. Fun thing X or fun thing Y, and a fun thing X or fun thing Y takes, you know, a little bit of investment, like a moderate amount of time to step away from your work. And since they're busy and have a lot of homework and all that kind of stuff, they just go, Man, I just don't have time to do that thing. Now I would be inclined to believe them, but the only problem is the very next minute I see them scrolling through Facebook, or checking Reddit, or spacing off, or just something that isn't actually work. So here's the problem that they're facing. They are feeling too much of their day with low density fun. Fun that they think is still part of work. You could call it distractions, and fun that takes away your ability to have high density fun. Fun that actually is fun. And here's the problem with this low density fun. It's not actually fun. It's just a distraction from whatever work you're trying to get done to the moment. It doesn't reduce stress. It doesn't give you any fun memories. It just sort of takes your attention away from something that you don't want to do for the moment. Unfortunately, it also drastically extends the time that you feel like you're working and takes away what little time you have for actual relaxation at night. So instead of succumbing to this curse of low density fun distraction, what do you want to call it? My suggestion for you is to actually be deliberate about having high density fun, which means scheduling it, meaning that you need to actually be serious about having your high density fun during the day. And that's going to be something as simple as saying, yes, set eight o'clock. I'm going to play slide two band of fees for the PS2, and I'm not going to work at all for the rest of the night once I start. Or it can be something that requires an actual commitment. Maybe you tell your friends that you're going to go bowling with them and you actually have to show up. Doing this is good for a few reasons. Number one, it puts a little bit of time pressure on you. You're actually going to be more efficient during your working hours because you know that they are limited. Number two, high density fun reduces stress. And I will talk about this in a later video, but essentially you can think of your stress as a bucket with a faucet pouring stress into it constantly and a hole at the bottom pouring some out. Well, fun. Widen's the hole and keeps the bucket from overflowing or in other words, making you go absolutely crazy. And number three, scrolling through Facebook, stupid, stop it. So that's it for this week's video. Real simple message, but seriously, schedule some high density fun into your life, use it to make yourself more efficient and stay away from the low density fun. It's really not that useful at all. Hey there, and thanks for watching my quick and simple video about high density fun. Now, if you want to find more videos on how to be a better college student every single week, you can hit that big red subscribe button right there. And if you also want to get a free book that's over a hundred pages, I have to get awesome grades while studying less and click the picture of the book. You can also find a convenient blog post in this video by clicking the orange button right there. And if you missed last week's video, it's over an hour long lecture called Study Less Study Smart that I distill down to six minutes, so click the thumbnail to watch it. Lastly, if you want to suggest topics for new videos, or just connect with me on Twitter at Tom Brinkley, or you can leave a comment on this video, and I would love to hear from you, so definitely do more time.
