# What Does It Mean to Be Rich?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=elRKPXea5o0
To be "rich" can mean more than to just have a lot of money. 
📺 Watch this video ad-free on Nebula: https://nebula.app/videos/thomas-frank-what-does-it-mean-to-be-rich

🛠 COURSES AND RESOURCES: 
Notion channel - https://www.youtube.com/c/ThomasFrankExplains
Free Notion templates - https://thomasjfrank.com/templates/
Learn Notion - https://thomasjfrank.com/fundamentals
Productivity and Habits courses - https://thomasjfrank.com/courses/

🦙 SPONSOR: 
Start using Notion for free: https://bit.ly/notionthomas

🐦 SOCIAL STUFF:
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly
Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Music Channel ➔ https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCmqK2G-3AL_WP5KffH_wqAA
Spotify Study Playlist ➔ https://open.spotify.com/user/thomasfrank09/playlist/4ETfiRPHVmUFLF6q0g8Fux?si=IPfx3dAgQ1SIUwhh5YEQMQ

👐 BUSINESS:
Please contact my agent at thomasfrank@standard.tv

🎞 SPECIAL THANKS
Video clips supplied by Getty Images

💰 I'm fortunate enough to work with great sponsors who support my work, so I don't use Patreon or any other crowdfunding service. However, if you'd like to support a worthy cause, consider donating to help more children get access to a high-quality education: https://fundraise.pencilsofpromise.org/fundraiser/1489730
**Keywords:** thomas frank, richness, how to be rich, prioritization, how to set priorities, money vs. time, time and money, free time, productivity, effectiveness, 
**Date:** 2020-12-19

## Transcript
 Thanks to Notion for sponsoring this video and supporting my channel. When you think about the idea of being rich, what's the first thing that comes to mind? Well, if you're like most people, the answer is probably money. That's what we think of when we think of a rich person, somebody who has a lot of money. Or if you're somebody who spends a lot of time watching online content creators, maybe something that also comes to mind is audience. Somebody who has a lot of followers, a lot of subscribers. A lot of people comment on their videos. But I think this idea of richness can be a lot more broad than we typically think. It's not just money we can be rich in. In fact, the other day, I saw somebody tweeting about the idea of time billionaires. If you're 20 years old, you have more than a billion seconds left to live on average where somebody who is a little bit older, even if they have a big bank account, they're not a time billionaire. So I got to thinking the other day while I was out on a bike ride. Like, what is richness mean to me? And indeed, that definition comes out a lot more broad than just money or followers. For me, I want to be rich in not just time as in like being a time billionaire, but also in having free time, time to explore specifically, time to build new skills, to pursue ideas that interest me. I want to be rich in relationships and not just casual relationships, not just audience members who follow me online, but deep relationships. People with whom I could have deep conversations, people who I love and who love me back. And I think if you really asked yourself this question, you would come up with the same answers, or some very similar answers, or at the very least, money wouldn't be the only thing on that list. And yet, in my own life, I continually find myself with priorities that align with the money side of richness, or with the audience size side of richness. And I often find myself deep prioritizing these other more ethereal parts of richness, even though when I really think about it, when I really think about what I want, these are the things I want more. And I wonder why is that? So here's the theory that I have right now, at least for me, but I think this might apply to other people as well. These sides of richness, the money, the audience, the business growth, they're easily tallied. It's very easy to keep track and keep score of these things. You can easily see how much money is in your bank account, or how much money you make every year. It's very easy to say, I make six figures. I made five figures last year, I made six figures now. You can put a growth number on that. You can make spreadsheets and see different percentages, but reds and greens. And with audience growth, it's the exact same. You can easily see how many followers you have, be it on YouTube, or Facebook, or Instagram, or any social network. And by contrast, these other areas of richness are a bit more ethereal. Having free time is a little harder to really keep score of. It's harder to really focus on what that means. And I think as a result, we tend to take these areas for granted and to deprioritize them. Or at least we're very incentivized to do so. Not least of which because of the society we live in, the economy we live in, and when the companies that we interact with when it comes to these platforms, like with social networks, these companies are highly incentivized to keep you on the platform and to keep you focused with growing your audience if you are a creator. And with the economy, all businesses want to have more sales. They want to have more sales. They want to have more economic activity. So they're very incentivized with keeping you focused on how much money you can make so you can therefore spend that money. They are not incentivized to make you think about how much free time you have. How deeply you are invested in your close relationships. So as an individual, you have to find a way to prioritize these other areas of richness if you do care about them. And I've been thinking about that lately. How can I prioritize these areas when the money and the followers and the business success are so easy to get addicted to? So easy to keep score of. And this is a tough problem. And I'm probably not going to solve it for myself overnight. But I think there are a couple things that I can do to start moving in the right direction. And the first one has to do with intent. What actions can I take that will solidify my intent to prioritize these other areas of richness more effectively. And one of them is just simply writing down and then periodically reminding myself of what I truly care about. So I've written down my priorities and I've put the money and I've put the audience growth at lower on the list than these other things. I think we need to kind of periodically look at what our priorities are because it's very easy to get lost in the minutia of our day to day lives and with all the different opportunities that come at us. And we need to remind ourselves again and again, I think of these priorities. So we can make more informed decisions instead of just chasing the shiny thing when it presents itself. Beyond that though, I think it's very important to think about our proximity to the sources of information, the tools and the relationships that cause us to focus on the things that long-term we don't want to be constantly focused on. And in terms of focusing on the money, focusing on the audience and business growth, I am constantly exposed to and I'm very close to a lot of those things. My social networks, my YouTube channel stats page, Slack where I have a lot of my business conversations. They're all right behind me on this computer, which is in my home. It's not at some far-flung office somewhere where I can commute and do my work and then come home at the end of the day and be physically separated from it. It's all right here. In many cases, it's all on this distraction rectangle that's in my pocket most of the time. And that presents a problem. I've been thinking a lot about bad habits lately. And one of the things that causes us to continue to engage in a bad habit is when we're in very close proximity to it. I think this is like cold turkey is the best way to break a bad habit rather than trying to self-regulate. Because if you have a bad habit in the first place and you've called it a bad habit, then you've already stated to yourself that I have a problem self-regulating. And if you remove yourself from the source of temptation, that's the strongest way to not engage in that lack of self-regulation. So if I would increase the time that I spend focused on these more important aspects of richness, then I have to figure out how to increase my distance or decrease my proximity to everything that incentivizes me to keep focusing on the money, to keep focusing on the audience. And that might mean turning off this computer at the end of the work day. That might mean, you know, signing up for social obligations, making plans with friends more often. That might mean leaving my phone up in a room for most of the day, so I don't have quick access to it. And these are just a few ideas. This is less of a tactical video and more of a video designed to get you and me thinking about the overall concept here. How can we decrease the amount of time we spend focused on these easily tallied aspects of richness and increase the amount of time we spend focused on the other things that we might care about a bit more. So I know this wasn't as much of a scripted video as I usually do, but I've been thinking a lot about this idea over the past couple of weeks, especially since I just moved into a new house. And this is actually the first house that I've ever bought, which has got me thinking about wanting to learn how to make it my own. In fact, you're probably hearing the echo down here and it's because this basement, well at some point being an amazing studio right now has a lot of work. I just started tearing up the floorboards so I could have people come in here and lay carpet. And I've been thinking about like, you know, I could hire people to come do everything here. But there's a lot of it that I just want to learn how to do. I want to learn how to make this place my own. In fact, I've gone as far as setting up an entire project in my notion task manager for home improvement projects, things I need to buy, things I need to learn. And that brings me a notion, I guess. If you haven't heard me talk about notion, well, number one, I'll be very surprised because I kind of talk about it all the time on this channel. Number two, notion is my absolute favorite productivity app in the world. And it's something that you should check out if you haven't already because it really gives you a tool set that you can use to build it all in one productivity system. I use notion to run my entire business. We manage all of our video projects in it, all of our podcasts. We have in company wiki in there. We have all kinds of stuff. And I also use it for my personal life. I have a note-taking system. I have my task management and notion. I've built all these templates that allow me to do things I couldn't do before when I was using a bunch of disparate productivity apps. To, you know, try to manage my life. Students use notion to take notes in class. Companies use notion to build things like company wiki's run their processes on board new employees. It's really kind of just a tool set that you can use and bend to your will. So, if you haven't tried notion now is a great time to try it. Not least of which because their personal plan used to be five bucks a month to get unlimited blocks. But now is completely free. So there's no real downside to giving it a try. And they'll be a link in the description down below so you can sign up and start building something that works for you. Also, once you're signed up, once you've played with it a little bit, you'll also find a ton of tutorials over my brand new channel. Thomas Frank explains and free notion templates for things like task management, note-taking, project management, and lots and more. So check those out after you use that link in the description down below to sign up and give notion to try. Big thanks as always to notion for sponsoring this video and being a big supporter of my channel. And if you liked this video, hit the subscribe button which will probably be covering my face right now. Check out that new channel Thomas Frank explains and check out the other videos that I'm going to have on the screen right here and right here. Or, don't do any of that, go buy your own house, demo your own basement and do it better than I did because as always I'm not sure yet.
