# The Most Powerful Way to Remember What You Study
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eVajQPuRmk8
Trying to memorize everything you need for your exams and tests can take a long time. However, spaced repetition can help you speed the learning process up significantly - and it can complement almost any other study technique.

This video dives into the history behind this technique, explores how it affects our memory (through what's called the Spacing Effect), and shows you exactly how you can use it both with paper flash cards and with apps.

Get your own College Info Geek t-shirt!

https://store.dftba.com/products/learning-doesnt-end-shirt

Read the companion article for this video:

http://collegeinfogeek.com/spaced-repetition-memory-technique/

My book "10 Steps to Earning Awesome Grades" is completely free, so check it out if you're interested in improving your grades!

http://collegeinfogeek.com/get-better-grades/

Discuss this video in the CIG community: 

https://www.reddit.com/r/collegeinfogeek/comments/4xaz8o/the_most_powerful_technique_for_remembering_what/

----------

Videos you might want to watch next:

8 Tips for Studying with Flash Cards: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mzCEJVtED0U&list=PLx65qkgCWNJIBzsXii5b6hze09et4cu5n

How to Take Faster Notes: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uL_YjcGoszo&list=PLx65qkgCWNJIBzsXii5b6hze09et4cu5n

----------

If you want to get even more strategies and tips on becoming a more productive, successful student, subscribe to my channel right here:

http://buff.ly/1vQP5ar

Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly

~ created by Thomas Frank
**Keywords:** thomas frank, college info geek, college tips, studying, university, spaced repetition, spacing effect, remember, remembering, study, memorize, memorization, study tips, anki, tinycards, leitner system, distributed practice, memory, memory tips, flash cards, exam tips, learn faster, remember more, memorize faster, study faster, 
**Date:** 2016-08-11

## Transcript
 Hey what is going on guys? So I think we can all agree that studying takes far far too much time. So what I want to do in this video is show you guys how you can remember more of what you learn even if you're spending fewer actual hours studying and the way to do that is by spacing out that study time. This is a technique called spaced repetition and to do it you add progressively longer and longer time intervals in between each of your study sessions. So in this video I want to show you exactly how you can do that both with your paper flashcards and with apps both for smartphones and computers. But first I wanted to get into why this technique is so powerful and also talk to you a little bit about the history behind it and how it relates to our memories in general. spaced repetition leverages a memory phenomenon known as the spacing effect which describes how our brains make better connections and overall remember things more effectively when we space out our learning over time. Here's how piercej Howard, the author of my least favorite book to haul into coffee shops puts it, work involving higher mental functions such as analysis and synthesis needs to be spaced out in order to allow new neural connections to solidify. New learning drives out old learning when insufficient time intervenes. And we've actually known about this effect for quite a long time. Back in the late 1800s a psychologist named Urban Ebinghouse basically launched the field of memory science itself by embarking upon an intense study where he made himself memorized long long lists of nonsense syllables. And through that research he eventually came to develop what's called the forgetting curve which describes how memory is decay over time. But what he also learned is that by spacing out his efforts to memorize these lists he could put in less actual study time to get them memorized perfectly. For example for one list of 12 syllables he found that it took him 68 repetitions on one day and then seven repetitions the next day to memorize it perfectly. But by spacing out his studying over the course of three days he found he could achieve the same level of perfection in only 38 repetitions. Over the past 130 years since he published his findings lots of other studies have been able to replicate the same positive results which leads us to the question why does the spacing effect work? Well to put it in simple terms it turns out that one of the most important parts of the learning process is actually forgetting. Now what forgetting truly is is a subject for another video that I'll publish in the future but the most important thing to note here is that the more we've forgotten something that is the harder we have to work to retrieve it since we last learned it or studied it the greater the increase in learning will be. To make this a bit more clear here is how the author Benedict Carrie who wrote the book How We Learn explains it. Some amount of breakdown must occur for us to strengthen learning when we revisit the material. Without a little forgetting you get no benefit from further study. It is what allows learning to build like an exercised muscle and that's the main reason why Carrie calls space repetition one of the most powerful methods for remembering what you learn in his book and I would add to that the fact that you can do this with basically any other learning technique. It's entirely complimentary because it's all about just modifying the time periods in what you study. You can do anything within those time periods you're just using the time periods as intelligently as possible. With that being said now I want to get into how you can put space repetition into action and implement it into your own study systems. And we're going to talk about apps and computer programs that you can use in a minute here but first I want to talk about a system that you can use with your paper flashcards which is called the lightner system and here's how it works. The first step is to decide a number of boxes that you're going to use to hold the cards in your system. Now I don't actually own little boxes so I've just substituted rubber bands and sticky notes that say box but that actually works just as well and actually makes the system more portable so that's pretty cool. And from there each individual box is going to represent a different study time interval. So box one might be studying every day, box two might be studied every other day and so on. And when you're studying your cards in the boxes every time you get a card right it's going to graduate to the next box. So you're going to see it less and less often. But if you get a card wrong it's going to go all the way to box number one no matter where it was. And by using the system you get two main benefits. Number one you're maximizing your learning through the spacing effect. But number two you're also studying more efficiently because you're spending more time in the cards that need the most attention and less time in the ones you know really well rather than studying every single card equally. Now this paper system works really well for both of those goals but if you want to take advantage of more advanced scheduling algorithms and other features you're going to need to find yourself a space repetition app and there are a lot of contenders in this area but I want to focus first on what is probably the most popular one right now and that is called Anki. Anki has a huge community it's insanely customizable and best of all it has apps for almost every platform out there and almost all of them are free with the exception to the iPhone app which oddly costs it whopping $25. Now I think the price is that high because it's their way of basically letting people support the apps since it's free everywhere else but if you're on an iPhone you don't want to pay that much fear not because Anki also has a companion web app called Anki web which is accessible from mobile safari so you can use that for free if you want. Now with Anki creating cards is really really easy and I really like the fact that you can add basically any kind of media you want to your cards including pictures which is awesome because adding pictures to your flashcards can really help increase retention. However the killer feature of Anki is the ability to rate cards based on difficulty when you're studying them. So essentially when you turn at card over you can tell the program how hard it was for you to dredge the answer up from the depths of your memory and it will use that data to decide how long it's going to be before you see that card again and that's really the main strength of space repetition apps versus a paper system. Each individual card can be tracked, can have a difficulty rating and can be adjusted in the algorithm so you're getting the most benefit of the spacing effect. Anki is definitely not the only space repetition app out there though so if you're looking for alternatives I've got a few things in mind for you to take a look at number one being an app called TinyCards which I showed off in my previous video on how to make better flashcards. Now TinyCards is only for the iPhone fortunately but there should be an Android version coming soon and honestly when compared to Anki I think it's a lot more simple, a lot prettier and the process of making cards is more fun and faster because they have an excellent system for adding images to your cards. Aside from TinyCards they're also apps like flashcards, Lux, Memrise, Super Memo, Nemocene, Identic, Quizlet and probably a bunch of others that I don't even know about right now but I'm sure you will let me know about down in the comments. So before I wrap this video up I have a couple more things I want to mention number one being that the script I wrote for this video is actually about half the length of the blog post I wrote so if you want a lot more detail especially pertaining to the memory bits and how the spacing effect works you can click the blog post link in the description down below or on the card on screen right now and read to your hearts content. Also and I have been really excited to announce this for quite a long time now there is now an official college info geek t-shirt on dftba.com and I'm super super stoked about this. I've already ordered mine and there's going to be a link down in the description also a card so if you would like to get your very own shirt which may or may not grant super powers you can click either of those links and order one. Now one cool thing about the shirts design is it was actually created by the college info geek community my good friend actually did the hand letter design itself but the mantra saying on the shirt was actually decided upon by people in the college info geek community over on read it which I think is really really cool and I would love to continue to play up this community aspect so if you get a shirt I would love to see you tweeting awesome pictures if you're wearing it it's a send to me over on Tom frankly and I will probably retweet them you can also put them in the right as well if you like and other than that that's all I have for this video guys so thanks so much for watching if you found it useful give it a like to support this channel and you can also subscribe with that button right down there do you want to get new videos I'm being a more effective student every single week you can also get a copy of my book on earning better grades by going to the pictures the book right there and clicking your mouse button you can find the previous video right over there which was about how to use flashcards more effectively and if you want to find that awesome article which is way more detailed than this video was go to the full article thing right there if you'd like to connect with me you can use the social media links down below but there's also a non-zero probability that you can connect with me by yelling into a con shell so maybe get that to try to.
