# How to Learn Any Skill Twice as Fast
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FbD8n4J_MuM
When you understand the skill of deliberate practice, you progress a whole lot faster. 
📺 Watch this video ad-free on Nebula: https://nebula.app/videos/thomas-frank-the-secret-to-mastering-any-skill-more-quickly

🛠 COURSES AND RESOURCES: 
Notion channel - https://www.youtube.com/c/ThomasFrankExplains
Free Notion templates - https://thomasjfrank.com/templates/
Learn Notion - https://thomasjfrank.com/fundamentals
Productivity and Habits courses - https://thomasjfrank.com/courses/

🦙 SPONSOR: 
Get a free trial of Skillshare and take my habits class: https://skl.sh/thomasfrank11201

🐦 SOCIAL STUFF:
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly
Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Music Channel ➔ https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCmqK2G-3AL_WP5KffH_wqAA
Spotify Study Playlist ➔ https://open.spotify.com/user/thomasfrank09/playlist/4ETfiRPHVmUFLF6q0g8Fux?si=IPfx3dAgQ1SIUwhh5YEQMQ

🔗 VIDEO LINKS:
Watch the full 25-minute conversation with Charles on Nebula: https://watchnebula.com/thomasfrank
Subscribe to Charles' channel! https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC4PIiYewI1YGyiZvgNlJNrA

👐 BUSINESS:
Please contact my agent at thomasfrank@standard.tv

💰 I'm fortunate enough to work with great sponsors who support my work, so I don't use Patreon or any other crowdfunding service. However, if you'd like to support a worthy cause, consider donating to help more children get access to a high-quality education: https://fundraise.pencilsofpromise.org/fundraiser/1489730
**Keywords:** thomas frank, productivity, how to learn, Charles Cornell, rapid skill aqcuisition, skills, learn faster, learn fast, mastery, master skills fast, learn skills fast, practice habits, deliberate practice, guitar practice, piano practice, productivity tips, how to stay focused, clark terry, 
**Date:** 2020-12-07

## Transcript
 This video is sponsored by Skillshare. I have a whole bunch of different things I want to get good at. I want to play the guitar better, I want to edit my videos better, I want to become a better rock climber, and of course I want to stop getting crushed in Fortnite so much. Damn it, new master! But, like you, I only have so much time during the day to practice, and I've noticed that when I sit down to practice, sometimes I'll make great strides, but other times, I feel like I make no progress at all. What causes this discrepancy? Well, as it turns out, improvement isn't only determined by how many hours you practice, but by the quality of your practice as well. Amongst athletes, artists, gamers, and practitioners of every other discipline, the people at the top of their game are almost always the ones who understand the skill of deliberate practice. Like active learning, self-discipline, and even empathy, deliberate practice is really a meta skill. A higher order skill that can be applied across nearly everything you do. So, what's the first step to practicing more deliberately? Intent, as I think the biggest thing, I mean, you ask the question of like what separates a practice session from just kind of like playing, and I think the answer is intent, like you really want to say, you know, I would like to leave with something that I didn't have before I sat down. That's my friend Charles Cornell, who, as you can tell, is pretty phenomenal jazz piano player. In 2019, his online following exploded after he started posting these piano memes. I might even see him this one. And through years spent in music conservatory, as well as in countless hours of intense practice alone, Charles has learned that the best practice sessions are the ones that start out with a goal in mind. Where you're going to pick up a lot of ground and make a lot of headways when you define what you are going to do in the practice room. What can happen a lot is that you go into the practice room and you wind up just playing things that you already know. Because it's pleasing to the ears, it's something that we can do that we can enjoy. It's much harder to say I'm going to do some of the things that I don't enjoy as much, but I know why I'm doing that. So, that's really the first step to deliberate practice. Know what you want to have accomplished at the end of the practice session. To give you just one example, right now I'm working on shooting a music video for a new song that I just released. And I'll let guitar parts in the song are improvised, but I need to know how to play them again for the video. So lately, all my practice sessions have had the explicit goal of learning and perfecting the segment of the song. But it's not enough to just have a goal. Like Charles said, you also need to be disappointed enough to do the things that are going to get you to that goal. And to be honest, it's only the looming need to shoot this music video that has me sitting down slowly, painfully transcribing my own solo. And I know that's the kind of practice that I should be doing most of the time, but I still find myself doing exactly what Charles said, sitting down and just noodling, playing things that already know. I found my biggest problem with learning songs that other people have written is it's so slow. And I can play pretty well improv. So when I brush it down with a guitar, within five minutes, I find myself just noodling around, improvbing. A lot of people find themselves falling into this pattern with their own skills, doing the easy, natural things. Instead of the hard stuff, they know they're supposed to be doing. Personally, I'll take all the help I can get in overcoming this discipline problem, whether we're talking about learning songs in the guitar or drilling build patterns in Fortnite instead of just lazily jumping into quick play every time. And one thing Charles told me that was really helpful is that because he studied the fundamentals, that slow, painful process of learning a song is now almost effortless for him. So that goes into a whole other level too, which is which furthers the point of pushing through the things that are maybe or not as fun or that seem more difficult, right? Because what you said is when you learn a song that somebody else has written that's already decided, it's so long. Well, my solution for you for that is, okay, well, you need to learn more music theory. Because if you equipped yourself with the knowledge of being able to hear something and understand exactly what's going on, now that process is not slow anymore. I can hear a song once and I'll understand like, okay, I get how this is structured and I can probably play along and within two or three times, I'll have it down. It's instant just about. But the only reason it's instant is because I've equipped myself with that knowledge base that like, okay, I understand music theory and I understand how that's applied to something that sounds like this and I can recognize those sounds. So clearly learning these fundamentals, or maybe we should call them not so fundamentals, is a key component to deliberate practice. But how do you figure out what those fundamentals are for your particular skill? Well, one great method is to seek out structured educational materials. The author Josh Kaufman stresses this in his book the first 20 hours, his book on rapid skill development. In the book, he argues that to learn a skill quickly, you should first identify the sub-skills that matter most to you. For me, that might be music theory, like Charles said. You want to pick out a few of those sub-skills, the next step in Kaufman's process is to go out and learn enough about each one to start practicing. And this is all great advice. Tutorials, courses, and coaches can all offer guidance and sequencing that can help you make sure you're working on all the right things. They can also help you avoid hitting dead ends, or developing bad habits that you'll have to unmark later. But there's another perhaps even more important method that Charles mentioned. One of my jazz teacher growing up would always say that she learned more from listening than she ever did from all of the hours of practicing the number of gigs she played, like all of that combined. She learned more from listening. If we think about language as a spoken word, it's like, well, how does a child learn a language? They listen, yeah. They just listen and over a long period of time takes years for a child to develop that ability to now start to repeat things that they're hearing. And even more years for them to be able to string together functional sentences. And then even more years for them to be able to form that vocabulary and those phrases and sentences into their own genuine authentic ideas that they can then put out to the world and the world goes, I understand what you're saying. Right? That is a lifelong process. Let's call this idea, observation as practice. We are natural observers. As Charles said, it's how we pick our native language as children. And when we apply critical observation to skill development, we learn our skills much faster. So if you're learning how to skate, watch great skaters. If you're trying to get better at a game, study great gameplay from that game. If you're an aspiring author, read other great authors. And if you want to get better at editing videos, well, I follow some really talented video editors on Twitter. And they are constantly watching movies and breaking down shots of movies. Like there's one guy, forget his name, but he's always posting these just galleries of shots from a scene in a movie to show like here's the cohesion in the color grading. Or here's, you know, look at the dynamics between the different shots and different cameras. And like what that tells me is he's not spending all of his time editing. He's spending a lot of his time watching other people's movies. And I'm serving that. So I do that a lot too with my editing. I'll watch movies more often now with a critical eye because I'm trying to see, okay, what are you doing? And why and why are you looking at that? You're pulling things that you want to try. You're pulling bits and pieces of that, maybe it's certain angles or a certain color grading approach that you specifically want to apply to your own work. Yeah, because you want to feel like, oh, I want to understand how to use this. That is listening to music. We hear things that strike a chord with us literally. And we go, I want to sound like that. I want to play that sound anywhere where you're attempting to kind of develop a higher proficiency with something, looking at the proficient examples and saying, I want to try this part. And I want to take that part. Like that is the best way that you can learn anything. In other words, observe, but also copy. Take what you see and try it out sometimes. The jazz legend Clark Terry had a system for learning improvisation that he called imitate a simulate innovate. At first, imitate what you see, transcribe, and then take what you learn from the people you look up to and innovate with what you've added to your repertoire. Going back to the editing example, I've watched Edgar Wright movies like Scott Pogrenberg's world, which is my favorite movie of all time, and tried to essentially imitate what I've seen in the movies, both to pale-maged to my favorite director, but also to learn what he was doing, what he was thinking, what techniques he was employing. And here's one more beautiful thing about copying. You get a built-in instant and guaranteed feedback mechanism, and feedback is crucial for skill development. I do want to take a second to get a quick shout out to my friend Matt Diavella, as the video that you're watching right now is an attempt for me to get a little bit better at blending interviews and narration, which is a style that Matt employs so well on his channel. Now, some skills come with it built-in. Chest is a great example. You make a move, somebody makes a move against you, instant feedback. For other skills, you can always get a coach, but that costs money, or submit your work for critique. But of course, that requires a willing audience. And if you have neither, copying still gives you a way to get feedback, you can always compare it to the original to see how you did. Now, naturally, some people are going to have worries about copying, but it's important to recognize that there is a big difference between passing off somebody else's work as your own and copying their work as a form of practice. The latter isn't just okay, it's often crucial. In music specifically, we transcribe. So, in jazz, when we talk about transcribing, we are literally going and listening to an improvised solo, and we are going to replicate that identically. I mean, there are still things that are ingrained in my mind that I know that I transcribe. Like, here's a little bit of a very hairstyling. Now, why do we do that? Am I going to get on stage and play his solo? No, of course not. There are no, it's interesting, there are no jazz covers in the way that take John Coltrane's Giants to have solo. Nobody is out there performing John Coltrane's solo if they did. They be laughed off stage. Why is that? And at the same time, why is that every saxophone player ever can play that solo? Why do we do that? Well, the reason that I would transcribe very hairstyling is I want to know what are the devices that he used to create the sound that we heard because when I heard that sound, I went, I like that. I want to have that in my vocabulary. Right. What is it? But we're not going to go in simply perform the transcribe. That would be pointless because Barry Harris already said it. John Coltrane already said it. We don't need to say again. We want to say our own things. But how can we speak in that language if you don't know what people have said? Right. So when you sit down to practice, spend some time deeply observing the people who are at the level you want to get to. And also spend some time copying their work. So you can learn the language that they're speaking in terms of your skill. If you can do that, also not ignoring the fundamentals and setting strong intentions when you practice, you'll find yourself making a lot more progress than you used to. So throughout this video, we've talked about several specific techniques that you can use to improve the quality of your practice time. But there's one final point to keep in mind. No matter the skill, building mastery, true mastery takes a lot of time. It takes self-discipline. And above all, it takes strong, long-term practice habits. Fortunately, habits are one thing that I've learned a lot about through all my research and experimentation and productivity over the last few years. And if you'd like to improve your own practicing habits, then you might want to take my habit building class on Skillshare. This class will help you break down your goals into actionable daily habits that have obvious action items. And then stick to those by tailoring your environment and by building systems and tools that can help to bolster yourself discipline. And in addition to that, Charles actually just launched his own class called Intro to Improvisation. And if you're musician, you'll definitely want to check it out. What would it be like to sit down at your instrument, and be able to play anything you want? At the end of the class, you're even going to find a 57-minute bonus lesson where Charles teaches me some techniques that improve my own playing. Here's a trick, ready? Can we do it in the next key? Instead of D, can we start on E? Another thing you're going to find at Skillshare is live sessions. Back just recently, I didn't exclusive Q&A session for my Skillshare students, which just went up as a live replay on my profile. So in addition to my classes, you're going to be able to watch that as well. Of course, you'll also find thousands of other classes on Skillshare from tons of talent and teachers that can help you boost your skills and areas like video editing, photography, UI and UX design, music production, and tons more. It is a huge resource. And it's also a very affordable one with your annual plans starting at less than 10 bucks a month. And you can even get a free trial if you're one of the first 1000 people to sign up using the link in the description down below. So use that link, sign up, go take one of my classes or go take Charles's class and start boosting your skills today. Thanks as always for watching this video. If you found this video helpful, definitely hit that like button to show the YouTube algorithm what's up and get subscribed right there if you haven't done so already. So you don't miss out on future videos here on this channel. Also, if you want to learn a bit more about Notion, I just launched a new channel all about Notion tutorials, at least for now. We might branch into other stuff in the future. But check it out right there. It's called Thomas Frank explains. If you're looking for more videos from yours truly, that is really going to find them in addition to this channel right here. I'll have a couple other videos on screens so you can smash your nose onto your phone screen to watch those for extra style points or just click on them like normal. And beyond that, go do whatever you want, go spend the rest of your life savings on a first edition holographic charizard card on eBay. Because as always, I'm not your dad. That was literally the worst thing I've ever played.
