# iPhone Setup for MAXIMUM PRODUCTIVITY - College Info Geek
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FqIM30QLfWg
Some of us really are nerdy enough to want to see how people set up their iPhone homescreens. 

Personally, I go even further and listen to hour-long podcasts about it. On a related note, shout-out to CGP Grey and the Cortex podcast for inspiring me to make my phone work more productively. Go listen: https://www.relay.fm/cortex

I'm speaking at a conference in North Carolina this week, which is why the second speed reading video is being pushed back to next week. It'll be worth it :)

My book "10 Steps to Earning Awesome Grades" is completely free, so check it out if you're interested in improving your grades!

http://collegeinfogeek.com/get-better-grades/

Companion blog post:

http://collegeinfogeek.com/my-iphone-setup/

If you want to get even more strategies and tips on becoming a more productive, successful student, subscribe to my channel right here:

http://buff.ly/1vQP5ar

Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly

~ created by Thomas Frank
**Keywords:** iphone, homescreen, productivity, drafts, todoist, apps, app recommendations, app layout, ios, smartphone, iphone layout, what's on my iphone, pomodoro timer, 
**Date:** 2015-09-17

## Transcript
 Yes, friends, as the incredibly hyperbolic title of this video implies, you can, indeed, organize your iPhone home screen in such a way that it will transform you into an ultra powerful work robot with superpowers of productivity. If that weren't the case, why would I and so many others supposedly productive people on the internet spend so much time organizing their iPhone home screens? It just wouldn't make sense, so let's begin. Before we jump into my current setup, I think it would be good to contrast it with the previous one. So, here's a shot of my old home screen, not terrible, but not really great either. Aside from the game sitting in the home screen that shouldn't be there, there's a lot of visual clutter. Alright, let's move on. The main thing I notice when my current iPhone setup is that it consists of only one screen. I chose not to fill the whole screen up with apps, instead, I realized that leading some space looks a lot nicer. Instead of trying to fill every single slot with an app, I've narrowed my choices down to the 16 apps that I use most, or that are most useful to me. The rest of the apps live in 104 folders, work, play, go, and sift. Using these 4 categories took a lot of thought. My conclusion after thinking about it for a while is that besides the main apps I have related to transportation or travel, most perform actions that either help me get things done, or help me have fun. The ones that don't fit live in the sift folder, which I thought was a better word than junk or other. My home screen app choices are also set up to maximize my efficiency and keep me from playing with my phone more than I need to. On the productivity side, I have apps like to do a school calendar and Pomodoro, by the way, the specific Pomodoro app I use is called Pomodoro Timer, though there are a lot of other ones to choose from. The second ideal, reducing phone time, is why you don't see Safari on the home screen. I'm trying to get in the habit of writing down ideas of things I want to look up, so I can do more concentrated research later, rather than interrupting whatever I'm doing right now. That's why an app called drafts lives in my dog. It allows me to open it and immediately start writing. After that, I can easily export my note to Evernote and process it later. I also don't keep Facebook or other social media apps on my home screen, and I found that keeping them in the folder is actually discouraged me from using them too much. To eat bought an Instagram of the only ones I get to play on my home screen, as I post on them regularly, but I don't really find myself scrolling through them very often. A couple of other things I've done to reduce distractions, for one, no apps are allowed to have bad notifications except for the text message and phone apps. I've also massively cut down an actual notification of my phone will send me, and lastly, my phone goes into do not disturb mode from 11pm to 6am, so absolutely nothing will get a hold of me unless it's somebody calling for the second time. Alright, so maybe you watched this video and you're thinking to yourself wait a minute. That guy made a speed reading video last week, and he promised me another speed reading video this week, so where's the speed reading video? Huh? Explanation. So this being Wednesday's record this tomorrow morning, I'm hopping on a plan to go down to Charlotte North Carolina for a conference called FinCon, and unlike most of the conferences I go to, at this one, I happen to be speaking. Given that, most of this week has been dedicated to designing that presentation, creating my slides, practicing it because, unfortunately, unlike YouTube, I can't just do takes over an over again. Until I get it right, and hence, there wasn't enough time left over to make that follow-up video at a level of quality that you guys deserve. So, hopefully you enjoyed this shorter video, I'll have the next video in the speed reading series out next Thursday when I'm back from North Carolina. I'm going to get back to practicing my speech before my plane takes off, and yes, before you ask, there will be a video coming soon on how to make better presentations, so look forward to that. And the meantime, if you got tips of your own on setting up your smartphone in a more productive way, or you have app recommendations, leave them down in the comments below, and I will see you in the next video. Hey guys, thanks so much for watching this video, if you want to get new videos every single week on being a more effective student, click the big red subscribe button right there. You can get a free copy of my book on earning better grades by clicking the picture of it, and also if you'd like to see the companion blog post for this video with a summary and links to any of the absolute resources I mentioned, you can click the orange logo right there. Last week, as I mentioned, was the first video of my series on speed reading, so if you didn't have it to see it, click the thumbnail to watch it, and also if you'd like to connect with me, I'm honest with her, and frankly, or you can leave a comment down below. Thanks for watching.
