# 5 Tools I Use to Remember Everything
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ge98ks3GwXc
Want to expand your memory? These tools will help.
📺 Watch this video without AdSense on Nebula: https://nebula.tv/videos/thomasfrank-5-tools-i-use-to-remember-everything

🛠 COURSES AND RESOURCES: 
Notion channel - https://www.youtube.com/c/ThomasFrankExplains
Free Notion templates - https://thomasjfrank.com/templates/
Learn Notion - https://thomasjfrank.com/fundamentals
Productivity and Habits courses - https://thomasjfrank.com/courses/

🦙 SPONSOR: 
Get a free audiobook, a 30-day trial of Audible, and 2 Audible Originals by going to https://www.audible.com/thomas or texting "thomas" to 500-500.

🐦 SOCIAL STUFF:
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly
Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Music Channel ➔ https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCmqK2G-3AL_WP5KffH_wqAA
Spotify Study Playlist ➔ https://open.spotify.com/user/thomasfrank09/playlist/4ETfiRPHVmUFLF6q0g8Fux?si=IPfx3dAgQ1SIUwhh5YEQMQ

⏱ TIMESTAMPS:
02:38 - Playlists
03:10 - Pocket
04:16 - Reddit
05:35 - Screenshot tools
07:11 - Note-taking and camera capture

🔗 VIDEO LINKS:
- Pocket: https://getpocket.com
- Greenshot: https://getgreenshot.org/
- Skitch: https://evernote.com/products/skitch
- Monosnap: https://monosnap.com/welcome
- ShareX: https://getsharex.com/
- Evernote Web Clipper: https://evernote.com/features/webclipper

👐 BUSINESS:
Please contact my agent at thomasfrank@standard.tv

💰 I'm fortunate enough to work with great sponsors who support my work, so I don't use Patreon or any other crowdfunding service. However, if you'd like to support a worthy cause, consider donating to help more children get access to a high-quality education: https://fundraise.pencilsofpromise.org/fundraiser/1489730
**Keywords:** thomas frank, productivity, education, how to learn, studying, evernote, screenshots, skitch, note taking, take notes, how to remember more, how to stop forgetting, stop forgetting, memorization, note taking tips, screen capture, notion, youtube playlists, remember everything, tip of my tongue, save information, bookmarks, bookmark tools, pocket, iphone apps, android apps, document scanner, document capture, 
**Date:** 2019-05-23

## Transcript
 So, you've probably heard about namonics at some point in your life. If you haven't, there are basically mental devices that allow you to access hard to remember information in a sort of roundabout way. Take the acronym Roy G. Biv for example. This silly sounding name allows us to easily remember the order of the colors in the visible light spectrum, red, orange, yellow, green, blue, and to go violent. Our brains aren't really wired in a way that makes remembering the order of arbitrary words easy, but they do easily latch onto silly sounding names. So essentially, this acronym provides a pathway to a specific piece of information. Information that does exist in your brain, even if it's hard to access directly. But building these sorts of mental pathways isn't just useful for accessing information that's already up in your head. You can also build them to easily access information that you don't know, and in doing so, you can greatly expand your brain's capabilities. Someone who understood this concept exceptionally well was Henry Ford. I have a role electric push buttons on my desk, he wants to send it. And by pushing the right button, I can summon to my aid men who can answer any question I desire, concerning the business to which I am devoting most of my efforts. In other words, Ford didn't know all the information that he needed to run his business himself, but he didn't know how to quickly get any answer to any question back. Need it. Today, there are entire businesses that provide the access to experts like the ones that for relied upon back in his day, they're called expert networks, and I actually learned all about them back in my MIS program in college. Other businesses, like hedge funds especially, often pay huge sums of money for yearly subscriptions to these types of networks. But of course, we have another tool at our fingertips, which is called Google, and what's more, it's free. So with such a useful tool at our fingertips, why even make a video about this? Well, here's the thing. Google is incredibly useful, yes, but it does have some limitations. The main one being that it's a search engine, which means that it can only return results based on the terms that you feed it. And sometimes you don't really know what you're looking for by enough to give it to the accurate terms. But there's another problem as well, and it's the one that I want to focus on in this video. It's the problem of re-access. How many times have you stumbled across a really useful article or video only to be unable to find it again? Later, it's just like putting new information up in the rain. If you can't access it again when you need it, then what good is it? Usually Google is not the only tool out there. So today, what I want to do is share some of the other tools and methods that I used to easily re-access information. Think of them as modern-day breadcrumbs to follow, except that these breadcrumbs don't get eaten by birds, so you don't get eaten alive by a witch. And really at the end of the day, isn't that where my entire channel is all about? So since we are on YouTube, the first one that I'm going to mention is YouTube Playlists. You go over to my channel and you go to the Playlists tab. You're going to see many publicly available playlists that I've made of my own videos, but hidden underneath the surface, there are also dozens of unlisted playlists that I make for basically any topic that I'm interested in. And with these playlists, I'm able to easily save anything that I want to access later on. So whatever I'm interested in, be it rock climbing, or guitar pedals, and signal chains, or making better videos, I will make a playlists for that topic, and then I'll save stuff to it as I come across it. Now that features useful for anything on YouTube, but what about the rest of the internet? Well, for that, there is pocket. And pocket is basically a browser extension and also a set of mobile apps that allows you to save any web page you want for later reading. And one of the nice things about pocket is that it's very similar to the reader mode on the iPhone. It actually strips out a lot of the extraneous elements of the website that you're on and just gives you a nice article view, which is very distraction free. Additionally, on their mobile apps, pocket gives you the option of saving articles for offline access. So anytime I have a flight, I often go and download a lot of the articles that I've saved from later reading, so I can access them while I'm on the plane. Now, I know several people who actually delete articles out of their pocket once they're done reading them, but that isn't the way that I use it. Essentially, for me, pocket is a way of saving anything I come across on the internet, whether I've read it already or whether I want to access it in the future. It's basically my main way of laying out these breadcrumbs. And I don't worry about keeping things organized. I'm going to use the tagging feature very often out delete things. I just make very liberal use of that save to pocket button in my Chrome browser. And that way, I know if I find something useful, I'm going to be able to find it again, even if I forget the search terms that might bring it to me in a Google search. Now, there is one place in particular on the internet, besides YouTube, where I don't tend to use pocket to save things, and that is Reddit. I will often save Reddit comments directly to my Reddit account. Over the past couple of years, I have found that Reddit is often a better source of information for certain purposes than blogs or videos, so this is true for a couple of different reasons. First and foremost, Reddit, like many other social media sites, has a very low barrier of entry to posts. People don't need to buy a camera like they do on YouTube, people don't need to learn how to set up a blog, they just need to make an account and make any right to their hearts content. And because of this, you often get a larger and much more diverse group of people sharing their knowledge. Plus, you usually also get multiple answers in each thread, these are coming from multiple different voices. And, because it has a conversation style set up, Reddit encourages discussion, encourages debate. And I often find the best answers, several levels of deep, nested, beneath the original comment. Sometimes this debate is really, really useful. Now, I know that I can easily save Reddit pages to pocket, just like any other article. But usually, I'm interested in saving a specific comment rather than the entire thread that it's from. And, yes, I could click the permanently button and save that in pockets. But usually, saving things that I read at account makes things easier because if I'm looking for something in the future, I usually at least know whether it was from Reddit comment or from a blog post. And if it was from a Reddit comment, I know that I can start from my profile instead of digging through pocket. Alright, so we talked about YouTube playlists, pocket, and Reddit. The next one I want to talk about is screenshots. I take a lot of screenshots, especially when I'm watching YouTube videos. Saving an entire video to one of my playlists can be very useful. But sometimes, I just want one frame for later reference. For example, I was recently watching a video about how to set up a specific order of guitar pedals and they had this diagram of the signal chain in the video, so I screenshot of that in case I need a reference at later on. Now, basically, every computer operating system out there has a built-in screenshot program. And I am here to tell you that it is not good enough that you can do better. So the program that I personally use is called GreenShot. It's open source and free on Windows and incredibly full featured. And then it also exists on the Mac, but it costs about two bucks and it doesn't have quite as many features, though that being said, I still use it just because I like to use the same programs on each operating system if I can. The main thing that I like about GreenShot is that allows me to set up multiple destinations for my screenshots. For example, I have mindset up to not only save each screenshot to a specific folder that's in my Google Drive, so I can access it from anywhere, but it also saves screenshots to my clipboard, so I can easily paste them into Photoshop if I need them for a video, or I can paste them into Notion or evernote for note-taking purposes. And in addition to that feature, I also like that allows me to set up different shortcuts for taking a screenshot of the entire screen, as well as also drawing a box around a specific region that I want to capture. Now, GreenShot is by no means the only screenshot program out there, so if you're looking for an alternative, there is a Sherex on Windows, Sketch for Mac, and then a Mono Stamp for both laptops. And that just leaves us with one more method I want to talk about, which is trusty-old notebooks and note-taking. So in addition to taking notes on individual books, I often create specific notes and evernote on things I'm trying to learn as well. And if it's a current interest, I usually bookmark those notes and add them to my shortcuts A few examples include my Japanese notes, my After Effects notes, which have different scripts that I use occasionally in different shortcuts that I like to reference, and can't always remember or off top of my head, and my notes for my live setup, which I'm trying to build right now, which has a lot of very complicated gear that has to go in a specific order. And aside from just typing notes, I also make extensive use of the camera feature in evernote as well. I've got like a specific configuration of things, or anything, we're just a visual reference would make much more sense than typing things out for a long period of time, take a picture of it, or shove it into evernote, and that way I can easily access it just as I can with text. Now, the one odd thing about my evernote setup is that I don't tend to use the web of the function, which is essentially this browser extension that you can use to save articles and basically anything you want to your evernote just like you can with pocket. And I know my friend Martin uses that all the time, especially for things like recipes, but I tend to keep articles and things like that in pocket, and things that I kind of create myself in evernote, but you kind of have to use what works for you. Now, one last way that I made sure that I can easily re-access information is by building a library, or rather several libraries. I have a physical one sitting on the bookshelf behind me, a digital one in my Kindle app, and another one made up of audio books. Now, you might think that it'd be hard to re-access specific information in audio book that's hours long, but that's not a problem if you're listening through audible, since their app actually lets you set specific bookmarks at timestamps and even add notes to them. The audible is also simply the best place to get audio books, ranging from the best sellers to more of skier titles on botany and music theory. I use audible almost every single day, especially now that it's warm and I can bike more often. And if you'd like to give it a try as well, you can go over to audible.com slash Thomas or text Thomas to 500 500 on your phone through the 30 day free trial. That trial also comes the free audiobook download of your choice. And this month, I'm going to recommend Bill Bryson's excellent, a short history of nearly everything. This is one of my favorite non-fiction books all time. And even though it's not on my list of essential books on my website, since it doesn't deal with productivity or academics, I do think that everyone should read it. It is a fantastic introduction to basically all fields of science. Now, of course, you could go and get any other audiobook that you want, and once you're a member, you're going to get one new credit every single month for another audiobook, plus access to two audible originals every single month that you cannot get anywhere else and a library of audio workout and meditation programs to boot. So once again, to get a free 30 day trial of audible service, along with a free audiobook download of your choice and two free audible originals, go over to audible.com slash Thomas or text Thomas to 500 500 on your phone. I think thanks as always to audible for sponsoring this video and being supported by my channel and thank you as always for watching as well. If you enjoyed this video, hit that like button and also get subscribe right there so you don't miss new videos when they come out and also click right there to get a free copy of my book and how to earn better grades that you haven't done so already. But not least, you can check out one more video on this channel by clicking right over here or check out our latest podcast episode right over here and if you haven't subscribed with that podcast channel, you should probably do that as well. Thanks again for watching and I will see you in the next video.
