# What to Do If You Hate Reading
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GRoWGVbvAdc
If you want to read more books, use these strategies to start building your reading habit.
📺 Watch this video without AdSense on Nebula: https://nebula.tv/videos/thomasfrank-what-to-do-if-you-hate-reading

🛠 COURSES AND RESOURCES: 
Notion channel - https://www.youtube.com/c/ThomasFrankExplains
Free Notion templates - https://thomasjfrank.com/templates/
Learn Notion - https://thomasjfrank.com/fundamentals
Productivity and Habits courses - https://thomasjfrank.com/courses/

🦙 SPONSOR: 
Become a better problem-solver and boost your math and science skills on Brilliant - and be one of the first 83 to sign up to get 20% off your Premium subscription: https://www.brilliant.org/thomasfrank

🐦 SOCIAL STUFF:
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly
Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Music Channel ➔ https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCmqK2G-3AL_WP5KffH_wqAA
Spotify Study Playlist ➔ https://open.spotify.com/user/thomasfrank09/playlist/4ETfiRPHVmUFLF6q0g8Fux?si=IPfx3dAgQ1SIUwhh5YEQMQ

⏱ TIMESTAMPS:
01:07 - Use habit-building techniques to make reading easier (and the one that worked for me)
02:04 - Start with easier material (3 specific recommendations)
06:23 - Don't avoid YA books and other specific categories
07:15 - Undo the damage caused by school
08:14 - Don't let your to-be-read list hinder you

🔗 VIDEO LINKS:
- Jeff Goins' article on The Hunger Games: https://goinswriter.com/hunger-games/
- Comixology: https://www.comixology.com/

👐 BUSINESS:
Please contact my agent at thomasfrank@standard.tv

💰 I'm fortunate enough to work with great sponsors who support my work, so I don't use Patreon or any other crowdfunding service. However, if you'd like to support a worthy cause, consider donating to help more children get access to a high-quality education: https://fundraise.pencilsofpromise.org/fundraiser/1489730
**Keywords:** thomas frank, productivity, education, how to learn, studying, hate reading, don't like reading, how to enjoy reading, how to enjoy books, how to like reading, how to like books, learn to read, hate books, reading is boring, how to make reading less boring, school boring, bored, boring, reading, read more, read more oten, read more books, read more often, reading habit, habit building, best books, starter books, book recommendations 2019, ya novels, comic recommendations, 
**Date:** 2019-04-26

## Transcript
 I got a question from a reader a few days ago that I really want to address. I really want to read more books, but I dislike reading. What do I do? And as somebody who definitely enjoys reading, but also who has gone through periods of life where reading hasn't been the biggest thing that I want to do, I wanted to address this question. Especially since the answer is very simple and very easy. First thing you're going to want to do is read thinking fast and slow by Daniel Common. It's a very, very light, easy, breezy read. Only about 497 pages of research findings. And after that, you're going to want to follow things up with the owner's manual for the brain by Pierre St. Howard PhD. Again, an easy read only about 1,097 pages. And once you read these two books, you're going to understand your brain and you're going to be able to change it on command and just tell yourself to like reading. Sound good? All right, video over. Okay, I do kind of wish that I could end the video like that because it would be pretty funny. But as it turns out, I do have some actual tips that will be helpful if you want to become the kind of person who likes to read or at least the kind of person who doesn't absolutely dislike reading and who can get through the occasional book once in a while. So let's get into it. So the first thing that I want to mention here, which is something that comes from my own personal experience, is that reading is a habit that gets easier to do and more pleasant to do the more you do it. A couple of years ago, I made a bet with my friend Martin that I was going to read 25 pages a day every single day for three entire months. And to really force myself to stick to this bet, I told him I was going to give him a hundred dollars if I failed to read those 25 pages even once. And during the first month, sticking to that goal was difficult. And the threat of losing that money and being embarrassed was my main motivator. But about a month into the challenge, I started to notice something profound, which was that I found it easier to start reading and I also found it easier to keep reading for longer and longer periods of time. So I discovered through this challenge that reading is very akin to working out actually. When you start doing it, it's very tiring, it's exhausting, it's not a lot of fun. But when you get into the habit of doing it, it gets easier to do and it gets more enjoyable. That being said, I'm not just going to leave you off with a tip to brute force reading habit by making a bet with a friend because there are definitely some other things you can do, one of which being to start with material that's easier to get through. And I do have a few suggestions. So on the really easy end of things are comic books. And stick with me even if you're not typically in the comic books because these can really help you get into the habit of reading over all. Comic books are at number one, usually very easy to finish in one sitting. And issue of a comic book is not very long and because of all the art on the page, there's really not a whole lot of room for a ton of text. Now, if you walk into your average comic story, you're going to see a lot of stuff on the shelves and you're probably not going to know where to start. So let me give you a couple of recommendations here. First and foremost, I'm going to recommend the Avatar last airbender comic series, which actually pick up right where the series left off. Avatar is one of my favorite TV shows of all time. If you haven't watched it, you probably should. And the comic series is just as good as the television series. So that would be a great place to start. Also, there's an app called comicsology, which I believe is owned by Amazon now. And they have a ton of different comics from Marvel DC, Dark Horse, lots of manga as well. And one thing that I discovered after I went and watched Alita Battle Angel in the theaters and wanted to read the manga afterwards is that you can get a free 30-day trial with basically unlimited reading without even putting a credit card into the app. So that's a great way to at least start doing things. You don't have to go to a comic book store by paper comics. You can just read them on your computer and that can get you into the habit of reading. You don't even have to stick with comics afterwards. It just builds that habit. Now, if comics just aren't your thing, there are definitely other options out there that don't come with a whole lot of pictures. One of which being short story anthologies. So one of the things that I have found has been sort of a roadblock to getting back into my reading habit at times is the fact that books are usually very long. And if I stop in the middle of a book, I often feel like I have to go back and read the entire thing again just to figure out where I was and that could be discouraging. So the great thing about short story anthologies is that again, you can sit down and you can usually finish an entire story in one sitting. And that feeling of accomplishment, that feeling of sitting down and finishing something can encourage you to keep reading in the future. Now, just as with comics, there are a ton of short story anthologies out there and you might not know where to start. So I do want to give you at least one recommendation in this video. And that is going to be for the anthology called Rogues, which was edited by George R. R. Martin, and which actually contains a brand new game of throne story, alongside other stories by authors like Patrick Rothfuss and Neil Gaiman. And again, just like with comics, treat these as an entry point to building your reading habits. You don't have to always stick to short story anthologies or comic books. They can just get you back into that daily habit of reading books. And then you can move on to bigger and possibly better things. One of which would be fiction books that are still novels, but that are written for easier consumption. So the one book that comes to mind for this tip is the Hunger Games. Because a few years ago, I remember reading an article by The Blogger Jeff Goins about why the Hunger Games was so successful. And one of his main arguments is that the book uses very short, packed sentences. It doesn't use crazy, frilly prose. It's kind of written for today's more easily-distractable audience. Here's just a quick snippet of what he said about her writing. Collins writes short sentences that pack a punch. They are disturbingly Turks, like a Hemingway novel. This way writing builds suspense, which works perfectly with a culture addicted to constant interruptions. Now, some people might interpret that as a criticism against her writing, but I see it a little bit differently. Yes, it's not the most amazing prose ever written. It's not a war in peace, but Suzanne Collins knows her audience. Since she knows that choosing to write in this way is going to help them get through the books more clearly and keep coming back for more. And to a sum up lesser degree, I've noticed this in the books that I've had an easier time getting through as well. For example, I binge read the entire Mistborn series by Brandon Sanderson. And while that series is amazing, the writing is a little less complex than other series like The Name of the Wind by Patrick Rothfuss, or especially anything by Neil Stevenson. Both authors that I really really enjoy, but who have had a little bit of a harder time getting into than with Sanderson's work. Now, I do want to stress that I'm not advocating you a void more complex books. But if you are the kind of person who believes that you dislike reading, or the kind of person who has been out of the habit of doing it for a while, starting with easier or more digestible books is, again, a way of building that habit, building that base. And once you have that base, then you can branch out into the more difficult material. And in addition to that more difficult material, realize that you could also branch out into areas that you don't think at first glance are for you. For instance, young adult novels, or middle grade fiction novels. I remember a few years ago, I was on Goodreads.com, and I noticed that Patrick Rothfuss, the author of The Name of the Wind in Myzeman's Fear, had reviewed and given five stars to a children's book called The Girl Who Circumnavigated Fairyland in a ship of her own making. And due to his positive view, I went and read the book, which I found to be fantastic. I also found it to be full of a lot of okay words that I did not understand, so not quite sure how this made into the children's categorization, but that should just be more evidence that books that are considered to be for children or for teenagers might be for you as well. The categorization is to help people who are in those groups to find more things that they might like to read or that might be at their level, but it is not meant to exclude people who are outside of those groups. So from all that, I want to move on to talking about something which may potentially have killed your love of reading at an early age, and you might be able to guess what it is because it's school. I remember back when I was in high school, I used to have English classes and composition classes and reading classes, where I was assigned reading, sometimes fiction reading, where we were assigned specific chapters every single week, and were actively discouraged from reading a head. Now, I get what the teachers were trying to do, they were trying to keep the entire class in the same pace, but here's the thing, if you have 50 kids in the classroom, not every single one of them is going to fit into the same exact specific mold for how they should learn to read. And yes, we should be teaching people how to read analytically, how to critically think, but more importantly, we should be teaching a love of reading. So if your experiences in school made you kind of not like reading, like they did for me in certain cases, then realize that there are other ways of reading. And the way they force you to read in school isn't the way that you have to read yourself. So give it a try again. And one last but important tip that I want to share here, which I think is going to apply to a lot of you, because it definitely applies to me, and it definitely applies to my best friend Martin who helped me write this video, is to ditch your TBR, or to be readlist if it is becoming an obligation. I know that on many occasions in the past, I have seen a really interesting book on the bookstore shelf or library shelf, and thought, I really want to read that, but I've already got a bunch of books on my 2B readlist over on Goodreads that I got to read first. So I do to fully put that book on the bottom of the list, and then proceed to, of course, never read it. So instead of doing that, instead of holding yourself to this really non-essential obligation to go through books in the order in which you discovered them, follow your interest. If something looks really interesting right now, then pursue it, read that book now, and go to the TBR later. Don't put it at the bottom. You have to remember that interest is really tied up in emotion, and emotions are really tied up in the moment. And it's kind of a delusional belief to think that you can just put a book on a 2B readlist and conjure that same level of interest that's same level of emotional attachment later on when you get down to that position on the list. So it relies that while the TBR concept is not inherently bad thing, and that it can be useful in some circumstances, it can really hinder your emotional attachment to things that you're interested in right now. And if that's the case, then you should probably digit at least temporarily. Now, early in the video, we talked about how's starting with bite size content, comic books, short story anthologies, things like that can really help you to graduate to the more in-depth and lengthy books out there. And this is a concept that doesn't just apply to reading books. It can apply to everything. For instance, if you want to learn math or science or you want to get better at solving complex problems, a great way to get yourself into the habit of doing that is by starting with bite size problems. Things that you can solve in five minutes or ten minutes. And that is exactly what you can do with the daily challenges feature on Brilliant. Every single day, they publish new problems in math, science, and computer science that you can sync your teeth into that you can solve in five or ten minutes and that might possibly peek your interest in a new subject that you haven't considered before. And once that flame of interest is lit, you'll be happy to know that Brilliant also has a ton of in-depth courses that you can use to continue learning ranging from calculus to math, quantitative training, and finance to gravitational physics, the Python programming to computer algorithms, and much, much more. The best part is that Brilliant builds all of their courses and their daily challenges with the principle of active learning in mind. You're not just going to be sitting there passively in taking material the entire time, you're going to be actively encouraged to solve problems on your own. And because they're bite sized, when you get stuck, which will happen from time to time, you're going to easily be able to go find the information you need, possibly from their very in-depth and detailed bookie with lots of concept explanations, and example problems, you need to be able to find that information come back and solve the problems with minimal frustration. Now with Brilliant's free tier, you get new daily challenges every single day, along with access to that wiki and their community discussion area where you can talk with lots of other learners. And if you do decide to go for their premium subscription, you'll also get access to the entire daily challenges archive, along with full access to all their in-depth courses. So if you want to start learning for free today and building that learning habits and growing it in the future, then head over to Brilliant.org slash Thomas Frank to get started. And if you're one of the first 83 people to use that link and sign up, you're also going to get 20% off your annual premium subscription. Big thanks as always to Brilliant for sponsoring this episode and being a supporter of my channel and also thanks to you for watching. If you enjoyed this video, maybe give it a like to support this channel and also click right there to subscribe so you don't miss out on future videos. You can also click right there to get a free copy of my book and how to earn better grades. Click right here to get one more video on this channel or check out our latest podcast episode right over here. Thanks again for watching and I will see you in the next one.
