# How to Remember People’s Names
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hkjKNrMvBlw
If you want to stop being one of those people who is "bad with names," this video is for you.
📺 Watch this video ad-free on Nebula: https://nebula.tv/videos/thomas-frank-how-to-stop-forgetting-peoples-names

🛠 COURSES AND RESOURCES: 
Notion channel - https://www.youtube.com/c/ThomasFrankExplains
Free Notion templates - https://thomasjfrank.com/templates/
Learn Notion - https://thomasjfrank.com/fundamentals
Productivity and Habits courses - https://thomasjfrank.com/courses/

🦙 SPONSOR: 
Get two months of unlimited learning on Skillshare for free: https://skl.sh/thomasfrank26

🐦 SOCIAL STUFF:
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly
Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Music Channel ➔ https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCmqK2G-3AL_WP5KffH_wqAA
Spotify Study Playlist ➔ https://open.spotify.com/user/thomasfrank09/playlist/4ETfiRPHVmUFLF6q0g8Fux?si=IPfx3dAgQ1SIUwhh5YEQMQ

🔗 VIDEO LINKS:
- Main Source - The Psychology of Learning and Motivation: https://www.sciencedirect.com/bookseries/psychology-of-learning-and-motivation
- Gillian Cohen's 1990 study: http://people.westminstercollege.edu/students/jrr0301/PDF_texts/Cohen.pdf

👐 BUSINESS:
Please contact my agent at thomasfrank@standard.tv

💰 I'm fortunate enough to work with great sponsors who support my work, so I don't use Patreon or any other crowdfunding service. However, if you'd like to support a worthy cause, consider donating to help more children get access to a high-quality education: https://fundraise.pencilsofpromise.org/fundraiser/1489730
**Keywords:** thomas frank, productivity, memory tips, how to remember names, how to stop forgetting names, why do i forget names, why are names hard to remember, names are hard to memorize, how to remember more, memorization, how to memorize names, how to memorize names and faces, how to remember people's names, how to remember people's faces, social skills, how to make a good impression, good first impression, halo effect, career skills, networking, interview tips, networking tips, 
**Date:** 2019-10-29

## Transcript
 Oh, hi, sorry, I forgot your name, I'm actually really bad at names, but as it turns out, everyone is bad with names. Names are a uniquely hard type of information to remember. They're arbitrary, and they seem to slip from our minds even when we're trying to remember them. Sometimes it's seconds after we've met somebody, which can lead to embarrassment. So if you find yourself forgetting names on a regular basis, you can take comfort in the fact that, well, most people do, but some people put effort into remembering names, and I think you should become one of those people as well, because even though names are hard to remember, even though their arbitrary strings of characters and syllables that don't really mean a whole lot, names mean a lot to us. Your name is the centerpiece of your identity, and your ears perk up when you hear it, Derek. So if you can learn the skill of remembering people's names successfully, you're going to make better impressions when you meet them, and you're going to build stronger relationships. And in this video, we're going to show you exactly how you can start to remember names more effectively. The first, let's dig in a little bit deeper into the reason why names are so hard to remember. So when somebody forgets your name, it can be tempting to think that they don't care about you in particular, but the problem lies more in the type of information we're dealing with, rather than their lack of caring about you. As it turns out, names are a hard type of information to care about, because they are entirely arbitrary information. There's not a whole lot to connect a name to in your brain. By contrast, a word like controller brings up a lot of other images that are associated to it. A TV, a game console, maybe your favorite games. There's all sorts of different associated mental imagery, and thinking of any one piece could easily lead you back to the word controller and all the information imbued in it. Similarly, a guitar is something that can very easily connect to concerts, your favorite artists, other instruments, maybe they get hard pedals if you're a nerd like me. But again, a name like John or Sarah, there's not a whole lot to connect that to. It's totally arbitrary information. Maybe you know somebody who is named John or Sarah, but if you meet a new person and you're trying to encode that person's face in your head, along with that arbitrary string of characters and syllables, it's pretty difficult to do. And this isn't just mere conjecture either. A lot of actual scientific research has gone into why names are so difficult to remember, why they are uniquely hard to encode in our memory. And research that's been done on people who have suffered brain injuries has found that the recall of proper names is particularly impacted by those injuries, even more than the proper names of famous monuments, for example. And the thinking about this difference is that while famous monuments and famous works of art also have proper names, those names often include descriptive words, such as the statue of liberty, or the ifle tower. Because their descriptive words in the name, it's much easier to remember as opposed to something like John or Sarah. Again, these terms are completely arbitrary. There's not a lot you can connect them to in your mind without a lot of upfront work. And what's also quite arbitrary are telephone numbers and addresses. And more research that's gone into people who have suffered from brain injuries has found that these types of information are similarly impacted and people have trouble recalling them as well. And it's not just people with brain injuries. Another study that was done in 1990 showed people pictures of faces and tied them to occupations, proper names and possessions. For example, this is Mr. Potter. He is a pilot and he has a dog. People who are quizzed on seeing this later on were much more easily able to remember the occupation and the possessions, but not the name. So it seems that names are just arbitrary. And because there's not something we can immediately connect them to in our mind, they take a lot of work to remember. But not as much work as you might think. So now that you know why names are so difficult to remember, I want to give you my number one tip for remembering them more easily, which is to realize that they are difficult to remember. This is the pitfall that many people fall into. They assume that information they are dealing with in the moment is going to stick around. And names aren't the only example. I remember being in math class and seeing the professor work in example out on the board and thinking that makes perfect sense. I don't need to write it down because it's so logically easy to follow. I'm going to be able to use it later on in my homework. All need to be humbled later on when I did the homework and realized I could not recall how to work the problems. And when we meet people and hear their names, it's the same exact situation. In the moment we feel like it's going to be easy to remember it, but then second later, something else comes to our attention and the name is lost. So take this seriously, realize that names are difficult to remember and you're going to put a little bit more effort into it naturally. That being said, there are also some techniques that you can use to remember them a little bit more easily. And the first one is really easy, actually. When you meet somebody and they tell you their name instead of saying nice to meet you, say nice to meet you and then their name. So nice to meet you, phanos, for example. And in the rare case that you actually are talking to phanos, this does have the secondary benefit of slightly reducing the likelihood that you'll destroy your spaceship and leave you floating in the infinite cosmos forever, only slightly though. But more importantly, when you say a person's name back to them, you're forcing a brain to interact with that information in a new way. As the cognitive psychologist Brian H. Ross notes, speaking involves conceptualizing the content of an utterance, selecting a term to use, retrieving the sounds of the selected word and planning and executing the motor movements to articulate. So a lot more is going on there than when you just merely hear the name. And again, when your brain is forced to interact with information in multiple different ways, you build new neural pathways to it and you're more easily able to remember it. And you can even do this more than once during the course of a conversation. I've met a handful of people during my life that are really good at working my name into different points during our conversation. So Thomas, what are you doing? We're kind of leaving. Oh, just this. Now it should be noted that this is a skill and it takes a little bit of finesse to do correctly because you can easily say the person's name too often and come off as creepy. But if you can use it sparingly, again, you're going to make a better impression and you're getting more practice retrieving the person's name and saying it more often. And that's actually the second point I want to make. Retrieval practice is really, really useful for remembering names. So when you meet somebody, make it a point to quiz yourself every so often about what their name is. And you should do this at different intervals. Do it. Maybe a few seconds after you've met them and after they told you your name, just so you remember during the course of the conversation, then quiz yourself once the conversation is over. And then, at the end of the day, maybe consider keeping a journal and writing down the names of anybody you met. And this is actually a great argument for why keeping a journal could be really, really useful because again, you're interacting with the information in a different way. You're writing it down instead of saying it or listening to it. And you're also doing a little bit more retrieval practice. Finally, you can more easily remember somebody's name if you use a pneumonic device. And if you need a primer here, pneumonics are essentially mental constructs and devices that we can use to bind hard to remember information, like names, telephone numbers and addresses, things that are arbitrary to concepts that are much more easily remember to like rhymes or acronyms, such as, again, on a guitar, the order of the strings are E, A, D, G, B, E. So, Ernie, A dynamite, good by Ernie. That's a really good nemonic for remembering this order of strings. And you can do the exact same thing with names as well. You just need to find the nemonic that helps you to bind to the person's face or some attribute about the person that is easily rememberable to their name. So, for example, the other night I met somebody named Stephen who looked a little bit like Benedict Cumberbatch. So, in my mind, I thought of Benedict Cumberbatch, and then I thought of Dr. Strange, and I remembered Dr. Strange is Stephen Strange. So, I bound the image of Benedict Cumberbatch being Dr. Strange to this person's face. And now I'm easily able to remember that his name is Stephen. Now, no matter how hard you work, no matter how well-intentioned you are, there's going to come a time when you still forget somebody's name. So, what do you do when that happens? Well, the first thing I want to say here is that with the fact that everyone tends to say they're bad with names, you shouldn't really feel bad when you forget somebody's name. And on the flip side, if somebody forgets your name, I think it's a good idea to be gracious about it. Don't give them too much of a hard time about it, because again, forgetting somebody's name does not indicate they don't care about you, it's just that names are inherently difficult to remember. That being said, you are a few tips for getting yourself out of this type of situation. First, you could just wait and hope that their name comes up in conversation later on. Maybe somebody else walks in the room and says it and you just get lucky. But don't wait for so long that you end up having to introduce this person to somebody else that you know, because that could be a potential embarrassing situation. Secondly, there are some somewhat sneaky tricks that you can use and that can work if the opportunity arises organically. For example, if you're exchanging phone numbers, you could just casually ask, hey, how do you spell your name and then you have their name? Or if you're exchanging social media handles, you could ask, what's your Twitter handle, what's your Instagram handle, and then you're probably going to see their name right on your phone and everything is cool. But in all seriousness, the best thing to do is just to swallow your pride and ask them their name again, because most people are going to understand. Now, putting in the work to remember people's names can help you make a fantastic first impression to each new person that you meet. But what about making a great first impression on groups of people? At some point in your career, especially if you're putting in the work to build strong relationships, you're probably going to have the opportunity to give a presentation to a group of people. And if you want to learn how to craft those presentations so that people pay attention and remember what you say, I highly recommend the presentation essentials class by Simon Sinek, who is one of my favorite speakers. You'll find this class on Skillshare, which is also home to thousands of others covering career skills, graphic design, animation, music production, and lots more. And one of the course that I want to shout out this month is a new Final Cut Pro video editing course that my friend Ali Abdul just released. And if you've seen his channel at all, you know that his editing is absolutely fantastic. So if you want to start a YouTube channel yourself, you want to learn how to edit video, you should definitely check out his class as well. And while you're at it, you're also going to find a class for me that's all about building a productivity system. And the best part is that you can get access to all of these classes and Skillshare's entire library with thousands of others completely free for two months by using the link below to sign up. And after that, Skillshare is still really affordable, starting at just 10 bucks a month. So if you want to start boosting your skills and you want to help to support my channel, use that link inside it for that two month free trial in the description down below. Big thanks as always to Skillshare for sponsoring this video and supporting my channel. And thank you as well for watching. If you enjoyed this video, get subscribed right there so you don't miss out on future ones. Hit the like button and also click right there to get a free copy of my book and how to earn better grades if you haven't done so already. Last but not least, there's two more videos on screen right here, so smash your face into your phone screen to watch those and I will see you in the next video.
