# How to Achieve Inbox Zero - 4 Email Productivity Hacks
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hl9RsaITlY4
Improve your online security at https://www.dashlane.com/collegeinfogeek - and be among the first 200 people to use the code "collegeinfogeek" at checkout to get 10% off Dashlane Premium.

Huge thanks to Dashlane for sponsoring this video and supporting my channel!

Email is kind of like a hydra. Answer one, and two more will take its place. And for the longest time, my overflowing inbox was a significant cause of stress in my life.

But over the past couple of years, I've learned how to get my inbox under control - and today, I'll show you how to do the same. In this video we'll talk about how email should fit in with your task manager or to-do list, whether to archive or delete messages, and how to use labels and filters effectively.

Put these tips into action, and you'll find yourself spending a lot more time at inbox zero.

Get my book "10 Steps to Earning Awesome Grades" FREE: 
https://collegeinfogeek.com/get-better-grades/

Follow Me:
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly
Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Podcast ➔ https://www.youtube.com/TheCollegeInfoGeekPodcast

Subscribe to My Channel:
http://buff.ly/1vQP5ar

The email app I use: https://frontapp.com/ - I don't recommend this for individuals, but if you've gotten to the point where it makes sense to hire an assistant or share email duties with a team, Front is amazing.

Otherwise, I still recommend Gmail!

My Video Gear:
https://www.amazon.com/shop/thomasfrank
**Keywords:** thomas frank, productivity, education, how to learn, studying, email productivity hacks, email productivity, inbox, inbox zero, gmail, gmail tips, email tips, gmail hacks, gmail inbox, email processing, process email, email apps, new gmail, gmail 2018, gmail 2019, gmail tutorial, how to use gmail, gmail labels, gmail filters, email tags, email labels, email filters, email rules, reduce spam gmail, distraction, productive, task management, to do list, archive, email address, 
**Date:** 2019-01-31

## Transcript
 I've always seen e-mail as kind of like a hydra. Answer one. Do more shall take its place. And well this has definitely been my personal experience with e-mail. I know that I am buying no means alone in this matter, especially given that there's data out there to show the average knowledge worker spends about 28% of their workweek on e-mail. And that is absolutely ridiculous. So today I want to share some of the tips and tactics that I've learned over the past few years from making e-mail a less stressful and less time-consuming part of my life. Now I've got to put this out there right up front. I am by no means an e-mail expert. And I know you can probably find some other productivity gurus out there with crazy GTD inspired in blocks zero workflows that they get done at 6am every single morning before doing their morning yoga coffee meditation. But I have at least been able to tame my e-mail so to speak. And it's been a lot less stressful in the past few years than it used to be when I was a little bit earlier on in my entrepreneurial career. So whether you're a student or you're a professional being buried in e-mails from your boss or your entrepreneur like me, hopefully some of the tipsmen of share in this video will help you tame your inbox as well. And just to cover our bases we've got to start with the obvious one. Archive messages or delete them if you don't need them anymore. Don't treat your inbox as an archive. That should be something separate and should be representing only things that you need to take action on. Otherwise the archive or the trash should be where e-mails go. Alright with that pretty simple tip out of the way let's move on to our first big tip. Don't use your inbox as a task manager. And this is crucial but I know it's also very hard to do. And a lot of us tend to do this. We see e-mails in our inbox so we know we have to respond to them. But to respond to them we have to be like 18 other things. There's this whole process and as a result the inbox tends to pile up. In fact there are even e-mails forgiveness days out there for people who have just let e-mails faster for days, weeks or even months since they just haven't had the time to get all the preliminary or dependent steps done first. But there is indeed a better way. You do not have to use your e-mail inbox as a task list because that is what a task manager is for. So when you see e-mails in your inbox you have to take action on whether it be responding or actually doing something follow these steps. First and foremost I think it's a pretty smart idea to dedicate a specific time of day to e-mail processing. And unless e-mail notifications are incredibly important to you unless you're like Elon Musk or something take those notifications off of your phone. Dedicate one part of the day for e-mail and have the rest of it dedicated to work or you know actually doing things that you want to do. So once you have that pre-planed specific time the day set for processing e-mail and that time rolls around sit down at your computer or your phone and first I think it's a good idea to get rid of any e-mails that really don't need any action from you. Basically just clear out the junk. Now when it comes to doing this part a lot of people get stuck on the question of whether to archive or delete their e-mails. And honestly this is kind of a moot point these days since most e-mail programs give you a ton of space restoring e-mails but I follow a simple general rule. If I think that I ever might need that e-mails information in the future then I archive it. Otherwise I delete it. And for the e-mails that you do decide to delete it's likely that some of those or maybe even most of them are newsletters or marketing messages. And I know because I receive a ton of these every single day and because I even send some out every Sunday with my newsletter. Now with these kinds of messages in particular the hydrometer for is especially apt because you know that even if you delete the one you're looking at right now there's going to be two more coming this week no matter what you do. Unless you go down to the bottom of that e-mail and start hitting that unsubscribe link. So don't just delete e-mails if you know they're going to be coming in the future. Start unsubscribing from marketing messages and newsletters that no longer give you any value. And yes that does include my newsletter. If you're not getting value from e-mails that I send you then please get me out of your inbox. For one I actually pay per subscriber on my Mailchimp plan. And too if I'm not providing you enough value that I don't deserve to be in your inbox anyway and that's how every single marketer should think. Anyway move it on to e-mails that you do actually have to take action on. There's kind of two different types of e-mail here. First type of e-mail is the kind that you can easily take action on within you know five minutes or less. And if you find an e-mail like that go ahead and process it. Don't get it in your task manager just reply to it or take action on it and get it onto the archive. That just leaves us with the second type of e-mail. The type of e-mail that tends to fester in your inbox for weeks or months because it's got 27 different steps to dependencies and you've also got work to do in video games to play. Why should you spend your time on that? Well maybe you don't have time to spend your time on that right now. But it shouldn't sit in your inbox. Instead get the details into your task manager. Remember your task manager and your calendar and your note-taking system. These are all parts of the system that should hold pieces of data that you need to refer back to in the future and in some cases remind you of actions you need to take. Your e-mail is a communications medium. It's not part of that action oriented system so don't treat it like one. Now when it comes to actually implementing this you can of course just copy the details of an e-mail two year to do list and make that a task and then remember to go find the e-mail later if it needs to reply. But a lot of task managers these days have more elegant options for processing e-mails. For example, to do this actually lets you copy an e-mail address for each project in your task list and you can e-mail tasks into it. Or you can actually install their Chrome extension which puts a little mini-to-do list in the bottom of your Gmail area so you can actually add a task as an e-mail. And one thing I like about to do is in particular is when you add an e-mail as a task it actually links it right back to the e-mail so you don't even have to go into Gmail and find it. Regardless of how you do it once you have an e-mail in your task manager then the process for dealing with it is exactly the same. Give it a due date, give it labels if you want, get a done when it needs to be done and then if the e-mail needs to reply then reply and consider that checked off your task list. Big tip number two, use tags and search harmoniously. Now there was a time back in college where I do to fully tagged every single message that came in. I had this beautifully organized, hierarchical tag structure in Gmail that I was so proud of and I thought this is crucial because if I ever need to find a piece of information I know where to find it. It's almost like having a folder structure, right? But then I realized something that should have been obvious in retrospect. Gmail is built on Google and Google is the world's best search engine so for the most part I can just search for e-mails if I need to find them after I've archived them. So now I use tags or labels and search in tandem. I'm very selective about which messages I actually tag since tagging messages does take time and I'd rather be playing video games. Plus again most messages can be found just by searching so for the most part if I'm going to keep a message after processing it I'd just hit the archive button but there are certain cases where I do still use tags. For example the receipts for a lot of expenses in my business often come to my email. Now with paper ones I tend to digitize them and get them into every note but with the email ones I just give them the tag receipt. I chose to keep tags in this particular case because a lot of times I'm looking for a particular receipt when I'm going through my reconciliations for counting at the end of the month and I often don't know exactly what to search for so I just want to make sure that I have a list that I can look at that lists every single digital expense that I've ever had in my business just in case there's ever an audit in the future or for some other reason I need to see all of those receipts. Another example case would be newsletters that I don't want to unsubscribe from but don't necessarily want to see and these cases I actually have a filter which we're going to talk about in a few seconds that just gives those emails a newsletter tag and then auto archives them. That way if everyone go through those emails and see them like if I'm looking for headline inspiration for example I can see them all in one list but they never grab my attention when they come in because I don't want them to do that at that time. All right big tip number three which I kind of alluded to just a few seconds ago filters are your friend. In most email programs there are filters you can set up which basically do things automatically for you. So to go back to the previous example every time a newsletter comes in that has a specific email address or a specific type of headline I have a rule in my email program that will automatically archive it so I never see it and it gives it the correct tag as well. I've also got filter set up that will automatically delete messages from certain addresses or from certain people like marketers who think that spamming me five times is actually going to get a response and lastly my most important and useful filter is a filter for all my old email addresses that ensures that nothing in those email inboxes can ever go to spam. Now the reason I have this filter set up on all my old inboxes is that a few years ago I set up forwarding rules forward everything from those inboxes to one big main Gmail inbox. Now this ensured that I didn't have to go check a zillion different email inboxes just to make sure I wasn't missing anything. It was all coming into one place. Except for in certain occasions I would notice that important emails that were sent to one of those old email addresses hit the spam filter and because I never logged in to look at those inboxes I never noticed it. So once I realized that this was happening I set up filters to make sure that nothing could go to spam over there and this wasn't really a big problem since I could trust the spam filtering in my main inbox to catch all the junk. That brings us to big tip number four which is to use a separate email for logins than the one that you use for correspondence for talking with people on the internet. Now this is more of a security tip than an organizational tip but I still think it's really important to do. The email address that you use to chat with people on the internet is basically public knowledge. Every single person you've given it out to and possibly the entire internet if you posted it somewhere publicly knows this email address. Now unfortunately the internet has developed in such a way that your email address is also used as a log in credential for most websites. Additionally it's the place where password resets go. So if anyone ever got access to your email they would be able to send password resets and basically hack your entire life. And even if they can't do that they at least know one of the two keys needed to log into your bank or your final fantasy fan fiction forum account or any other crucial site that you don't want people getting into. Fortunately there is a way to deal with this at least somewhat and that is to set up a separate email address for logging into websites and don't give that email address out to anybody. Use one email address for correspondence and use the other one as one of those two keys for logging in to your online accounts. And doing this has the additional benefit or possibly even primary benefit of making sure that it's much less likely an attacker would know where password resets were going to go. Again if you use a publicly known email address then people know where password reset links are going but if your email address is secret then no one really knows. Now while having a somewhat secret email slash username combo is really helpful what is downright crucial for online security is to make sure that you have strong unique passwords on all of your online accounts. It seems like every single week brings a new hack or corporate data breach and the problem is that once a password is leaked in one place it can be tried anywhere else. So if you've repeated passwords in different online accounts then one leak or one hack makes all of those other accounts vulnerable. Of course the problem here is that it's nearly impossible to memorize so many unique passwords especially if they're strong and lengthy. But fortunately that isn't a problem if you're using a dash lane. Dash lane is an incredibly well designed password manager that I use every single day. It gives you a helpful streamlined way to store all of your passwords and secure your online life against hackers and corporate data breaches and even fishing scams. They're total which you can use across all major platforms including Windows, Mac, iOS and Android, automatically generates strong and unique passwords for all of your online accounts. And it stores the data in a user account that's protected by a patented security architecture which strongly encrypts all of your data and ensures that nobody but you can access it. And aside from offering you much better security, dash lanes tool can also save you a ton of time as well because through their browser extensions and their mobile apps they can automatically log you into websites, automatically fill in username and password fields and even automatically fill in large forms. So if you want to start improving both your online security and your efficiency then hit over to dashlane.com slash college info geek which you find in the description down below. And if you want to get access to some advanced features like a VPN and data sinking across all your devices then be among the first 200 people to use the code college info geek when you sign up for their premium account and you're going to get 10% off. Big thanks as always to dashlane for sponsoring this video and being a big supporter of my channel hopefully this video is helpful to you guys and if it was definitely get that like button clicked and get subscribed right there you can also get a free copy of my book and I had to earn better grades right there which will also get you on my newsletter and again unsubscribe if you don't like it you can follow me on Instagram right over here at Tom Franklin and unfall me if you don't like that and last but not least smash your face into your phone screen to watch one more video on this channel right here. Thanks so much for watching and I'll see you in the next video. I'm going to get this freakin' goff away from me.
