# How to Wake Up Early Without Feeling Tired
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hY2oCdsIqXc
If you want to stop feeling so tired when you wake up, use these strategies.
📺 Watch this video ad-free on Nebula: https://nebula.tv/videos/thomas-frank-how-to-wake-up-early-without-feeling-tired

🛠 COURSES AND RESOURCES: 
Notion channel - https://www.youtube.com/c/ThomasFrankExplains
Free Notion templates - https://thomasjfrank.com/templates/
Learn Notion - https://thomasjfrank.com/fundamentals
Productivity and Habits courses - https://thomasjfrank.com/courses/

🦙 SPONSOR: 
Start learning with Brilliant (and get 20% off): https://www.brilliant.org/thomasfrank

🐦 SOCIAL STUFF:
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly
Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Music Channel ➔ https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCmqK2G-3AL_WP5KffH_wqAA
Spotify Study Playlist ➔ https://open.spotify.com/user/thomasfrank09/playlist/4ETfiRPHVmUFLF6q0g8Fux?si=IPfx3dAgQ1SIUwhh5YEQMQ

🔗 VIDEO LINKS:
- Famous Writers’ Sleep Habits vs. Literary Productivity, Visualized - https://www.brainpickings.org/2013/12/16/writers-wakeup-times-literary-productivity-visualization/
- The impact of daytime light exposures on sleep and mood in office workers - https://www.sleephealthjournal.org/article/S2352-7218(17)30041-4/fulltext
- Circadian-effective light and its impact on alertness in office workers - https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/abs/10.1177/1477153517750006?journalCode=lrtd
- What is Circadian Lighting and How Does it Work? - https://bioslighting.com/human-centric-lighting/what-is-circadian-lighting-and-how-does-it-work/

👐 BUSINESS:
Please contact my agent at thomasfrank@standard.tv

🎞 SPECIAL THANKS
Video clips supplied by Getty Images

💰 I'm fortunate enough to work with great sponsors who support my work, so I don't use Patreon or any other crowdfunding service. However, if you'd like to support a worthy cause, consider donating to help more children get access to a high-quality education: https://fundraise.pencilsofpromise.org/fundraiser/1489730
**Keywords:** thomas frank, productivity, wake up early, not feel tired, why am i always tired, always tired, tired feeling, stop feeling tired, how to wake up, wake up earlier, wake up at 6am, early morning alarm, early morning, morning hacks, morning routine, how to build a morning routine, 
**Date:** 2021-06-01

## Transcript
 This video is sponsored by Brilliant. Each morning when I wake up, I start my day by getting three simple things. Movement, water, and sunlight. Together, these three tiny habits quickly get me past the initial groggy stage and help me feel fully awake. But why are these three habits so effective in particular? And how do you get yourself out of bed in a first place so you can actually get them? Let's talk about this video, but before we get into that, I want to lay some groundwork. Just in foremost, you do not have to wake up early in the morning to be a productive person. There are certainly going to be other people here on YouTube. We'll try to tell you differently, but the fact of the matter is, different people operate on different schedules. For example, over on brain pickings, there's this fantastic infographic that I found a few years ago, which compares the different wake-up times of some famous authors throughout history. And I'll show you some of them do wake up at a seemingly early times, like Haruki Murakami, who gets up at 4am and is writing a novel, others who are just as if not more successful and famous and productive, get up at later times. For example, CS Lewis and Ray Bradbury both got up at around 9am in the morning, and they did just fine. So while some YouTubers are going to tell you that you absolutely have to be getting up super early to be successful, while they film themselves out for a 4am run, the truth of the matter is that it's possible to live a perfectly productive life as a night-out. However, I personally have found that when I carve out time in the morning and actually go through a morning routine, I tend to be more productive. Again, this is a personal thing, but I've found through experimentation and personal experience that I tend to use the morning hours more productively than I do my evening hours. So if I wake up earlier than I naturally would, and I carve out time in the morning, I tend to waste less time and get more out of my day. And you might be in the exact same boat. You might find that your mornings are just more productive. You have more energy, you have more drive if you wake up early. But if that's you, you probably have also faced the same problem that I faced, which is that when you wake up in the morning, you feel like a truck hit you, you feel authoritative, you feel groggy, you feel tired, the only thing you want to do is hit the snooze button. So number one, how can you avoid that snooze button? But number two, how can you get past that tired feeling as quickly as possible? Well, let's focus in on that sequence of three habits I talked about in the intro. Water, sunlight, and movement. Through personal experimentation, as well as some scientific research, I have found that this sequence of habits is possibly the most important thing to getting your body broken up and feeling energetic, besides, of course, getting enough sleep. So let's start with movement. How much movement? What kind of movement do you need to get your body feeling awake? Well, I first started discovering the power of movement to wake my body up when I was in college, and I decided to sign up for a 6 a.m. ROTC military fitness class. The school was offering this to both military kids, but also to civilians, and I was the latter category. And to get to that class, I actually had to wake up at about 5.30 in the morning, so I could get across campus and be there on time. And I'm an early bird. I do like getting up early in the morning, but 5.30 is a little bit early even for me. So every time my alarm would go off, I would hate it, and I would really want to go back to sleep. But I learned something interesting, because I had to get at a bed. I had to be to class on time. I never once hit the snooze button, and most importantly, I was immediately moving after the alarm went off. And because I was getting that initial movement right after waking up, getting it a bed, getting dressed, running out the door, that lethargic feeling that I had meet the after waking up didn't last very long. And I learned that as long as I was getting enough sleep over the long term, that energy lasted me pretty much the entire day. But you don't have to go to an ROTC fitness class or do an hour and a half of exercise to feel awake in the morning. Because the main thing I observed is just getting myself out of bed, having that sort of damage please hanging over my head that deadline got me past that lethargic feeling before I even left my dorm. So getting some initial movement, even just a little bit in the morning can really go along way to helping you feel more awake, especially if you also add water and sunlight. Let's talk about sunlight for a second. Sunlight in particular affects your body's circadian rhythm, which is this internal clock, this process that governs when you feel sleepy, when you fall asleep, and when you wake up. When sunlight hits the photo receptors in your eyes, they actually send signals to your brain telling you that, hey, it's time to wake up. And that's not all. Research has also found that this morning's Sunlight exposure also helps improve the overall quality of your sleep going forward. A 2017 study found that exposure in the morning to what they called circadian effective light was associated with both improved sleep quality and earlier sleep onset. A.K.A. falling asleep faster. Now, this term circadian effective light is an interesting one because it doesn't just refer to sunlight. Rather, it refers to some certain qualities of light, including its intensity, and how well it covers certain areas of the color spectrum. There are certain areas of the visual light spectrum that are associated with triggering those photo receptors in governing our circadian rhythm, and most of the lights in our interior environments don't cover that area of the color spectrum. There is at least one company working on light bulbs that you can actually go out and buy right now that do purport to cover this area of light spectrum, and there are some early research, mostly in office environments that have some promising results. But before you rush out and go buy a $500 desk lamp that the ports to govern your circadian rhythm realize that the most effective circadian effective light is going to be sunlight, which makes sense because these little light bulbs are just light bulbs, and the sun is a freaking star. Now, when it comes to water, I have been able to find quite as much strong scientific evidence as I have for sunlight as to why it helps you wake up so well. But through personal experimentation and experience, I have found that when I wake up and drink a glass of water, it gets me past that groggy stage really quickly, and it's a great way to help me feel even more awake. So, get it a bed immediately, move to a different room of your house so you get some movement, and ideally some sunlight, and drink a glass of water. This doesn't involve an ROTC fitness class, it doesn't involve a long hike in the woods, it's incredibly simple, but it's effective nonetheless. Of course, this assumes that you can get yourself out of bed in the first place, and avoid the temptations of the snooze button. So, how do you do that? Well, for that problem, let's think back to the ROTC fitness class. I talked about how when the alarm went off and I was taking that class, I never once hit the snooze button, and the reason for that should be pretty obvious. I had to get it a bed. If I didn't, I was going to be late for class, and I would get a worse grade. So, that class gave me a very strong reason to get it a bed, and you probably understand the power of this if you've ever had to get it for an early morning flight. You don't want to get it before I am, but the prospect of missing the flight gets you at a bed, but here's the problem. Carving out time for yourself in the morning, building a morning routine. By definition means there's no real, strong deadline, or pressing engagement you have to get a bed for. So, what do you do in these situations? Well, the words of my friend Thiago Forte come to mind here. Some point last year he tweeted, you can't compete with somebody who's having fun. And I think the context for that tweet was for people who are building businesses or building products, but I think that sentiment applies to many other things in our life, including the prospect of getting at a bed earlier than you normally would. Think about a version of yourself that hates getting up has nothing look forward to in the morning, is trying to entirely rely on self-discipline, can never compete with a version of you that's excited to get up. That's something fun to look forward to. So, there's the solution. Add something. It could be anything no matter how small that you're excited for into your morning routine. Give yourself a reason to anticipate getting up in the morning, and you're gonna find getting up to be so much easier. Self-discipline is still important to cultivate. Yes, but on the other side of the coin, when we are doing something we enjoy, where the resistance does not over-way, how much we enjoy the thing, we don't have to rely on self-discipline in the first place. Personally, that thing for me is writing my bike to work in listening to an audio book. Recently, I got a coworking space in downtown Denver, which is actually about 18 miles from my house. So I got an e-bike and the process of writing my bike to work on the bike trails, listening to an audio book, getting to learn, but also getting to be outside and be active, is something that I actually look forward to every single morning. And whenever I get to do it, I'm super excited to get up, get dressed, and get out the door. And to dwell on this example for a moment, there's another great thing about this bike ride, which is that it's an example of what I call useful movement. In other words, I have a purpose for getting outside and getting nearly an hour of exercise. And this is something I've been thinking about a lot lately, because the way in which we design our urban environments, especially suburban environments where I live right now, kind of forces people in many cases to exercise in ways that are arbitrary. They have to convince themselves to go to the gym. They only real reason for moving in an intense or lengthy way each day is guilt, or this feeling that you have to stay physically active. But when you design your life in a way where you have a reason to go somewhere actively, like writing your bike to work, you don't have to summon as much motivation to go be physically active, because there's a real reason to do it. This is kind of besides the point of waking up early, but I've been thinking about useful movement a lot lately, and I think it really helps us to be more productive, happier, and even more connected to our environments and our neighbors. So it's probably something that's going to be a throughline in some of my future videos. But here's the overall point. If you want to be able to get a bit more easily, if you want it to be effortless, if you want to have time for that morning routine, then add something to the routine that you enjoy, that you anticipate. For me, it's that bike ride with the audio book. For you, it might be a breakfast that you particularly enjoy. It might be a morning walk. It might be reading some fiction. Whatever it is, add into the routine, and you're going to find yourself having more time for that routine. And if you combine that with our little three-step process, water, sunlight, and movement, you're going to find yourself getting up more easily, feeling less groggy, going through less of that tired, lethargic period, and having space in the morning for whatever it is that you want to do. Now, if you're sitting there asking yourself, what should I put into my morning routine, how can I make the most of my mornings? I do have one suggestion. Identify something that pushes you forward in some way. A lot of us spend so much of our time, so busy with our obligations and our schedules, that we don't have a whole lot of time for learning and pushing ourselves forward, really moving the needle. And carving out time for yourself in the morning, well, at least for me, this is a great way to make sure that I'm still progressing. So, when you're designing your morning routine, see if you can add something that either makes you stronger, or helps you learn something new, or maybe improves your problem-solving abilities. And if you're looking for a resource that can hit those two ladder categories, problem-solving and teaching new things, you should check out Brilliant. Brilliant is a resource that helps you master complex topics in math, science, and computer science, while also helping you become a better problem-solver at the same time. And that's because all their courses get you actively using what you're learning almost right away. They combine bite-sized problems that are logically sequenced with the actual learning material, so that you never go more than a few minutes without getting engaged. You're going to find more than 60 courses in our library including a full math suite, going from the basics of number theory to really complex stuff, along with courses covering scientific thinking, and even computer science courses that dive into things like algorithms and data structures. Brilliant is free to try. So if you want to get started learning today, you can go over to Brilliant.org slash Thomas Frank, or sign up using the link in the description down below. And of course, doing it also helps to support this channel. So thank you if you do that. Thanks for watching as well. Hopefully you found something useful in this video. Hopefully it helps you get up earlier and feel less tired. If that's something you're trying to do. I've got one more video on screen right here that you can check out if you want to keep watching. Be a subscribe button right there. If you haven't subscribed yet, and in this video I've got a question for you, which is do you have any additional tips for helping yourself wake up and feel less tired in the mornings. Mailing salts, death metal, setting your entire room on fire. I don't know. Let me know down in the comments and we can all help you to become smarter and more capable people. And I will see you in the next video.
