# How to Conquer Social Anxiety When You Meet New People
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I-IKdQcXGA8
Learn 7 strategies that you can use to overcome nerves and start talking to new people confidently.
📺 Watch this video without AdSense on Nebula: https://nebula.tv/videos/thomasfrank-7-ways-to-calm-your-nerves-when-meeting-new-people

🛠 COURSES AND RESOURCES: 
Notion channel - https://www.youtube.com/c/ThomasFrankExplains
Free Notion templates - https://thomasjfrank.com/templates/
Learn Notion - https://thomasjfrank.com/fundamentals
Productivity and Habits courses - https://thomasjfrank.com/courses/

🦙 SPONSOR: 
Start broadening your knowledge base - get a 1-month free trial of CuriosityStream and access over 2,400 documentaries at https://curiositystream.com/thomas - and use the code "thomas" when you sign up!

🐦 SOCIAL STUFF:
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly
Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Music Channel ➔ https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCmqK2G-3AL_WP5KffH_wqAA
Spotify Study Playlist ➔ https://open.spotify.com/user/thomasfrank09/playlist/4ETfiRPHVmUFLF6q0g8Fux?si=IPfx3dAgQ1SIUwhh5YEQMQ

📃 ARTICLE VERSION:
https://collegeinfogeek.com/social-skills/

🔗 VIDEO LINKS:
How to be More Confident Than Anyone You Know: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IjB-JRU-_dY
Jim Carrey talks with Oprah about visualization: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nPU5bjzLZX0
Michael Phelps and the "videotape": http://www.behaviouraldesign.com/2013/10/07/how-michael-phelps-coach-trained-him/#sthash.rBJzWL04.dpbs

👐 BUSINESS:
Please contact my agent at thomasfrank@standard.tv

💰 I'm fortunate enough to work with great sponsors who support my work, so I don't use Patreon or any other crowdfunding service. However, if you'd like to support a worthy cause, consider donating to help more children get access to a high-quality education: https://fundraise.pencilsofpromise.org/fundraiser/1489730
**Keywords:** thomas frank, social anxiety, social skills, nervous, nervousness, shyness, how to stop being shy, overcome shyness, overcome social anxiety, introduce yourself, how to introduce yourself, meeting new people, make friends, how to meet friends, how to have a conversation, make small talk, small talk, visualization, jim carrey, michael phelps, deep breathing, calm nerves, how to stay calm, public speaking, stage fright, anxiety, 
**Date:** 2019-06-30

## Transcript
 So there's this fact of life that I think about pretty often. Every single one of us, you, me, everyone else, we are all skeletons wearing meat suits hurling through space on a rocket thousands of miles an hour. And when you really think about this fact, it's humbling. But it's also totally rad and it's a good reason for why we should probably wear sunglasses indoors more often. But in addition to all that, it also means that we shouldn't really feel nervous when we're meeting new people. After all, they too are just shambling stacks of collagen hurling through space set ludicrous speeds. Still, a lot of us get that tight feeling in the gut when faced with the prospect of meeting a new person. And there are a lot of deep-rooted reasons for this. Maybe you fear being judged, maybe you fear being rejected. Or something that I struggle with big time, maybe you're just afraid that you're going to have nothing to say the other person after you introduce yourself and shake their hand, that things are going to get awkward. Luckily, there are strategies that you can use to deal with all of these problems. And today, we're going to go over some of the ones that don't include ingesting fermented sugar or limiting all of your interactions to two-dimensional characters. Number one. Detach your sense of self-worth from the outcome of the meeting. Realize that rejection doesn't matter in the long run. Whether it's someone that you want to ask out on a date or potential business contact, or just somebody that you admire, the way that they respond has no effect on yourself worth. Now, if the meeting goes poorly, you're going to feel some embarrassment in the short term. Yes, that is unavoidable. But once you get over that feeling of embarrassment, the long-term effects are nothing but positive. That rejection and the survival of that rejection just is another data point that proves you can get through a rocky meeting and come out the other side intact. And adopting this mindset actually makes you a more attractive person right off the bat, because when you're not preoccupied with the outcome of the meeting, you're going to act more naturally. Now, a great way of getting better, adopting this mindset every time you go into an interaction, is to work on building a strong internal sense of self-confidence. And that is a topic for another video. This one, actually. But when you know that you're awesome, you're not constantly looking for external validation to prop up your sense of self-confidence, whether it comes from people praising you or people agreeing with your tastes. When you have that strong core of self-confidence, you're going to be much more able to make it through a situation where there's potential rejection. Number two. Remember that the meeting is a two-way street, and this means that the person you're meeting is often just as nervous as you are. Even if you feel that you're on the wrong side of a power imbalance, such as meeting a famous person, or trying to talk to somebody who you feel is out of your league. People who are in the line light, people who are constantly sharp with compliments, they often feel like they don't deserve them, or that they're being put on a pedestal, and they don't know how to react well. And in many cases, it's not their social confidence that has put them in the linelight. It's something else, like their talent is a writer or as a musician, and those things don't automatically translate to being confident in social situations. A lot of celebrities and famous people have attested to this. Many of them have come out saying that they're shy, that they're uncomfortable around new people, including people like Lady Gaga. Number three. Do your research on the other person. Sometimes. Now this is not a tip that's going to apply to spontaneous interactions. If you meet somebody at an event, you shake their hand, and then you say one moment where you go into the bathroom to stock them on Facebook, things are probably going to get a little bit awkward. So in those cases, probably ignore this one. But if you know you're going to meet somebody beforehand, it can be useful to take a few minutes, glance at their social profiles, and try to get a quick indication of what their interests might be. For example, if you're going to meet Elon Musk, you might want to know the current state of the Falcon rocket projects, and also that he likes bees with top hats. Number four. The next tip is to practice visualization, which is essentially the practice of mentally picturing a successful interaction happening before you actually go into it, or in a more general sense visualization just means picturing success in your mind. Confucius said it best. He who says he can, and he who says he can't, are both usually right. It comes right back down to the internal sense of self confidence. When you are confident that you're going to win, have a great interaction, you're much more likely to make that a reality. And many, many athletes, Olympians, movie stars, famous people of all types have used this technique to create effect. I think my favorite example is Jim Carrey, who actually wrote himself a fake check for $10 million that was dated three years in the future, and then kept that in his wallet. I wrote myself a check for $10 million. For acting services rendered, and I put it in my wallet, and I kept it there, and it deteriorated, and deteriorated, and stuff. And just before, thanks given 1995, I found out that I was going to $10 million on thinking when dumb and dumb. Dumb and dumb are, yeah. Lots of athletes use this technique as well. The most famous example probably being Michael Phelps, who when he was working with his coach would go home every single night and be instructed to watch the video tape, which wasn't actually a physical videotape, but it was a mental projection of having a perfect race. And well, you know how well he did. Number five. That's number five. Remember that you do not look as nervous as you feel. And this is some of that I have to remind myself of every single time that I speak publicly. When I first started speaking publicly, I was sure that the nervousness I felt that shaking in my hands, that sort of static feeling in my head was translating to the way that I looked on stage. But after I got some video footage of my first due time speaking, I realized that that wasn't the case at all. Maybe my emotions were a bit robotic, maybe I looked a bit unpolished, but the way that I felt was not reflected in the way that I looked. I looked a lot calmer. And when you realize this, you're actually going to feel a lot calmer as well. Number six. Take deeper and slower breaths before you go into an interaction where you're nervous. Now all of us know that our body language is affected by the way that we're feeling and by what we're thinking. But this too is a two-way street. And by deliberately taking slower breaths, breathing in more deeply, these things can actually calm you down and lower feelings of anxiety. Similarly, changing your posture or what you do with your hands can literally make you feel more confident. And even choosing to smile can release chemicals that make you feel happier. So, realize that the brain body connection is a two-way street and you can deliberately affect it positively in both ways. Number seven. Let the other person do most of the talking. This is a great way to get over that fear of having nothing to say, which is my biggest struggle in meeting new people. Especially when I'm in a context where there's not a whole lot that I can go off of to strike up a conversation, like I'm not a wedding or something. You know, I often feel like I don't have anything to say. But what I've learned is that people love to talk about themselves and their interests, especially if you've demonstrated that you're willing to listen and be engaged. So, if you're worried that you're going to have nothing to say, let them take the lead. Listen, actively ask questions. And if there are opportunities for you to contribute, well, you can. Finally, I want to share a mantra that I've tried to live by for a long time. An interest-stead person isn't an interesting person. This apply is not only to showing interest in the other person during a conversation, but also to the breadth and depth of your own interests. If you spend time learning widely, then you'll be able to speak knowledgeable and passionately about a lot of different things. And that makes it so much more likely you'll make a connection with anyone you meet. And if you want to start broadening your based knowledge and areas like nature, science, and history, check out CuriosityStream. They over 2400 high quality documentaries and topics ranging from artificial intelligence to fungi do the history behind Pompeii. And lots, lots more. And you can stream all these documentaries to almost any device you want, as they have apps for iOS, Android, Roku, and lots more. And you can do without paying a whole lot since the subscription to CuriosityStream is just $2.99 cents per month. And if you're looking for a place to start, I'd recommend David Attenborough's Light on Earth, which explores biol luminescence. And you can actually watch it from free because if you go to link in the description down below and use the code Thomas when you sign up, you'll get a one month free trial. Huge thanks as always goes out to CuriosityStream for sponsoring this episode, being supported by my channel, and thank you as well for watching. If you enjoyed this episode, maybe consider hitting that like button and also get subscribed right there so you don't miss future videos when they come out. Of course, you can also grab a free copy of my book and I had it earn better grades right there, which might be relevant to use since back to schools, right around the corner. Otherwise, you can find a couple more videos on this channel right over here and here. Thanks for watching, and I'll see you in the next one.
