# Watch this if you’re having an “off day”
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I6XFCl2lHbg
When I'm having an off day, here's what I do to turn things around.
📺 Watch this video ad-free on Nebula: https://nebula.app/videos/thomasfrank-watch-this-if-youre-having-an-off-day

🛠 COURSES AND RESOURCES: 
Notion channel - https://www.youtube.com/c/ThomasFrankExplains
Free Notion templates - https://thomasjfrank.com/templates/
Learn Notion - https://thomasjfrank.com/fundamentals
Productivity and Habits courses - https://thomasjfrank.com/courses/

🦙 SPONSOR: 
Visit https://brilliant.org/thomasfrank/ to get started learning STEM for free, and the first 200 people will get 20% off their annual premium subscription.

🐦 SOCIAL STUFF:
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly
Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Music Channel ➔ https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCmqK2G-3AL_WP5KffH_wqAA
Spotify Study Playlist ➔ https://open.spotify.com/user/thomasfrank09/playlist/4ETfiRPHVmUFLF6q0g8Fux?si=IPfx3dAgQ1SIUwhh5YEQMQ

👐 BUSINESS:
Please contact my agent at thomasfrank@standard.tv

🎞 SPECIAL THANKS
Video clips supplied by Getty Images

💰 I'm fortunate enough to work with great sponsors who support my work, so I don't use Patreon or any other crowdfunding service. However, if you'd like to support a worthy cause, consider donating to help more children get access to a high-quality education: https://fundraise.pencilsofpromise.org/fundraiser/1489730
**Keywords:** thomas frank, productivity, education, how to learn, studying, thoams frnak off day, what to do when you have an off day, how to fix an off day, watch when you cant focus, 
**Date:** 2022-01-31

## Transcript
 So my dad once taught me a lesson that I will never forget. I was probably 12 or 13 of the time and it was a Saturday morning. I was down in the basement with my brother, my dad, and my dad had built an entire gym down there. And he had us work out with him most Saturdays. We all said to work out a few times a week. He was kind of a strict dad and he made us lift weights. But I remember that Saturday morning. I was telling him I'm dead. I'm not really feeling into it today. I feel like I'm having an off day. And I'll never forget what he said to me. He said sometimes you have an off day and then you hit a personal record anyway. So don't give me that bad attitude. Do your warm-up sets and let's get going. Now around this time, I've been lifting for maybe a year. It was pretty casual but I was struggling with the first big milestone that a lot of people have when they're lifting weights, which is bench pressing 135 pounds. That's the big 45 pound plate on each side of the bar. I had tried to hit it a few different times, failed each time. I had this, I guess mental block really, but I thought I couldn't hit it. So I was warming up. I was working up to what I thought was going to be a more working set. And my dad said Thomas, I want you to go into a different room. I'm going to put weights on the bar. And I don't want you to look at what's on the bar. So I go out of the room and then I come back a few seconds later. And at a little glance, couldn't help but look a little bit. I realized that there's a ton of random weights on the bar. A bunch of little 2.5s, 5 pounders, 10 pounders, but I can't tell what's on the bar. I get under it. You don't racks it for me. I hit one rep, put it right back. And he says, congratulations, you just hit 135 pounds. On the day that I had told my dad, hey, it's an off day. I don't think I'm going to do well. I did in fact hit that person record. And that I think is the best possible illustration that I could have ever gotten for the lesson he was trying to teach me. Some days, you have to think you're having an off day. And then you hit a PR anyway. And I have now reinterpreted that to realize that some days you think you're having an off day, but you really aren't. What is happening instead is you have not yet given your body and your mind time to properly warm up to get ready for the challenge that you're throwing yourself into. And when you do, you can take what feels like an off day and turn it into a day where you perform your absolute peak. And that is because there is a two-way relationship between your perception of your capabilities, your perception of how you're feeling, and the actions you actually take. And unfortunately a lot of people think that this road is actually a one-way road, where I perceive that I have a certain level of energy today. And they let that dictate the actions they take. In reality, that road is too way. And when you spend some time getting into the flow of things, spend some time, if you're a writer, just writing gibberish on a page that you know is going to be garbage. Or if you're a lifter spend some time actually doing warm-up sets like you're supposed to, sometimes the actions you take get you into a different frame of mind. And it's not just a cerebral change, it's not just, oh I guess I was actually capable of more than I thought I was today, it's a more emotional change too. You start to feel better, you feel more capable because of the actions you took. It is a two-way road between how you feel and how you act. Now some days, you really are having an off day. Some days you're sick, some days you just aren't feeling it, and that's okay. But I truly believe, at least for me, but you as well, that more than 50% of the time you think you're having an off day, it's just today where you have not yet warmed up enough. So let me now talk a little bit about the art of warming up. I want to share two principles that will help you warm-up more intelligently and more successfully for whatever it is you're trying to do. Number one, stop trying to perform during your warm-ups. This is something that I have to remind myself of all the time when I get into the gym. And right now, the working set that I'm working right now is three reps of 275. So I've got several different warm-ups sets that I'm going to do before I get up to that. And when I'm doing those warm-ups, I often go through this little mental exercise where I first think, why not get a little bit of extra work while I'm doing the warm-ups, huh? So I'll throw the 135 on there and I'll be tempted to do like 20 reps. But that's not the point of the warm-ups, the point isn't to perform there, the point is to simply get your body warmed up. And in exercise science, there's this principle of effective reps. If you do a set of 10 squats, say, maybe only the last three reps are effective. They are actually challenging you and causing your body to prompt a growth response in your muscles. The other reps are just sort of getting you to that effective rep range. You shouldn't be using your warm-up sets to try to generate effective reps and the same thing applies to non-physical work. If I sit down to right and I realize that I'm not in a writing mood and I need to warm-up, I shouldn't be trying to edit my writing right away. And that's a big principle for writing or for art, for any kind of creative work. When you're warming up, when you're trying to get into the flow state, turn off that editing brain. Just let yourself get whatever's in your head onto the page, even if it is complete garbage and you know it, because the point isn't to perform during the warm-up. The point is to warm-up. The second principle that I want to share for you that will make your warmest more successful is to give yourself the time you need to warm-up. A lot of us have more off days than we would like to because what we're doing is shoving our day full of so many different tasks and schedule activities. That we have this anxiety that we're not going to be able to perform in then because we have to do this and then go to this and then go to this. And I'm guilty of this as well. Even though I've talked about rule of three and all kinds of principles around giving yourself the time to do a proper job, I'm still guilty of thinking I can shove just one or two more things onto the to-do list for the day. A little bit of compression with your schedule is good, but if there's not time to warm-up, you're not going to be able to do it. You need some time to warm-up. So schedule less in your day and give each task that time it properly needs for you to get into the flow state and then for you to perform. You need a little bit more time to properly carry out the task. But most importantly, when you feel like you're having an off day, ask yourself, have I warmed up? Have I given myself that opportunity? Because if you haven't, then there is a high probability that this actually isn't an off day and you have the potential to turn it around. If the day is feeling like an on-day, looking for a creative outlet for your energy and a way to become a more innovative and capable problem-solver than you, my friend, to check out Brilliant to have kindly sponsored today's video. Brilliant is learning library for math, science, and computer science. If you want to increase your expertise in any of these areas, Brilliant is an absolutely amazing resource to check out. They have more than 60 in-depth courses covering things like number theory, calculus, probabilities, statistics, algorithm fundamentals, data structures, even a course on how to build your own search engine and understand how the big search engines like Google work. The great thing about Brilliant is that unlike sitting in the lecture or reading a book, you are engaged actively. The entire time you go through one of their courses because active learning is their central tenant for designing all of their materials, which means that as you're going through their courses, you're going to find yourself engaged in interactive and challenging problems that you have to solve. You are in the driver's seat. You have to warm up a bit and get into that learning state of mind. And if you already do that, you can go over to Brilliant.org slash Thomas Frank or click right there and be one of the first 200 people to do so to get 20% off their annual premium subscription. Thanks as always for watching. Thanks for building a response ring and being a big supporter of my channel. Hopefully you found this video helpful. If you did hit that like button for yield algorithm and I'll have a couple of other videos on screen if you want to check those out today. But if you feel like today has been an off day so far and you feel like you haven't warmed up yet, go do that and then go do whatever it is you're supposed to be doing. See you in the next one.
