# How to Study and Do Homework in a Time Crunch - College Info Geek
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ib98J80AUNs
Today we'll look at a few strategies for staying alert, planning your work out, and tackling it in the best possible way - all should help you study well when time is running short.
📺 Watch this video ad-free on Nebula: https://nebula.tv/videos/thomas-frank-yt-how-to-study-and-do-homework-in-a-time-crunch-college-info-geek

🛠 COURSES AND RESOURCES: 
Notion channel - https://www.youtube.com/c/ThomasFrankExplains
Free Notion templates - https://thomasjfrank.com/templates/
Learn Notion - https://thomasjfrank.com/fundamentals
Productivity and Habits courses - https://thomasjfrank.com/courses/

📃 ARTICLE VERSION:
https://collegeinfogeek.com/time-crunch-study-finish-assignment-overnight/

🐦 SOCIAL STUFF:
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly
Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Music Channel ➔ https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCmqK2G-3AL_WP5KffH_wqAA
Spotify Study Playlist ➔ https://open.spotify.com/user/thomasfrank09/playlist/4ETfiRPHVmUFLF6q0g8Fux?si=IPfx3dAgQ1SIUwhh5YEQMQ

👐 BUSINESS:
Please contact my agent at thomasfrank@standard.tv

💰 I'm fortunate enough to work with great sponsors who support my work, so I don't use Patreon or any other crowdfunding service. However, if you'd like to support a worthy cause, consider donating to help more children get access to a high-quality education: https://fundraise.pencilsofpromise.org/fundraiser/1489730
**Keywords:** homework, assignment, time pressure, time crunch, overnight, all nighter, finish work, finish homework, no time to work, study, cramming, cram exam, cram test, study session, test prep, Test Preparation (Consumer Product), 
**Date:** 2015-11-07

## Transcript
 The great American writer Mark Twain once said never put off till tomorrow what may be done the day after tomorrow just as well. Of course when we live by that advice sometimes we find ourselves checking concentrated coffee at 2 a.m. in a valley into temp to stay up and finish a project that's doing six hours. I've been there as productive as I'd like to think I am, I have been there. And if you've been there as well, or maybe if you're there right now, this video is for you. Now we're going to look at some specific concepts related to planning and willpower in a minute, namely the impact effort matrix and ego depletion, but first I want to talk about the foundation here, location selection. I think your location is incredibly important when you're working under pressure and personally I like to pick my locations for studying based on vibe. That is what's going on around me. I tend to favor coffee shops and libraries, in fact I still go to my university library at times even though I've graduated because I like to be an environment where the people around me are also working. It motivates me. Also close proximity to caffeine does help. The most important part of location selection though is avoiding the call of the pillow. When you're working under a time crunch, it's likely you're going to be working late into the night so you want to pick a location that's as far away from your bed as possible. Call up James Cameron and go study at the bottom of the Marriott trench or go to the Summit of Mount Everest. Don't worry about the lack of oxygen. That's not a big deal. Seriously though, the later it gets the more you're going to start rationalizing how good a nap might be and then we're going to start deciding that certain aspects of your project maybe aren't all that important. So just make sure you pick a study location where it would be more effort to go to bed than it would be to just finish a project. Now with that piece of business taken care of it's time to plan your efforts. Before you start working it's a good idea to look at your workload and break it down into individual components and then to assess those components to figure out which ones deserve the bulk of your attention. Dwight Eisenhower often remarked that what is important is seldom urgent and what is urgent is seldom important. In the book the seven habits of highly effective people Stephen Covey popularized the Eisenhower decision matrix which is based on this principle. Within that matrix tasks are categorized based on their importance and their urgency and that matrix is used in a lot of time management systems but when you're studying under a time crunch everything can seem urgent. Because of that the main factor you should be focusing on is importance and to that end we're going to use a similar but more fitting tool which is called the Impact Effort Matrix. Here tasks are given scores based on their impact of the overall success of the project and the effort that it's going to take to implement them. To give an example of this when I was a senior in college when my final project was to build a web app and my idea was to build something I called AMPEN. It was an app where you'd have to log in before a certain time each morning until the app you were awake otherwise it would send an embarrassing email to someone like your mom. This app idea was actually the precursor to the early wake up system I used now which I detailed in this video but when I was working on it I found myself in a time crunch. So to help me finish it on time I broke the project down to the individual sections I needed to code and then prioritize them based on this Impact Effort Matrix. The core functions the code that ran the scheduling and email delivery systems and the code that let the user tell the system they were awake, those things took a lot of effort to build but they were also the most high impact parts of the project. On the other hand some parts the site like the about page, the FAQ page, the contact page, those things were lower impact but they were also really easy to implement they didn't take much time and because of that I made sure to include them to make the project seem more complete. The main element of the site I chose not to focus on as much was the registration and login system. A good one should have functionality to reset passwords but I felt that I didn't have time to do everything so I focused more of my time on the alarm functions because that was right at the point of the project and I just grabbed old code from a previous project for registration and login and this decision did pay off. The code that ran the alarm portion of the system was more advanced than most of the other projects in the class so I ended up getting an A. Taking this back to you to assign Impact and Effort Scores to each component of your project or to each assignment if you're juggling multiple consider the following factors. What the core deliverables are, the grading criteria for the project which components count for the most points, what percentage of your grade each assignment counts for overall and how much each component will contribute to the knowledge you need to have for tests which usually impact your grade the most. Once you've assigned a score to each component of the project I think it's a good idea to tackle the ones that have the highest impact but also the highest effort first. This is due to something called Ego depletion, a phenomenon described in Daniel comments book thinking fast and slow. Signing research from the psychologist Roy Balmester who reveals that an effort of will or self-control is tiring if you have to force yourself to do something you're less willing or less able to exert self-control when the next challenge comes around. So use the book your willpower to deal with those high impact high effort tests first. That way later on you only have the high impact low effort tests to tackle when you're feeling drained and that is where we're going to wrap this video. If you select your location wisely plan based on impact and effort and title your tasks in an order that utilizes your willpower effectively you're going to get through this time crunch in one piece. If you enjoyed this video and found it helpful then give it a like to support this channel and I would love to hear any additional tips you have down in the comments and of course we will cover additional strategies in the future especially regarding how to deal with procrastination. Well that's all I got for you guys so as always thanks for watching and I will see you next week. In addition to resources with the companion blog post which I'll buy by clicking the orange logo right there and in last week's video we talked about what to do I can feel you have too many interests and need to prioritize your time and check it out if you didn't see it. Lastly if you want to connect your ask questions I'm Tom Frankley on both Twitter and Instagram or we do the comment below.
