# How to Hack Your Memory with the "Major System"
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IDJ9C83NQkU
Check out Brilliant.org to start learning for free - and be among the first 83 people to sign up to get 20% off your subscription: https://brilliant.org/ThomasFrank

Huge thanks to Brilliant for sponsoring this video!

Ever wonder how that one kid in your school was able to memorize pi to 347 digits? This video will teach you a system that will enable you to EASILY do the same thing - as well as remember phone numbers, dates for history class, and anything else that involves numbers.

Get my book "10 Steps to Earning Awesome Grades" FREE: 
https://collegeinfogeek.com/get-better-grades/

Links from the Video:

Major System Reference table: https://collegeinfogeek.com/major-mnemonic-system-reference/

Follow Me:
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly
Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Podcast ➔ https://www.youtube.com/TheCollegeInfoGeekPodcast

Subscribe to My Channel:
http://buff.ly/1vQP5ar

My Video Gear:
https://kit.com/tomfrankly/my-video-gear
**Keywords:** memory, memorization, remember, remember numbers, remember phone numbers, memorize dates, memorize numbers, memorize phone number, major system, memory palace, memory champion, method of loci, improve memory, improve memorization, memory tips, memorization tips, study tips, study faster, remember more, remember what you study, math tips, remember dates, remember birthdays, thomas frank, 
**Date:** 2018-03-04

## Transcript
 It's no secret that our brains remember different types of information with differing levels of strength. If you're walking down the street one day and a grizzly bear pops out and starts chasing you, you are going to remember that for the rest of your life. No study needed. And that is going to happen because your brain is hard, wire to keep information like that up in its archives forever. But what about more mundane information? What about a string of random numbers? Well, I generated this string of random numbers on random.org just a couple of days ago, and even though I've only looked at it once since then, I know by heart that reads 5171992849. If you were paying close enough attention there, you might have noticed that there were 10 digits on that piece of paper. And 10 is exactly the number of digits in a phone number, at least the phone number in the United States. In other countries, there are different numbers of digits in different formatting, but what is universal is the way that most people try to memorize phone numbers. Unless you're already privy to certain memory techniques, you probably try to remember a phone number the same way that I've always done it, through wrote memorization. And this, as you are probably already aware, is not a very good way to remember things. I mean, yes, your brain does have to recall things on a pretty regular basis to build strong memories, but wrote memorization alone is a very inefficient study technique, especially for numbers. See, even if you really want to remember that phone number, because it's the rock's phone number, most of your brain perceives that phone number as what it really is, the symbolic representation of quantity. And that's not nearly as interesting to your brain as a grizzly bear chasing you down the street. But fortunately, there is a method out there for easily remembering any number that you want to keep up in your cranium, including this one, which is incidentally not the rock's number. I lied about that, but the method is called the major system, and today I'm going to teach it to you. This method of memorization has probably been around in one form or another for thousands of years, but it was most prominently explained by the popular mathematics writer, Martin Gardner, in his book, Hexaflexigons, Probability Paradoxes, and the Tower of Hinoi, and it works in three distinct stages. First, you take each digit of the sequence that you're trying to memorize, and you encode it as a specific consonant, using a table of phonetic pairings, which I'm going to explain in a second, and which is at the heart of the major system. Next, you take these consonants that you just generated, and you smash them together to create words. And I'm not talking about gibberish words here, these are real words that you would use in every day's speech. And finally, you take those words and you encode them as visually striking, interesting images that as you're going to find out, are much easier to recall than random numbers. Now, we're going to do a couple of examples here in a second, but first, I do need to explain that table of phonetic pairings. Within the major system, every digit from 0 to 9 is paired with a specific sound that we make in human speech. And this makes the major system very flexible, because there are multiple consonants that can be bound to certain digits. For example, as you can see in the table here, one can be encoded as either D or T, because both of these have a single downstroke, and when you say D and T, they sound quite similar. Numbers like 6 are even more flexible and have even more consonant pairings, while numbers like 4 have only 1. Now, I'm not going to go through every single pairing here in the video, because you can just pause it and look at it. And I am going to have a web version linked in the description below, but I do want to note that not every letter in the alphabet is paired with a number in this system, and all of the vowels are omitted, because these are going to be used for forming words once you do have your encoded consonants. Alright, enough fooling around, let's do an example so you can see the system in action. So a couple of days ago, I went to the coffee shop near me to do a little bit of reading, and I started reading this book called The Dip by Seth Goden. Now, this book is only about 75 pages, but I wasn't able to finish it in the coffee shop. I got to about page 48. And once I got there, and I was ready to stop reading, I realized that I didn't bring a bookmark with me, and because I don't like to dog here the pages in my books, that meant that I was going to have to memorize the page that I stopped on. So let's use the major system to do this. I've got the number 48, the need to memorize, that means I'm working with the digits 4 and 8. And if we pull up our handy little table here, we can see that those get encoded as r and v, respectively. With those two letters in mind, we've got a bunch of different choices for words. We could go with rave, we could go with rf, but I am just going to go with rv. So that means that rv is the word that's going to get me back to 48. So all I need to do now is come up with a visually striking scenario in my head that helps me easily remember that word rv. When you're doing this part, it can be really helpful to also come up with a word that represents the context of the situation, in this case the book that I'm reading. And since this book was written by Seth Gauden, and since I know what he looks like, I'm just going to use him as the secondary image. So to mash those two things together, I came up with a scenario where Seth Gauden was hanging out in that space RV from the movie Space Balls with Barf and Lone Star. And yes, that is absolutely ridiculous, but as you might know, you brain remembers odd and ridiculous things a lot more easily than it recalls dull things. So now I've got this really easy to remember image, and all I need to do to get back to my number is work backwards. Seth Gauden, chillin in the RV, okay rv is my word, which means that r and v are my consonants translate those to 4 and 8. Boom, 48. Now, at this point you might be thinking, okay Tom, that was two digits, that's super easy. What about that phone number you showed beginning the video? That was 10 digits. What happens when we have a lot more digits to memorize? This is the point where you want to combine the major system with other memorization systems. And the first step to doing that is to chunk the digits you're trying to memorize, which means to break them down into smaller groups. Technically, you could use chunks of any size, but remember, you are translating these digits into continents. So the bigger your chunks are, the harder it's going to be to find a word that represents them all because they all have to remain in order. Because of that, I think it's good to work with chunks of two digits. If we go that route with our 10 digit phone number, we get 5171992849. Then just like before, we translate those digits into consonants and create words out of them. In this case, I went with these. And now comes the part where you combine the major system with another memorization system because now you need to remember this list of words in its exact order. Now, there are a ton of different techniques out there that you could use to do this. One of them being the method of Loki, also known as the memory palace, which has you associating the information you want to remember with specific locations inside a place like your house. But the method of Loki is pretty complicated, and I should probably do an entire video on it, so I'm going to do that pretty soon. And in this case, I'm going to make up a story using my words instead. One of the really powerful things about creating stories that are brains naturally latch on to stories, because stories are linear, we understand the order in which events happen, so the words are easy to pull out in order as well. And just like with my crazy spaceball story from before, the more outlandish and odd your story is, the easier time your brain is going to have remembering it. So there you have it. Translate your digits into consonants, create words out of those consonants, and then create crazy stories that help you remember those words, and then work backwards from there to get back to those numbers that you want it to remember. At this point, you now know how that one weird kid in your school managed to memorize pie to 347 digits, and maybe, just maybe, you can go challenge them now. Now, there are a lot of other techniques out there that can help you improve your memorization skills, and, like I said earlier in the video, we're going to be going over some of them in future videos, including the method of Loki, but it's also important to note that memorization is only one skill. And if you want to be a top performer in school or in your work, then you need to complement it with other skills, like critical thinking and problem solving. You also need to be able to build mental models that link concepts together, so you can understand how they all affect the bigger picture. And if you're looking for a resource that will stretch your capabilities in those areas, check out Brilliant. Learning platform that helps people effectively learn math, science, and computer science, all while building strong and universally applicable cognitive skills along the way. With Brilliant's Library, you'll find courses on topics like calculus, and linear algebra, and on math that applies to trading and finance. You'll also find courses on gravitational physics, and astronomy, machine learning, and soon even of course on automotive engineering, which I am personally pretty excited about. Throughout all of the courses, Brilliant takes an extremely active approach to learning, throwing you straight into challenging problems that give you an immediate reason to want to learn. And they back this up with an extensively detailed wiki, which you can use to flesh out your knowledge and any problems you're stuck on, and a community full of thousands of active learners who are constantly helping and challenging each other. I'm a huge fan of Brilliant's approach to learning, and I highly recommend that you guys give them a try. You can sign up and start learning for free today at Brilliant.org slash Thomas Frank, and the first 83 people who sign up will also get 20% off of their annual subscription. I want to give a huge thanks to Brilliant for sponsoring this video and helping to support this channel, and as always, guys, thank you so much for watching. If you liked this video, you can hit that like button down below, and also get subscribe right there so you don't miss out on any future videos, and you also might want to grab a free copy of my book on Arning Better Grades right there. Lastly, you might also want to follow me over on Instagram. It's a doing daily stories now, and I'm also doing regular live streams, and if you want to catch those, I will have the link in the description down below. Thanks for watching, and I will see you in the next video.
