# How to Actually Go to Bed on Time
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ijphHNC_-To
Why you stay up late even when you don't want to...and what to do instead.
📺 Watch this video ad-free on Nebula: https://nebula.app/videos/thomas-frank-how-to-actually-go-to-bed-on-time

🛠 COURSES AND RESOURCES: 
Notion channel - https://www.youtube.com/c/ThomasFrankExplains
Free Notion templates - https://thomasjfrank.com/templates/
Learn Notion - https://thomasjfrank.com/fundamentals
Productivity and Habits courses - https://thomasjfrank.com/courses/

🦙 SPONSOR: 
Get a free month of both CuriosityStream and Nebula (my streaming platform) by going to  https://curiositystream.com/thomas/ and using the code "thomas" when you sign up!

🐦 SOCIAL STUFF:
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly
Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Music Channel ➔ https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCmqK2G-3AL_WP5KffH_wqAA
Spotify Study Playlist ➔ https://open.spotify.com/user/thomasfrank09/playlist/4ETfiRPHVmUFLF6q0g8Fux?si=IPfx3dAgQ1SIUwhh5YEQMQ

🔗 VIDEO LINKS:
The Martin System for tracking habits: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0bxIg3M_MHY
Sleeptown: https://sleeptown.seekrtech.com/
Forest: https://www.forestapp.cc/

👐 BUSINESS:
Please contact my agent at thomasfrank@standard.tv

💰 I'm fortunate enough to work with great sponsors who support my work, so I don't use Patreon or any other crowdfunding service. However, if you'd like to support a worthy cause, consider donating to help more children get access to a high-quality education: https://fundraise.pencilsofpromise.org/fundraiser/1489730

Production:

Written by Thomas Frank
Filmed by Tony Santos and Martin Boehme
Edited by Tony Santos and Martin Boehme
Very Creepy Prop Design by Martin Boehme and Ashley Diers

Tony: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCuD_syXDs4tSKExuPjM9ZWQ
Martin: https://www.instagram.com/yomartholomew
**Keywords:** thomas frank, productivity, sleep, sleep tips, how to go to bed on time, bed time, bedtime, night routine, nightly routine, how to go to bed early, get enough sleep, better sleep, improve sleep, sleep better, fall asleep, phone addiction, 20 second rule, habits, better habits, bad habit, break bad habits, go to bed, go to sleep, go to sleep early, go to sleep on time, 
**Date:** 2020-02-29

## Transcript
 This video is sponsored by CuriosityStream. Good access to my streaming service Nebula for free when you sign up for CuriosityStream by going to CuriosityStream.com slash Thomas. It is 1030pm right now, but this actually isn't where I am. I'm actually right here, sitting in my desk. What am I doing? I don't know, I'm looking at YouTube statistics. I'm scrolling through Twitter maybe I'm playing a video game. Whatever I'm doing, I'm not actually doing what I really want to be doing right now, which is sleeping. See, I am the kind of person who likes to get up early in the morning. I like to get an early start in the day, but to do that and to get a good amount of sleep, which is crucial, I have to go to bed at a decent time the night before. And to be completely honest with you, over the past few months, I have sort of fallen out of the habit and I found really difficult to get my butt into bed at a good time every single night. So, I am making this video as a sort of wake-up call to myself. I'm going to break down the problems that I see in my life, the things that are preventing me from going to bed when I really want to go to bed that are affecting myself discipline or I guess that myself discipline has not yet been able to overcome and I'm going to lay out a plan for solving those problems and actually getting back to a decent bedtime. But given that you clicked this video, knowing what the title was, I'm guessing you might have an issue going to bed at a good time as well. So hopefully this is as helpful to you as it is for me. That being said, I have narrowed it down to three specific problems. And also when I'm thinking about it, I actually have to get on a plane tomorrow and go to Atlanta to speak. So, hey Martin, do you think you could help with the b-roll for this video? I don't like that, but I don't have time to deal with it. Anyway, so like I said, three specific problems. There's kind of four because I do find myself staying up playing guitar late some nights, but really what I find myself doing instead of going to bed most nights is either sitting on my computer doing stupid stuff, like scrolling through YouTube analytics or watching a two-hour retrospective on bio-shock infinite and game design choices. Cool video, but probably not something I should be clicking on at 11pm. Or scrolling through my phone while in bed or watching a movie way too late, like starting a movie way too late and then committing to finishing it even if it finishes at 12 30pm. These are all bad habits that I've found myself doing. But two of them have to do with respecting the 22nd rule. The 22nd rule is a concept from Sean Acres Book, the Happiness Advantage. And in that book, he talks about one of the most important driving factors in the formation of good habits and in your ability to break bad ones is how you set up your environment. Specifically, making sure that your environment is set up in such a way that doing the good habits is very easy and on the opposite side of that coin that you set things up so your bad habits are actually very inconvenient to do. So for one really good example, if you like me want to eat less ice cream, maybe you would keep your ice cream out of your freezer. Like, there is an ice cream shop 15 minutes away on foot. I could walk to it if I wanted ice cream. But I'm never impulsively going to the ice cream shop 15 minutes away to get ice cream. It's only when there's ice cream in my freezer that I will take a break from working to eat ice cream instead of eating a healthy lunch. Again, the way you set up your environment is crucial in the formation of the habits that you really want to build. And in the case of going to bed on time, I have not been respecting that 22nd rule because I often leave my computer on all day long, even once I'm done with work. And what that really results in is scenarios where I will come down stairs. It's 10 pm at night and I'll convince myself that I'm just going to check YouTube analytics for one second. But then, because the internet is built in such a way to provide constant little dopamine hits, I'll find myself going to another website, checking another set of stats. And eventually, you know, going down whatever rabbit hole it is, it leads me to that two-hour bio-shock or system-shock retrospective that I found myself watching. So, to respect the 22nd rule, I need to change my environment. And the way that I'm going to do that is number one, having a specific time at which I will shut my computer off for the day. If it is shut off, I'm not going to go get on that computer, convincing myself that it's going to check something. It would be too inconvenient. And for the phone, I'm going to follow the exact same principle. I'm not going to be putting the phone on the nightstand anymore. Instead, I'm going to keep it away from my nightstand, have it across the room. It's still going to be my alarm clock for now. But if it's across the room, if it's plugged in for the night, then I'm not going to be tempted to grab it and check stats or social media or whatever it is. That just leaves us with the issue of staying up to late watching movies. Now, I see this as a different self-discipline issue, because it's not really a 22nd rule issue, since sitting down and starting a movie seems to be a bit more of a significant thing. It's not something that you just do impossibly. For me, I think part of the problem here is that, if you've been watching my channel, you probably know, I've taken a much greater interest in the cinematography and the production aspect of my content. And as a result, I'm a lot more interested to watch movies these days, because I take a lot of inspiration from them, especially my favorite director in the world who is Edgar Wright. So, I will convince myself to watch movies even if it's too late in the evening, to really start it and still be able to go to bed on time. So, I think I need to take a more holistic approach to solving a problem from this angle. And like I've talked about in the past, when your self-discipline fails, the best thing you can do is to essentially put training wheels on the bike, to enlist the help of an external system, to help you to get back in the correct pattern of habits that you want, and then slowly build yourself discipline up from there, so it can sort of maintain those habits on its own. So, recently, I found out about an app called Sleep Town, which was created by the same people who made the forest app. And I've talked about forest before, it's basically an app where you kind of grow virtual trees if you don't touch your phone for a certain amount of time, which means it actually kind of functions as a really nice Pomodoro app for getting work done. And Sleep Town is basically the exact same concept applied to sleep. Instead of growing a virtual forest, you are building a virtual town, and you get to build a building every single night that you go to bed for a specific going to bed time, and then wake up at a specific wake-up time. So, this is going to be my experiment for now, I'm going to try using that. And then, of course, like I've talked about in other videos, I also believe in tracking my progress over time. So, I'm going to be using the Martin system that I outlined in my recent have tracking video to also be physically checking off every single night that I do go to bed on time. And hopefully, I'll be able to develop that habit once again, and be able to start getting up early in the morning, once again, so my morning routine doesn't take so long. And that's going to be important because I'm not always doing good work at night when I'm staying up too late. Like I said, I'm often like watching two-hour video game retrospectives, which is definitely not productive. But if I get up early in the morning and get early start to the day, I have a lot more time to put into pushing my content, which is really what I want to be doing right now. And you've probably seen that in the last few videos on the YouTube channel. There's actually one other video where we did that, and really, really proud of the work we did. The probably haven't seen unless you are a member of Nebula. Now, if you haven't heard of Nebula, Nebula is a completely independent, self-funded streaming service that is created by both of myself, and a lot of other creators that you probably recognize, such as Devon from Legal Eagle, Sam from Whenever Productions, Brian from Real Engineering, lots of great educational creators, and we're essentially building this service. So we have a way to pursue ideas that might not work on YouTube, since the YouTube algorithm kind of favors staying in your lane for lack of a better term. And the video that I created recently was a deep dive into the secrets in the intro sequence of one of my favorite TV shows of all time, which is Gravity Falls. And if you've seen that show, you know, there are lots of cool secrets in that intro sequence, and actually throughout the entire show. We are incredibly proud of the work that we did on that episode, and I would love it if you checked it out over on the working title series, which is where it lives on Nebula. In addition to that, being on Nebula means you get ad-free versions of my videos, which actually go up on Nebula before they go up on YouTube. So it's a great way to just support my content without having to watch ads. If you get on Nebula right now, you're going to see a behind-the-scenes video with myself and my editor Tony, where we talk about how we made that skillier solar losing video, which was absolutely the most complex video we've ever worked on up until that point. So you might be interested to see that. And the best part is that subscribing to Nebula and supporting us getting ad-free videos also comes with CuriosityStream. We have worked with CuriosityStream to create a bundle, so you can actually subscribe to CuriosityStream, get access to thousands of high-quality documentaries, including documentaries covering nature, history, technology, science. Their documentaries from David Attenborough, there's one on the science of sleep, actually, which would be a great follow-up to this video. So you can access to all of that, plus access to Nebula, for just $3 a month or 20 bucks a year if you want to pay for your upfront. But the best part is if you go over to CuriosityStream.com slash Thomas, you can get access for 31 days completely free. So you can try it before you even put any money up. But again, it's three bucks a month. It's a fantastic deal. And that $3 a month gets you ad-free videos. You get to support creators. And well, just thank you if you choose to do it. Thanks for watching this video as well. Hopefully you found it helpful. Again, I'm kind of laying these things out for myself. And I have to make this video quickly, because I'm going off to a conference that I have to speak at. But I think this is an issue that is not mine alone. I think a lot of people do with this issue, especially with all the social media apps that we have such instant access to these days. So if you did enjoy this, definitely provide a like if you feel like it was worth it. That definitely helps the YouTube algorithm to thank my channel as worth promoting to other people, which makes me feel good. So thank you if you do that. Thanks for your support as always. If you want to watch some other videos, I've got some more on screen right here. You can also get subscribed if you want notifications. Maybe of new videos. You can hit the bell if you want a little bit more of a guarantee of notifications. But no pressure if you don't want to. And I will see you in my next video. Go do a joint, I'm not your dad, and I'm out of here. Special effects!
