# 6 Steps to Stop Procrastinating NOW
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ilwork_mktE
To get Audible for the first three months at $6.95 per month, go to: https://www.audible.com/thomas or text "thomas" to 500-500.

Huge thanks to Audible for sponsoring this video!

Want to beat procrastination? Today we'll be going over a 6-step process that you can use to stop procrastinating the moment you notice yourself doing it.

If you want to start focusing more effectively and stop wasting time, put this process into action the next time you feel the urge to procrastinate.

Watch the other two videos in this series:

The Science Behind Why We Procrastinate - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7DvftaHlZR0

How to Break Your Procrastination Habit (For Good) - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YokGiK29k74

Read our Ultimate Procrastination Guide:
https://collegeinfogeek.com/how-to-stop-procrastinating/

Get my book "10 Steps to Earning Awesome Grades" FREE: 
https://collegeinfogeek.com/get-better-grades/

Follow Me:
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly
Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Podcast ➔ https://www.youtube.com/TheCollegeInfoGeekPodcast

Subscribe to My Channel:
http://buff.ly/1vQP5ar

Links from the Video:

I forgive myself, now I can study: How self-forgiveness for procrastinating can reduce future procrastination - https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S0191886910000474

My Video Gear:
https://kit.com/tomfrankly/my-video-gear
**Keywords:** thomas frank, productivity, education, how to learn, studying, procrastination, stop procrastinating, stop procrastination, procrastinate, wasting time, waste time, stop wasting time, productivity tips, task management, time management, how to focus, get to work, focus tips, focusing, study tips, how study, how to work harder, study session, time wasting, lazy, stop being lazy, how not to be lazy, plan your day, schedule, daily schedule, productive, get things done, 
**Date:** 2018-11-30

## Transcript
 Welcome back to the procrastination series that I have been intending to do for the past three years. And yes, if you're wondering this series is a self intervention for me. So in yesterday's video, we went deep into the science of procrastination. There were lots of research studies, lots of results, lots of insights. And if you haven't seen that, I'm going to have it down in the description below. But this video is going to be a lot more actionable because in this part two of our procrastination series, we're going to be talking about how to stop procrastinating in the moment when you notice yourself putting things off. And to do that, we are going to go through a process of six steps. Starting with a step that you might not have thought to do otherwise, but that science actually shows to be effective, which is to forgive yourself for any prior procrastination. If you remember from yesterday's video, we talked about a researcher named Timothy Pitchell who's done quite a lot of research into the subject of procrastination. And one of the studies that he did examined the role of guilt and procrastination and the forgiveness of that guilt. When he surveyed 119 college students, he found that students who took the time to deliberately forgive themselves for procrastination in preparation for a midterm exam were actually less likely to procrastinate on future exams. So before you get into any of the other steps in this process, if you are a chronic procrastinator, if you've been kicking yourself for wasting tons of time, first, forgive yourself. And it's also useful to realize that going forward, there is never going to be a perfect moment to study. There's never going to be a perfect time to do it. And this is one of the stories we tell ourselves, right? We think that in the future things are going to be better. The stars are going to be aligned and we're going to be at a much better position to actually get to work. And what you have to do is tell yourself that this moment right now, it's imperfect. It's not exactly what you want it to be, but it is possible. It's enough for you to get to work at least make some progress. From there, it is time to move on to step two in the process, which is to redefine success to fit your present circumstances. If you are already late on a project or homework assignment and you've put things off to the point where now it's unrealistic to finish things with your original due date, then even if you try to work really, really hard, you're likely to fail. And as we talked about in the first video in this series, part of the temporal motivation theory of the procrastination equation is expectancy. When we don't have an expectation that we can achieve the goal we've set up to do, we are much more likely to procrastinate on it, or to put it off. So clearly, if you're sitting there looking at the hand that you've now dealt with yourself and you realize that failure is likely option, you're probably not going to be very motivated to work. So instead sit down and define a new version of what success looks like. For example, if the original deadline is now unrealistic, you may need to set a new deadline. Maybe you even need to email your teacher or email your group members and ask them for an extension. Or for an example that isn't based on time, if you realize that you're not going to get a 4.0 this semester, and that's what you want it to do, sit down and redefine your goal to be maybe a 3.8. That way you can actually succeed from where you are right now. Of course, you do want to make sure that this goal is still fulfilling and challenging to you, because if you make it too easy, it's not going to be motivating for different reasons. And you're not going to feel good about yourself even if you do manage to achieve it. All right, steps one and two are now out of the way. Those were kind of mental steps about kind of getting your brain in the right place to get your work done. Now we're moving to step three, which is the first really actionable, tangible step in the process. And it's to remove potential short-term distractions from your environment. For me, the first item of business here is to clear my workspace. Close my tabs, close programs that are unrelated to my work, clear my desk off, basically try to get my space as optimized for the one task I have decided to do. And if you can't get your workspace into the right configuration for doing this, then you may want to change it. If your dorm is a bad place to work, for example, then maybe go to the library or go to a coffee shop. But you do want to make sure that you don't fall into the trap of finding a workspace that is perfect, because no workspace is. And if you get into that trap, trying to find the place that is the most optimized place for working, then you're never actually going to start your work. You're just going to keep searching. Secondly, it's probably a good idea to have a list somewhere on your computer or on a scrap a paper where you can write down errands that come up or small tasks that you think of doing, so you can do them later. I'm not sure about you, but one of my biggest procrastination triggers is convincing myself that I just need to go check my email or check a few other things or do some small tasks before I sit down and do the thing that I really should be doing. And I have had days go by, even weeks sometimes, where I have filled my time with those small tasks that really aren't all that important. And I never actually get the real work done, the real effective work that moves the needle in my business or in my work. So, make sure that you have that list, and that you diligently write things down when they come into your attention. Then later on, when you have some time, you can probably batch all those tasks at once. Next, try to dedicate at least a little bit of time to take care of your biological needs. If you're hungry, make sure you eat a snack, maybe have a bottle of water, or some tea, or coffee next to you on your desk, go to the bathroom, and if you're feeling tired or fatigued, at least take five minutes to go for a quick walk before you start working. Once you have checked off, all those little biological boxes, though, you're going to want to make sure to one get comfortable. So, if you're energetic, maybe try to find a standing desk, or a counter you can work at, otherwise just make sure that you're seated with good posture, and that you're wearing clothes that make you comfortable within the temperature of the room that you're in. And lastly, and you knew this was coming, ask yourself, do I need the internet? Do I need access to a lot of the tools that are kind of like defaults in my life? Do I need my phone? Remember, when you are really close to the internet, when you're really close to the things that could be potential distractions, your impulsiveness is higher, you are more likely to give in to those distractions. So, maybe put those away, or maybe disconnect the internet on your laptop altogether. Step four in the process is to break your task down into smaller, more actionable sub-tags. So, here's the thing, when you are working on a project, you're never actually working on that project as a whole. You're only ever working on one specific task, and then in retrospect, all those add up to look like a big project. But when you're looking forward and you're telling yourself, I have to do that entire project, it looks a lot more difficult. And as we talked about in the first video, the series, expectancy, the belief that you can actually do the thing you've set up to do, is a huge factor in whether or not you're going to procrastinate. A good example of this is the tough motor that I decided to run a couple of months ago. This was 10 miles with more than 20 obstacles, and going into it, I was pretty confident that I could do it, but it still seemed like a huge challenge. So, once the starting gun was fired and we actually got to start running, I didn't think of it as a 10-mile challenge. I wasn't thinking about all the obstacles to come. Instead, my goal at any given moment was just to make it to the next obstacle. And of course, I did eventually cross the finish line, shivering in on the verge of hypothermia, actually. But I did finish it, and it was a result of finishing one little task at a time. And as those stacked up one after the other, they formed a huge project. But in the moment, I was never thinking about the project as a whole. And this is exactly how you should think of your project. Think about it in terms of the individual task that needs to be done next. The next step. And speaking of next steps, the next step in this process is to reframe your task as input-based rather than output-based. What I mean by this is instead of focusing on the thing you need to do, even if it does feel small and actionable, instead try asking yourself to simply work for 20 minutes, or work for 25 minutes in the case of the Pomodoro technique. And this is something that I've talked about many times in previous videos. I've made an entire video about it, but in case you haven't heard me talk about it before, here is the 10-second version. Essentially, the Pomodoro technique has you pick one task to work on, you sit down, you set an actual physical timer for 25 minutes, and you only work on that task during that time. And what makes this technique so effective and why I use it almost every single day is that it reframes your task. Whatever the task is, no matter how difficult it is, it reframes it and makes it just work for 25 minutes, which is something that you know you can do. Finally, for our sixth step in the process, if you are starting a brand new task, then make that first Pomodoro session or that first input-based session, simply be the act of setting things up to do that task. By this, I mean, instead of actually diving in and working on the parts of the task that you know are difficult, see what you can set up around it. And I actually did that for this video series. During the editing process, instead of starting the edit right away, which I know is difficult, frustrating sometimes, I first set a timer and I set up the file structure for it. I set up all the folders, all the quick access links, all the little things that I do for every single video that just make the editing process more convenient. And as often happens when I do these Pomodoro sessions, I kind of got into the zone. And once all that little setup work was done, I actually spent about a full hour editing before I took my first break. And even if for some reason, you don't find yourself in the flow state after doing this. Well, you have at least put in about 20 or 25 minutes of work getting everything set up. So when you come back for the next work session, it's all kind of ready for you. Now in the next and final video in the series, we're going to talk about some more high-level concepts that can help you become less of a procrastinator overall and kind of shed that label of chronic procrastinator if you identify with it. But at least for now, with the process we've just outlined, you now have the tools to stop procrastinating in the moment of whatever it is you have been putting off. Now, as I may have mentioned before, there was a ton of research that went to this mini series. One of the most important and useful sources that I consulted was Barbara Oakley's book, A Mind for Numbers, which in addition to having several great chapters on procrastination is also just one of the best books that I have ever come across for anyone wanting to learn more effectively across the board. And that is why if you've not already read this book, I highly recommend that you pick it up or potentially listen to it on audible, which is the world's best place to get your hands on audiobooks. I have been a not a subscriber for years. It's one of the most useful subscriptions that I have. And if you're not already a subscriber, as well, now would be one of the best times ever to get started. Because for a limited time, you can get three months of audible for just 6.95 per month by going over to audible.com slash Thomas and signing up or by texting Thomas to 500 500 on your phone. Autobals library of audiobooks is absolutely massive with an unmatched selection of titles ranging from personal development to science fiction to biographies. They've got all the best sellers, lots of obscure stuff. And once you have that membership, you're going to access to three different titles every single month. One from that huge library and two audible originals that you cannot get anywhere else. Additionally, the membership is very flexible. For example, the credits that you get every single month actually roll over if you don't use them. So if you happen to download it really long audio book one month and don't use your credit the next month, it's just going to roll over and you're going to have to the following month, which is pretty sweet. And if you happen to use one of those credits to download, not your book, the just don't like, you can very easily exchange it for another audiobook in a library with no questions asked. Plus, if you ever do decide to cancel your membership, every audiobook you've downloaded is yours to keep forever. You always have access to that library no matter what. Best of all, like I mentioned a little bit earlier, for a limited time, you can get three months of audible for just $6.95 a month that is over half off their noble price so you're definitely going to want to go over to audible.com slash Thomas and sign up or text Thomas to 500 500 on your phone. As always, big thanks to audible for sponsoring this video and being a huge supporter of my channel. And if you guys enjoyed this video and this entire many series definitely give it a like and make sure you subscribe so you get new videos when they come out every single week. You can also click right there to get a free copy of my book and how to earn better grades, which might be pretty useful if finals coming up. You can follow me on Instagram at Tom Frankly or you can click right here to get one more video on this channel. Thanks so much for watching and I will see you in the next one.
