# My Personality Test Results...
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JHo2vagfT18
I get asked a LOT about my Myers-Briggs/MBTI personality type. While I don't think these types of tests are 100% accurate, they are interesting and can be useful in certain ways. So today, I'm taking the test and finding out.

Take the test yourself: https://www.16personalities.com/
The Quora article I referenced: https://www.quora.com/What-is-the-current-thinking-about-Myers-Briggs-Is-it-considered-valid-and-useful-What-are-criticisms-of-it

Looking for more awesome channels? Check out my friends at Wisecrack! https://www.youtube.com/user/thugnotes

The Philosophy of Death Note: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9Y5QZ77-WYw
Thug Notes - Ready Player One: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0reVk7l1mAo

My book "10 Steps to Earning Awesome Grades" is completely free, so check it out if you're interested in improving your grades!

http://collegeinfogeek.com/get-better-grades/

Check out our latest podcast episode:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=67qTK9NSM6o

Connect with me:

Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly

----------

If you want to get even more strategies and tips on becoming a more productive, successful student, subscribe to my channel right here:

http://buff.ly/1vQP5ar

Extension for better control over playback speed (if I'm talking too fast) ➔ https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/video-speed-controller/nffaoalbilbmmfgbnbgppjihopabppdk?hl=en

~ created by Thomas Frank
**Keywords:** personality test, personality type, mbti, mbti test, personality type indicator, mbti score, carl jung, entj, intj, infp, enfp, my personality, personality tests useful, personal development, leadership, myers-briggs, college info geek, 
**Date:** 2017-09-15

## Transcript
 Hey, what is going on guys? So one of the most common questions I get asked about myself is what is my MBTI Myers-Briggs personality type? I get this question all the time and today I thought I would just answer it by actually going through The most popular personality test on the internet these 16 personalities.com Test if you Google personality test. I believe it is the first thing that comes up personality Test. Yes, first thing that comes up. So we're gonna take this test and I'm going to show you my score And once we get whatever my type is we'll look through to some of the traits that that type contains and then compared to some of the other traits out there because there are It looks like 16 different personality types each a combination of the four different letters here now This is mainly based on the Myers-Briggs personality type indicator acronym here, but I believe that the 16 personalities test Looking through their theory page here uses a little bit different philosophy behind their questions And there's lots of different types of tests that use the MBTI acronyms So it's important to realize that people who tell you hey, I'm an IM INFTP or ENTJ or an ENFJ if they say that they might have taken a different test than the one you take and it might mean something different all together The other thing that I want to mention before I go into this is that personality tests in general this one and others are Mirrorly mental models that can be useful for figuring out to what kind of personality you might have and what things you might be Better at than others, but I don't think that you should use these to Define yourself entirely in fact There's a really good quote from an article here on Korra called what does the current thinking about Myers-Briggs that I really liked here I was fourth paragraph I think it is In this sense it can be a good framework for developing an intuition about one's own uniqueness and how one cannot Use one's self as a model to explain all other human beings. That's why are that the one quote there that I really love? You can use these tests to remind yourself that the way that you view the world is not the way that other people view the world and things that work for you May not work for other people But I don't want you to use these kind of tests to try to define yourself and especially limit the choices you make or Make decisions about what you maybe shouldn't try to do because you fit into a certain personality Archetype so with all of that being said, we are just going to get into the quiz here You find it difficult to introduce yourself to other people No It has become much much easier in recent years and I think this actually highlights something right away If I were to take this test in fact, I did take this very test about five years ago I think this was more on the middle or a grease side because I was a little bit more shy and now it's not hard at all You try to respond to your emails as soon as possible and cannot stand a messy in-box Oh boy, can we use wishful thinking here as an answer? You have to answer honestly even if you don't like the answer. Okay. I have seen friends of mine I've seen their inboxes and I sometimes see like 10,000 on red emails in there I am not nearly that bad. However, I am not super good at responding to emails very quickly Let's go with it. Let's go with a soft degree because I do try to do it and I do not like a messy inbox I'm just not good at it and I'm not one of those inbox zero practitioners So I really don't think I could put myself over here on the strong degree. You feel superior to other people I don't even know how to answer that. I definitely feel superior to other people in certain areas When I am very confident in my skill set, but in terms of just general I mean, I don't know. I realize that it's very easy to compare yourself to a reference that you may have But you may not have a reference somewhere else. So I really don't know see I feel like I feel like the type of work I do lens itself to the development of an ego that I try to keep in check So I'm gonna go ahead and I'm gonna put that into a neutral. I'm not really sure to be honest Being organized is more important to you than being adaptable at no, no, no, no, no, not at all I love being organized absolutely don't get me wrong But I think the skill of adaptability is actually a lot more important than being organized When I need to bait matters less to you than making sure no one gets upset Now this is an interesting question I think five years ago I would have put that yes winning a debate matters more because I was more interested in objective truth and And Finding the right answer at this point. I think it depends because like with my relationship with my girlfriend I often don't care if I want to debate as many times as I may have used to because I don't want her to be upset These are these are tough questions because of the context Matters and and I would I would rather be wrong than when on an argument that doesn't work So this is this is kind of tough maybe putting aside the context of my relationship with my girlfriend on debates that don't matter in general. I think that coming to the truth of the matter does matter more than making sure no one gets upset Otherwise that's a voice of conflict for no reason so we will go with a middle agree here You don't mind being at the center of attention agree. I do not mind that you consider yourself more practical than creative I think that I'm more creative than practical and I suppose my reasoning for this would be that I have a lot of friends who Do YouTube and do entrepreneurial things and a lot of a lot of those friends are more willing to do things that they No are going to be profitable with less of an investment in the creative aspects or as you guys Is no I put out a video once a week if that because I'm so into making sure that my videos have something creative and new and different in them every single time So I think I'm more creative than practical. We'll go with that one people can rarely Upsent you that is true. I don't know they get upset almost ever. It is often difficult for you to relate to other people's feelings I'm actually going to go to disagree on this one. It's going to be a softest agree when I took this test a few years ago Probably five years ago at this point. I know that I was over here on the agree side I have had trouble on the past empathizing with other people's feelings because I'm a very solution minded person When there's a problem at least in my mind the first thing to do is to solve it But I think this is another good example of how your personality can actually shift through contrast effort because I have Worked to become more empathetic with my friends and with people in general and I think that work is actually Contributed to becoming more me becoming more naturally empathetic So we're going to go with a soft disagree there in a discussion truth should be more important than people's Sensitivities This is another one of those questions where I would have been like hard yes, and I'm not sure because context matters so much How much does the truth matter? That's the real question to be answered here. So I think once again I'm still on the side of a agree, but it's it's not as hard of an agree anymore I try to think about the context now being able to develop a plan and stick to it is the most important part of every Project I don't have to go back to that adaptability question. Dwight Eisenhower once said that Planning is everything but plans or nothing and I absolutely agree with that We often have to change plans quickly and pivot so I think that being able to develop a plan is very important But the most important part of every project I think is adaptability and communication so we'll go disagree if someone does not respond to your email quickly You start worrying if you said something wrong. Yes, I do And I know this is irrational. I know this is stupid because I have had people that I haven't responded to in weeks And it is no fault of their own. It's just my poor organization or you know prioritizing other things and I tell myself that every time I send an email and I don't get a response quickly. I tell myself they're just busy They you know they're probably doing something else. They're emails not a priority But there's always this little thing in the back of my mind that's like you probably said something wrong Are you probably the word? It's something you put a period on some sentence and made it sound too Terce. Yeah, what we'll go with that you do not let other people influence your actions I on I feel like if you answer agree on this one you're a little bit self delusional I think we all have influences even if they're subconscious I think you have to disagree a little bit so that the question is to what degree? I definitely let people influence my actions. That's absolutely true I have discussions with people that I trust and people that I look up to and they often will change my opinion on something that I was going to do I do think that there is a Certain degree of principle that I hold myself to and there's a certain degree of confidence in my ability to judge where I am and What the best course of action is so we'll go with a soft disagree here your emotions control you more than you control them That as a disagree absolutely I like to think I'm in control of my emotions quite a bit like I said I don't really get angry very often I don't let my mood swing that much you would rather improvise than spend time coming up with a detailed plan There's the key question rather the key word here rather what I rather improvise or spend time coming up with a detailed plan I like doing both to be honest I think that where a lot of my great work comes through Improvisation like I said here I think my personality type actually leads me to try to plan things out in advance more and then I just end up Improvising within the constraints of that plan that makes any sense You often contemplate the reasons for human existence. Yes, yes, I do Logic is usually more important than heart when it comes to making important decisions I'm going to go with a degree there So I did say that I do try to take people's emotions into account more often now But I still do believe that logic trumps my own emotions when it comes to making important decisions Keeping your options open is more important than having a to do list It's all comes back to that improvisation thing, right? I'm going to go with disagree here though because I think that keeping your options open actually leads us to inaction many times when we just we have too many options We have no constraints to really put us down a specific path I think when we create constraints we actually give ourselves the freedom to operate and make more Impactful decisions within those constraints So I like having it to do list and then being able to adapt it if I have to If you're afraid to sad about something you are more likely to awful them offer emotional support Then suggest ways to deal with the problem So this is one of those things five years ago I would have been hard disagree. I have worked very hard to make myself give emotional support But my gut answer the thing my brain immediately jumps to whenever a friend has a problem Is to suggest a way to deal with it and then I have to like pause stop myself and decide to Purpiously give that emotional support first and wait so to suggest a solution until they ask All right, you rarely feel insecure. I agree. I am not an insecure person You think that everyone's views should be respected or guardless of whether they are supported by facts or not Disagree you're right to express your view. I respect that with certain exceptions But the view itself does not deserve respect if it is not supported by facts All right, you feel more energetic after spending time with the group of people I actually don't I have an introvert battery that drains when I am in a group of people So you feel very anxious and stressful situations Definitely disagree here when I'm in a stressful situation. I actually feel very energized stress is a very good thing for me At least if it's not chronic you often take initiative in social situations. Yes, I do and this is something that has served me very well Again this when I had taken this test a few years ago the answer was probably no I wasn't the person to plan things. I wasn't the person to be the leader in that and that area of my life But now I've learned that you kind of have to be if you want things to happen So I do try to do that all right So we are about to get the results and I actually do not know what I'm going to get So let's just click and see all right ENTJ okay, so that is what I got last time and there's an dash a on there So we'll see what that actually means. I'm not exactly sure what the a means here Let's go through all right, so 83% extroverted that is a big difference from what I would have gotten five years ago. I think last time I got ENTJ but I was like 52% extroverted See here I have 56% intuitive energy versus observant I nature is more thinking than feeling but again my thinking nature was actually much higher in the past So it is balanced out over time tactics this trait reflects our approach to work planning and decision making I'm more judging than prospecting so we'll see what that means and then identity This trait underpins all others showing how confident we are in our abilities and decisions I'm 87% assertive and 13% turbulence. So let's see what all this stuff means all right the ENTJ Personality type and keep in mind guys there are 16 different kinds so it looks like I am here the commander within the analysts category, but we also have diplomats Sentinels and explorers. So we have a Steve Jobs quote. That's pretty cool. Commanders are natural born leaders People with this personality type embodied gifts of charisma and confidence and project authority in a way that draws crowds together Behind a common goal however commanders are also characterized but often ruthless level of rationality Using the drive determination and sharp minds to achieve whatever end they've said for themselves Perhaps it is best that they make up only 3% of the population. Oh, I'm pretty rare. I guess Less they overwhelm the more timid and sensitive personality types that make up much other rest of the world We have commanders. I thank for many of the businesses and institutions we take for granted every day I'm interested in strengths and weaknesses. Let's look at that real quick So commanders are efficient their energetic self-confident strong-willed strategic thinkers and charismatic and inspiring Let's hear commander weaknesses. I'm actually more interested in these because I feel like These are interesting, but they often are like ego stroking a little bit maybe so I want to see what my weaknesses are here stubborn and dominant sometimes all this confidence will power can go too far and commanders are all too capable of digging in their heels Trying to win every single debate and pushing their vision and there's a loan This was absolutely me for a long time in fact in high school. I had a I had a girl break up with me Actually for this very reason it's because I basically refuse to give ground on arguments I would like let my logical mind just go too far and just kind of run a muck without thinking about to be other persons feelings And that kind of broke that relationship up. So I've learned to not let that part of me dominate my thinking intolerant. It's my way the highway. Okay, so people with a commander personality type are notoriously Unsupportive of any idea that distracts from their primary goals and even more so of ideas based on emotional considerations I think this is something that I also struggle with in the past, but it's another thing that I've tried to work on All right, impatient some people need more time to think than others and then tolerable delay to quick thinking commanders They may misinterpret contemplation as stupidity or disinterest in their haste. I definitely have this problem I have noticed it in many different instances where I have made my decision very quickly and when somebody else doesn't make their decision It kind of annoys me. So it's important to realize these things. I think arrogant commander personalities respects quick thoughts and firm convictions Their own qualities and look down on those who don't match up. Okay, so that's something I have to work out with Handling of emotions all this bluster alongside the assumed supremacy of rationalism makes commanders distant from their own emotional Expression and sometimes downright scornful of others and lastly cold and ruthless They're obsession with efficiency and unwavering belief in the merits of rationalism especially professionally Makes commanders incredibly insensitive and pursuing their goals dismissing personal circumstances Sensitivities and preferences as irrational and irrelevant. You know, I'm reading the Steve job biography right now Listening to it and audible and this is like him to a tea absolutely This is a good indication of why these tests are not always completely accurate So I look at these and I see some of these weaknesses in myself But this cold and ruthless one. I actually don't think this describes me at all because I work with the team of nine people at this point And whenever they have a personal circumstance that makes it so their work is You know have to take a a back seat to their personal life or they have to take some time off like there's never even an Initial thought on my head that oh, they're in the way of my overall goal and vision so again These are not always completely accurate. Let's look at career paths and obviously this video is going to get very long If you go through all of them, but I'm very curious about this one It is in the world of careers the commanders boldness and drive are truly at their best No other personality type is better suited than commanders to be the respective leader of an organization or team And no other personality type enjoyed it quite so much. This is interesting to read now I'm reading a book right now called Good to Great by Jim Collins and in that book he did a ton of research on companies that Essentially went from like good or mediocre to having great results over a certain period of time And what they found is that one of the common traits between all these good to great companies is that they had a leader Who was a little bit more quiet a little more reserved didn't have that bold charismatic personality They ended up making better long-term leaders because they were more willing to accept the harsh truth of all the Environmental factors and threats facing the business and they were less intimidating to their employees And when they would take criticism they would take ideas more seriously from their subordinates than somebody who maybe has a commander personality like this So this is something that I thought about and try to keep front of mind in my own business I do like being a leader, but I also realize that it's possible that this commander personality Which I think does describe me to a good degree could be a weakness within my career within the success of my business here So there's all kinds of stuff on here, but yeah, so I'm an ENTJ I hopefully that answers the question for you guys and I would be curious to see which personality type that you guys end up falling into It's a pretty quick quiz. It's pretty fun to go through So let me know down in the comments which one of these you fall into and I would be curious to know as you're going through These descriptions of your personality type and going through these different Exploration parenthood friendships romantic relationships What do you think this test gets right and what do you think gets wrong? I would be interested for you to scrutinize the test itself against your own beliefs of who you are and see if it actually is accurate in all those Dimensions one thing that I do want to mention before I go If you're like me you're probably always looking for new YouTube channels and new things to sync your teeth into and learn new stuff I know I'm like that. I'm discovering new channels all the time and because of that I thought that I should start sharing some of those channels on This channel maybe like once a month or something just to share what I'm watching with you guys So I want to share a channel called Wisecrack. I got to hang out with these guys at VidCon. They are Freaking awesome and they do all kinds of videos on their channel But I think that the mean overarching theme is that they combine Science and philosophy and all kinds of educational content with Books and movies and video games and all kinds of stuff that we are probably usually more interested in than all the academic stuff So they make education fun in a way that I really really quick click with and I've actually been watching Wisecrack for a really long time because they started with a series called thug notes Which does literary analysis of tons of different books and I absolutely love it But they have tons of other videos as well including a really cool recent video on the philosophy of death note Which is one of my favorite Anime as well as a thug notes on ready player one which is one of my favorite recent fiction books So I'll have a couple of their videos linked up in the end card here as well as in the description down below Definitely go check them out and subscribe if you like their stuff. You have channels that I haven't found yet That you think I should check out also leave those in the comments down below Anyway guys, thanks for watching and I will see you in next week's video
