# 5 Active Reading Strategies for Textbook Assignments - College Info Geek
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JL0pqJeE4_w
...plus three books I'm reading, and how I'm applying said strategies.

My book "10 Steps to Earning Awesome Grades" is now out and it's free! Get it here:

http://collegeinfogeek.com/get-better-grades/

Connect with me on Twitter!

https://twitter.com/TomFrankly

If you want to get even more strategies and tips on becoming a more productive, successful student, subscribe to my channel right here:

http://buff.ly/1vQP5ar

Companion blog post with notes, resource links, and the HabitRPG guild link: 

http://collegeinfogeek.com/active-reading/
**Keywords:** college, university, geek, textbook, reading, speed reading, skimming, cal newport, studying, study, finals, assignment, tips, cognitive, retention, recall, notetaking, notes, Student, Book, Graduation, Campus, Students, Books, Education, Library, 
**Date:** 2014-12-04

## Transcript
 Hey, what's up? It's Tom's Frank and in this video, we're talking about active reading. So active reading is a method of reading a book with the intent of pulling something useful out of it, and it's different from just passively going over the text once just to experience it. So right about, I'm going to say there were a lot of systems that I've been put forward, like SQ3R, SQ4R, and lots of other acronym driven systems for active reading. And I think that these systems are too cumbersome. They take too long. I'm not going to be going over them in this video. And I'm the only one who thinks this. So instead of what I'm going to do is show you how I'm applying active reading to three specific books that I've been reading recently and how I'm able to recall the information better by doing that. But first, I'm going to give you five general active reading tips that you can apply to any reading that you have to do. So the first tip is to use a technique called Sudo-skimming. And the longer than the readings that you have to do are, the more likely a lot of the paragraphs in those readings are going to be filler. That could be like background, that could be extra detail, it could be a size, things like that. And often you don't really need to read these paragraphs all that in depth to get the information you need for your classes. So the Sudo-skimming technique is really a paragraph by paragraph technique where you skim each paragraph very quickly. And then you sort of get a feel for the reading and figure out which paragraphs hold the most important information. The second tip is to try to read backwards. A lot of textbooks are not all that exciting. They don't really have a narrative and you're not going to spoil yourself if you read it backwards or go so if you want to figure out what a certain chapter is all about, you can first go to the back, look at the summary, look at the vocab lists that are put back there, some of the questions, the review items, and get a feel for what the actual chapter wants you to learn in a big sense on a sky high sense. And once you get that you can start going backwards and seeing like, okay, yes, this vocab's that I'm word was mentioned here, this graphic mentions a topic that was in a review question, et cetera, et cetera. Tip number three is to come up with questions while you read. So when you are going through the chapter, if you're doing Sudo-skimming or anything else, when something comes up that you don't really know about, then note that down as a question, and you can also use the headings, the subheadings, and the chapter as questions. So if there's a subheading that talks about a specific concept, you can reward that as a question, maybe even write it down in your notes, and then as you go through the actual content of that section, answer the question for yourself. And you can do this in review as well. Tip number four is to pay attention to the formatting of the text. Now when I was in college, I would do this with almost all of my readings. I would open up the book, I would look at almost every single bullded item or list of things, and I would pay special attention to those items in the text because they probably were to go over processes that are important to the chapter or go over vocab terms that are almost certainly going to appear on tests. So pay attention to things that stand out in their formatting and note those down. And my last tip before I actually get into some of the books I'm reading is to either mark up the book while you're reading, or to take notes while you're reading. So if you own the book, you can actually write in it with a pencil and make notes in the margins, which is really helpful. And if you don't, you can use flags or possibly highlight depending on your school's policies, and I'll show you that in a bit. If you really don't want to mark up your book, then you can take like really short-bladed notes on a piece of paper. You can also put questions in there, or you can take flow style notes, and I'll actually throw some of my recent notes up on the screen here. So these are notes that I took in researching textbook reading strategies for these videos, and this one the last one. And as you can see, I took notes on the things I was reading actually for multiple books, but it ended up creating a better picture that I come back to. And it's in my own words, it's in my own terms, so it makes for better recall. So those are my five tips and to round this video, I'm going to show you a few of the books that I've been reading and three different actor reading strategies that I adopted for each book. And the first book is Thinking Fast and Slow by Daniel Conman. Now this book is about cognitive biases, it's about bugs in human reasoning and rationality and decision-making, and it's a super dense book. I actually have only gotten to page 145 as my little nine tales will tell you. If you look at the spine or not the spine here, but the side of it, I've used flags to mark up almost every page that I have read. So this is one of those books that's just packed with information on almost every single page. Every single chapter mentions multiple studies with lots of results, defines different terms, and I was really interested in almost everything I was reading here. So as I went through, I used flags to mark up the book in a non-damaging way. And I was reading this book about a year ago. I've become a little bit more okay with marking up my books permanently since then, but the flag method does work, especially if you're renting textbooks or you plan on selling it later, you can just pull them out when you need to, when you have good notes for them and you finish reviewing. But yeah, it's a pretty good method. So the second book here is Confessions of a Scholarship winner by Christina Ellis, and I'm going through this book because it's a fantastic overview of how to in scholarships. I'm probably going to put it on my essential book solicit and create a lot of blog posts and things on it. But with this book, I actually went through with a pencil and I would bracket paragraphs that held specific ideas I wanted to review later. I would write notes in the margin underline specific terms that are actually really important. And as I'm looking back through the book, I can see all the spots that I wanted to note for later. So I'm actually going to go through the book a second time once I finish reading it and take good notes on it. And speaking of notes, the book I've been reading most recently is the Power of Habit by Charles Duick. And if you were to be able to look through this book, you'll see no markings whatsoever. So I actually have a third active reading system which is working really really well for me at this point. And it's just to take notes on the chapter after I've read it. So I've created a habit of reading this Power of Habit. I've created a habit of reading this book every single day for at least 15 minutes. And I check it off in habit RPG. And it's something that's becoming a very strong habit for me. So I definitely do it every day. And about once every two days, I finish it chapter. And immediately when I finish reading a chapter, I'll go over to Evernote on my desktop computer, go back through the chapter and write notes in Evernote, which you can see right now on the chapter. So I've actually got a good bullet at summary of almost the entire book right now. Everything that I thought was important in the book is in that summary. And it's going to be about 3,000 words once I finish it, I'm estimating. So that's a lot less than what's in the book. And if I want to go back and review what I learned, it's going to be much easier. And it's in my own words as well. So those are just some of the strategies you can use for active reading. Hopefully you can implement some of these into your studies in order to cut down that study time and increase your recall and your ability to do better on tests and essays. And whatever it is, do you need to apply your reading stew? If you want to get more videos and being an awesome student, then just hit that subscribe button below. Otherwise, I will see you in next week's video. Hey, thanks for watching my video. If you enjoyed it, then you can support me by giving it a like on YouTube or sharing it with friends. If you want to get more videos just like this every single week on being a better college student, then click subscribe button right there. If this last video, a clip of it is playing right below there, you can click that to watch it. Also, you can get a summary and links to anything I mentioned in the video by going to the companion blog post, which you can find by clicking on the orange logo right there. Lastly, if you want to get a free chapter of my book, but it comes out, then you can click that book and subscribe to the College of Review newsletter. You'll also get notified when new podcast episodes and blog posts come out every week. Lastly, if you have ideas for new videos or you just want to connect with me, you can do so on Twitter or leave a comment on this video. Thanks!
