# Do Speed Reading Apps & Techniques Really Work? - College Info Geek
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JL4WMHyUhdc
Eliminating sub-vocalization, taking "snapshots" of book pages - there are a lot of techniques out there meant to enable you to read at much higher rates than normal.

Additionally, many apps have been developed - Spritz, Spreeder, and others - that attempt to do the same.

So the question is... do any of these speed reading apps or techniques actually work?

The other videos in the speed reading series:

Reading science ➔ https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jv2BdHXRD3Q
How to ACTUALLY read faster ➔ https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kmDMrxUSXKY

My book "10 Steps to Earning Awesome Grades" is completely free, so check it out if you're interested in improving your grades!

http://collegeinfogeek.com/get-better-grades/

Companion blog post with lots of studies and research resources:

http://collegeinfogeek.com/speed-reading-techniques-examined/

If you want to get even more strategies and tips on becoming a more productive, successful student, subscribe to my channel right here:

http://buff.ly/1vQP5ar

Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly

~ created by Thomas Frank
**Keywords:** speed reading, sub-vocalization, subvocalization, sub-vocalizing, tachistoscope, reading faster, reading speed, words per minute, fixation, saccade, working memory, how to read faster, how to read a book, memorizing books, book learning, textbook reading, rapid serial visual processing, spritz, spreeder, readquick, College (TV Genre), education, 
**Date:** 2015-09-24

## Transcript
 What's up guys, welcome to the second video in my little series on speed reading. Now if you missed the first video, you can watch it right there, but that one went over the science of how the reading process actually works. Both how our eyes move and fixate on text and how our brain constantly pauses to process that incoming information. Now for this video, I want to take a look at three commonly touted speed reading techniques that all claim they can circumvent or augment some part of this process in order to increase your reading speeds. In these three techniques include, number one, enlarging the area of your fixations, essentially allowing yourself to read text in your peripheral vision. Number two, eliminating sub vocalizations, suppressing that voice inside your head that speaks when you're reading. And number three, what's called rapid serial visual processing, showing each word and succession in the same exact spot. The question is, do any of these techniques actually work? Let's start with a claim that some speed readers can fixate on larger areas of the page. There's actually some speed readers who've even claimed that they can take a single mental snapshot of a page and process the entire page's text inside their head all at once. Similarly, a 1962 study cited somebody who could read it 10,000 words per minute by making only six fixations per page. And the weird part here is this person claim they made the fixations in a counter-clockwise motion going around the edges of the page. They didn't follow the lines the text at all. However, the problem with that study is there was no formal measure of comprehension. So it wasn't really clear what this person was remembering from the reading at all. Additionally, further studies have shown that good reading comprehension can only be had when people follow the lines, go figure, and here's the kicker you can't read text and understand it if it's in your peripheral vision. It has to be within that full-view range or just outside of it. In fact, in 1987 research paper on speed reading reported only one correct answer at a 30 test cases where a reader was tested on information that was three letter spaces or more from an area they had fixated on. Add these findings to what we already know about the ice full-view range and results are clear. Fixations are very small and we can't comprehend text that doesn't fall within or very, but what about eliminating sub vocalization? Some speed reading courses agree that you do need a fixate on text in order to comprehend it, but they also claim that sub vocalization is essentially your brain speaking the things you're reading aloud inside of your head is slowing you down. If you could jettison that sub vocalization or suppress it in some way, could you increase your reading speeds? Again, research shows that this is a tactic that's unlikely to work. According to Elizabeth Schader, who is the author of some of the most recent research on speed reading, there's a lot of evidence that when people recognize words visually, they access the sounds of those words to understand them. Even if you're not reading aloud, your brain sends signals to your vocal cords as you read. NASA scientists even developed a computer program to detect these signals and measure them. Scientists have done studies when they try to have readers suppress sub vocalization, in some by playing at tone whenever these signals are detected by the computer program, and in others by having readers try to hum aloud while they read. In each case, comprehension went way down. It seems that reading is inextricably tied to our auditory language processing capabilities and trying to separate the two does more harm than good. So let's move on to our third method, and this is the one that you guys requested I talk about the most. It's the technique utilized by apps like Spritz, Spriter, Read Quick on the iPad, and others, and the name for it is rapid, serial, visual processing. These apps work by showing each word in a reading by itself and rapid succession. The words are fixed in place, which eliminates the need for sacods, because your eyes can remain fixed in the same spot as the words change. That's what the words you see on the screen right now are doing, though since they're following the pace of my voice they're going very, very slowly. As a demonstration, here's the next segment of the script going at 500 words per minute. Now in case you didn't catch any of that, let me go ahead and restate it. The RSVP technique finds its origins in a device called a Tacista scope, which uses a slide projector to flash images and rapid succession, which is supposed to help people improve their recognition speeds. Tacista scopes were used during World War II to train fighter pilots to recognize other aircraft as friend or foe more quickly, and then in the 1960s, some schools started using them to try to increase the reading speeds of their students. Many modern RSVP apps have their own unique features. For example, Spriter lets you set multiple words to be flashed instead of just one at a time, and Spritz tries to move the position of each word in order to help your I more quickly reach its optimal recognition point. For all these cool features, though, research shows that RSVP systems in general don't really work that well. One of the main problems with RSVP systems is that they present every single word in a reading, requiring your brain to try to process them all. As we learned in the first video in this series, people don't fixate on every single word in a reading. They tend to skip a lot of the content, and they do it an intelligent way. They tend to fixate more on content words and less on the function words. In fact, that 1987 speed reading study revealed something pretty interesting. For normal readers, it's not just the length of the words that explains why content words are fixated upon more often. Even in reading tests, where all the content words were only three letters long, for normal readers, they were able to fixate more often on those content words. For skimmers and speed readers, however, the proportion of content words fixated upon two function words was about even. This reveals that, at least at normal reading speeds, our brains are able to intelligently fixate upon the most important words in the text, but with RSVP, we don't get this ability because every single word is presented one after another. This makes your working memory the bottleneck. It strains to keep up while all the text is flooding in at one constant rate. My own informal tests using these apps confirms this. I find it really exhausting to read this way, and after about 30 seconds of doing so, I find that it's really hard to remember the details of what I just read. An additional strike against RSVP apps is that they don't allow for regressions, going back to reread over sections that you've already read before. Elizabeth Shodder conducted another study that looked at RSVP systems in detail back in 2014, and the conclusion of this study was that this is a big problem. As it turns out, the ability to make regressions is integral to having high comprehension levels when you read, and the problem with this software is it can't accurately predict at what points your brain needs to go back and read something again. So, in my eyes, at least, for the case of reading for learning and comprehension, all three of these systems have been thoroughly debunked. Does that mean they're entirely useless? Well, maybe not. Some of them could be useful for scanning over text quickly, maybe reading a text message or an email, or trying to find the gist of something, but if you're doing an in-depth reading of a textbook or you're trying to read a book to learn something, I don't think they're really that useful to be using. Now, there are definitely other speed reading techniques out there that I didn't mention in this video. One of the particular that I'm currently interested in is called B-line. There's not a whole lot of research on it, so if you know something, please tell me, and I'm sure people will let me know about other techniques down in the comments. Also, in the interest of time, I had to leave a lot of the nuance and detail about these techniques in particular out of the video, but I did link to all the studies and articles that I used to research this video in the companion blog post, so you can click the card right now, or the link down in the description to read them. So, that's it for this video. In the next one, we'll wrap up this little mini series on speed reading with a discussion on how you can actually increase your reading speeds. Hey guys, thanks so much for watching this video. If you enjoyed it, giving it a like. We'll help support this channel and if you'd like to get new tips on how to be a more effective student every single week, click that big red subscribe button right there. Also, if you'd like to get a free copy of my book on earning better grades, click picture the book and I'll get one to you, and like I said, links to all the research resources that I used for this video to be found in the companion blog post, which you can access by clicking the orange logo right there. Last week's video over how I set up my iPhone to be more productive, so check that out if you haven't seen it, and if you'd like to connect, I'm on Twitter at town frankly, or you can leave a comment below. Thanks for watching.
