# 10 Ways to Be More Productive in 2018
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jop-fO-yHx4
Get 10% off your first domain name purchase at Hover: https://hover.com/thomasfrank

Huge thanks to Hover for sponsoring this video!

With 2018 right around the corner, today I'm going over 10 tips you can use to start the new year more productively.

My book "10 Steps to Earning Awesome Grades" is completely free, so check it out if you're interested in improving your grades!

http://collegeinfogeek.com/get-better-grades/

Check out my year-in-review:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rYYqQZZILdo

Connect with me:

Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly

Tools mentioned in this video:

Habitica - https://habitica.com
Momentum - https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/momentum-habit-tracker-routines-goals-rituals/id946923599?mt=8
Today - https://itunes.apple.com/us/app/today-habit-tracker/id1055295863?mt=8
Loop - https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=org.isoron.uhabits&hl=en
Evernote - https://evernote.com/

----------

Videos you might want to watch next:

How to Set Goals You'll ACTUALLY Stick With: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5eipUK1N160

The 20-Second Rule: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nAAf-EDs_K8

----------

If you want to get even more strategies and tips on becoming a more productive, successful student, subscribe to my channel right here:

http://buff.ly/1vQP5ar

Background music by Broke for Free: http://freemusicarchive.org/music/Broke_For_Free/

Extension for better control over playback speed (if I'm talking too fast) ➔ https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/video-speed-controller/nffaoalbilbmmfgbnbgppjihopabppdk?hl=en

~ created by Thomas Frank
**Keywords:** 2018, new year, new year's resolutions, new year resolutions, new year goals, 2018 goals, how to be more productive, stop being lazy, focus, procrastination, habits, habit tracker, calendar, journaling, exercise habit, 20 second rule, automation, efficiency, notifications, distractions, how to read more, thomas frank, 
**Date:** 2017-12-30

## Transcript
 Hey, what is going on guys? So we are right at the tail end of December right now. And what I wanted to do for the last video of 2017 on my channel is give you guys 10 ideas for starting out 2018 more productively. And you know what? I don't think we really need a whole lot more preamble than that. So let's get started. Tip number one, if you have not done this already, try using a habit tracking app in 2018. And there are a ton of these out there. My personal favorite is called Habitica because it basically turns habit tracking into an RPG like video game where you get stat boosts and weapons and gear and going quests. And you can even partner up with people who keep you accountable. But there are also a bunch of decidedly less nerdy options out there, including momentum and today, which are both on iOS and loop, which is an Android exclusive. I find that using a habit tracker is really useful for me because the act of marking down when I actually do a habit creates a streak. And when I look back on that streak, I don't want to break it. As Peter Drucker once may have said, what gets measured gets managed. Tip number two, and this one is really, really simple. Try experimenting with pre-planned blocks of uninterrupted single focus time on your calendar. Now, we've talked a lot on this channel about the power of focusing on one task for a long uninterrupted period of time. But a lot of times, it's really easy to convince yourself that more urgent but easier tasks, well, this important tasks should be done right now. So if you start your week or at least your day with a plan that I'm gonna say, do my homework from two to six PM and do nothing else, then you're more likely to do it and you're more likely to focus only on that task, which is difficult. All right, tip number three is to start and accomplishment journal. This is exactly what it sounds like. You're keeping a simple record of everything that you've done either on a daily basis or maybe on a weekly or longer basis, depending on how much effort you wanna put into it. But I find this practice to be really useful because as you get older and as you get into more of a schedule, whether it be with school or work, the days can start to blend together. Everything becomes every team. And when this starts to happen, you can start to feel like you haven't really accomplished anything in a while because your brain is sort of filed it away. And that can demotivate you. But if you have an accomplishment journal that'll look back on, you can see that, yes, you actually have accomplished a good deal. Now my impossible list that's over on my website, College of InfoGeek is a form of an accomplishment journal. I basically mark off any time I achieve something really big that I set out to do. But my suggestion here is actually that you try doing an accomplishment journal on a daily basis. Essentially, as you finish tasks during the day, write them down in the note on Evernote or your note taking out of choice or on just a scrap of paper and then at the end of the day or possibly at the end of the week, review them and see what you did. And this can actually have benefits beyond just looking at the checked off items on your to-do list because as you probably know pretty well, a lot of times tasks come up in the middle of the day and interrupt you and things that you didn't anticipate just happen. So by keeping a record of all these things, you're gonna have a more accurate picture of what you were actually able to accomplish. And when you're going through your review sessions, that more accurate picture is gonna enable you to make better and more intelligent changes to the way that you work. Okay, so you probably saw this fourth tip coming, but in 2018, you should make a lot more time for sitting on the couch, eating Doritos, drinking Mountain Dew and playing Halo. Just kidding, you should make a lot more time for exercise. And yes, this is a pretty cliche tip, but a lot of people don't prioritize exercise, especially when they're ambitious. Their work takes up all of their hours and they just don't make it a priority. Now, it's also true that when a new year rolls around, a lot of people get into their heads that they are finally going to exercise consistently this year and maybe you're thinking that. My one recommendation here echoes what I talked about last week. Start small, restrict your time scale, and don't bite off more than you can chew. Because when you start the new year, you have a lot of motivation and you might not have a whole lot on your plate. So it's really easy to stick with a goal, but later on down the line, when stuff starts to get into your way, your schedule starts to get a bit more busy. That's when your self discipline is truly tested. So if you set a goal that stretches your capabilities and challenges you a bit, but it's still doable within your schedule, even at its most challenging points, you're going to stick with it. One additional thing that I'll mention here is that if you want to exercise more regularly, it can be very helpful to sign up for a class at your school or your rec center. And this could be a class that teaches you a new sport, you haven't tried before, which can be really fun, in which I did with ice skating, or it can just be a workout class. In either case, signing up for a class gives you one a community of people who are doing the same thing as you, which is a lot of fun, but two an obligation that doesn't exist just in your head. You're not relying only on yourself discipline, you now have other people who are expecting you to be there. Tip number five, something that you can take advantage of, while you're on winter break, or you're not otherwise overloaded with tons of classes and homework. Take some time to redesign your living space, your room to take advantage of the 20 second rule. If you haven't seen it already, I did an entire video a while back on the 22nd rule, and I'll have the links in the description down below, but essentially the 22nd rule is all about increasing the difficulty and the time that it takes to get into the things that you don't want to do so often, the bad habits, and reducing the time and the friction that it takes to do the things that you want to do more often. So if right now you play way too many video games, maybe put your game controllers in a drawer somewhere, or maybe even take the cord out of your playstation and put it in a closet. That way it's kind of a pain in the butt to set it up. And on the other hand, if you want to read more often, or maybe practice an instrument by an instrument stand, put your guitar right where you can pick it up and play it within five seconds, or put your book right in the table, so you can walk in from class, grab it, and start reading for a bit. Anything you can do to reduce the friction between you and a good habit is going to reduce the willpower required to remain consistent and doing it. And the same is true of avoiding bad habits. Tip number six, to start looking for regular parts of your work process, you could either automate or make more efficient. For example, a recently set both of my credit cards to auto pay, so every month I no longer have to log in and pay them manually. And another thing that I've been doing on a regular basis is that when I start noticing that I have to go to a folder on my computer really, really often, I will pin it to my quick access toolbar, so that way I can easily click it instead of having to navigate through the entire tree. Not one word of warning here, not everything that you do is a candidate for automation, or even more efficiency. And actually there's a really good comic over an XKCD called, is it worth the time, that essentially breaks down the threshold at which you should actually start thinking about spending time automating something or rather than just doing it. Though I'm gonna be honest, sometimes I just like to automate things for fun. And if you find that fun, then do that. Tip number eight is to go and disable all the notifications and badges on your phone, or at least most of them. In the past, I'd always unconsciously let apps have notifications turned on, and they'd have badges turned on, and eventually my home screen would turn into this mess of badges and little bread numbers up in the corners and distractions. And I really don't wanna be giving that much attention to my phone, it should be working for me, not sucking up all of my time. So at one point during this year, I went into my phone settings, and I disabled basically every notification, every little sound and every little badge in the home screen that I could, other than the ones that were completely essential. And speaking of things that are essential, or rather non-essential, tip number nine is to take the apps off your phone that you don't need, or otherwise block access to them. For example, my friend Martin actually went into his ad blocker settings on his iPhone and disabled basically every single site in the world except for language translation sites. And doing this eventually changed his brand's automatic response, whatever he got the urge to look something up, rather than getting distracted on safari and probably clicking a bunch of links he'd never meant to click in the first place, he just made a voice reminder of it. And then later on, when he was at his computer, if it was still important enough, and often it wasn't, he could look it up. For a less drastic example, I've often had email apps taken off my phone, I've often had social media apps taken off my phone, in fact, there are certain apps that I only have on my phone when I'm traveling. Essentially, I don't wanna have access to those apps on my phone because access to them while I'm trying to work, represents mental burden. Tip number nine, again, because I realize it actually skipped eight, is to identify the time at which you regularly consume media online and replace it with reading. I think it's pretty safe to say that most of you are like me and you have certain times the day where you just automatically go to Reddit, you go to Facebook, you go to Twitter. And these times are probably not all that valuable, valuable. And you also probably don't read as much as you'd like to. So by consciously identifying these times and then maybe scheduling some reading time during the exact same times, you'll start to avoid this unconscious social media consumption. And finally, tip number 10, when you're setting your goals for 2018 or whenever you set goals, make sure that you prioritize them and understand which of those goals is the most important one. Doing this is absolutely crucial if you wanna remain consistent on those most important goals because inevitably you're gonna run into absolutely chaotic days where you just don't have time to do all of them. And when that happens or when you're feeling demotivated and you just don't wanna do anything, you can think back to what you've prioritized. And you can tell yourself, I'm going to do that no matter what and these things that are less important, I can let fall to the wayside. That way, where you may derail on certain things and you can always get back on those things later, you're always gonna remain consistent on what's most important. Now, one additional thing you should do this year while your motivation is high is establish an online presence for yourself. And whether you're looking for an internship or maybe a full-time job or applying for a scholarship or just looking for a place to build a portfolio for your art, the first step to establishing that online presence is eating cheese. And the second step is getting yourself a professional domain name. You can see mine over at ThomasJFrank.com, which I got in college, which actually helped me to land an internship. And as I progressed to my career, I've redesigned the website a few times to match my progression. Now, if you're ready to lock down your own domain name, the best place on the internet to get it is hover. Hover has over 400 domain extensions for you to choose from ranging from the classics like.com and.org, two more interesting ones like.limo and.ninja. And unlike a lot of other registers out there, they don't have any annoying upsells or pop ups during the sales process. It's super easy and you can get the entire thing done in under a minute. Once you have your domain, you can also use hover to easily connect into the web service of your choice, including medium and square space using their connect feature. And they also have a tool for setting up a professional email address, so if you wanted to say ThomasJFrank.com, well, you can't have that one, but you could have one linked to your domain. So if you're ready to start establishing the online presence, give Hover a try and get 10% off of your first purchase by going to hover.com slash Thomas Frank, which you'll find in the description down below. I want to give a huge thanks to Hover for sponsoring this episode and supporting this channel. And as always, guys, thank you for supporting this channel by watching. If you enjoyed this video, you can hit that like button, and you can also subscribe right there if you want to get notifications when I publish new videos. You can also get a free copy of my book on how to earn better grades right there and check out our latest podcast episode where we recap the year right over there. Lastly, you can watch one more video on this channel by smashing your face into your phone right around this area of the screen. And other than that, I will see you in the next video.
