# This is How Matt D'Avella Works
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KAfAPOGBgXk
In this video, we'll break down how Matt D'Avella gets stuff done - diving into his daily routines, productivity tools, and more.
📺 Watch this video ad-free on Nebula: https://nebula.tv/videos/thomas-frank-yt-this-is-how-matt-d-avella-works

🛠 COURSES AND RESOURCES: 
Notion channel - https://www.youtube.com/c/ThomasFrankExplains
Free Notion templates - https://thomasjfrank.com/templates/
Learn Notion - https://thomasjfrank.com/fundamentals
Productivity and Habits courses - https://thomasjfrank.com/courses/

🐦 SOCIAL STUFF:
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly
Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Music Channel ➔ https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCmqK2G-3AL_WP5KffH_wqAA
Spotify Study Playlist ➔ https://open.spotify.com/user/thomasfrank09/playlist/4ETfiRPHVmUFLF6q0g8Fux?si=IPfx3dAgQ1SIUwhh5YEQMQ

🔗 VIDEO LINKS:
TeuxDeux: https://teuxdeux.com/
Minimalism Documentary: https://minimalismfilm.com/
Check out Matt's channel: https://www.youtube.com/mattdavella
Matt's Podcast: https://mattdavella.com/podcast
Matt's Newsletter: https://mattdavella.com/

👐 BUSINESS:
Please contact my agent at thomasfrank@standard.tv

💰 I'm fortunate enough to work with great sponsors who support my work, so I don't use Patreon or any other crowdfunding service. However, if you'd like to support a worthy cause, consider donating to help more children get access to a high-quality education: https://fundraise.pencilsofpromise.org/fundraiser/1489730
**Keywords:** thomas frank, matt d'avella, matt, d'avella, davella, productivity breakdown, interview, matt d'avella interview, matt d'avella podcast, ground up show, productivity tips, productivity apps, office tour, camera gear, studio tour, minimalism, minimalist, minimalist studio, minimalist setup, minimalist apartment, morning routine, daily habits, productivity, 
**Date:** 2019-08-06

## Transcript
 Hey, what is up guys, and welcome to a new series that I am for now calling this is how I get stuff done and I'm here with my friend and a competing beard model on the internet Matt Davella as you may know him from his channel What Matt Davella right that's very simple Where he's got a lot of videos on habits, productivity, minimalism is something that you focus on for the most part I would say right who yeah, minimalism is definitely kind of that's definitely where I kind of formed my initial start on YouTube I was talking about simple living and you came to YouTube from the documentary world, right? Yeah, God documentary on Netflix with the minimalists who have actually met once before. Yeah, yeah The real cool guys. Yeah, I saw I think I was I think I was either watching a video of yours or a red a blog post Where you were talking about that experience of kind of seeing the minimalist and meeting I'm with Colin right Yeah, yeah, yeah, we got burritos and excellent night. So what I want to do with this series is sort of Explore how other insanely productive people get things done kind of dig into their process as the systems they use all that kind of stuff and You're my guinea pig right this is the first one. This is the first one. We're just going to see how it turns out and I guess the first thing I want to start with is Just sort of getting an overview of what you so what what do you say you do here? essentially. Yeah, so I'm a filmmaker. That's the the craft and then It's I make one video every week from my channel. I also have a podcast that I release on a usually weekly basis I want weekly basis. Yeah, I mean I really I was consistent for about a year and a half releasing a podcast every single week And lately it's I've just been experimenting and trying some different models out But I would say the core of what I do is just one eight to ten minute video every week on my YouTube channel Okay, is there anything else that's sort of been silvery to that? Do you have like a blog or newsletter? Yes, so yeah, like like like every try like everybody else like I have social media I've got the newsletter and I have you know like I said the podcast so I would say When I'm really looking and planning at the beginning of the year what channels and mediums I want to focus on I would say the two big ones one is definitely the YouTube channel Yeah, and that's just from the overall response and reception of the channel itself and also just what I'd love to do most Yeah, and then I would say that the runner-up is probably the either the podcast or the newsletter because the newsletter is generally once a week Again, I'm not as strict with that. I don't let myself slip up very often at all with the YouTube channel Like that's the thing that I'm like I have to release a video every single week. Yeah, I take a few weeks off every year or a little bit more maybe like three or four weeks total in the year that I might take off But overall those are kind of my main channels that I create for and when you take time off Do you just not publish during those times? Sometimes I don't videos in the can yeah, sometimes I do a videos in the can Okay, I think the one thing that I've learned is that I can put a lot of pressure on myself to keep getting ahead and ahead and ahead And the problem with that is that you can never get ahead like there's always so just up with you Exactly, and then like so I will get to a point where I I was four weeks ahead. I took a really long like two and a half week vacation and I felt amazing Like I just felt so good about getting that far out and then like came back from vacation all my runway was gone Yep, and I'm like I had to start over and I was just so bummed out about it and it really like it was hard to restart again So I've started to pull that pressure back a little bit on myself and say you know what what if instead of Going four weeks six weeks and just trying to always get ahead What if I just created in the moment and then just I was just week to week or maybe two weeks most and that Feeling like I always had to get ahead and that's helped so much with my sanity. Yeah, there's a certain beauty that too Right, I think there's like this Preoccupation with getting ahead to the problem you you'll never have to work again. Maybe that's the fancy But there is a certain beauty to just knowing you have to get up and do your craft every day Yeah, and yeah, I do think that that's something that we kind of like idolizing our head as this idea of I can just sit back and relax and I want to do anything I think there is an element of it that that in the short term it takes pressure off of yourself I at least have one or two weeks ahead. Yeah, but I do really like releasing more closer to the moment like I just finished up a video two days ago and I release it today And that to me I feel closer to the project. I feel closer to the feedback that I get It's and I can understand how people are responding to it more But when you're four or six weeks ahead it gets to the point where you just kind of like pushing it out there You know, I mean it's more like a factory and less of an art So you briefly mentioned that when you we sit down the plan you're looking at the year Do you actually plan to hold your in a head like what is your planning process for all of your different channels like and how far in advance is it? Yeah, so I usually kind of put together like a business strategy plan around the beginning of the year That's usually when it feels right but I'll usually kind of recalibrate six months into the year But it basically kind of draw up a note's document on my Mac and I just work through what are the main channels and the mediums that I want to focus on I usually I used to in the past focus on growth metrics But we were talking about this before where it's like you could always just keep wanting more and more and more And like generally I get pretty happy with like I'm totally content with where I'm at right now with like numbers So these days I don't include that but it's just like kind of what do I want to get out of it? What are my expectations for the kind of content I want to create and the kind of message that I want to put out there? What are like the topics I want to talk about and it's usually no more than one page to kind of This is just kind of the jump start the direction of where things are going to go Okay, and when you sit down to plan or you sit down to take notes? Is it always on your Mac is it always in the notes app? Yeah, so I use the notes app on Mac and I have it on my phone a lot of times You know when I'm out a pop it open and I'll take a couple of notes down Sometimes what I actually do is productivity hack here When I'm with Nat my wife and we're driving I will ask her to text me and idea I'm like oh I got an idea like smart yeah text me butt sweat and they showed her text me butt sweat and then I'll like oh Yeah, then I'll forget that what's it about it? Why did you text me butt sweat? That makes no sense at all No, that's like how I'll do it like on the on the road or if I'm driving but otherwise I'll just open up the notes app and I'll simply write out a couple of notes of you know The idea that I have I usually don't go too long form sometimes if it's like a really important idea I might actually put it on my to do list as something that I have to do next and with to do lists What do you use for that? Yeah, I use an app called to do It's c u x d e u x Oh, okay, that yeah, yes, really awesome You know found out about them probably the five or six years ago, and I've been using them ever since It is crazy sample. It's when you open it up on your web browser all you see or I think it's five Days of the week and then it continually just shifts over and then if something's done You obviously check it off and then it grays out and if you haven't done it that day It'll just automatically move to the next day. So it's like is like con bond is it's kind of like sideways Then it's not just a straight up list of tasks. Yeah, it'll be like yeah It'll be like you know Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday It'll basically be each day So then I could also like add things to my to do to speak like I know I'm not gonna be able to get that done today I'll put it tomorrow or the next day. I think one of the biggest things for me Is making sure that I'm not overloading my to do list and not doing too much So I usually pick around two to three really important tasks that I want to do that day Okay, and when you're planning out your day is it the night before is it like a week in advance How are you planning out individual days? Yeah, when I'm planning my days It varies, you know, I I'm pretty type a okay, but there there's a part of me that's also kind of flexible And needs to go with things in the moment and like what I feel like doing so I mean I could have a task as I said it's like right next week's video But then when I wake up in the morning like I try and I'm just like I'm not inspired right now You know what I'd rather right now to start like editing my video That's going a lot this week and let let me just work through that a little bit to feel a little bit productive to kind of build that momentum of work Yeah, it's still on my to do list and I'll probably get to it But at least I could it's kind of I'm willing to be flexible in the moment if I have to So what you're saying is there's one of you two's productivity gurus You don't stick to your plan. I don't now. No. No. You got this scandal. Yeah 100% you throw the plan out the winner like what you want once you get everybody has a plan until you get punched in the face I think Mike Tyson said that so yeah, Michael Scott Michael Scott said that. You know, yeah, I was Most of the time I would say I Stick to it. What I also do is I will sometimes add my personal tasks to my Professional to do list like a lot of people talk about work life balance So do you usually keep them separate? No, I don't so I kind of always I always bring them all together That's better thing for me, too. Yeah, and but it's not like I'm not putting every single thing that I would do personally on this list But it's like the big things like I will put my the workout or the exercise routine that I'm doing for the gym Okay, one thing. It's actually surprisingly difficult to remember when you're going to the gym for five days a week To remember did I work out by steps yesterday or did I do back or legs and like it's very easy to kind of mix those up So that way I know that it's there and I can also keep track of what I'm working out But I will also like there's actually a separate section on the tutorial list where you can add groceries and other stuff So oh yeah, I will kind of I don't know People believe in this the work life balance that everything needs to be separated But at least with the work I do I feel like my life is so intertwined with it Like I really love my work. I wake up every morning really excited to work. Yeah, and so I don't mind like bringing my personal life Together with it. Yeah, the way I see unless a corporation is forcing you to use a specific tool Like I don't know I'll look or something for your job You know one tool can kind of work for everything as long as you know how to split things up whether it be by labels or projects or But have you yeah, yeah, that works pretty well. Yeah, so Use one to do app and do you use like a calendar app as well as a calendar app? Okay, I just the regular Apple one. I use Google actually. Yeah, I use Google Calendars and like within the calendar you would see that I have I usually create like a day Event for each piece of content. I'm gonna create okay, and it's all under a different calendar So it's a different color label. Yeah, so if I'm releasing a YouTube video that would be yellow in the calendar If it's a patriotic exclusive video, it would be orange in the calendar and then my podcast would be a separate color in the calendar every Thursday And those are like to meet and actually what's interesting about that Or not depending on I mean if you watch this far you probably will find this this boring stuff interesting But this is also how I plan my videos into the future So right now I'm kind of like crazy ahead where I have three months ahead of video ideas for every Tuesday markdown That's awesome. Yeah, so it's just the concept I don't have these videos written or scripted hour anything but I have a general idea of where I want to go with it and When I'm creating these videos I have a nice balance right so it's like all right I haven't made a video about minimalism in a while I think it'd be a good time to kind of workshop an idea that would fit that Maybe I can do one of habits This year. I'm doing every month 30 day challenge. So that's always yeah, so that one needs to be slotted in at at some point And I try to figure out that balance There is part of me that always feels like oh, I should I should do two videos this week Like I cuz I Now that I have three months of ideas. I'm like all would be great to really put out just a couple extra videos and there But I try to release that temptation because I just know that's the fastest way to lead to burnout Have you tried it the past? Yes, I did about two months of two videos every week Okay, and I just noticed that one of the videos would always suffer in quality my personal life would certainly suffer in quality And it just wasn't worth it. Yeah, I definitely had weeks where there were tight deadlines and I've gotten three videos out in a week and then I I've Start convinced myself. Oh, I could do three videos a week just like all these other big youtubers You know, they're so productive. I can't I be But no, it's it's a recipe for burnout for sure. That's definitely where it comes from it definitely comes from seeing other people and other channels People who I admire people who I really I love their content and I'm like how the hell are they putting out three videos a week? Like this is absurd the amount of time that energy goes to make these videos and like one You just never know what's actually going on behind the scenes like they could have a big team They also could be really stressed out and it could be overwhelmed It could be like not the best thing for their own health. Yeah, so I try not to measure myself based on other metrics Whether it's the number of videos somebody else is creating how much money somebody else is making or how many views they're making And I try to just measure it based on am I happy? Do I feel content am I happy with how The videos that I'm making in my proud of what I'm making Intrinsic versus an extrinsic. It's hard to do. It's easier said than done, but that's kind of what I strive for Gosh yeah, yeah, I found that People on the internet are sort of professionally good at making it look like it's all easy And you know, I know you put your video on anxiety and a few other people have kind of Come clean with how stressed out they are and being in VidCon you hear a lot of just like oh, yeah, it's you know, it's a complete You know, just absolutely disaster. Yeah, and I'm always stressed out, but they make it look easy Yeah, and I think that's that's something that I'm trying to work on because a lot of my videos Like just at least my filmmaking style it can be very clean cut type a it can look like I have everything together And I did have like a Maddie age who we were talking about another awesome youtuber like he commented on my anxiety video And he's like dude, I never would have known that you were going through this because I was like it just it looks like you're like Somebody who's just got a shit together And it's like I will say that a lot of times I do have my shit together, but like we all have our lows And we all have these really challenging periods of our lives and it doesn't matter how many subscribers you get Or how much money you're making you're always going to have these really difficult things to get through yeah, and I think it's like you just try to be more open and honest about that in each video you make it's like I'm not going to do a video about anxiety every single day Still haven't yeah exactly, but it's yeah, right? Still going on But I think it's like it's it's helpful to to be real and authentic Yeah, much as that word is thrown around these days. I think yeah real authenticity helps yeah There's like a pressure to put on this I don't know strong face on the internet, but I guess you know you've discovered this I've discovered this from my limited You know moments of vulnerability when you do communicate what you're going through it actually Helps people relate yeah because I think that you know people especially in the help self-help state a space Can Run the risk of making it seem like everything's too easy for them or that like they have everything together And then people watching are like well, you know, what's wrong with me? Why can't I do that? Why am I not Feeling you know nothing but pure bliss all the time and then they get to see like oh the people that I'm watching They also go through the same exact human struggles. Yeah, that was a turning point for me I would say probably last year at the beginning of the year where I felt like I was hitting a wall in terms of what content I could create because I I just was only talking about what I knew and what I was an expert in Yep, and then I was like this is like I only got two things I feel making and I've got minimalism and like that's like and like the minimalism Am I an expert? I'm not Marie condo, but I'm like I know enough to talk about it And I'm like okay, but I need to branch out and I'm getting a little bit bored talking about these same things Yeah, so I was like what if instead of being an expert? I was an experimenter What if I just cooked the box and I just started playing around with things and I do that's where the experiments came from like Cold showers for 30 days like I'm not an expert cool showers. I don't know who is. I'm not whim-hoff, right? But I can actually explore this and I can learn about it and I think that to me has made the process more enjoyable And it's again taking the pressure off to be like the expert in everything yeah You're learning along with the audience essential. Yeah, I kind of hit the same wall You know, how many times can you make a video about to do lists before you've said everything you want to say? And then I kind of had this realization like you know the power of habit was written by a journalist And he went out and he dug to get a story and then that turned into a book Okay, well, maybe I need to be a journalist and go ask questions again. What do interviews like this series? Yeah, and you know, yeah, you just can't you can't talk about only what you know forever Especially when your job is professional content creator. Yeah because all of your time is invested in that instead of you know Forget about that people forget about the fact that like the actual job is making videos and they think that the job is just knowing My job Yeah eight hours a day. I'm getting rid of stuff. Yeah. I used to think about that though, too I I remember talking my friend who's a self development life coach and I was like, man I'm like I envy you because your job is to like work on yourself and to like you know Write about self development and always be learning about that stuff and It is true that that's a great place to be in, but it's also true that that's a hell of a lot of work Yeah, and there's also twice as much work as you think that is there. Yeah, exactly So I want to talk about your organization Essentially the space you're in the files all that good stuff and Obviously the coolest thing is what we're sitting right behind your closet here So tell me a little bit about how you've got your camera gear organized. I love that you've got the coolest thing is my closet Dude it is like you're my kind of guy Natalie does not care about this at all, but I'm like this to me was a super proud of it It's funny because I don't know where all this stuff was before I we moved into this new place We just moved here a couple months ago and this is the first time that I've had an actual studio To to work from that I can have my gear organizing the way that I want it Shaved under the bed shoved in a closet somewhere and so I put a lot of thought into it I'm like how do I want this organized? I kind of went with this idea of what if I Made my stuff be like the decor and it's kind of the play on minimalism What if I just laid out all my camera gear all my things on a pegboard and then You know what if I laid my lenses out pulling from inspiration from other youtubers other other videos that I've seen online But also just trying to to keep everything organized and easy to go Having my battery station set up so I can charge any battery for any device I have Load it right out that saves me a ton of time. Which that's genius. Yeah, because it's always plugged in and I'm guessing you probably do like one of the charger at all time So you have an extra to go. Yeah, so usually when I finish a shoot I'll take all the batteries and then I'll put them on the top shelf there and then All the batteries up there will still be a few left over that aren't charged I'll go through charge all those maybe I'll come back a couple hours later Take them off put them in where they're designated and like the drawer below it Yeah, and then the cube goes from there and I take the batteries from the top and then I charge those Yeah, and then eventually so then basically no uncharged batteries go in that drawer Because that's a mess when you just look at a stack of 20 batteries and you know which one of these is charged. Yeah, which isn't it can be stressful and like you have to go out and charge each one For me the biggest thing when it comes to organization when it comes to setting up my workspace my desk my desk space Even setting my files online. It's like how can I reduce as much friction as possible? Yeah, so it's easy to get to work even in setting up this desk right here. I originally had it Kind of jutting out into the room and I created a nook behind it But I just felt myself like this is gonna sound crazy, but it's like I was so much less likely to walk all the way around I walk around the gear I had to get around the desk and then sit down and I'm like I just want my body Because sometimes we're just on most of them. We're just on autopilot So I'm like I just need the V straight like or straight line straight to my desk and then boom I sit down and then I get to work and I've noticed like it has helped me out so much Yeah, so I try to be thoughtful at every single thing in the apartment to reduce that friction as much as I can Those are the big thing for me in music when I got my new house I built like this really cool recording studio upstairs and I realized like I'm not going upstairs To grab the guitar and mess around so I just moved it all downstairs like the amp The guitar is everything is just out of the living room. Yeah, it's so easy just grab it play it and that as a result like do Yeah, that's one of those powerful things about Habit change is the changing of the environment something that I've learned over the past year is When I feel like I'm gonna forget a habit, right? That's the hardest thing is like how am I gonna remember every day to keep doing this thing? Oh, yeah, so when I took cool showers every day for 30 days I just printed up a calendar and I put it right next to the shower and I taped it there with a permanent marker So then every time I went to take a shower and I did shower daily So that was that was an important first step and I would just exit out and then I would always see it I did that for meditation For the gym I'll keep my protein out in the calendar to remember I see that Oh, yeah, I got to go to the gym today and I think those environmental changes are Yeah, it's just about the friction. It's about making it easy for yourself. So do you use any kind of habit tracking it? Absolutely like that. I don't know. I'm envious of people who do because I see the the bullet journals And I'm like those things look so cool and like you see I mean, I'm sure you've seen them online Like they're super artistic and beautiful and like people have these amazing illustrations But I'm like I don't I don't have the time right now To make my notebook creative like for me that would actually be reverse productive to like spend too much time Doing that I understand how Habit tracking can help people and I think I might experiment with that in the future and just try to track certain things in my life Yeah, when I'm doing 30-day challenges I track things but I don't have like a specific system for tracking those habits in the long run I do do something called the two-day rule. So that's when I go to the basically for my gym workout routine It's like kind of a keystone habit for me. It's one of the most important habits because it influences so many other things in my life When I'm going to the gym five days a week four days a week I am more likely to have my protein shake a more likely to drink more water I'm gonna be eating healthier just because I feel motivated more energized and I don't want it, you know Banger on junk food so that to keep that gym habit is really important to me So I enact the two-day rule which is basically I will not let myself take two days off in a row Okay, so so you could take a rest day any day. Yeah, if it's not planned and I can then next to you must go back Yes, and I have multiple I could take multiple days off in a week till okay, and you know It's it's important because like I am so much more likely to miss a third day if I skip till Yeah, and then four and then five and you just get so far from it. That's when you forget you're like wait I was I trying to build a habit earlier like where did it go? So the two-day rule has been instrumental I will caveat it by saying that like it's I'm not super strict with it to the point where I'm gonna like hurt myself or I'm sick and I'm going to the gym I will take a week off if I'm sick if I'm traveling and I like feel like taking off I'm like just travel for two weeks and not work out But knowing that when I come back to my normal routine the two-day rule is back and it helps me get right back and build a habit again That helps yeah, because like I think it's like it's important to know that Yeah, it's like you you put the two-day rule out there and then people think that that's what I'm doing Three-and-are 65 days a year and it's not I would imagine that you're not doing Most of what you say all the time it's more just like you know 90% is what we're shooting for yeah 100% yeah because like we we're all human and I mean we're all working in challenging ourselves to to overcome these things to implement these systems into our lives Yeah, and it is like if I can do this most the time if I'm on top of my two-doo this most the time Then I'll feel good and yeah 90% of the time is good enough for me and if you're striving to be totally perfect I think you're just gonna let yourself down because nobody is yeah, yeah absolutely yeah What do you do when it's the middle of the day and for me this is probably two three o'clock I don't know what it is for you. You're just riddle with brain fog and you can't motivate yourself to do anything So I typically go to the gym in the middle of the day so you're not like a wake-up go to the gym I did I did that for a couple months this year and I liked it Okay, so again, it's like it might vary and this is where I'm like not type A and that like I will kind of Structure my day differently at times just to see how it feels But when I'm going to the gym in the middle of the day I find that like one it's a nice break like I can go out Get lunch have some tripotle do a workout and then come back and I find that especially if I'm doing cardio I'm like getting that energy going again. Yeah, um the one thing Other than that which gives me energy is doing different tasks So I usually try to write first thing in the morning because that's typically the hardest thing for me Because it's it's if I wait till the end of the day like there's just a certain amount of creative energy That I can get onto the page that I can get into writing and I can not you I couldn't spend eight hours Writing in a day I just couldn't I would just I give after a couple of hours I usually get pretty tired and I get enough done that I'm happy So I might write for two to three hours in the morning and then do editing I find that editing for me is a little bit easier to do when I'm kind of feeling a little bit of brain fog when I'm feeling tired I will give myself some breaks So I won't just work for four hours straight. I'll work for an hour. I might set a timer to remind myself to stop working an hour just to take 15 minutes off To kind of get my eyes away from the computer screen to take a lap around the apartment to talk to Natalie or get a glass of water and then come back to my Come back to my work. Okay, what time do you wake up in the morning? Do you have a specific we have yeah, I mean and you did the it is a 430 in the morning 530 yeah, which was you know not far off from my normal routine but far enough that it really Negative And also so strict. I was like I'm gonna do it for 30 days straight. Yeah, so that was part of the problem is that I didn't allow myself the flexibility Of I didn't do the two-day rule. I like it was like every day when I'm traveling regardless time zones tough time zone changes So that was really difficult, but typically I wake up around 630. I would say on work days If I if we had a late night or something else then I'll sleep and I'll 7 I'm usually Rarely in bed past 730. Do you have a pretty strict bed time or is it just sort of Whatever you know when Natalie had her full-time job It was more strict because she would just be like all right It's like nine o'clock or 930 got to get the bags. I got to be up. She's got to get to work and I got to commute So yeah usually it was a little bit A little bit more strict than now we're still in bed by 10 p.m. Oh, okay, so that's so pretty early. Yeah, we're yeah We're pretty boring Getting eight and a half hours. Yeah, yeah, yeah, it's pretty good amount. Yeah, I would say definitely eight hours a night for sure cool Well, I think that might be enough because we've done like 20 minutes of footage. Yeah, that was great dude. Yeah, so hopefully you guys enjoy this interview Your channel is is it just youtube.com slash Maddie Miller Maddie Bella cool. Yeah, I'll have it on screen with my after effects magic go check it stuff out It's better filmed than mine. We're using his cameras. Yeah, I'm lucky I love you videos. Thank you and your videos are awesome as well. I like it's been just a bunch of them this morning Oh, that was eating breakfast burrito. Nice. Yeah, that's how they're on top of it Be consumed. Oh, yes. Yeah, Maddie Bella burritos. That's like the new thing the kids are doing Yeah, that's really good. I'm gonna write that down actually. I'm a two-dueless Breakfast burrito. Yeah, yeah, dude. Thank you for coming on whatever this show is and y'all should go and subscribe to Matt and start watching his videos. Cool. Thanks, brother appreciate it. Yep. Good stuff Cool
