# How I Use My Calendar Efficiently - College Info Geek
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KcWplarcZzY
Google Calendar is part of my "quick capture" system of tools I use to get ideas, events, and tasks out of my brain as soon as possible. 

In this video, I'll go over how I used it as a student, how I use it now, and dig into some companion apps.

Discuss this video:

https://www.reddit.com/r/collegeinfogeek/comments/4aujzd/how_i_use_my_calendar_efficiently/

My book "10 Steps to Earning Awesome Grades" is completely free, so check it out if you're interested in improving your grades!

http://collegeinfogeek.com/get-better-grades/

Companion article for this video:

http://collegeinfogeek.com/efficient-calendar-use/

----------

Videos you might want to watch next:

How to Get Massive Loads of Work Done: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=maywlXFRxrs&list=PLx65qkgCWNJIS5Y_CcxifKHjQKf7iqVv5

How to Create a Final Exam Study Schedule: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CUbeQ7Q3s2Q&list=PLx65qkgCWNJIgq1Mj0rtsthmpqDGFL8Yn

----------

If you want to get even more strategies and tips on becoming a more productive, successful student, subscribe to my channel right here:

http://buff.ly/1vQP5ar

Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly

~ created by Thomas Frank
**Keywords:** thomas frank, college info geek, college tips, studying, university, calendar, scheduling, time management, productivity, procrastination, planning, class schedule, course schedule, school schedule, timetable, time table, google calendar, fantastical, ical, student calendar, study schedule, study timetable, 
**Date:** 2016-03-17

## Transcript
 Today we are talking about Google Calendar because I've been getting a lot of questions about how I use my calendar personally and Google Calendar has been my weapon of choice for the past 5, 6, 7 years almost at this point. So today in this video we're going to go through how I use Google Calendar some of the tips and tricks I use both on desktop and mobile, how we use it as a student versus now is an incredibly professional businessman. And hey, if you guys use a different calendar, most of this stuff is going to apply not all of it, but for the vast majority of it it's going to apply to any calendar you use. So I count Outlook Calendar, I don't know, like a stone tablet on the ground. That was going to be a bit of a stretch, but this will apply to almost any system for the most part. And the first thing I need to stress here is that Google Calendar is part of what I call my quick capture system. Now I'm going to talk about this concept a little bit more in a future video, but essentially the gist of it is that quick capture means you want to get ideas of any kind out of your head as immediately as possible. And into a system that you trust when that has context when it's organized and one that will either notify you when you need to know about it again in the future or that you trust yourself to check regularly. So with that being said, we're going to get into how I specifically use Google Calendar in my daily life and I need to split this explanation in two because the way I use it today is very different than how I used it as a student. As a student, I had my calendar split into multiple different calendars because the concept essentially for me was to split my life into different components and then be able to look at each component individually. So I had specific calendars for classes for work for on campus events, outside one for other stuff, just kind of things that didn't fit. And then I also had a professor office hours calendar by the way, guys, if I sound like a frog right now, it's because I'm sick. Sorry. One last thing about how I use my calendar as a student is that at the beginning of every semester, I would put in all the important dates right away. So like the date when I needed to sign up for classes for the next semester that would go in right away finals we could go in there. And that way, I knew it was all set up at the beginning of the semester. I wouldn't have to be worrying about when do I sign it for classes, when do I start studying for finals. It's all set up initially and then I can just react to it as it comes up on a week to week basis. So that brings us to today where I use my calendar in a very different manner. And that's because I'm no longer a student and my time isn't dominated mostly by events. I'm a business owner and most of my time is kind of free form. I can choose to work on whatever I want to work on at any time as long as it gets done. I would say probably about 90% of my time is like that. The other 10% is scheduled meetings for the most part because as a podcaster, I'm often interviewing people or I'm being on other people's shows. The other main use is for travel since I'm going to the schools to speak sometimes or I go to conferences, there are different cities and different states. I'm often traveling and when I travel I create all day events in the calendar so they're not blocking up the hourly slots. And that way I just know, oh, I'm in Denver these days. I'm in New York City these days. And the last main thing I use my calendar for these days is for exercise because a lot of my exercise is actually event driven. Like my yoga class is 630 pm on Thursday so I got to be there on time. And for ice skating practice, it's only a very limited window of time every day that I can do it. So I just schedule on the calendar and then because of my completionists I put my gym time on there as well. So with those explanations out of the way, I got a few more things to talk about first of which is mobile. Now I used to use Sunrise Calendar on my iPhone to manage Google Calendar because it was free and it was beautiful. And at the time the Google Calendar app kind of stuck in my opinion that is not the case anymore. I think the Google Calendar app is pretty good. However, I don't use it because now I use an app called Fantasticel. And the reasons I use Fantasticel is number one. It is the best calendar app that I have found for use on the Apple Watch right now because it's the one that has glances. So I can just easily look at the watch swipe up and see what my next event is. And it also has absolutely fantastic natural language processing which means if I use voice dictation to create an event which is a really seamless frictionless way to get it out of my brain and into my phone. Then it will intelligently pick out the parts of the event that need to be put in different fields. And that brings me to the last thing we had to talk about in this video which is scheduling stuff because email tag is the worst. I've got like 50 message long threads from a few years ago where I'm trying to be like, yeah, I'm available this day. Oh, you're not available that day, blah, blah, blah. You can use technology to make this much much simpler. Now the app that I use on a regular basis is called Calendly. And this is an app that lets you define certain dates and times on your weekly schedule when people can basically pencil in their own appointments with you. And this is really really useful for people like me who are podcasters and who have to schedule interviews a lot or maybe people like tutors. If someone who has to open up big amounts of their schedule and limited windows to let people basically pencil in their own appointments. But I don't think it's super useful for students because you guys usually have a lot of your schedule already spoken for by classes. And you're generally just trying to schedule things like a group project work time. Now Google Calendar has their own like find a time feature, but what I found is most students don't have their calendar game on lock. So you're going to be like the only person who has everything really nicely scheduled and everyone else is going to be like, yeah, I don't know what I'm doing next Tuesday. So doodle is what I recommend for you guys because doodle basically lets you define a date range and then everyone can vote on the times that work for them. And you can easily see the column where everyone's available. So that about does it for this video. Now if you've been paying attention, you are now a scheduling ninja. Though do not put that in your Twitter bio or I will find you. And if you guys have extra tips about how to use your calendar that I didn't cover here, I would love to hear them. Otherwise, thank you so much for watching. If you enjoyed this video and you found it useful, give it a like to support this channel. And if you want to get new tips on being a more effective student every single week, you can click that big red subscribe button right down there. Also, I wrote a free book on how to earn better grades. So if you want to get a copy of that, you can click the book and I'll send one to you. And in last week's video, talked about skipping classes and whether or not it's worth it. So check it out if you missed it. Also, if you want to get the full article for this video along with links to all the resources we talked about, click the orange button right there. And lastly, if you want to connect, I'm Tom Franklin on Instagram and Twitter, or you can leave a comment down below. Thanks for watching. Thanks for watching.
