# The 3 Best Task Management Apps in 2019
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KpzhO1EyA2U
Get 10% off of your first domain purchase at Hover: https://www.hover.com/thomasfrank

Huge thanks to Hover for sponsoring this video!

So you want to graduate from your old pen and paper to-do list and move your task management into the digital space. What's the best task management app out there?

Today, I'll share my top three - plus one "oddball" choice that's pretty different from the rest, but may still be useful if you're tackling complicated projects.

Get my book "10 Steps to Earning Awesome Grades" FREE: 
https://collegeinfogeek.com/get-better-grades/

Read the companion article, which has even more apps: https://collegeinfogeek.com/best-to-do-list-app/

App links:

Todoist: https://todoist.com
Todoist educational discount: https://todoist.com/education
Microsoft To-Do: https://todo.microsoft.com/
TickTick: https://ticktick.com/
ClickUp: https://app.clickup.com/

Follow Me:
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly
Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Podcast ➔ https://www.youtube.com/TheCollegeInfoGeekPodcast

Subscribe to My Channel:
http://buff.ly/1vQP5ar

My Video Gear:
https://www.amazon.com/shop/thomasfrank
**Keywords:** thomas frank, productivity, education, how to learn, studying, apps, todoist, ticktick, todoist vs ticktick, to do 2019, to do 2018, todoist 2019, wunderlist, productivity apps, productivity app, to do app, task manager, task management app, to do app mac, ios, iphone, android, windows, web app, windows 10, best to do app, best to do app 2019, best task manager, best task app, productive, how to be productive, time management, motivation, microsoft to do, best productivity app, 
**Date:** 2019-02-26

## Transcript
 Hey, what is going on guys? So as you can see, the set is finally rebuilt, and along with it, my new studio slash office is coming together quite nicely. Over the past couple of days, I've been able to check off many different items in my little studio rebuilding project in my to-do list. And speaking up to do lists, well, we gotta talk about those, because I get a lot of questions about which app or tool out there is the best one for managing your tasks. So in today's video, I want to try to answer that question, and to do so, I'm going to be sharing my top three to do list applications that I think are going to be the best options for most people. And I'm also going to throw in one kind of oddball recommendation that doesn't really fit in with the other three, but might be useful for certain viewers. So let's get into it. All right, so the number one app on my list, which you've probably seen, if you've ever looked at the resources page on my website, or asked me about it on Twitter, is to do it. Now back when I was in college, I used to use a task management app called Wonder List, and I absolutely loved it. But a few years ago, Microsoft actually bought it, and they made the announcement that I was eventually going to be going away. And as a result, I moved over to to-do list. And just to kind of spoil this video a little bit for you, I think that to-do list is probably the best to do app out there in terms of features and capabilities. And the number one feature that it offers, something that I find invaluable in my workflow, is natural language processing, which means that you can add tasks along with all the details needed for those tasks, such as tags, and due dates, and assignies, things like that, just by typing what you want in the main task bar, or by saying it. I'm also a big fan of the quick ad feature. When I'm using the app on my desktop or on the browser, I can just hit the letter Q, or I can just hit the plus button on my iPhone, and I can easily enter a task in seconds, and that reduces a lot of friction in my system. Additionally, I have a big fan of its integration with voice assistants. It's got Siri integration, and it's also got Amazon Echo integration. Don't worry, I'm not going to say the A word in this video. But if I want to, I can easily tell my echo to add a task, and it gets automatically added to my inbox, and I love that since I have several of them in my house. That being said, not everything is perfect with the newest. I do think that the way it handles sub-task is a little dated, and not a big fan of how you just indent things in your main task list, instead of having a real sub-task view, and additionally, the Windows app doesn't work quite like the desktop app, the Mac app, or even the mobile apps. It's got kind of a different UI, and it doesn't work quite as well. Additionally, to do is, it's not the cheapest app in the personal productivity space, especially since they just raised their prices to $4 a month, so that might be a bit of a turn off. Though, it is worth mentioning that there is a student discount, though they did make the baffling decision to require people to sign up for a business account before asking for it, but even still, it reduces the price down to about $0.50 per month, so if you are a college student, that is an option for you. However, if you are a price-conscious person, or you just somebody who doesn't want to pay a monthly subscription fee for your to-do list app, then there's something else that you're going to want to look at. And that is Microsoft to do. So, let me level with you here. If you're somebody who does does not want to pay for your to-do list application, and you have simple needs, then I think Microsoft to do is the absolute best option on the market right now. A couple of years ago, I would not have made this recommendation as when it came out as the replacement for one-to-list. There were a lot of missing features, but over the past couple of years, Microsoft's team has added a lot of needed features to the app, and honestly, it's pretty darn good, especially for having absolutely no premium tier whatsoever. You've got the ability to make multiple projects. You can color code those projects, sub-tests, actually work like they're supposed to, and unlike to-do-est free plan, you can add comments and file attachments to your tasks in Microsoft to do without paying anything. This is actually the main reason why I recommend Microsoft to do over-to-do-est free plan. You just don't want to pay. I do think to-do-est is more powerful overall, but I think a lot of people are going to want the ability to add descriptions and comments to their tasks. Like, say, if you want to set up a PO box and you need to put the address to the post office box in the task, you have to pay for that to-do-est. Now, granted, Microsoft-to-do does not have natural language features, so you do have to set your due dates and stuff like that manually. But if you want something simple, I think it really works, and it also has some pretty cool features that you're not going to find in other apps, such as the my-day feature, which doesn't pull tasks based on due dates, but instead lets you manually add tasks from your lists. Now, of course, there are some things with Microsoft to do that I don't like. For instance, there isn't a dedicated Mac app right now, so just like to do-est on the Windows side, I've got to use Microsoft to do in the browser. Additionally, like I said earlier, it is not quite as powerful as other apps like to do-est, you don't have the natural language features, you don't have tags and filters and smart lists and things like that, but again, if you don't want to pay and you want something simple, I think it is a very compelling option. That brings us to my third recommendation on this list, which is now called Tick tick, and if you've ever used Tick tick before, you probably know that it is eerily similar to to do-est. Just like to do-est, it's got those natural language features, which allow you to get tasks into your system very quickly, and have it just parse all the information you want, instead having to set it yourself, it's got tags you can add to your tasks, and it's got something called smart lists, which function basically the exact same way that filters do into-est. But there are some features in Tick tick that you're not going to find into-est. For example, there is a built-in calendar view, so if you want to look at your tasks set up by week or by month basis, you can actually do that. There are start times you can add to your tasks, which I don't personally use, but some people find to be very useful. There is a built-in moment-dorrowed timer, which can actually be tied to your tasks, so if you want to do a moment-dorrowed throughout the day and actually bind them to the tasks you have in your system, you can do that, and sub-tags actually work the way that they should. You click into a task, and you can see your sub-tags along with all the related information, like file attachments and comments. Beyond that, there are even more features in Tick tick, such as desktop widgets, which I kind of irrationally love, not sure why I like them so much, but it's kind of cool to have like a semi-transparent box on my desktop with all my tasks. And on the mobile side, there's a feature called Plan My Day, which helps you intelligently plan out what you want to get done on a given day. Given all these features, and the fact that Tick tick is cheaper than to do-est at $28 a year versus there are $36 a year, it might seem like Tick tick is the better option. And for some people, it might be, but there are a few caveats. For one, Tick tick does have those natural language features, but they're not as strong as the ones found into do-est. For example, I can't use TOM for tomorrow, I actually have to type out the entire thing, and when I'm using a really complex request, like having a task with a specific first due date, along with a recurring option, it can't really parse it. To do as handles like a champ, but I have to go in and manually set that kind of thing up in Tick tick. Additionally, there is no two-way Google Calendar Sync in Tick tick, so while you do have that built-in calendar view, if you want to actually look at it on your Google Calendar, you can't quite do that as well as you can on to do-est, and perhaps most importantly of all, their free plan is very limited. You can only have nine lists. That brings us to my odd-ball recommendation, which really isn't that odd, it just kind of exists outside of the realm of the simple to do-list-style apps that most you guys are probably familiar with. So my final recommendation for this video is something called ClickUp, which is an app that you would probably categorize as project management software instead of a simple to-do-list app. Project Management Apps, which don't really include tools we've already talked about, but do include tools like Asana and Jira and ClickUp, are a little better suited for managing really complex projects with lots of moving parts, different tasks, statuses, and for managing teams. Now, for a long time, I was a big Asana user, mainly because my friend Matt got me on it, and it was pretty useful, but after testing ClickUp, I think it is probably the most useful and most full feature project management that I've ever tried, and it might also work for personal productivity. ClickUp gives you a ton of ways to look at your tasks. You've got a normal list view, you've got a board view, you've got a Trello or Conbond style, you've got a calendar view, or you can go full project manager and even look at Gantcharts. When it comes to creating tasks, you basically have all the options. There's a full-fledged hybrid markdown editor for descriptions that rivals notions or slits. There's the ability to add sub tasks and checklists, and you can generate these checklists from templates. In fact, you can generate entire tasks from templates, and of course, you get your due dates for current due dates with more options, and you can shake a stick at, there's task watchers, and you can even assign multiple people to one task. And then there are the tools. There's the ability to minimize tasks to a task tray, which kind of gives you the ability to make a little daily list of tasks that you're going to work on. There's a notepad feature built into the app for making just scratch notes, and possibly my favorite additional tool is their Chrome extension, because it lets you take a screenshot of a web page and append it to an existing task or make a new task out of it. And when Martin and I were working on fixing some bugs on the College of Foggy website, this was actually really really useful. So, if you were the kind of person who wants incredibly fine-grained control over every aspect of your life, or you want to take heavy advantage of templating and team features, then click up might be something to look at. And that being said, after testing, click up extensively for a couple of weeks with my team. I ended up making the decision to move us all back to due list. And the main reason for doing that is that click up just gives us too many options, and we found that there was a lot of friction involved in adding new tasks to the system and figuring out where they should go. Whereas, and to do this, we can use those natural language features to get something into the system really quickly. However, during that testing period, I was really impressed with all the different features they're offering, and I do think that it offers a lot more flexibility and capabilities than similar apps like Asana. So, for a certain kind of person, it's going to be a pretty compelling option. So, that brings us to the final question, which is which of these apps is the best one? And it's kind of hard to answer that question objectively, since everyone has different needs, so I'm going to give you a couple of different recommendations. First and foremost, if you don't want to pay for your task management software, then Microsoft to do is really compelling. If you really want the natural language features, then maybe to do a street plan as for you. Otherwise, if you want something simple, you want something that works and has some pretty cool features all of its own, then Microsoft to do is pretty cool. If you are willing to pay a few bucks a month for a subscription though, for my money, at least, to do is the best general task management app out there for most people. Now, tick tick is really compelling. It's quite similar, and it does have a few additional features like that Pomodoro timer, but at least for me, the superior natural language processing, which allows me to get tasks into my system more accurately, and more quickly, gives to do us the edge. Now, regardless of which task management at the end of going with, one of the tasks that you should put on it and do as soon as you possibly can is getting yourself a domain name. It's no secret that more and more companies are relying on the internet to find their job candidates. So, if you want to position yourself as the best possible person for that job you're looking for, then you should be looking to establish a strong personal brand online, and a really important part of that process is building yourself a website where you can communicate your skills, show off your portfolio, and make it really easy for people to contact you. And, of course, the first step to doing that is securing a domain name for yourself, something that you can link to from your online profiles and even put on your resume and business and the best place on the internet to get that domain name is Hover. Unlike some other places, how makes the process of getting a domain name is super easy? In fact, I just bought one this morning, and the process took less than 30 seconds. There are no annoying upsells, nothing to get your way, just a frictionless and streamlined checkout process. Plus, with over 400 different domain extensions to choose from, like the classic.com's.mees, just some more interesting ones, like dot LOL and dot ninja, you've got a lot of choices. And once you've got that domain name, you can easily set up a professional email address for it, or use their connect feature to automatically hook it up to different website builders, like Squarespace, and Shopify. So, head over to Hover.com slash Thomas Frank to get your domain name before somebody else does, and if you use that link, which you'll find in the description down below, you're also going to get 10% off your first purchase. Big thanks to Hover for sponsoring this video, and being a big supporter of my channel, and as always, thank you guys so much for watching. If you enjoyed this video, hit that like button, you can also subscribe right there to get new videos every single week when they come out, or click right there to get the copy of my book on how to earn better grades for free. If for some reason you don't want to click on either of those boxes, you can go follow me on Instagram at Tom Franklin, or click right over here to see one more video on this channel. Thanks for watching, and I'll see you in next one.
