# Sleep Schedules vs. Staying Up Late - College Info Geek
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KTPs6lmaY5Q
Waking up early and building a consistent sleep schedule are two things that can help you be more productive. 

But what do you do when you also want to stay up late on the weekends? Or what if you have a part-time job that FORCES you do have an inconsistent sleep schedule?

This video was done in a completely different style than normal, because I recorded it at 4 A.M. before catching my flight to VidCon.

My book "10 Steps to Earning Awesome Grades" is now out and it's free! Get it here (and get a copy of my graduation planning spreadsheet as well):

http://collegeinfogeek.com/get-better-grades/

If you want to get even more strategies and tips on becoming a more productive, successful student, subscribe to my channel right here:

http://buff.ly/1vQP5ar

Connect with me on Twitter!

https://twitter.com/TomFrankly

Companion blog post with notes and resource links: 

http://collegeinfogeek.com/sleep-schedule-thoughts/

~ created by Thomas Frank
**Keywords:** sleep schedule, conistency, sleep, partying, college, Sleep Deprivation (Symptom), waking up early, early waking, alarm clock, circadian rhythms, biological clock, blue light, sleep science, education, Sleeping, 
**Date:** 2015-07-23

## Transcript
 Good morning guys, and I feel like that guy from those YouTube commercials. Look at my car. Let's put on important in my car. These books. Oh, there's just a bike. So it's 4am, and I'm running a very little sleep because I am headed down to the airport to go to VidCon. Just awesome. My flight is at 6am, and it's self-imposed torture, so I can only blame myself for it. But I am running on a very little sleep because of it. So I figured why not do a quick video on sleep. Now, if you've been watching my channel for any length of time, you probably know that I advocate getting up at a specific time of morning. I personally like getting up early because it gives me time to go through a morning routine, but I mainly just recommend getting up at a consistent time. So you have a sleep schedule. Now, a lot of people will say, this is cool and all, but how do I reconcile this with my desire to go out and party and where stay up till 3am every weekend? How do I get up early on the weekdays? But then, you know, deal with that on a weekend. Should I still get up at the same time and just take my sleep schedule? And some people have any more legitimate reason for this, where they have inconsistent work schedules. They're boss scheduling them at all hours the day, and they don't really know when they're going to be scheduled until maybe a couple of days beforehand. So here's the quick answer to the question. How do I deal with the lack of a sleep schedule? Tip number one, this is the big tip. Be young. And this comes from a lot of personal experience. I know for a fact that when I was 18 years old, I could deal with getting three hours of sleep in a night. I could deal with a completely hectic, erratic sleep schedule. It was all hunky-dory. I could, you know, bounce back from it within a matter of hours, and I was maybe some coffee. Now that I'm 24 years old, I know for a fact that my body's ability to adapt to a hectic sleep schedule, or a lack of sleep is majorly diminished. I need my hours of sleep, and I do better when I have a sleep schedule. That being said, the hours of sleep you get are far more important than the sleep schedule. Now if you look at the National Sleep Foundation's data on the hours of sleep that people should get on average for certain age ranges between the ages of 18 and 25, it's between seven to nine hours. Some people can deal with six. Some people need 10 to 11, so it's very variable, very dependent on the person. But on average, it's that seven to nine hour range. So regardless of what schedule you have, even if it's weird, even if it's erratic, you want to be shooting for that seven to nine hours. Even if that means on the weekend mornings, if you stay on a party or you have to work, get up later on, that way you're getting those hours of sleep. I'm actually taking a course right now on course Sarah called learning how to learn. And one of the videos they talk about how sleep actually reduces the size of your brain cells and allows your brain to flush toxins out that are generated when you're thinking and conquering the day. So sleep is very, very important. And I actually want to talk more about sleep on this channel, so I'll be doing some more research, but basically get sleep and make sure you're getting those recommended number of hours. That being said, the importance of a sleep schedule is for a few reasons. Number one, a sleep schedule allows you to basically get your body's internal clock to be regulated. And what that does is it helps you fall asleep more quickly. It gets you on a more consistent schedule. It makes sure that when you wake up in the morning at a consistent time, you are more energized, you're basically tuning your body to waking up at that specific time, which lets you get into the full of your day easier. So essentially, you need to work within the parameters that your life has set for you. And oops, I like to go off. No, I guess I'm not really caring too much about the technical aspects of this video. It's just a time constraint I suppose. But yeah, work with those constraints, you know, your fundamentals are the hours of sleep you're getting. And after that, you can work to tweak other aspects of your sleep experience to make it better. So maybe you can't be super consistent about a routine, but what you can do is make sure you're not reading in bed or looking at your phone in bed, exposing your eyes to blue light, which is in the daylight spectrum. Doing things that don't keep your body consistent with the sleep experience of bed. So make sure you're bed. The only context of your bed is sleep context. That will allow you to fall asleep easier and faster. And then also, if you can, maybe try saying out, oh, my sleep or weekends, or try getting a job with more consistent hours or talking to your boss and not your sleep schedule. Who knows, maybe they'll be pretty accommodating. So anyway, I'm going to go edit this video while I'm on the plane, hopefully catch some disease when I've done editing it and then have fun at VidCon. So hey, if you're going to be at VidCon, I'll be there all weekend. I'm on Twitter at Tom Franklin. You can tweet me up if you want to meet me. If you happen to be there, otherwise next week, I've got an excellent video coming. It's going to be much better film than this one and it's got a lot of editing in it. That's the reason it's not out this week, it's because VidCon is all my editing time. So hopefully this has helped you in some way and I'll see you next week.
