# How to Ace a Job Interview: 10 Crucial Tips
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KukmClH1KoA
You're going to ACE your next interview. You're going to walk in there confidently and CRUSH it. And I'm going to help you prepare for it.
📺 Watch this video without AdSense on Nebula: https://nebula.tv/videos/thomas-frank-yt-how-to-ace-a-job-interview-10-crucial-tips

🛠 COURSES AND RESOURCES: 
Notion channel - https://www.youtube.com/c/ThomasFrankExplains
Free Notion templates - https://thomasjfrank.com/templates/
Learn Notion - https://thomasjfrank.com/fundamentals
Productivity and Habits courses - https://thomasjfrank.com/courses/

🦙 SPONSOR: 
Get a free audiobook and a 30-day trial at Audible: http://audible.com/thomas or text "Thomas" to 500-500 on your phone.

🐦 SOCIAL STUFF:
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly
Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Music Channel ➔ https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCmqK2G-3AL_WP5KffH_wqAA
Spotify Study Playlist ➔ https://open.spotify.com/user/thomasfrank09/playlist/4ETfiRPHVmUFLF6q0g8Fux?si=IPfx3dAgQ1SIUwhh5YEQMQ

🔗 VIDEO LINKS:
Elle Florence: https://www.youtube.com/user/glossypinklipgloss
Alpha M: https://www.youtube.com/user/AlphaMconsulting
Real Men Real Style: https://www.youtube.com/user/RealMenRealStyle
Gentlemen's Gazette: https://www.youtube.com/user/thegentlemansgazette

👐 BUSINESS:
Please contact my agent at thomasfrank@standard.tv

💰 I'm fortunate enough to work with great sponsors who support my work, so I don't use Patreon or any other crowdfunding service. However, if you'd like to support a worthy cause, consider donating to help more children get access to a high-quality education: https://fundraise.pencilsofpromise.org/fundraiser/1489730
**Keywords:** job interview, internship interview, interview tips, interview preparation, interview prep, job interviews, interview nerves, interview nervous, job candidate, hiring manager, job tips, internship tips, how to get hired, get hired, recruiter, suit, interview practice, portfolio, padfolio, resume, interview questions, company research, getting hired, behavioral questions, thomas frank, 
**Date:** 2018-02-17

## Transcript
 Hey, what's up guys, so today we are going to be focusing in on how to ace a job interview and I'm going to be getting you 10 tips that you can use to make sure that you're on the hiring managers shortlist by the time you walk out of the room. But before we get started, I do want to mention that this video is sponsored by one of my favorite apps which is audible. Now I'm going to have more information at the end of the video and a book recommendation from my own personal library, but if you do want to get a free 30 day trial and a free audiobook of your choosing you can go over to audible.com slash Thomas or text Thomas do 500 500 to get started. First up on our list is to do practice interviews and you actually have a lot of opportunity to do these. When I was a college student at Iowa State University throughout my four years, every single year when the career fair would roll into town, there would be actual recruiters that would come to the career center and offer up their time to do practice interviews with any student that signed up for one. Now these interviews weren't real interviews, but they were real conversations with people who were hiring managers or HR people at companies who were going to be at the career fair. So in addition to being good practice for future real interviews, they're actually good networking experience with people who might be making decisions in the future. But the main benefit of these types of interviews is that they are great practice for the real thing. Because an interview is inherently a nerve-wracking experience. So if you have some time to go in and do practice interviews where the stakes aren't so high, you're going to be able to come into the real thing with a lot more confidence and a lot more polish. Tip number two is to be as friendly and engaged as you can with everyone you interact at the company. Now I don't think people are going into companies and being downright rude to the secretary or telling people that they don't want to talk to them, but a lot of students will go into a company and if there's a little bit of time to wait before the interview, they'll just kind of sit in the waiting room and stare at their phones. And I can tell you from experience that people who aren't the hiring manager still do observe the behavior of potential candidates and then they talk to those hiring managers. And in a lot of companies, the hiring decisions don't come down to just the people that you interview with. A lot of times they're going to ask anybody who talked with the potential candidate if they have any objections. So if you come into a company and you have a few minutes before the interview, spend some time talking to the person at the front desk or if they're busy, at least be really polite, greet them, ask other days going and then sit down and do your waiting. Also don't walk into the building wearing headphones. Just don't. Tip number three on our list, come prepared with questions for your interviewer. Now you might think that an interview is just a situation where you're supposed to answer the interviewist questions because they're figuring out if you're the best candidate for the job. But don't forget that you're trying to figure out if the job is right for you as well. Additionally, come into the interview prepared with your own questions, tells the interviewer that you are engaged, you're interested in the position and that you put in a little bit of preparation. While you might think that having no questions makes you seem like you know everything and maybe that's a good thing, what it actually does is it makes the interviewer wonder if you're apathetic about the position and if maybe you're just doing it for the money. One question you should definitely keep in your back pocket is what opportunities for advancement or additional duties am I going to have at this company. The great thing about this kind of question is it tells your interviewer that you are willing to be adaptable and flexible and you're willing to learn new things and that is a great quality to have in somebody that you are employing if you're a business owner. Related to my third tip on asking questions during the interview, tip number four is to research the company before you walk into that interview room. Once again, this shows a level of preparation and dedication that a lot of other candidates aren't going to have and that's going to help you stand apart. Now I know what you're thinking. What kind of research am I supposed to do, Tom? Well, you can do a little bit of preliminary research on the history of the company and its business but you really want to understand what the culture is like, what people tend to do there and what your intended position usually entails. Now on the general position and duty side, there are tons of websites in the internet so I'd recommend just googling what does a network engineer do for example, but for the individual company, you can use sites like Glassdoor and Vault to get reviews from actual employees and get a little bit of a feel for what the company's culture is like. All right, we are on to tip number five, which is to bring a no book and a pen to the interview with you. Doing this is yet another signal that you are dedicated and detail oriented because you're able to actually take notes on the details of the position during the interview but it also allows you to come prepared with some prewritten notes about the company's history or any questions that you might have. You should also bring a couple of copies of your resume just in case it becomes useful during the course of the conversation and if you happen to be applying for a position where examples of your work would be useful, bring those along as well. During my last couple of years of college before I became a full-time entrepreneur, what I would bring to an interview is this leather pad folio, which had some resume copies in it, had some notebook paper and a pen in it, and I also brought an iPad that I would keep inside of it, which had screenshots of my web development work. And a little bit of a side note here, I made sure that I had screenshots of my web dev work because in case the company didn't have Wi-Fi, I wouldn't have been able to load the actual websites. Tip number six, that's seven. Six. Send thank you notes or thank you emails within 24 hours of your interview. I would say thank you notes or thank you emails because in my mind, time is of the essence here and in a lot of cases it's pretty difficult to get an actual physical handwritten note to your interviewer, especially if the building that you went to the interview in is far away from where you are. So in those cases, thank you email works pretty well. But if you happen to have the ability to give an actual handwritten thank you note and it's within 24 hours or maybe within 48 hours at the very latest, then that can actually add a nice touch. It should also be noted, and yes, that was a pun, that you shouldn't limit your thank you notes or thank you emails just to the interviewer. If you interacted with a secretary during your time at the building or you actually got to go tour the building and talked to somebody doing a job that you would be doing, send those people thank you emails as well. It really goes a long way. Tip number seven on our list is to wear a well tailored suit to your interview, assuming that you need to wear business formal attire. Now I do have to make a slight admission here. Ever since I bought myself a suit that actually fits well, unlike the one that I had in college, which definitely didn't fit me like a tarp, I've leaned towards recommending an actual suit to go into interviews rather than just regular business formal attire. But if you don't happen to have a suit and you can't afford one, you can definitely wear a button down shirt with a nice tie and a nice pair of slacks. If your girl, there are definitely dresses that fit that business formal requirement or you can do something like a dress skirt. But in general, you want to make sure that you are dressed for success in this situation. Now one exception to this recommendation is if you are specifically told not to wear a suit or if they tell you what to wear to the interview. If you're going to a company that has a really casual dress culture and they say, hey, just show up in a t-shirt and jeans man, don't show up in a suit because you're going to look like you won't fit into that company's culture. Now in the case that you don't quite know how a suit should fit, or you're looking for some additional tips on how to dress well for an interview, I definitely have some recommendations for you guys. As a guy, I learned a huge amount of what I know personally about how to dress well for my friends, Erin Marino, at Alpha M, and Antonio Centeno over at Real Men at Real Style. And I do also have to give a shout out to a guy named Sven Raphael Schneider, who has a channel called Gentleman's Gazette, and that is much more focused on formal business attire and how to do it correctly. So that is also a great resource. For women, I am definitely a lot less knowledgeable, but I did find a YouTuber by the name of L Florence who has a lot of videos and had a dress for work and interviews, so definitely check out her channel. And if you are a woman or you know of great resources for women, definitely leave them in the comments down below. To number 8 is to be prepared for behavioral interview questions. These are the kind of questions to ask you to tell a story about your previous work experience that demonstrates how you handle the situation and what you learned and proved on. Some examples of these kind of questions include, tell me about a time when you were in a high-pressure situation and how you responded. Or give me an example of a time when you didn't meet a goal that you had set and how you dealt with it. Or tell me about a time when hordes the undead attack to workplace and what items from the break room you fashioned and make ship weapons. Okay, maybe not that one. Though Martin and Megan know to ask the next person we interview that question. We'll do. So the best way to handle these kinds of questions is look at examples of them beforehand and to think of stories from your past working life that would fit them. And crucially, the stories you picked should be crafted in a way that demonstrates how you've learned or improved in some way that's relevant to the job. Now keep in mind that you don't need a specific story for every possible interview question that could come out because one that is impossible and two when you have a few stories and you've practiced them, they're going to be pretty adaptable and you're going to be able to apply them to a wide range of different questions. All right, we are on to tip number nine, which is actually my personal favorite. View the interview for exactly what it is. A conversation between two parties who have things to exchange. The reason this tip is on the list is because a lot of students go into interviews feeling like they're going into an audience with King Louis XIV or something and they're going to be granted a job because of the mercy and benevolence of the almighty King that's sitting across the table from them. And that's not the case. Remember, companies put a lot of time and effort and money into attracting the best possible talent. That's what they live and die by. So believe that you are the best possible person for the job and let that be communicated in the interview. Don't be arrogant or cocky but be confident. Finally, our last tip on the list is that 15 minutes early is on time and on time is late. Here's the thing, you want a bit of buffer time when you walk into the company's doors, just in case they happen to be ready for you right now. You don't want to be coming in 30 seconds late because you got stuck in traffic. Plus showing up a little bit early makes a really good first impression and it gives you an opportunity to potentially network with a person running the front desk or some other people at the company before you go into the interview. So those are my top 10 tips for helping you to ace your next interview. Though the interview is only half the battle. The best way to ensure that hiring manager's number one pick is to do everything you can to be building skills and experience that set you apart from the competition. And if you want to learn more about why that's so important and how you can use an experience based mindset to eventually find work that you truly do love. Count Newport's book so good they can't ignore you is a book that you should definitely read or listen to on audible. I absolutely love listening to audiobooks. I listen to them while I'm walking to wherever I'm going to work for the day. I listen to them while I'm cooking dinner. And audible's app makes it such a seamless experience. I can start listening to a book on the same iPad that I'm using for my recipe and then the next morning I can pick up exactly where I left off on my iPhone while I walked to work. Plus the app lets me set bookmarks at any time stamp so I can start building a highlight reel of notes that I can go and review for any audiobook I'm listening to. And speaking of any audiobook, audible's library has an unmatched selection of titles in a ton of different genres from science fiction to biographies, psychology books and many many more. And you can get a free 30-day trial which comes with a free audiobook download of your choosing whether it's my recommendation or anything else that you want by going over to audible.com slash Thomas or texting Thomas to 500 500 on your phone. Big thanks to audible for sponsoring this episode and help it to support this channel and as always guys thank you so much for watching. If you found this video useful you can hit that like button down below and you can hit that subscribe button right there if you don't want to miss out on any new videos in the future. You can also click right there to get a free copy of my book and how to earn better grades and smash your face into your phone screen right around here to get one more video on this channel. Thanks for watching again and I will see you in the next video.
