# This is what the internet does to your brain.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l_FZK1ROO0A
Here's a look at the science behind how the internet changes our brains, and how using it is actually overwriting the structures that allow us to focus intensely and do deep work.
📺 Watch this video without AdSense on Nebula: https://nebula.tv/videos/thomasfrank-what-the-internet-does-to-your-brain

🛠 COURSES AND RESOURCES: 
Notion channel - https://www.youtube.com/c/ThomasFrankExplains
Free Notion templates - https://thomasjfrank.com/templates/
Learn Notion - https://thomasjfrank.com/fundamentals
Productivity and Habits courses - https://thomasjfrank.com/courses/

🦙 SPONSOR: 
Get a free 30-day trial of Dashlane Premium and secure your entire online life by going to https://www.dashlane.com/collegeinfogeek - and when you're ready to subscribe, use the code "collegeinfogeek" to get 10% off.

📃 ARTICLE VERSION:
https://collegeinfogeek.com/stay-focused-internet/

🐦 SOCIAL STUFF:
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly
Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Music Channel ➔ https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCmqK2G-3AL_WP5KffH_wqAA
Spotify Study Playlist ➔ https://open.spotify.com/user/thomasfrank09/playlist/4ETfiRPHVmUFLF6q0g8Fux?si=IPfx3dAgQ1SIUwhh5YEQMQ

⏱ TIMESTAMPS:
01:49 - Part 1: Our Tools Work on Us
06:24 - Part 2: Grabbing Our Attention and Scattering It
08:47 - Part 3: 10 Ideas for Reclaiming Your Attention

🔗 VIDEO LINKS:
The Shallows by Nicholas Carr - https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/9778945-the-shallows
"My Favorite Chord Progression" by 12tone (awesome music theory channel) - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MSjVTZ_l9XA
YouTube CSS blur trick - https://thomasjfrank.com/youtube-distraction-css-trick/
Freedom website blocker - https://freedom.to
Facebook Newsfeed Eradicator - https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/news-feed-eradicator-for/fjcldmjmjhkklehbacihaiopjklihlgg?hl=en
Buffer tweet scheduler - https://buffer.com/

👐 BUSINESS:
Please contact my agent at thomasfrank@standard.tv

🎞 SPECIAL THANKS
🧠 Icons via Toicon: https://www.toicon.com/
**Keywords:** thomas frank, productivity, internet, neuroplasticity, what the internet does to your brain, internet add, internet adhd, social media attention, brain changes, internet side effects, how to focus, how to concentrate, how to read more, deep work, deep focus, deep concentration, multitasking, focus, attention, attention management, internet distractions, how to stop getting distracted, how to pay attention, 
**Date:** 2019-06-16

## Transcript
 Remember when our parents used to tell us that video games would rot our brains? Well, it turns out they were wrong about that. Video games won't rot your brain, and in some cases it can actually be beneficial to play them. However, if your particular set of parental units happen to use the term warp, your brain, well, then they might have been on the right track. In the last few decades, brain scientists have learned a lot about something called neuroplasticity. Essentially, the brain changes its physical configuration and response to the tasks you give it, and the stimuli you expose it to. This can include something as simple as using a clock to something as complex as playing a video game, and it can also include using the internet. Over the past few years, I've had this sneaking suspicion that my daily internet use was having subtle effects on the way that I think. I used to be able to sit and immerse myself in a book for hours, but now that task is a lot harder, often daydream, we're getting caught being distracted, and I seem to remember being bored a lot when I was a kid, but now bored him almost never keeps into my life. There's always something grabbing for my attention, and it turns out that this suspicion wasn't misplaced. Like the clock, in the video game, and countless other technologies, the internet quietly changes the structure of our brains as we use it, and not always in ways that are positive. The brain's process of rewiring itself works a bit like taping over a VHS tape. As the psychiatrist Norman Duage puts it, if we stop exercising our mental skills, we do not just forget them. The brain napspace for those skills, such as deep book reading, is turned over to the skills we practice instead, such as browsing endless pages of the in-dankest beliefs. So today let's explore just how the internet effects our brains, and how we can prevent, or at least reverse its most harmful changes. In the late 1800s, the philosopher Friedrich Nietzsche's eyesight began to fail him, and this brought with it a terrible consequence. It made it almost impossible for him to write. The act of focusing his eyes on a page gave him terrible headaches, and he worried that he would have to give up the practice altogether. But something saved him, and that something was called the Molling Hansen Writing Ball. Now, as weird as this thing looks, it was actually the fastest typewriter ever built back when it was released, and it also saved Nietzsche's writing career. Once he learned a touch-type with it, he could write once more, albeit now with his eyes closed. The writing ball didn't just rescue Nietzsche's ability to write, though. It also changed the character of his output. One of his close friends at the time, noted that Nietzsche's writing took on a new forcefulness that it became tighter, and Nietzsche himself agreed, writing, you are right, our writing equipment takes part in the forming of our thoughts. And it's not just our writing equipment that does this. In the book, The Shalos, what the internet is doing to our brains, which was actually the primary source for this video, the author Nicola's card demonstrates how nearly all the technology we use can cause real physical changes within our brains. For example, when experiment that was done on violin players showed that the area of a sensory cortexes that controlled their fingering hands was actually much larger than that of a control group who had never played a musical instrument to perform. But it's not just the physical use of tools that can cause these changes. It's been purely mental activity, and Tony, can you make a hammer float here in the air with your editing skills? Let's try it again. Even purely mental activity shaped by technology can do the same thing. Another experiment done on London cab drivers found that compared to a control group, the area of the driver's brains called the Pustier your hippocampus was much larger than normal. And as you might expect, this is an area of the brain that plays a huge part in helping us understand our physical surroundings. Now if you wouldn't be wrong to point out that it's no big surprise that cab drivers brain would adapt to the task of navigating a complex web city streets when that's what they spend all day long doing. But other technologies have far subtler and further reaching effects. Before the invention of the clock, people perceive time in a very different way than we do today. To them, time flowed like a stream of water. And the transition from one moment to the next was seamless and imperceptible. Once we started tracking time though, that all changed. When we invited the first time keeping devices, we changed our conception of time itself. And instead of being an unbroken stream, time became a series of discrete individual units. And as clocks became more and more accurate, those units got smaller and more precise. Suddenly, we were thinking in terms of hours and then minutes and eventually seconds. And we also became fixated on productivity, how much time did we spend, how much time have we wasted? Look at the time! But there was a larger effect as well. Once we started looking at time as a construct made up of small parts, that thinking got extended to everything else. As car rights, once the clock had redefined time as a series of units of equal duration, our minds began to stress them a thoughticle mental work of division and measurement. We began to see in all things in phenomena the pieces that composed the whole. The clocks methodical ticking helped bring into being the scientific mind and the scientific man. And if the clock made a big change to the way that we think, then writing made an even bigger one. Now this technology took thousands of years to progress through the necessary stages. Every shift from look graphic characters to phonetic alphabets, the addition of spacing between words, and the invention of the Gutenberg Press just to name a few. But eventually this technology caused huge shifts in our behavior. Once the general population became literate, they started to read. What you're reading for? And not just that, they started to read silently for long periods of time. And this is a bigger deal than you might think. Car rights to read a book was to practice an unnatural process of thought. On the demanded it sustained unbroken attention to a single static object. And for people to do this, they had to forge neural pathways that would allow them to apply top-down control over their attention. Top-down control is something that has to be learned in practice. Naturally, we're wired for bottom-up attention. Our senses are finely tuned to pick up changes in our environment and our attention naturally drifts to them. It's constantly shifting. Now this is great for noticing a lurking tiger or a potential source of food, but it's not so great for deep analytical reading. It just doesn't allow for that type of prolonged intense concentration that's necessary for parsing complex ideas. And through the active reading, we developed a new type of intentional control, one that was far better suited to that task. But now it seems like we're starting to lose that ability. So let's revisit that experiment with London cab drivers again for a second. Because there's something that I didn't mention. In addition to the lodgement of the posterior hippocampus, the researchers also found to change in the anterior hippocampus. It's strength. And in further tests, they found that that shrinking may have actually harmed the cab driver's ability to form another memorization tasks. Norman doggies words come back to mind here. When we stop using a certain skill, the neural pathways that used support it get reconfigured to enhance the skills that we do use. As the psychiatrist Jeffrey Swartz puts it, it's survival of the busiest. And I'm sure you can see where this is going. And less, of course, you've already gotten distracted and clicked away from this video, which just makes you an example of my next point. The technology that we now spend most of our time using, the internet, definitely doesn't do anything to encourage the use of the neural pathways that are devoted to top-down attentionable control and long-term concentration on a single source. As Car puts it, our use of the internet involves many paradoxes. But the one that promises to have the greatest long-term influence over how we think is this one. It sees our attention only to scattered. In other words, the internet promotes destructiveness and multitasking. At almost all times, we are surrounded by multiple internet connected devices. And even on a single computer, you can be watching a video, have 18 different tabs open at the same time, be playing Spotify in the background, and be getting messages on eye message and slack at the same time. Oh, and also playing Overwatch in the other monitor can't forget about that one. Moreover, the internet rewards this type of distracted behavior. It's not just our frequent use of this technology that gives it such a powerful ability to shape our neural pathways. It's also the fact that it offers constant, quick, dopamine hits. It constantly stimulates the reward loop inside our hits. The result is that the internet promotes the return to our natural, bottom-up state of attentional control. There's always something you happen, somewhere else to shift your focus. And just like with those London cab drivers, the brain has to give something up. The more time you allow the internet to promote this distracted, frenzy style of consuming information, the less time you spend deeply concentrated on singular tasks. And as a result, the less able you are to call up that deep concentration when you really need it. So, what can we do about this? Are we just stuck in a downward spiral, doomed to end up like the people in idiocracy? Because what I'm just going to add, actually. Or can we reverse this trend? What have you been, Boughty? Set back, man. Why aren't you at the match? Well, if we say the USA2, the Boughty oils, there's more of the video I thought we were done. Okay, I guess we're at the part of the video where I give you 10 ideas for reclaiming your attention. Yeah, I did write that part in the script. Okay, before we get into this, remember, it is survival of the busiest. The key isn't to just stop using the internet, which turns out a pretty useful invention. Instead, it's to reduce the activities that cause the undesirable changes and to replace them with activities that promote the neurological changes that you actually want to see. And this could mean that you don't even have to reduce the amount of time you spend on the internet at all. After all, there's plenty of long-form content on the internet. There's long articles, there's long video essays like this one, and plenty of other deep content. Plus, with apps like Kindle Cloud Rator and Projects like the Gutenberg Press, you can literally read millions of books from any internet connected device. But there is a caveat here, remember the brain seeks out rewards, and the internet tends to do all the ones that promote distracted thinking. If you're reading a print book with your phone in the other room, it's pretty easy to resist the temptation to send a tweet or check your email. But it's a very different story if you're reading the exact same book on an internet connected iPad. So we need to do two different things. Number one, promote the healthy activities that build that top-down intentional control and number two, make some environmental changes that make it easier to shake our bad internet habits. So here's some ideas for mission number one to start. First, just read more books, and yeah, there's going to be people out there who make the argument that books are full of filler, they're a waste of time, and you could get the same salient points by going over to Google and finding a well written summary. But that argument isn't relevant right now, because in this case, the goal of reading a book is to promote deep long-term concentration on one singular task. Second, spend time working without the internet. And yes, I know you feel like you need the internet, but honestly, a lot of my best research has come from finding books in the library. And if I'm being even more honest with myself, a lot of my work, especially writing once I have all my research material and video editing, doesn't require the internet at all. Now, my brain tells me that it does, but this is actually a sign that I've become dependent on the internet. And if anything, I should take it as a sign that I need to let that neural pattern fade of it. Three, have more in-depth in-person conversations, go out with the dinner with your friends more often. And when you do, do not put your phone on the table, keep it in your pocket or don't bring it at all. Four, watch more movies, and this has the exact same goal as reading books. You're paying attention to one piece of cinema for about two hours. And again, don't bring your phone into the experience. You don't need to live to eat Lord of the Rings. Final link number five, commit to longer periods of time doing one thing. Go outside and ride your bike for a full hour, or practice an instrument for 30 full minutes. Now, if you're like a lot of people, you probably feel too guilty to let yourself do these things, because you feel like you have a lot of work to do. And if you're in that boat, I've got a suggestion for you. And still a program on your computer called Rescue Time. This will track the time that you spend on different apps and websites. And I've bet after a few days of day-to-gathering, you're going to see that all your little trips to Twitter and Instagram and all your other little distracting websites actually add up to more time throughout the day than that hour you have spent on the bike. And that just leaves us with mission number two, those environmental changes. And the first one is going to deal with naturally YouTube, since we are on YouTube right now. Watching videos on YouTube, watch them in full screen. Now, for almost my entire YouTube viewing life, I never did this. And it doesn't really make sense on the surface, right? Because if you put a video on full screen, it looks better. Takes up the entire monitor. But the reason becomes pretty clear once you understand neuroplasticity in our reward seeking behavior and the way that YouTube is designed. Though I'm ostensibly watching the video I clicked on, part of my brain is also itching to click on something else that I see over in the sidebar. Going into full screen, well, that would take away my very interesting links. Now, you can go even further with this, and I'm not going to talk too much about it. But in the description down below, I have links to a little snippet of CSS that you can use to actually blur out all the videos in the YouTube homepage and the sidebar. So if you don't want to use full screen, you could try that trick as well. But to move on to item number two, here, read articles in reader mode. The fact of the matter is that most websites today are designed with lots of distracting UI elements, like pop ups, sidebars, and all kinds of other stuff that is designed to keep you clicking from page to page. But you can get rid of all these elements by using reader mode. Now Safari and iOS and Chrome for Android both have built-in reader modes, which just isolate all the content and let you see just what you came to read. And on the desktop front Firefox, Microsoft Edge and Safari have had them built in for years. And as of this week, Chrome has one as well. So you're going to want to make sure you're updated to the latest version Chrome 75 at least, and you're also going to have to go into the experimental flags section to turn it on. And now it is time to move on to item number three, which is to limit the time that you spend on distraction heavy parts of the internet to a certain window during the day. So instead of making frequent trips to Twitter or Instagram or DVNR or whatever you like to go to during the day, restrict it and compress it into maybe just a one hour period. And this is actually pretty easy to accomplish. Now you could just unplug your Ethernet cable or disable your Wi-Fi while you're not using those sites. But you could also get a little more subtle, a little more control over the process by using a website blocking app like freedom or cultured. And additionally, item number four here, there are other tools you can use to make social media sites less distracting. For example, I've been using a plugin called News Feed eradicator to destroy my news feed on Facebook for a long time. And for tweeting, there are free tweet scheduling apps like Buffer, which will allow you to tweak to your hurts content without actually opening Twitter app and getting sucked into the feed there. Finally, number five, hide the visual clutter on your desktop. If you're anything like me, you probably have a bookmarks bar, extension icons, and an OS task bar that are just cluttering up your screen. And all these things can be hidden. If you need them, they're probably keyboard shortcuts to bring the back or you can hover somewhere. But for the most part, you don't need them, and it would be a lot better to have a distraction free view of the content that you're trying to read. Now, these are tactical changes, and they're not going to win your brain off of its internet addicted habits on their own, but they will go a long way to helping you do that a lot more easily. Still, remember the process of changing your brain's most frequently accessed neural pathways is a slow one that's going to require a lot of discipline at first. So once you tell these things up, focus more on those positive habits we discussed earlier, reading more books, having more in-depth conversations, and soon in time that ability to focus deeply will come back. But while we can change the degree to which the internet effects are brains, one thing that we can't change so easily is just how much our lives are run through it now. We do our banking online. We pay rent online. We store our files up in the cloud, and that means if you're anything like me, you have dozens, if not hundreds of online accounts to manage, and to keep secure. That's why I recommend using Dashlane. Instead of using the same password for every account, which is a terrible idea, you can use Dashlane to generate a strong and unique password for every online account you have. All the rest of the secure vault uses very strong encryption, meaning that you are the only person who ever has access to it. And it'll even let you know if any of your passwords are weak, or if they've been compromised in a data breach, or if you're using them across multiple accounts. And when any of those things happens, you can easily change that password to a much stronger one with just the click of a button. You don't even have to log into the website to do it, which is a pretty sweet feature. Plus, Dashlane can instantly log you into websites and auto-filled long forms, which makes browsing a heck of a lot faster. And with a built-in VPN that keeps your browsing private, dark web monitoring for all of your personal information, and apps for all of your devices, Dashlane is seriously the one tool that you need to keep your online life secure. And as a result, since you're not using multiple tools, it saves you money too. Dashlane has a basic free version that you can start with, but there's also a premium version that gets access to all the features I just mentioned. And if you're one of the first 200 people to use link in the description down below to sign up, you're going to get a free 30-day trial of that premium subscription and help to support my channel as well. Huge thanks as always goes out to Dashlane for sponsoring this video, being a big supporter of my channel, and thank you for watching as well. Hopefully you found something useful in this video that you can use to start building healthier habits, making those positive neurological changes, and if you did enjoy it, consider hitting that like button to support the channel, and also subscribing right there to get new videos when they come out. You can also click right around here to get a free copy of my book and how to earn better grades, or click wherever I'm doing jazz hands to watch some more videos here on this channel. Though, if you want to make those positive neurological changes, then maybe you should go read the book.
