# 5 Things I'd Tell My 19-Year-Old Self About Running a Business
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mwc38GNpy54
This month marks my 10-year anniversary as a content creator and entrepreneur. Here are 5 things I wish I would have known back when I started.
📺 Watch this video ad-free on Nebula: https://nebula.app/videos/thomas-frank-5-things-id-tell-my-19yearold-self-about-running-a-business

🛠 COURSES AND RESOURCES: 
Notion channel - https://www.youtube.com/c/ThomasFrankExplains
Free Notion templates - https://thomasjfrank.com/templates/
Learn Notion - https://thomasjfrank.com/fundamentals
Productivity and Habits courses - https://thomasjfrank.com/courses/

🦙 SPONSOR: 
Get a free 14-day trial of Shopify: https://shopify.com/thomasfrank

📃 ARTICLE VERSION:
https://thomasjfrank.com/entrepreneur-lessons/

🐦 SOCIAL STUFF:
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly
Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Music Channel ➔ https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCmqK2G-3AL_WP5KffH_wqAA
Spotify Study Playlist ➔ https://open.spotify.com/user/thomasfrank09/playlist/4ETfiRPHVmUFLF6q0g8Fux?si=IPfx3dAgQ1SIUwhh5YEQMQ

👐 BUSINESS:
Please contact my agent at thomasfrank@standard.tv

🎞 SPECIAL THANKS
Thanks to Devin from Legal Eagle for the cameo: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCpa-Zb0ZcQjTCPP1Dx_1M8Q

💰 I'm fortunate enough to work with great sponsors who support my work, so I don't use Patreon or any other crowdfunding service. However, if you'd like to support a worthy cause, consider donating to help more children get access to a high-quality education: https://fundraise.pencilsofpromise.org/fundraiser/1489730
**Keywords:** thomas frank, productivity, content creator, entrepreneur, entrepreneur lessons, business lessons, how to start a business, how to start a youtube channel, youtube tips, business taxes, networking, entrepreneur tips, how to make online friends, how to build a network, how to network, lawyer, accountant, online business, online business tips, full time youtuber, youtube full-time, full-time income, passive income, entrepreneur taxes, youtube income, 
**Date:** 2020-06-28

## Transcript
 Thanks to Shopify for sponsoring this video and supporting my channel. Okay, so I am running the risk of making myself look pretty old here, but 10 years ago this month I opened up a laptop on the desk underneath my dorm room, Loughbed, and I bought the domain CollegeInfoGeek.com, which started out as a side project blog, but eventually became my full-time job and launched this very YouTube channel. So that means that this month marks a full decade that I've spent as a content creator and as an entrepreneur. So today I want to share some of the lessons that I've learned during my long 10-year journey as both a content creator and as an entrepreneur. And each of these five lessons is something that I wish I would have known at the beginning of my journey. So if you're a creator yourself or if you have aspirations to become one in the near future, I hope these lessons will be useful for you as well. Lesson number one, your best friends are deadlines and accountability. Running my own company means that I am my own boss. This is awesome for many different reasons. I can get up whenever I want. There's no corporate policy telling me I can't install what I want to install my computer, but it also comes with certain downsides. When I started working for myself, I lost all the structure that I took for granted in school and the jobs that I'd held, the deadlines and the oversight and the bosses that came built into both the school system and into work, created pressure that forced me to get my work done on time. But as an entrepreneur, everything is on me. And to be quite honest, myself discipline is not always up to the task of raining in my brains more impulsive system one tendencies. So what do I mean by system one? Well, this is a term from Daniel Conman's book, Thinking Fast and Slow, which introduces two different systems within the brain system one and system two. System one is the largely subconscious system. It does all the fast reactive thinking. When you have an involuntary reaction to a bee buzzing near your ear, which is one of the things I hate most in this world, or when you instinctively reach for your phone to check a notification when it comes in, that is system one at work. And by contrast, system two is the slow system. The one that handles thinking that is voluntary and effortful. So when you work to solve a tough math problem or you play through a difficult piece on the guitar or you try to resist checking the notification on your phone, you're utilizing system two. And it's worth noting that system two is very much the self discipline system. In fact, when we're talking about self management, we can think of system one as the horse and system two as the writer. The latter has some limited ability to control the former, but system one is still a 1200 pound horse. And the deadlines and the authority figures that come with schools and companies are examples of external controls that lend system two, helping hand in guiding and controlling system one. And without them, it will inevitably fail more often. And I've learned this the hard way more than once. One of the most prominent times is back in 2012, and my blog finally started gaining some traction, and I actually started earning enough passive income from a few of my articles to pay my very meager bills, I looked at Iowa at the time, so living basically cost nothing. But it was pretty awesome. But then, in 2013, I made the fatal mistake of getting into a little game called Magic, the Gathering. And then, I ended up spending much of that year doing very little other than building decks and very little girl my business. Now, this wasn't intentional. I would wake up each day, intending to write a new article or a new feature for my site, but then I would invariably get distracted, researching card combos or building new decks. Without any real deadlines, without a boss, without any pressing need to bring it additional money right now, because I had passive income, I found myself controlled by the whims of system one. And this pattern continued for quite some time. In fact, if you look in my website's analytics from that time period, you're going to see a long period of, well, stagnation. But you'll also see something else to the right side of the graph, because in mid-2014, things finally started to move upwards, leading to a big increase in average daily visitors, starting in 2015. And that's because mid-2014 was when I finally decided to start acting like a professional. And when I use that term, professional. I mean it in the sense that James Clare meant it when he said, amateur is wait until they feel inspired to do creative work, professionals do it on a strict schedule. And that is exactly what I started doing. I committed to creating one blog post, one podcast episode, and one YouTube video every single week, and they used apps like habitica and b minor to keep myself on track, to guarantee that I would get that work done. And these tools essentially replaced the role of a boss, acting as those all important external controls. The lesson here is clear, if you're going to work for yourself act like a professional. And that might mean making the executive decision to add some kind of external commitment device that helps you stay on task. Lesson number two, reach out and build relationships. Working for yourself, which is often done by yourself, can get pretty lonely. Often, you're running your own business and your in-re-life friends, they do not understand what it is you're doing, or why you feel compelled to stay up until 4am tweaking button colors on your website. I know this was absolutely the case for me. I had a great group of friends when I started my business, but all of them were still in college at the time. And they really didn't understand what I was doing or why I was so passionate about. And this is just one of the reasons why the relationships I've built with other entrepreneurs and other content creators have been so valuable to me. When I started out, I didn't have anyone to talk to about SEO or web design or habit trackers or small, tiny details and typography or any of the other nerdy stuff that I was into. Mostly, my friends just like to make fun of me for spending all my free time blogging instead of playing video games with them. But once I started reaching out to my contemporaries, that all changed. I was still isolated geographically, but I started to gain a network of friends on the internet who shared my passions, who understood what I was doing because they were doing it themselves. And not only did we share a lot of common ground, but we were also often able to help each other. We could give each other feedback from all each other's stuff. And my only regrets related to this are that I didn't start sooner. I kind of wish I would have started right when I started my blog. And secondly, that I continually, even to this day, sometimes given to my fear that reaching out to somebody who I admire would bother them. And I want to talk about that second regret here for a second. As it's something that, again, I even deal with now as somebody with nearly 2 million subscribers on YouTube. I will often start following somebody whose work I really admire and I want to reach out, I want to be friends with them, I want to potentially work with them, but I'll hesitate because I feel like I'm not impressive enough yet. I feel like I need to get to a certain follower count or I need to write more articles or make more videos about a certain topic so I can be legit in their field. I can be worth their time. And I will be honest, there is a certain element of truth to this fear because when you want to connect with somebody, especially somebody who has a large following, who has a lot of respect in their field, you have to be aware of the fact that many other people are also trying to connect with that person as well. For just one example, can you imagine how many people are trying to get Gary Vaynerchuk's attention each and every day? So naturally, if there's something that makes you stand out, then that person you're trying to reach out to may be more likely to take an interest when you do so. And this is simply how the human mind works. We are wired to pick out interesting or threatening things in a noisy, complex environment. And this means that there is, in fact, some amount of merit to the idea that you should be ready before reaching out to someone you admire. But that's only true if you're making a pitch. See, when you pitch something, you are creating a transactional interaction. You want something from them and you're offering them something in return. And this isn't a bad thing. Back to the world runs on transactional interactions. But you can't pretend that a pitch isn't a pitch. And when you're making a pitch, you want to make sure that whatever it is you're offering is going to interest the other party. And these instances, it may be worth waiting to reach out until you're ready, whatever that means. And you're going to have to define what that means for yourself. But not every interaction is transactional. You don't have to be ready to email a creator that you admire to tell them that an article they wrote to a video they made really resonated with you. You don't have to be ready to share someone's work to your own followers or to respond to them on Twitter with your own thoughts. In fact, many of the first interactions I had with a lot of my online friends started on Twitter. It's a really great platform for casual interacting in a way that's not intimidating. And these kinds of interactions are what I call the fan first approach. And you admire somebody a great way to start building a relationship with that person is to simply be a fan to share their work, give feedback, interact, and casual ways. And later, if you see an organic way to further that relationship, you can then take it. Lesson number three, know the taxes that you have to pay as an entrepreneur. Alright, let me tell you a story. I had a rude awakening during the 2013 holiday season. I was visiting my girlfriend, now fiance, but then girlfriend's house, for Christmas, and I was talking with her uncle who was a financial advisor. And somehow we got on the topic of taxes, I'm not sure how should be Christmas, I don't know why we're talking about taxes. But I do remember myself saying something along these lines. Being an entrepreneur is great. It is awesome that I only have to pay self-employment tax because it's actually lower than regular income tax. And if you know anything, anything about taxes, you probably winced a little bit just now because, well, that is not. Self-employment tax works. Self-employment tax is something you have to pay on top of regular income tax. And when her uncle, healthily informed me about that fact, my stomach dropped. Probably my heart as well. A lot of my internal organs probably just dropped a foot. So I spent some time running the numbers on my mistake and realized that I owed the government about $30,000 in additional taxes all due by April 15th. I thought I was all paid up. But no. $30,000 do. So for the next few months, things were pretty tight and I had to scramble to get everything paid on time because I didn't want to be in the hole going forward. But it could have been avoided entirely if I had been better informed about the taxes I needed to pay. So, please learn from my mistake. If you're going to work for yourself, make sure you know what you owe to the government. Now I'm not going to go too deeply into this here because this is a list video and it's not a video about taxes. But if you want to get a decent estimate of your tax breakdown, again, if you're US-based in the description, I have links to the budget model or spreadsheet that I've built and use for my own finances. I bought a ton of formulas into it that take in your rough monthly income and then spit out estimates for each of these three main taxes. And in the template version, I've also put lots of little notes in many of the cells that can explain things. So if you're curious, you can feel free to make a copy, play around with it, look at those notes, hopefully you found it useful. Now keep in mind that it is not a panacea because there may be other taxes that you're going to have to pay depending on the kind of business that you run. For instance, my fiance sells art prints and other physical goods at anime and sci-fi conventions all around the country. And since she is selling things directly, she has to collect and pay sales tax on those goods in addition to all the other taxes. Lesson number four, get yourself a lawyer and an accountant. Look, even if you are a solopreneur, travel on the dusty roads, the internet with nothing but a sun faded, stets in and Adobe sweet subscription, this joke seemed funnier when I wrote it. If you're content to DIY everything, I totally get it. But it is still worth putting together a team of sorts that consists of a lawyer and an account. Now it is possible to get by without either fees, especially when you're just starting out. Sites like legal zoom can help you do things like setting up an LLC and tools like turbo tax can help you to figure out your taxes, even if you're self-employed. They work pretty well. It is also possible to build a table with nothing but a screwdriver instead of a power drill. That doesn't mean you should actually do it. There is a lot of value in using certain tools or getting certain kinds of help to accelerate things. So even if you wait years to delegate other work like I did, I highly recommend building a good relationship with a lawyer and an accountant early on. You don't be like me because I didn't do this for my first few years as an entrepreneur and there was a pretty stupid reason why. See, I was afraid that hiring these people was going to be prohibitively expensive. So I just never really reached out to either. I tried to do everything myself. I never even asked about pricing. And it must be said there was some amount of good that came from that. I did learn how to do my own taxes. I'll be it on turbo tax. And I did develop a pretty wide array of knowledge for running my own business that does come in handy on a regular basis. But I can tell you from experience that there's only so much that Googling around can do. And if that's the route you take, sometimes you're going to land yourself in trouble because you missed something important. Case in point, my $30,000 tax mistake that I talked about earlier. That could have been avoided if I had an accountant. As the old saying goes, nothing is more expensive than a cheap lawyer. And the same thing goes for accounts. And make no mistake when you convince yourself, you can handle everything with nothing but Google food. You are hiring a very cheap accountant and a very cheap lawyer. So start building your team and it is a very worthwhile investment if you're going to run your own business. And if you don't know where to start, a great way to get a accountant and lawyer recommendations is to simply ask your local entrepreneur community. Back in Des Moines where I used to live, there was one coworking place where many of the cities entrepreneurs worked. So I asked around there and I got a great lawyer recommendation who really really helped me out. And my accountant actually came recommended by my fiance's uncle who was the one who pointed out my $30,000 tax mistake. So I guess I owe him twice. But as you can see, building relationships in your community is a great way to get recommendations for professionals who can help you. And that goes beyond accountants, it goes beyond lawyers, it's going to help you when you need to hire other help as well. Lesson number five, become an unprompted learner. Another quick story for you, something odd that I noticed near the end of my high school career was that a lot of my friends would spend a lot of their time complaining about how much work they had to do to apply for colleges. They would complain about having to search the college website for degree requirements. They would complain about writing essays and applications. They would complain about applying for scholarships. And this always struck me as odd because in doing all of this work, they were literally signing themselves up to do a lot more work. A college application takes a few hours, but in doing it, you are literally signing yourself up to be a full-time student at the time that baffled me. Later on, I came to understand that there is a difference. See, despite feeling a freedom that college brings, at least in comparison to high school, part of the allure of college is the idea that you're going to be guided through a structured curriculum that will eventually render you ready for a high paying job. Orange is, or at least it purports to be, a guided path. It provides you with a solid set of directions, and I found that most people are willing to work really hard as long as you hand them a solid set of directions. But much rarer is the type of person who is willing to do the mental work of figuring out what they have to do in the first place, which explains why my friends complained so much about the college application process. It involved a lot more independent decision making. It was a lot fuzzier, but that is exactly the kind of person that you have to be if you're going to work for yourself. You have to be willing to spend a bunch of hours Googling questions like, do I need an LLC? What taxes do I have to pay as an entrepreneur? Do I need a business license and probably hundreds or thousands of others? In short, you have to become an unprompted learner. The kind of person who not only relishes solving tough problems, but who is willing to go out and figure out what problems they have to solve in the first place. Being your own boss means being the one who builds literally every single guiding structure that employees and normal jobs rely on and take for granted. This kind of relates back to my tip about getting a lawyer in an accountant. Don't be like me. Don't just assume they're too expensive, and then never ask anyone what they charge. Ask around. Get quotes. You can always say no to a pitch if it's too expensive. But on the other hand, if you don't ask, then you're never going to get an answer. Or to simplify that and to put it in the words of Steve Wunder, if you don't ask, you don't get. Now, if you're ready to start building a business of your own and if you have something to sell, then one of the first things you're going to need other than, again, making 100% sure you know what taxes you have to pay. Please make sure you do that. But another thing you need is an online store, and that is exactly what Shopify provides. Shopify makes it incredibly easy to set up a great looking online store without needing any coding skills. And if you'd like to see an example, well, you've probably seen me wearing this shirt or drinking coffee from this mug in past videos, and I actually use Shopify to run the online merch store where I sell both of them. They also make it super easy to manage and market your business with a dashboard that shows your customers, your inventory, your sales data, email marketing, and SEO tools, and a great payments platform. In fact, one of the reasons that I really love using Shopify in particular for my store is that people who have bought from other Shopify stores in the past can choose to automatically fill in their details when they're checking out, which reduces friction for them and helps to boost sales for me. Plus, the team in Shopify also has 247 support, which is one of the reasons why over a million business owners trust them with their stores. And if you'd like to give it a try for yourself, you can actually start a 14 day free trial by going over to Shopify.com slash Thomas Frank and signing up, which also helps us to support my channel. Check it out if you're interested and as always, thank you so much for watching and hopefully you found this video helpful. If you did, maybe consider gently fist bumping that like button with your middle knuckle on your right hand. We got to be specific here. And I'm actually curious. I really wanted to make this video because again, you only have a 10 year anniversary of starting your business once, but I enjoy talking about content creation. I enjoy talking about entrepreneurship. I love getting nerdy about this kind of stuff. So if this is something that you like, I would love to hear from you down in the comments below. And if you have any specific questions that you want answered, let me know and I'll see if I can make content on those questions. If you haven't subscribed yet, you can subscribe right there to get new videos when they come out. And I also wrote an article version of this video, which is actually a lot longer and more detailed. So if you want to check that out, I have it up on my website and I'll link to it right over there. Beyond that, there's a couple of other videos floating around the screen here, or probably not floating, but I can float and make it look like they're kind of floating in relative, I don't know. But smash your face into your phone screen to check those out if you're curious. Otherwise, go do whatever you want to do as long as it's safe because as always, I'm not your dad.
