# How to Study Effectively with Flash Cards - College Info Geek
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mzCEJVtED0U
Today, we'll look at 8 techniques for both making and studying your flash cards more effectively.
📺 Watch this video ad-free on Nebula: https://nebula.tv/videos/thomas-frank-yt-how-to-study-effectively-with-flash-cards-college-info-geek

🛠 COURSES AND RESOURCES: 
Notion channel - https://www.youtube.com/c/ThomasFrankExplains
Free Notion templates - https://thomasjfrank.com/templates/
Learn Notion - https://thomasjfrank.com/fundamentals
Productivity and Habits courses - https://thomasjfrank.com/courses/

📃 ARTICLE VERSION:
http://collegeinfogeek.com/flash-card-study-tips/

🐦 SOCIAL STUFF:
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly
Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Music Channel ➔ https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCmqK2G-3AL_WP5KffH_wqAA
Spotify Study Playlist ➔ https://open.spotify.com/user/thomasfrank09/playlist/4ETfiRPHVmUFLF6q0g8Fux?si=IPfx3dAgQ1SIUwhh5YEQMQ

👐 BUSINESS:
Please contact my agent at thomasfrank@standard.tv

Music: 

Welcome to HorrorLand -  Kevin MacLeod (incompetech.com)
Nola - Broke for Free (http://brokeforfree.com/)

Licensed under Creative Commons: By Attribution 3.0 License - http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/3.0/

💰 I'm fortunate enough to work with great sponsors who support my work, so I don't use Patreon or any other crowdfunding service. However, if you'd like to support a worthy cause, consider donating to help more children get access to a high-quality education: https://fundraise.pencilsofpromise.org/fundraiser/1489730
**Keywords:** thomas frank, college info geek, college tips, studying, university, flash cards, anki, tinycards, duolingo, study tips, how to study, revision, review, exams, exam prep, test prep, studying for tests, school, college, final exams, finals prep, standardized test, making flash cards, studying flash cards, productivity, efficient study, effective study, spaced repetition, tips for students, flashcard, periodic table, chemistry, 
**Date:** 2016-07-26

## Transcript
 This is a flashcard. More specifically, it's a bad flashcard. And by the end of this video, you're going to understand exactly why, because today we're talking about how to make effective flashcards and how to study them more efficiently. Now, flashcards are an incredibly powerful learning tool because they promote active recall. The process of actively retrieving memories out of your brain, which is one of the most efficient learning strategies there are. But flashcards are tools made by human beings, and as you probably know, things made by humans come in varying degrees of quality. For example, my girlfriend's art versus my art. However, when we go into the making of a thing with the best practices in mind, we can come out with a better product. And in today's video, I'm going to give you 8 specific rules for both making better flashcards and for studying them more effectively. Now, for the purposes of this video, I figured I would need some flashcards of my own to use as examples, so I've gone ahead and issued myself a challenge. And that is to learn and memorize the entire periodic table of elements because, believe it or not, I actually never took chemistry in high school. I had really busy schedule with other classes at the time and just never got to it, so I've gone ahead and started making some flashcards, which I will be using in the course of this challenge, and we're going to use these to demonstrate the elements of good flashcards. But first, we have to start with a more general tip, which is to simply make your own flashcards. I know a lot of people like to share their flashcards with their friends, and for people who study flashcards on computers or on apps, they're on tire online communities where you can upload and download pre-made decks, and I think these have their uses in certain cases, but in most cases, it's going to be much more effective for you to make your own flashcards. One of the most integral and important parts of learning is the process of entaking information and really wrangling with it on your own, and creating your own words in your own forms out of that information. That's going to build really strong neural pathways, and those are going to be unique from the neural pathways of somebody else. And if you just take pre-made cards made by somebody else that you didn't have to do any work to create, you're denying yourself that entire part of learning process. So now that you know the importance of making your cards yourself, let's get into the actual nitty-gritty of what makes a card good. And the first tip I've got for you is to add pictures to your cards and mix them up with words. Now, in cognitive psychology, there's a principle called the Picture Superiority Effect, which describes how people remember images and pictures much better than they do words. And from an evolutionary standpoint, this makes sense. Written language is just a system of arbitrary symbols that people made up, and when we look at things on a grand scale, it really hasn't been around for all that long. Plus, our brains are adapted to be very sensitive to imagery. The locations of food, the animals they'll think your food, the animals that won't think your food, but it'll still completely mess you up, etc. By adding pictures to your flashcards, you can make them a lot more memorable. And personally, I like to do this by drawing on my flashcards, but you can also just print out pictures from the internet and glue them on, or if you're using an app or a computerized flashcard program, a lot of them will allow you to easily import pictures. But you can take this one step further by making sure those pictures are next to words. In 1985, there was a study done in Canada that showed that descriptive sentences added next to pictures made those pictures much easier for people to recall. Now, if you take a look at my chemistry flashcards here, you might think they look a little bit weird. But that's actually on purpose because they're demonstrating the third tip I've got for you, which is to use nomotic devices on your flashcards. Now, an nomotic device is really anything that helps you create associations between pieces of information in your mind. A classic one is the acronym Roy G. Biff, which helps you remember the order of the colors and the visible light spectrum. But it can really be anything, and I'm using associative imagery on my flashcards. For example, my flashcard for magnesium has a magnum I asking for more goulash, which is a completely ridiculous picture. But it helps me remember the association between mg and magnesium, because magnum I sounds like magnesium, and more goulash is a good way to remember mg. Now, the more weird and crazy and wacky these pictures are, the more easily you're going to remember them, and remember you're making your flashcards for yourself, so it doesn't matter what anyone else thinks of them, or whether or not those associations would work for someone else. It's just for you. So the next two tips I've got for you guys really go hand in hand. And the first one is to have only one question or fact on each one of your flashcards. Now, doing this is going to help you avoid what are called illusions of competence. Basically, our brains can really easily confuse recognition with recall. When you recognize something, you're basically affirming to yourself that, yes, I've seen this or been exposed to it before, but recall is different. Recall is actively retrieving something out of memory without, again, being exposed to it. And our brains can really confuse these things if we're not careful. So here's an example. Say, you're taking a history of flight class, because obviously airplanes are awesome. And now you're studying for a test where you need to know some information about the first airplane, the right player. So you make yourself a flashcard, you put first airplane in the front, but then on the back, you put several different facts. And here's where you can run in the trouble, because later on, when you're studying and you see first airplane, you might remember that it flew in 1903. You might remember that it was called the right flyer, and you might even remember that it flew four times, but maybe you forgot that it used to sprocket, chain drive, to drive the propellers. And then you turn it over and you say to yourself, oh, yeah, I do remember that. And then you put it aside. So by making four individual cards for each of these facts, you're guaranteeing that you're getting each one either right or wrong. And that's going to help you to study the ones you got wrong more efficiently and avoid those illusions of competence. Now on a related note, we have the fifth tip here, which is to break complex concepts or questions down into simpler questions. And you can run into a lot of situations like this one where it's say you're trying to learn the different groupings of elements on the periodic table. And there's lots of them. There's to alkali metals, the transition metals, this is the noble gases. So maybe you go and make a flashcard like this where all these groupings are different color, and you have to name all of them. Well, once again, this is a bad flashcard, because maybe you know some of those groupings, maybe you know all but one, but that one grouping you didn't know, there's going to be an illusion of competence, and you're going to think that you knew it just by looking at the listing on the back. So instead make flashcards like this that only highlight one of those groupings and make sure that you know it before putting that flashcard aside. So now that you guys know some of the best practices for making your flashcards, it's now time to move over and how to study them. And I've got three really important tips in this section of the video for you guys, starting with the first one, which is to say your answers out loud when you're studying your flashcards. And this is kind of just a way to mentally commit to your answer before you actually look at the back of the card, which helps you again avoid those illusions of competence. It helps you make sure that you're not recognizing the answer and mistaking that recognition for recall. Make sure that you actually know the answer. Now, the second tip here is to make sure you study your cards from both sides. And this is a way of creating neural pathways in your brain that work in both directions. So that way, if you're asked either side of a question, you'll be able to trace that neural pathway back to the answer. For example, if you only studied the chemical symbol be e and you knew that it stood for brilium, but then you were later on asked what's the chemical symbol for brilium, you might not be able to get back to be e if you didn't study the cards in both directions. So make sure you do. And lastly, guys, my final tip for you here is to realize that flashcards are not a silver bullet. They're just one method of reviewing material and they are situational. They're just like, say, a bow and arrow, right? You wouldn't use a bow and arrow in every single situation. You wouldn't use it up close, no matter how good of a Hansel player you think you are. And flashcards are the exact same way. You have to know the right situations to use them in. A lot of information ties into an overall visual hierarchy or an organization and with flashcards, you kind of lose that. For instance, the periodic table is a really, really powerful visual tool. And if you were to say, try to memorize all the atomic numbers, the elements with flashcards, you'd really be doing your brain into service because learning the periodic table and all the visual representations and relationships is much more effective. Also, make sure that you're learning before you're reviewing because flashcards often aren't the best tool for teaching you the underlying concepts, which may help you learn facts much more efficiently. So those are my eight tips for improving the way that you make in study flashcards. And right now, you might be thinking to yourself, wait a minute, Tom skip something. And yes, I did because there is one additional incredibly effective technique for learning and studying that goes hand in hand with flashcards and that is spaced repetition. But that's such a complex topic. And I really want to dig deep into it and teach you guys the science behind it and how to use it effectively, both on paper and with apps. So that is going to be the subject of next week's video. Until then, guys, thank you so much for watching. And if you've got additional tips about flashcards, I would love to hear them down in the comments below. Also, if you enjoyed this video and you found it helpful, give it a like to support this channel. And if you want to get new videos on being a more effective student every single week, you can click that big red subscribe button right down there. If you want to get a free copy of my book on earning better grades, you can click the picture of the book right there. And if you missed last week's video, it was on having a more productive summer, so check it out right there. You can find the full article for this video with lots of links and resources and cool extra details right over there. And if you want to connect with me, go out into the forest and tune into one of those creepy number stations and listen for my voice. Don't actually do that.
