# What's in My Backpack? - College Info Geek
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nJMgrvuqFH8
The essential gear and tools I keep in my bag today, by request. I'll also go over some of the things I had in my bag as a student, even if they've lost their spots over time.

Full list of gear (with links) here:

http://collegeinfogeek.com/whats-in-my-backpack/

My book "10 Steps to Earning Awesome Grades" is now out and it's free! Get it here (and get a copy of my graduation planning spreadsheet as well):

http://collegeinfogeek.com/get-better-grades/

If you want to get even more strategies and tips on becoming a more productive, successful student, subscribe to my channel right here:

http://buff.ly/1vQP5ar

Connect with me on Twitter!

https://twitter.com/TomFrankly

~ created by Thomas Frank
**Keywords:** backpack, essentials, backpack gear, student backpack, college backpack, minaal, back to school, backpack 2015, 2015 gear, back to school 2015, freshman backpack, what's in my backpack, college, packing list, campus, University, 
**Date:** 2015-08-20

## Transcript
 Some of you guys have asked me to do a video about the stuff it's in my backpack, and my answer to that is, okay. So let's talk about the bag first before I get into what's inside of it. This is the minol carry on. I actually backed it on Kickstarter a little while ago, and for traveling the world and going places, I think this is a fantastic bag. I'm able to fit everything that I need to carry with me inside of it. It opens up in a clamshell fashion. I absolutely love it. That being said, now it retails for around 300 bucks, and for daily campus use, it's probably overkill. For comparison, this is the bag that I use for most of college. It's the synergy. I think it's called from Swiss Gear. I got it from Best Buy for about 60 bucks, and it's a quality backpack. It hasn't fallen apart in six years. I think that's a thing that you should keep in mind when you're buying a backpack, but also it's not overkill. It doesn't cost hundreds of dollars, and it has enough pockets to hold all your stuff. All right. Let's dig into this thing. First up is my MacBook Air. This is probably the thing in my backpack. I used the most because I'm always writing and going to coffee shops and working on stuff. I love the Air absolutely amazing computer. If you're looking for a Windows computer, that's very comparable. The Dell XPS 13 is an awesome option. Beyond that, I am not a laptop expert, but I can link to some laptop recommendations in the blog post for this video. Also got an iPad mini. This is the first edition, so no writing a screen, but I mainly just use this for reading books. It's an upgrade from my Kindle, and I always keep it in the bag. I also usually have a print book because I like books. I guess, and right now I'm reading a book called Think Smart. It's a neuroscientist's prescription for improving your brain's performance. I hope I'll learn some cool stuff from this book that I can build into new videos. So keep an eye on for that kind of stuff. Also got a couple of paper notebooks. This is my main one. Nothing fancy. It's an environment-notes recycled paper notebook. I think it costs about 65 cents, but if you watched my video on my task organization system, you'll know that a lot of what I do is on paper, and this thing is my catch-all. When I'm taking notes from an online course, they all go in here when I'm doing my daily or weekly task lists. They go in here. Or when I'm creating b-roll lists for the graphics and animations I want to put in my videos. They go in here. Everything's in here. It's not very organized. It's probably not the best way to organize your notes if you're a student and have lots of classes, but it works for me. I've also got a cheap sketchbook in here for when I want to create drawings or illustrations for my videos. And if you've seen my video on how to ace your finals, you probably remember this drawing. So keeping in my bag at all times is a good way for me to be able to draw things when I get inspiration if I don't happen to be here by my desk. Lastly, I've got a single purple folder. It's my catch-all for things like airline ticket stubs and anything else that needs to be put in a folder that's made of paper. If you're a student and you have a lot of classes, I actually recommend those accordion binder devices with the flap that can snap shut. It works better than a trapper or it works better than stuffing lots of folders into your backpack. But these days, I don't really have a whole lot of papers that I need to keep, so one folder carries them all pretty well. Moving on to the small stuff. I've got a Logitech presentation remote because occasionally I go speak at schools. Adaptors for the MacBook. I've got the BGA1 for the same reason. I've got the presentation remote to hook up to projectors when I want to do a presentation. And also the Ethernet1 just in case there's no Wi-Fi, but there is for some reason in EthernetCord. Business cards. I always recommend having at least a few of these in your backpack, just in case you meet somebody and you want to leave them your contact information and also leave the good impression. And if you want to get them, I recommend using MOO. I've been using them since I was a college student and they make really good high quality cards. Pens and pencils. Not the interesting. I don't use anything crazy. I just use what works. But I will say that I do keep two pens in my backpack at all times. Just in case I'm out somewhere and someone needs to borrow a pen. I can be the cool person who lends one out. And actually at VidCon, I made a new friend by doing this. So uh, thumbs up for friendship. I'm Brella. This is actually a really cool thing to keep in your backpack. I always have one on hand because you don't know when you're getting a cotton rainstorm and this is coming handy for me more times than I can count. So this thing is staying on my back. And it makes for kind of a cool backdrop too. I really thin hoody to deal with crazy air commissioning and coffee shops. Laptop charger because I don't like sadness. I phone charging cable because same reason. Micro USB and mini USB cords. I used to have legit reasons for keeping these, camera and pocket wifi. I think, but now I just keep them in here because people with Android phones always forget their phone chargers. And then they're very happy when I happen to have one. USB battery actually picked this up in Japan. Came really in handy when I was out all a day. My phone would tend to die. I don't use it too much here in the States when I'm just going about my business. But it keeps a spot in the backpack because it can come in handy. And of course, headphones. And lastly, it can't team for tea and water because this thing doesn't do so on a backpack. Now, that's generally what I keep in my backpack on a daily basis today. But since I'm not a student anymore and there are other things I used to keep in the bag, I wanted to show you a few other items you might find useful. First up is actually a plug strip. I don't keep this in my bag on a daily basis. But whenever I travel, I do make sure to keep it along with this little two-prong to three-prong converter. This basically makes it so that even if all the outlets are taken in a coffee shop or an airport or a hostel, I can make more outlets. And that's always a good thing. When I lived on campus, I always kept a skate tool in my bag because my main way of getting around campus was a skateboard. Book flags. These come in handy for marking your place in books that you don't want to highlight. I always kept my clicker in my bag because I had classes that required it. Now, if you go to a school that requires this thing, yes, you should keep it in your bag all the time. But I think that schools are actually starting to move to smartphone clicker apps, which would be pretty cool. But either way, this thing always has a spot in my bag as much as I don't like it. A pick for notebook. Now, this is actually a pretty cool goal tracking device. Basically, it has you commits doing daily practice on four different goals for a six-week period. And every single day, you write down your progress on each of your goals. I've used several these in the past and they've helped me make progress in goals like learning Japanese, building my own iPhone app, and lots of other things. And lastly, my trusty graphic calculator for math classes. So that ends this tour of my backpack. Hopefully you enjoyed it. And if you did, you can leave a like to support this channel. Now, I actually want to know what kind of cool stuff you keep in your backpack. So let me know down in the comments below. That's all I got. So thanks so much for watching. And I will see you next week. Hey there guys. Thanks for watching this video. Now, if you enjoy it, you want to get new videos of being a more effective student every single week. And you can click that big red subscribe button right there. Also wrote a book on how to earn better grades. And it's absolutely free. So if you want to get a copy for the picture, then I'll get one to you. You can find more detail and links to some of the things I mentioned with this video at the companion blog post. And you can find that like clicking the orange logo right there. Last week's video, I covered 20 different websites I think are only useful for students. So check it out if you haven't seen it. And if you want to connect with me or ask questions, I'm Tom Brinkley on Twitter or you can leave a comment below. Thanks for watching.
