# Multitasking: When to Do It, When (and How) to Avoid It
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Obf0tB285is
Get 2 months of unlimited learning on Skillshare for just $0.99: http://skl.sh/thomasfrank10

Huge thanks to Skillshare for sponsoring this video!

Close all your other tabs and stop juggling those chainsaws - today, we're talking about multitasking.

My book "10 Steps to Earning Awesome Grades" is completely free, so check it out if you're interested in improving your grades!

http://collegeinfogeek.com/get-better-grades/

Connect with me:

Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly
Twitch ➔ https://www.twitch.tv/thomasfrank

Listen to our latest podcast episode:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LxzXUWSsTE4

----------

Videos you might want to watch next:

How to ACTUALLY Stop Wasting Time on the Internet: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ug9nlY9tWzk

How to Create an Organized Study Space: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kB6wJkWO2SY

----------

If you want to get even more strategies and tips on becoming a more productive, successful student, subscribe to my channel right here:

http://buff.ly/1vQP5ar

My video production gear:
https://kit.com/tomfrankly/my-video-gear

Background music by Broke for Free: http://freemusicarchive.org/music/Broke_For_Free/

Extension for better control over playback speed (if I'm talking too fast) ➔ https://chrome.google.com/webstore/detail/video-speed-controller/nffaoalbilbmmfgbnbgppjihopabppdk?hl=en

~ created by Thomas Frank
**Keywords:** multitasking, multi-tasking, multi tasking, multitask, doing two things at once, productivity, distractions, I'm distrated, procrastinating, can't focus, how do I focus, focus on one thing, one thing at a time, distracting websites, internet distractions, can you multitask, thomas frank, 
**Date:** 2018-02-11

## Transcript
 You've probably heard that multitasking isn't good for your productivity. But do you know why that is? Today we're going to explore the reasons. And by the end of this video you're going to have a good understanding of exactly why multitasking is attempting yet ultimately ineffective strategy in most situations. I'll also be recommending some tools and strategies to reduce the temptation to multitask, which is no small feat given the sheer amount of tasks we have to deal with on a daily basis and the availability of technology that makes multitasking so easy. What's the price to go? Well, buy it! Tell my mom that I've come in Wednesday. Sorry, that's the third thing. Actually October, okay? Finally, and possibly contrary to your expectations, we'll be talking about the times at which multitasking does make sense. That's right, it turns out that multitasking doesn't entirely deserve the bad rap it's gotten from people like productivity bloggers and management consultants. Well, I'll say that multitasking doesn't exist. Multitasking does exist, what doesn't exist is multi-focus. Think of your brain like a computer or to be more precise a very specific kind of computer and one that we haven't seen in probably 10 or 15 years, a computer with a single core processor. Now, most modern computers have multi-core processors. The current lineup of 15-inch MacBook Pros have quad-core processors, meaning processors with four cores, and even my aging iPhone 6S has a processor with two cores. With multiple cores comes the ability to truly multitask. Each core can run operations independently. However, within each core, only one calculation can be executed at any given time. So, how are you still able to run multiple programs at once? How was it that you could be playing Runescape in one window, talking to a friend and MSN messenger and another, and instill another, be writing a video script full references that show everyone just how much of an old man you've truly become? How do you do, fellow kids? Well, it's pretty simple. The processors switched back and forth between multiple tasks. But since they could manage millions of instructions per second, they created the illusion of true multitasking. Now, unfortunately, the human brain was not designed to switch back and forth between tasks quickly. It takes a little while for your brain to truly lock on to any tasks that requires a high level of concentration or active attention. So, when you switch your attention away to something else, you incur what's called a cognitive switching penalty. Not only do you lose the time that it takes to switch from one task to the other, and then back again later, you also lose a lot more time while your brain tries to get itself back into the flow state, and if you're switching tasks often, your brain forever stays in the shallow end of the focus pool. Multiple studies over the past few decades have demonstrated this inconvenient biological truth, and what's more, they've also demonstrated that multitaskers make more mistakes, which is something that I was reminded of just last night when I decided to stream some internet gungin on Twitch. I have put over a hundred hours into that game, but because I was simultaneously trying to answer questions and be entertaining on the stream, my skill level dropped like a rock. So, the science is clear, and it's backed up by experience, committing to a single target of focus will make you far more effective in the long run. Once you enter the flow state on that single task, you'll work more quickly, and your creative and logical abilities will be fully unlocked. So, with all that being said, how can you avoid the temptation to multitask? Well, one thing that's been helping me a lot lately is doing all my writing and my research on this iPad Pro. But I first got out of a couple of weeks ago, I was initially annoyed that it wasn't quite as good at doing a lot of things that I already did in my MacBook Pro, copying a pasting with a lot slower, a lot of the keyboard shortcuts I normally used didn't work, I mean, I could complain for hours. But then I saw these inconveniences for what they truly are. Useful restrictions. Yes, my iPad sucks for answering emails, and it sucks for editing video, and it sucks for lots of things, but it is very good for writing, which is the most important work that I do, and it's the work that I'm most resistant to doing because writing is hard. So now, every single morning, I take my iPad to the coffee shop and I leave my MacBook at home. And there, I do at least one full Pomodoro of writing, and I'll show you my setup right now. On three-fourths in the screen, I have ever known, and I basically write whatever comes to mind, and on the other quarter of the screen, I have an app called Tide, which functions as my Pomodoro timer. Now, you definitely don't need an expensive iPad to get the same benefits. My friend Martin Beck and College actually did the exact same thing with an old iPod Touch and a little stand and a Bluetooth keyboard. And of course, you can do the exact same thing with a notebook and a pen as well, as long as you're handwriting muscles have an attribute. If you do have to use a computer, you can use an app like called Turkey writer, which locks down your computer and lets you do nothing but write until you've hit a word count goal, or you can use apps like Freedom or Focal Filter to block websites that you find distracting. Whatever you use, the key is to lock down your options. With all that being said, there are times when multitasking can be useful, and I want to give you two examples. The first is any situation where neither of the tasks that you're doing requires intense concentration, and where one or more of them is something that you've mastered to the point where it's essentially become muscle memory. Cooking is a great example. Through practice, I've memorized several recipes, and I've gotten pretty good at a lot of the basic techniques, like cutting vegetables with proper guide hand technique, of course, and sauteing onions. This means that, at least when I'm cooking a recipe, I'm familiar with. I can easily handle multiple things going on at once. I can have the onions on the stove, I can be chopping kale, I can keep the timing for the garlic bread in the back of my head, and I can also easily listen to audiobooks while I do it all. But if I'm making a new recipe, I can't listen to audiobooks, and I'm not merely as good at managing multiple dishes at once. The moment that an unfamiliar process or a new technique enters the equation, it is back to single tasking for me. Now, aside from that, the one other situation where it can be useful to multitask is when you want to background process something in your head. A doctor Barbara Oakley points out in her book, a mine, for numbers, your brain has two different modes of processing. The focused mode and the diffused mode. When you walk away from a project after focusing on it for a while and kind of just let it simmer in the background, you're entering the diffused mode, and when you do this, new insights can pop up that wouldn't have otherwise popped up if you remained focused. My friend Martin actually brought this point up to me while I was writing this video, because right now, he's designing an algorithm that'll suggest articles to people on our website. And he mentioned that after working on it intensely for a while, he took a break to go fight in easy monster and monster hunter, at which point, so new insights popped up into the back of his head about how to improve it. So to recap all this, when you're faced with a task that requires careful attention, focus only on that task, avoid the temptation to multitask. And if it's helpful, choose tools that restrict your options and cut down on that temptation, like website blockers or less capable computers. Finally, at other times, like when you want to save time on tasks you've already mastered, or when you want to take advantage of that diffused mode of thinking, use multitasking as the context-specific tool that it is. Speaking of mastering skills, you should check out Skillshare. If you want to improve your mastery and web development, graphic design, presentations, or really any other skill that you want to learn. Skillshare is an online learning platform with over 17,000 courses in a ton of different areas, including the ones I just mentioned, plus digital animation, marketing, photography, and audio production, which is actually a skill that I've been trying to learn a bit about lately and effort to improve the background music in my videos. If that's something that interests you as well, you should definitely check out young gurus class on learning to mix music. In addition to videos going over techniques, like EQ and compression, there's also sample project files that you can download so you can start applying what you've learned right away. Skillshare is also more affordable than most other online learning platforms, at least then 10 bucks a month for their annual subscription, and the first 1,000 people that sign up with link in the description down below are going to get two months of premium unlimited access for just 99 cents. I want to give a huge thanks to Skillshare for sponsoring this video and once again supporting this channel and as always guys, thank you so much for watching. Hopefully you learned something from this video and if you found it useful, definitely hit that like button down below. You can also click right there to subscribe to this channel so you don't miss out on any future videos and click right there if you want to get a free copy of my book and how to earn better grades. Lastly, you can get one more video on this channel if you want to keep watching by clicking right there and I will see you in the next video. Thanks for watching.
