# The iPhone's Most Powerful New Productivity Feature
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Oe6OfnNuxOw
iOS 14 released a couple weeks ago with a ton of new features, but none of them are more exciting to us productivity nerds as the new Shortcuts widget. 
📺 Watch this video without AdSense on Nebula: https://nebula.app/videos/thomas-frank-ios-14s-most-powerful-productivity-feature-extended

🛠 COURSES AND RESOURCES: 
Notion channel - https://www.youtube.com/c/ThomasFrankExplains
Free Notion templates - https://thomasjfrank.com/templates/
Learn Notion - https://thomasjfrank.com/fundamentals
Productivity and Habits courses - https://thomasjfrank.com/courses/

🦙 SPONSOR: 
Get 10% off your first domain purchase at Hover: https://www.hover.com/thomasfrank

📃 ARTICLE VERSION:
https://thomasjfrank.com/shortcuts

🐦 SOCIAL STUFF:
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly
Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Music Channel ➔ https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCmqK2G-3AL_WP5KffH_wqAA
Spotify Study Playlist ➔ https://open.spotify.com/user/thomasfrank09/playlist/4ETfiRPHVmUFLF6q0g8Fux?si=IPfx3dAgQ1SIUwhh5YEQMQ

⏱ TIMESTAMPS:
00:00 - Intro
01:21 - My new Home Screen setup
02:59 - Shortcuts Widget Tutorial
04:10 - Shortcut 1: Instant Voice Record
05:48 - Shortcut 2: Open Notion Pages
06:37 - Shortcut 3: Open Spotify Playlists
07:16 - Shortcut 4: Complex Menus
09:33 - One Last Tip...

🔗 VIDEO LINKS:
Matthew Cassinelli's Shortcuts Catalog: http://www.matthewcassinelli.com/sirishortcuts/

👐 BUSINESS:
Please contact my agent at thomasfrank@standard.tv

💰 I'm fortunate enough to work with great sponsors who support my work, so I don't use Patreon or any other crowdfunding service. However, if you'd like to support a worthy cause, consider donating to help more children get access to a high-quality education: https://fundraise.pencilsofpromise.org/fundraiser/1489730
**Keywords:** thomas frank, productivity, ios 14, iphone, ios14, shortcuts, ios shortcuts, ios 14 shortcuts, shortcuts widget, notion, notion tips, iphone tips, iphone productivity, iphone widgets, ios widgets, productivity tips, slack, spotify, 
**Date:** 2020-09-30

## Transcript
 Thanks to Hover for sponsoring this video and supporting my channel. Two weeks ago, Apple released the long-awaited iOS 14. And while it's got lots of new bells and whistles we could talk about, today we're going to explore what I think is hands-down the most useful productivity feature it has. So iOS 14 came out of beta just about a week or two ago, and I think most people would say the most exciting feature in iOS 14 is the ability to put widgets on your home screen to customize them. I know my Android user friends have had this ability for years, and I'm sure there's going to be some of the comments rubbing my nose in it, but personally, as somebody who's been using an iPhone since I think 2011 or 2012, this has been something that I have been wanting for a really, really long time. But as cool as this feature is as a whole, it wasn't really exciting enough for you to make a full video on it, until I found out about the shortcuts widget. So shortcuts is an app that Apple bought from a third-party developer a few years ago and integrated into iOS, and it essentially lets you create custom shortcuts to do a whole ton of different things. And personally, I've never really played around the shortcuts that very much until I saw it in that list of widget options, but after playing with it over the weekend, after learning what it could do, after learning that it can actually create scripts and do lots of really cool custom stuff, I started getting that same mental rush that I get when I pull off a particularly complex magic to gather in combo. I live for stuff like that and for stuff like this. So this is the home screen setup I'm rocking right now, like I said, I've got my screen time widget and my exercise widget right here. But the real cool stuff lives here in the shortcuts widget on the home page. So first, I've got a button for notion, and this was actually my inspiration for making this, because notion doesn't currently have a widget, which I would love to see them make. But for now, I can click this button and I have several different choices. I can go to my inbox, which I talked about in my notion, note-taking video. This is my quick capture area where I can easily create a new note very, very quickly, or I can go to the full notebook area if I want to get into a specific notebook, like content or music, or I can go to my workspace here. So this is a custom workspace for myself that I've been developing. I can go down here and I can see all the different projects I have in progress across my business. All the videos I'm working on, the newsletters I need to write. I can go down here and see my editorial calendar. And I'm actually working on a course all about how teams and creators can use notion. So if you're interested in getting updates about that, and maybe even getting into a beta version that I'll go live before the full price version, I'll have a link in the description down below where you can sign up for an email list to get updates. But secondly, we have a Spotify playlist thing. So often when I go to the gym, I want to easily launch my workout playlist. I can do that from here, and it'll instantly launch it, which is pretty cool. I've got a Slack DM button here. So I've got several people across different Slack workspaces who I DM on a daily basis, and it's kind of a pain to switch workspaces in the Slack app. So using deep Slack URL linking, I can open up, say, a DM with Tony, basically instantly. Lastly, I've got record now, which just opens up the Voice Recorder app and starts recording immediately. So what I want to do for the rest of this video is show you how to set this up. And hopefully this is going to serve as both the tutorial for the shortcuts app and also how to set up widgets in general. So to start this out, let's get a widget onto the home screen. You can hold down here until you get this whole edit interface here. I'm just going to swipe over to a brand new home screen, hit this plus button, and start searching for widgets. You got a ton of different choices here, but the shortcuts one is going to be near the bottom. So we'll grab that, and I'm just going to go with one of these four grid boxes here. You can do a really big one if you want. You can do a single one. I like this one. So we'll go with that. And right now, it's just going to show the top four shortcuts and my entire shortcuts app. So what we really want to do is create a custom folder where we can choose which shortcuts are shown in this widget. So to do that, first we're going to go to the shortcuts app itself and create a folder. Back here, I'll just create one called demo for this purpose. And as soon as I add it, I can come back to this widget we created. I can hold it for a second, hit edit widget, and then choose this demo folder. So right now, it is going to be empty, which means that we need to start populating it with shortcuts. So let's go back to that shortcuts app. And I'm going to create a very, very simple one to start us out. Let's do that voice memo's one since it's kind of a built-in feature. So if you hit plus here, we can hit add and action. And you got a whole bunch of different choices here. You can call people, you can text people, you can get into scripting right now. Let's just go to apps and find that voice memo's app right here. And you got a couple of different choices. Listen to my most recent one or record a new voice memo. This is what we want to pick for a quick capture. I don't want a show when run confirmation here. And then I'm going to give it a name. So let's just call it record. We can come in here and I'll just choose a, I don't know, this baby wearing a bow, because why not? Oh, and one thing I do want to mention here. So I talked about this whole shortcuts process on my Twitter. In fact, if you want to follow me over at Tom Franklin, you might be able to see stuff like this before it gets on this YouTube channel, which takes a lot more production time. But if you add this to your home screen, and let's go ahead and do it right now. We'll call it me shortcut. I don't really care what I call it because I don't really want it. I'm going to add it to my home screen, and then I'll hit done as well. So now it exists in our widget here. And if I tap it, it's going to immediately start recording my voice, which is great. That's the behavior we want. If we use the little home screen shortcut here, it works. But when I tap it, it's going to pass through the shortcuts at first, which is just kind of annoying. I know it's not really that big of a deal. You get into it and starts recording immediately, but it's just sort of an elegant. So if anybody had the Apple design team is watching this, I would love for this add-to-home screen feature to function just like the widget. Just do a no-at pass through, just go right to the app that we want. So this one was easy. Let's create something a bit more complicated. How about opening a notion page like my inbox right here? Well, the cool thing about notion is you can grab the link to basically any page that you want. So if you go here to the 3.menu, which you can also do on the desktop and hit copy link, that's going to copy the link to your clipboard. And if we head back to shortcuts, what we can do is create a shortcut, adding an action in the web category called OpenURLs. And if we paste that URL right here, it's going to open this page. And we're just going to call that inbox. Again, I will give it a glyph. This one will be a play button. I don't know why, we'll let it be read. And now it's going to be in our demo widget here. So if I click this, there's our inbox. And this process is not unique to notion. If you have an app, it lets you copy URL and that we'll launch the app using that URL, you can build a shortcut for it. So let's go ahead and do it with a Spotify playlist real quick. I've got my workout playlist here. Maybe I want to link to something different. Maybe I want to link to my Sunday study playlist. So let's find that here it is, copy the link to it, which is just going to be done through share and copy link. And we can go right back to shortcuts. Go like that. Go to web, go to open URLs, paste that URL in, bought a boom, hit done, hit done, and boom. Now we have a launcher for our study playlist. But of course, what I showed you at the beginning of this video is a little bit more complicated than what we've just built because on my true widget over here, when I tap these, I get a menu so I can choose several different places to go. So now I want to show you how to construct that and to do it, we're going to get a little bit into the scripting side of shortcuts. Now this can get really, really complicated to the point where people used to share shortcuts that would be full of like actual malware. And Apple had to clamp down on people sharing shortcuts. And you actually have to go into your settings and disable that protection. If you want to download shortcuts from other people, we are not going to get that crazy here. We're just going to use a simple menu to give you some choices. So let's take this inbox one right here, which I realized I just mispelled. And we'll open up the details of it. And instead of just doing this, we'll go ahead and cancel that out and add an action from the scripting menu. So you've got a tall and different options here. As you can see, you've got if and repeat in all kinds of weird programming stuff. But the first one is what we're after, choose from menu. This is just going to give you a menu like you saw in my example. And since we're creating a notion launcher, let's go ahead and make one for inbox and one for notes. So that's going to give you two different choices here. And now you've got inbox and notes as little blocks here. If you hit the plus button, you can then go to our trustee little web category and hit open URLs. And then by dragging it, you can nest it underneath each of these choices. So we're going to get two of these blocks nest them like that. And then just go and grab our URLs like we did before. First we'll do inbox and we'll copy that link. And then we'll go over to our general notes home and copy that link as well. So now just to review, we've got a scripting tool that opens a menu, giving us the choice of inbox or notes. I could add more items if I wanted to. I can move these around if I want to. And then I've got a block that will open a URL based on the choice. I make so each one has done unique URL. We'll hit done there and I'll leave it mispelled because I don't care. Now if we go over to our launcher, if I hit this, I'm going to have those choices. Hitting notes. We'll open up my notebook and hitting inbox. We'll open up my trustee handy dandy inbox. Now one final tip I want to share with you here is that you don't actually need to have all of the shortcuts you want to use in a shortcut widget because you can say the name of the shortcut to Siri like so. DM Tony. And boom, there is my DM with Tony. So you can use this trick to easily launch shortcuts that don't even exist in this widget. Just make sure that you name them something that's easy to remember and easy to say. And speaking of things that are easy to say, if you want an article version of this video with some references for the shortcuts that we just built, you can go over to ThomasJFrank.com slash shortcuts. Which should hopefully be easy to remember, not least of which because I have a fairly easy to remember, don't main name for my personal website. And not only does that make the reference easy for you to get to, but ever since I've built this website back in college, it's made easy for job recruiters and other people to find my portfolio and to contact me. Which is why, if you don't currently have your own domain name for your portfolio website, you should go over to hover and get it for yourself. Hover has hundreds of different extensions to choose from ranging from your.coms and.mees, which are great for portfolio websites, but they also have lots of more fun ones like.lol or even.blog. And once you have your domain name, they also have a couple of really cool features that can help make that domain even more useful. Number one, they've got an email feature so you can create a very professional looking email address for yourself, like ThomasJFrank.com, a little bit more professional than a Gmail or a Yahoo or a Hotmail and they also have a Connect feature, which lets you easily hook your domain up to website builders and even online store builders. So once again, if you want to get 10% off of your domain name purchase and make sure that you get your domain name before somebody else takes it and steals the rug right out from under your feet, go over to hover.com slash ThomasFrank and grab that domain. Also, if you enjoyed the video, hitting that like button is a great way to tell the YouTube algorithm that this video isn't complete in other garbage, and maybe it should show it to somebody else once in a while, wouldn't that be cool? You can subscribe right there if you haven't done so already, definitely hit that subscribe button so you don't miss future videos we have coming out. Last but not least, I'm going to have a playlist of other videos here on tech videos I've done so if you want to learn how to set up your home screen or make your phone a little bit less distracting check those out or check out my music channel right here or don't do any of this and go buy a cooler Lama statue that I have right here because as always, I can't tell you what to do. I'm not your dad.
