# How Much Water Should You REALLY Be Drinking?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OEdR116n-78
Do you really need to drink 8 glasses of water a day? If not, how much water do you need - and how can you make sure you're always getting it?
📺 Watch this video ad-free on Nebula: https://nebula.tv/videos/how-much-water-should-you-really-be-drinking

🛠 COURSES AND RESOURCES: 
Notion channel - https://www.youtube.com/c/ThomasFrankExplains
Free Notion templates - https://thomasjfrank.com/templates/
Learn Notion - https://thomasjfrank.com/fundamentals
Productivity and Habits courses - https://thomasjfrank.com/courses/

📃 ARTICLE VERSION:
https://collegeinfogeek.com/stay-hydrated/

🐦 SOCIAL STUFF:
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly
Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Music Channel ➔ https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCmqK2G-3AL_WP5KffH_wqAA
Spotify Study Playlist ➔ https://open.spotify.com/user/thomasfrank09/playlist/4ETfiRPHVmUFLF6q0g8Fux?si=IPfx3dAgQ1SIUwhh5YEQMQ

👐 BUSINESS:
Please contact my agent at thomasfrank@standard.tv

💰 I'm fortunate enough to work with great sponsors who support my work, so I don't use Patreon or any other crowdfunding service. However, if you'd like to support a worthy cause, consider donating to help more children get access to a high-quality education: https://fundraise.pencilsofpromise.org/fundraiser/1489730
**Keywords:** hydration, hydrate, dehydrated, water, water drinking, stay hydrated, 8 glasses, 8 cups a day, 8 cups of water, how to be hydrated, hyponatremia, water intoxication, can you drink too much water, gallon of water a day, how much water do you need, hydration needs, hydration performance, water bottle, electrolytes, sports drinks, gatorade, sweat, athlete hydration, runner hydration, marathon hydration, ironman hydration, cycling hydration, thomas frank, 
**Date:** 2018-01-29

## Transcript
 Water is a necessary ingredient for human survival. To say nothing of optimal physical and mental performance, now if you're watching this, it means that you are alive, which means that you are at least getting the bare minimum, but are you drinking enough water? For years we've been told for many, many sources that we are constantly dehydrated. Now, if we want our bodies to work optimally, we need to get our eight classes a day. And some people think that eight glasses actually isn't enough. They go further saying you need three or four liters. And others say that the timing is crucially, and to spread out your water drinking over each hour of the day, which kind of would think of it. Oh no. I'm not going to die now. My all jokes aside, do you really need to be drinking eight glasses of water a day, or to ask the more general question that you probably have in the back of your mind? How do you really know if you're hydrated, and how do you make sure that you stay hydrated on a daily basis? Well, after far more time than I initially expected spent researching for this video, I hope to answer those questions for you today. Here is everything that you need to know about hydration. Let's start with that common assertion that you need to be drinking eight glasses of water per day. Society has been out in the wild for decades, with many believing the original source to be a 1945 notice put out by the Food Nutrition Board, which recommended that people get about two and a half liters of water per day. From there, the idea spread and entered the general consciousness, becoming the mantra of many nutritional food blogger and gymteacher. Unfortunately, what seems to have been left out is the very next sentence in that recommendation. Most of this quantity is contained in prepared foods. This puts quite the damper on the idea of the need to be gulping down two and a half liters of water every single day, and more importantly, no scientific evidence has come out and defends that idea in the intervening decades. In 2002, an extensive research of you published in the American Journal of Physiology concluded as much. And interestingly, it also noted that, this inclusion is supported by published studies showing that caffeinated drinks and tool lesser extent alcoholic beverages like beer and moderation may indeed be counted toward the daily total. As then noticed from 1945, points out solid food counts toward the total as well. Though the Mayo Clinic states that it's around 20% of the total rather than being most of it. And of course, that amount's going to vary based on your diet. If you eat lots of fresh vegetables and fruits, which at the end of the day are mostly water, then that total's going to be a little bit higher. But if you're like me, your breakfast consists of bowl of nails and 6,000 pushups, then you're probably going to be leaning a little bit heavier on the beverages. So, if you don't need eight glasses of water a day, how much do you need? Well, as you might expect, the answer is, it depends. Your body's individual hydration needs very based on different factors. Like age, weight, gender, environmental factors like altitude, temperature, your proximity to certain Dragon Ball Z villains, and, of course, your level of physical activity. Luckily, your conscious brain doesn't have to worry about particularly tracking any of these factors, because, as it turns out, your body already has built in mechanisms for maintaining an optimal fluid balance automatically. For instance, when your body detects that it's a little bit low on fluids, it releases an anti-diometric hormone called vasopressin, which increases water absorption in the kidneys and returns it back to the bloodstream to restore that balance. When that is enough, your body brings the issue to your attention by making you thirsty, to which you're almost certainly going to respond by drinking something if you can. There's no meticulous timing or spreadsheets or measurements or rolling 20-sided dye needed, and this makes sense. Until very recently, the human body and almost all land-dwelling animals for that matter have had to evolve in a depth and environment where there was no guaranteed regular access to water. So, systems for maintaining a good fluid balance even in the dry times were an necessity. So to put things simply, yes, you need water survive, and you need even more to perform your peak, but your body will tell you how much and when to drink it. So follow the thirst rule. When your body tells you your thirsty, go and drink something to quench that thirst. Very simple. Now if you really want to double check your hydration, one easy way to do it is by checking the color of your urine. If it's light yellow, then that means you're hydrated, you're good to go. Solid yellow or dark yellow means your dehydrated, you should probably drink some water and blue means you're in a scape to get rid of an experiment. Now at least in terms of hydration, the one other thing you need to survive is a healthy balance of electrolytes. So are electrolytes? It's what they use to make brondos. In general terms, electrolyte is any substance that conducts electricity when mixed with water. But within the human body, electrolytes are essentially rocks or minerals that do everything for regulating the function of your nerves and muscles to balance in your blood pressure. They're also essential for hydrating the body. Without them, water would have no way to get into your bloodstream and cells, so it would just pass through you like you were a tube slide. A really dead tube slide. Some of the most important electrolytes in your body include sodium, potassium, calcium, sodium, magnesium, and guess what, that's right, you don't have to meticulously track these either. As long as you're eating enough, you follow a relatively balanced diet that consists of more than just chicken tenders and tender rejections, then you get all the electrolytes you need from your normal meals. And this means that even if you exercise regularly, even if you're hit in the gym, even if you're going for runs or fighting bears, you have no need for the supposed electrolyte benefits of sports drinks. Sure, maybe check in the court of brondos before I work out, we'll make you feel more energetic, but that's mostly due to the butt load or sugar that's in it. And I will remind you that butt load is a technical term. Okay, so now it's time to talk about the exceptions, because there are always exceptions. So here's the thing, for 99% of the people watching this video, the vast majority of my audience, the thirst rule is all you need to follow. And honestly, I probably don't even need to talk about the 0.1%, probably going to kill my YouTube watch time, but I want to be thorough, so who falls into that 0.1%. First and most importantly, people with certain types of illnesses are susceptible dehydration. For a particularly disgusting example, if you have diarrhea, you can start losing a lot of fluid it really, really fast. And other illnesses can cause rapid dehydration as well, which is why hospitals carry oral dehydration solutions that are specifically formulated to rehydrate you as quickly as possible. So if you're sick, and you are, for lack of a better term, expelling a lot of fluids, then listen to your doctor when it comes to hydration. Don't listen to me, because while I am from the internet, and I have heard that means I cannot tell any lies, I'm not a doctor. The other exception is a very specific group of athletes. Now, as the author marks his endpoints out in his book, The Primal Blueprint, many athletes who trained intensely on a regular basis can often come into training sessions slightly dehydrated, and because they're working so hard, their thirst response can't really keep up, and that can lead to decreased performance. That being said, most athletes tend to drink a lot of water while they're training. It's just something that's been kind of drilled into our heads, so that isn't really the risk here for specific group of athletes. For marathoners, for endurance athletes, triathletes, cyclists, people who are out training for a really long period of time, the risk is actually hypotenotremia, or water intoxication, which is a dangerous delusion of the sodium concentration in your bloodstream. This is potentially deadly condition that's caused by overhydration, by drinking too much water, which is something that a lot of endurance athletes, if they're outrunning for a long time or on the bike for a long time, can do unconsciously. In fact, an observation that participants in the 2002 Boston marathon found that 13% of the runners tested after the race had hyponotremia. Now, I'm not going to go too far into this, because, like I said, 99% of you are not going to be at risk for this, and it's really only a factor if you're out training for a really long period of time. But if you do want to learn more about this problem, 10 NOX's book Waterlogged has lots more information about it, and I'm assured many charts and graphs and data to seek your teeth into. All right, so we have all of our science bases covered, and with that, I want to move on to one little anecdotal problem that I have observed in my own life, which I'm going to call Flow State dehydration. So we've talked about the first rule, but here's the thing, I'm the kind of guy who gets really into the work that I'm doing, like laser focused in zone in the Flow State, and when I'm researching for a video or I'm editing something, I can work for hours and hours without eating or drinking sometimes. Now on occasion, I have noticed that this is resulted in mild dehydration, and try to fix that. But more often, when I actually come out of that Flow State and I realize that I'm thirsty, I'll typically want to reach up something a little more novel and interesting than plain old water, like coffee or orange juice. Now as I mentioned in my previous video about coffee and dehydration, I don't think there's a problem with having a single daily cup of coffee or having a morning glass of orange juice, but it becomes a problem when I get ultra focused on my work, I let my discipline slip, and then I go and drink three lattes instead of switching to water after the first one. As a result, I've got a single, simple goal for myself every single day. I've got this 27 inch stainless steel water bottle, and once per day, I need to drink this thing in its entirety. That, plus all the coffee and tea in orange juice I drink, keeps me well hydrated and ensures that a lot of that hydration is coming from water. And on a related note, I always make sure that the backpacks I buy have a water bottle holder on the side. Otherwise, I don't really have a good way of bringing my water bottle with me when I go work somewhere, and that again leads to more lattes purchased than necessary. So those couple of little hacks work perfectly for me, but if you do happen to want to track your water and take for some reason, yes, there are water tracking apps out there, but a lot of them in here to that eight glasses per day standard, which we've kind of reviewed in this video. So I don't really feel the need to link to those, and what I think would be more useful anyway is to use a more general purpose habit tracker, like habitica, which is my favorite, or maybe momentum, each of which would allow you to also track other goals in your life. But to wrap this up, optimal, good hydration can be had by following three simple rules. 1. The Thurst rule. On your Thursday, drink something hydrating. 2. Make sure you're eating a balanced diet with plenty of vegetables, fruits, and high-quality protein sources to ensure your body gets all the electrolytes and needs, and you don't turn into that really dead tube slide. And finally, number three, be vigilant about noticing when you're starting to replace your water consumption with a lot of less healthy drinks, and when that happens, take action to change your habits. That's it, seriously. Now I will let you be the judge about how smooth this final product came out, but I will tell you the research that went into this video is far more complicated than I had initially anticipated, and there are a lot of sources to this. So if you're curious to learn more, you want to check out the sources that I use to make this video, I highly recommend checking out the companion article that I've written, which I'll link in the description down below, or you can find in the card on screen right now. Otherwise, as always, thank you guys so much for watching, and subscribe right there if you want to get notifications of what I publish new videos, and click right there if you want to get a free copy of my book on how to earn better grades. Lastly, you can smash your face into your phone screen right there to get one additional video on this channel that is probably the most productive way that you can smash your face into something, so definitely do that, and I will see you guys in the next video.
