# 5 Lessons from "The Productivity Project" by Chris Bailey
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OW2F4dOCC3U
Today I'm sharing five lessons I took from reading "The Productivity Project", which was written by Chris Bailey, the founder of A Life of Productivity.

The Productivity Project - Amazon link:

http://amzn.to/1U3Y4oZ

^buying through that link supports this channel at no extra cost to you :)

My list of essential books for students:

http://collegeinfogeek.com/essential-books-for-students/

Companion article for this video:

http://collegeinfogeek.com/productivity-project-5-lessons/

Discuss this video in the CIG Community:

https://www.reddit.com/r/collegeinfogeek/comments/4nca85/5_lessons_from_the_productivity_project_by_chris/

Previous 5 Lessons video:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5Ws2WfeD6d8

----------

My book "10 Steps to Earning Awesome Grades" is completely free, so check it out if you're interested in improving your grades!

http://collegeinfogeek.com/get-better-grades/

If you want to get even more strategies and tips on becoming a more productive, successful student, subscribe to my channel right here:

http://buff.ly/1vQP5ar

Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly

~ created by Thomas Frank
**Keywords:** thomas frank, college info geek, college tips, studying, university, a year of productivity, a life of productivity, chris bailey, productivity tips, procrastination, triggers, waiting for, david allen, getting things done, time, attention, focus, concentration, energy, sleep, waking up early, energy levels, time management, fmri, book review, book summary, book tips, 
**Date:** 2016-06-09

## Transcript
 A what's up guys so this is another episode of five lessons which is a little mini show here on this channel where I take useful lessons from a book that I've read recently and share them with you and on today's episode I'm going to be sharing some lessons from the productivity project which is a book that tries to cover productivity in kind of a general sense. Now I haven't read a whole lot of other books that are huge overviews of productivity. I've definitely gotten into more specific books on things like habits. But I haven't really read any of the other general productivity books out there so I can't really make a comparison here. That being said, I really enjoyed this book and I wanted to provide you with five of the best lessons that I took from it. Starting with the first one which is actually the subtitle of the book. Accomplishing more by managing your time, attention and energy. And that's really Chris's main idea in this book which is that productivity is the product of managing your time, attention and energy equally. And these three resources are vitally important and they are all equally important. Now in past generations where people worked in factories or when they worked on farms, time was the most important element. You punched it at the right time. You did work that wasn't incredibly mentally taxing didn't require a whole lot of creativity and there weren't a whole lot of distractions to kind of pull you away from that work. So time really was the most important aspect. But today more of us are doing creatively demanding work that requires a lot more knowledge requires a lot more brain power. And because of that, our energy and our attention are just as important as our time. And I think this is really important to think about deliberately because time management is probably the aspect that is most asked about and most focused on. But when you have a productivity problem, it's just as important to ask yourself, am I managing my energy correctly? Am I managing my attention correctly? Or am I trying to put in too many hours and trying to brute force my way to more productivity? And learning this and kind of integrating into your life will help you to do things like take more regular breaks to pay more attention to your health, to sleep, to get more hydration, to go exercise. Even though these things take away from the raw amount of hours you can work, they're going to make you more productive. So lesson number one, this is the big overview of the book. When you're trying to make yourself more productive, try to consider all three of these factors. So the second lesson that I wanted to share with you from this book is that there are six procrastination triggers, basically facets or aspects of a task that make your brain more averse to doing them. So the six triggers are whether a task is boring, difficult, frustrating, unstructured, or ambiguous, lacking in personal meaning, and lacking in intrinsic value, such as it's fun or it's intriguing to do. So the next time you find yourself procrastinating, you can sit down and ask yourself, for this task that I don't want to do, which of these triggers are present? Is it boring? Well, maybe I can change my location and go to a coffee shop that makes it more fun to work on. Is it frustrating or is it unstructured? Well, maybe I can break it down into some concretely defined steps. And then tell myself, this is the very next step to work on. I have a very clear vision in my mind of what the road is forward, and now I can start working on it. The third lesson that I took from this book is that each of us has our own individual time during the day where both our energy levels and our ability to focus are highest. It's not the same across the board, and Chris calls this the biological prime time, and he discovered his own biological prime time through the results of two different experiments. First, he took the often cited advice that the early bird gets to the worm, and tried to experiment where he woke up at 5.30am every single morning thinking, This will obviously make me an all-powerful productivity robot, and the results of that experiment were diametrically opposed to those expectations. Chris found that number one, he absolutely hated getting up at 5.30am the morning, and hated going to bed as early as he needed to to get up and get enough sleep. But also, it really didn't make him any more productive than he usually was. So, he scrapped that experiment, and did a second one where he recorded his energy levels at each hour throughout the day for a certain number of days. And what he found that was for him, between 10am and noon, and then 5pm to 8pm, his energy levels, and his ability to focus were highest. So, as a result, he now considers that time sacred, and he tries to schedule his most important, most challenging and most rewarding work during those hours. He doesn't put meetings there, he doesn't put any sort of maintenance tasks there, all those tasks are relegated to the other hours when his ability to focus is a little bit lower. Now, the fourth lesson from this book is really interesting one that I had actually not heard of at all before, and it's that our future selves are actually the same as strangers to our present selves perception. Chris talked to a UCLA researcher who put people in brain scanning machines and asked them to think about strangers and then to think about both their present selves and their future selves. And what he found is that when people think about strangers, they actually have the same brain scans, the same activity and the same brain regions, as when they think about their future selves. And by contrast, when they think about their present selves, their brain scans are quite different, which shows that when we think about our present selves, we do not consider the same limitations, the same stresses, the same stuff we're going through. Right now, even though logically, we can tell ourselves that the future version of ourselves will probably be going through those same things. So what Chris actually did is he used an app called aging booth to create an old looking picture of himself, basically himself in several years, and he put it up on as well. Now, I did that, and I'm probably not going to put this on my wall, but it did teach me to start deliberately think about what my schedule is going to look like a few weeks in advance. Because if I don't think about it deliberately, I can think, oh, my future self is going to be no totally carefree. There's nothing going to be going on, sure I'll take that meeting in two months or three months. Even though, logically, I can look at my calendar three months ago, I can look at my calendar now, and I know that my schedule does not get less busy over time. The opposite is true. And the fifth and final lesson from this book is actually something that Chris learned himself from David Allen, the author of another book called Getting Things Done. And it's to have, in addition to your task list, you know, you're to do list, a waiting for list. Basically, a list of all the things that you're waiting on someone else to do before you can take action on it or before it can be finished. So if somebody owes you money or you're waiting for someone to respond to an email, maybe you're waiting for a package should be delivered. These are all things that kind of weigh on your mind, their things that have sort of a part in your life, but you can't do anything to resolve them right now. So it's good to have a separate list of those things in the checket, maybe once or twice a month at least, just to make sure that for everything where the ball isn't currently in your court, it does come back and it doesn't slip through the cracks. So those are five of the lessons I learned from the productivity project. Overall, I really enjoyed this book, and I found that it was a pretty good overview of many of the different problems we face when trying to be productive. If you want to see other recommendations I have for books that I think every student should read, you can check out my essential books for students list, which you can get to by clicking the card on the screen right now or the link down in the description. Otherwise, hopefully you enjoyed this video, if you did, and you found it useful, you can give it a like to support this channel. Also, if you want to get new tips on how to be a more effective student every single week, you can click the subscribe button right down there. And if you'd like to get a free copy of my book, which is about how to earn better grades and study more effectively, you can click the picture right there, and I will send everyone to your email. You'd like to check out the last video in the five lessons series, you can go right there. It's a video on the power of habit by Charles Doohig, which I absolutely love. And if you'd like to find the full article for this video with some more tips and extra resource links, click the full article button right there. If you want to connect with me, I am most responsive to smoke signals, so you're going to want to build a big bonfire, but don't do it in the middle of a forest. Otherwise, smokey the bear is going to have some choice words with you. Anyway, thanks for watching, and I will see you in next week's video.
