# My Notion Note-Taking System
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qj9HeT-IaEg
How well does Notion work as a note-taking app? In this video, I'll show you my take on the ultimate note-taking system within Notion.
📺 Watch this video ad-free on Nebula: https://nebula.app/videos/thomas-frank-building-the-ultimate-notetaking-system-in-notion

🛠 COURSES AND RESOURCES: 
Notion channel - https://www.youtube.com/c/ThomasFrankExplains
Free Notion templates - https://thomasjfrank.com/templates/
Learn Notion - https://thomasjfrank.com/fundamentals
Productivity and Habits courses - https://thomasjfrank.com/courses/

🦙 SPONSOR: 
The first 1,000 people to sign up with this link will get a free 2-month trial with unlimited learning on Skillshare: https://skl.sh/thomasfrank33

My entire sponsor fee for this video is being donated to Black Lives Matter. If you'd like to donate as well, you can do so here: https://secure.actblue.com/donate/ms_blm_homepage_2019

🐦 SOCIAL STUFF:
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly
Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Music Channel ➔ https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCmqK2G-3AL_WP5KffH_wqAA
Spotify Study Playlist ➔ https://open.spotify.com/user/thomasfrank09/playlist/4ETfiRPHVmUFLF6q0g8Fux?si=IPfx3dAgQ1SIUwhh5YEQMQ

🔗 VIDEO LINKS:
Here's my note-taking system template: https://thomasjfrank.com/templates/notion-note-taking-template/

👐 BUSINESS:
Please contact my agent at thomasfrank@standard.tv

💰 I'm fortunate enough to work with great sponsors who support my work, so I don't use Patreon or any other crowdfunding service. However, if you'd like to support a worthy cause, consider donating to help more children get access to a high-quality education: https://fundraise.pencilsofpromise.org/fundraiser/1489730
**Keywords:** thomas frank, productivity, education, how to learn, studying, notion, notion note-taking, notion vs evernote, notion vs roam, notion vs roam research, notion system, notion setup, notion organization, best notion setup, notion tips, notion 2020, thomas frank notion, how to use notion, how to set up notion, 
**Date:** 2020-06-24

## Transcript
 This video is sponsored by Skillshare, and the entirety of my sponsorship fee for this video is being donated to the Black Lives Matter organization. More on that at the end for now, enjoy the video. It's no secret that notion is an incredibly powerful app that can do a lot of things, but can it work as a note-taking app? Well, you might think the answer to that question is obvious, since it is an app where you can input text and create hierarchies of pages and pseudo folders. But personally, I have had a tough time answering this question for myself, even though I've been using notion for about two years at this point. And that is because before I discovered notion, I used a little tool called Evernote for about 10 years. And when you use a tool for that long, you tend to get very used to the way that it's set up. And changes to that set up can be hard to deal with. So over the past couple of weeks, I've given myself the challenge of building a system with in-notion that gives me a lot of what I love from Evernote, but also takes advantage of many of notions unique features. So this is my note-taking system here in Notion. It looks pretty simple, and that is actually on purpose, because not only does it need to be very usable here, but to properly replace Evernote and to be something I can use at all times, it needs to be usable on my iPhone as well, where I have a lot less horizontal space to work with, and this set up works perfectly there. So the system consists of notebooks which are here on the left. We also have an inbox which works really well for quick capture, just quickly getting ideas out of my head when I don't have time to sort them correctly. And then something called the Status Dashboard, which is probably the coolest part of the system, but we're going to get to that a little bit later. First, let me just show you what a notebook looks like. So these notebooks are actually databases, each of which contain many different notes. And if we look here, these notes have a status and also a category. The status is going to be useful for the Status Dashboard, and we can set them to Open, we can set them to Archived or Urgent. And this basically lets you sort notes by the things that are relevant to your life right now, things that are even urgent, and things that you want to keep for safekeeping, but you don't really need anymore, and those will be archived. We also have categories, and what we can actually do is sort into one of these different custom views which just kind of filters based on its category. So this is just production notes. This is just song notes. And what this essentially gets you is something just like whatever note had with the notebooks stacks and the notebooks. That afforded you two levels of hierarchy for organization, and this in turn gives you two levels of hierarchy. The first one being music, which contains our second level, which is our songs, our gear, our learning, singing, et cetera. And to create a new note, we have a couple of different options. Number one, we can just hit new right within this notebook, and it's going to give us a new note, and we'll all just call it test note, and this instance. So that now exists within this database. I can give it a category, which works really well. Let's just call it songs. I'm going to have a great song called test note someday, and we can set a reminder for it. If we want to, we can attach files to it. If we want to, I'm just going to leave it like this. So that's one way to add notes to the database, or we can go and use that quick capture method. We're adding things to the inbox. The inbox is pretty much identical to these notebooks, in terms of features. It's also filtered like this. It's also sorted by default by date updated, which is my preference. But of course, you can change this however you want, and if we create a new note, which I'll just call test note too, then it's going to be, again, defaulted to open status, and sitting here in the inbox. What I can do then is, if I have a review day on the weekend, I can go into my inbox, and I can drag all of these notes to the notebook in which they belong. So test note, let's say that's another song we want to write, creating the ultimate note-taking system, and notion that would probably go in content. And finally, we have the status dashboard. So the status dashboard is a place that shows you all of the open and urgent notes across all of your notebooks. And this is using the notion linked database feature, which essentially lets you see a database, even if you are not on the page that contains that database. It's kind of like linking out to a database that exists somewhere else, and showing you the contents. The interesting thing about linked databases is that, if you edit the content, so if I edit one of these rows here, I will actually be editing the row in that database. If I delete one of these columns here, I will be actually deleting the column in that database. But linked databases have their own views, they have their own filters and their own sorts. So you can create custom views, custom sorts, do whatever you want with linked databases, and you're not going to affect the parent database, the real database. And we can use that to our advantage. So this status dashboard uses that to show me all the notes across my entire system that are either open or urgent. We are first sorting by urgent, and then we sort by date updated. So if I'm on a review day once again, I can go through my system and I can look through and see, what's relevant to my life? Do I need to set something to archive? Do I need to set it to urgent? And I've also sorted it so that it shows any note that doesn't have a category. That way I can go through in the dashboard and categorize things. So site speed upgrades right here, I'm going to put that on projects. Alright, so that being said here is how you would add a new notebook to your system. First off, there's an add new notebook block here, and this is just a template block that contains a template database. So I can click it to generate it, and why don't we just call this notebook, DIY. I think that's a good parent notebook, that contains lots of different sub-note books. And because this is built off of a template, a lot of the work is already done for me. I've already got my filters, I've already got my sort criteria, and I've already got a few different views here. Most of these don't really need any kind of editing before I start working, but I am going to want to edit this category view right here, and I want to make more based on my categories. So first let's assign a category to this test note here, and we've got a test one here, I'm just going to go ahead and rename it to woodworking. So this will be my woodworking notebook, and I'm going to come into category one. I'm going to rename that to woodworking as well. So this will be my woodworking notebook, and I'm just going to add a filter based on the category, and it will be woodworking. So any note tagged with woodworking is now going to be in this woodworking notebook. And once you've done that, all you need to do to create additional category based notebooks is to duplicate this view, and then rename it to whatever you want. So maybe this one is going to be metalworking. Yeah, I would love to get into welding in my spare time, and all I got to do is, we'll first add a category for metalworking, and change our filter criteria. So as your notebooks expand, and you add additional sub notebooks within the parents, and go through this process of adding the category, and then adding the filter. I know this is a little bit of work to set up, and I thought really hard about how to make it easier, and I couldn't really figure out a way that didn't compromise some of the other features, including the ability to have quick capture, the ability to easily sort, the ability to show the status dashboard. So it's a little bit of work to set up each notebook, but once you have those notebooks set up, you don't have any additional maintenance work, and at least personally, after I've got my first maybe 15 notebooks that kind of encompass my whole life built, then there aren't really any new notebooks being created in a regular basis. So personally, I'm okay with a little bit of initial setup work, and speaking of initial setup, one last thing we do need to do for this, other than setting a cool emoji, let's give it a hammer, is to add this to the status dashboard. So here is one thing where I would love notion to add a feature, I would love the ability to duplicate a linked database, and then change the database, it's looking at change the original database. That's not a feature right now, which kind of stinks, because it means I can't duplicate this preset up linked database that has all the filters and the sorts, that'd be awesome, but that doesn't exist. So we're going to hit the slash command, and go to create linked database, and then all we need to do is search for the particular database we just created, and here we are. So again, the views we create here, the filters, the sorts, and any shuffling around of columns is going to be unique to the linked database, it's not going to affect your notebook. But if we change anything about the content, that is actually going to affect what's in the real notebook. So what we need to do here first is number one, get rid of some properties that we don't care about, such as date created and files. I really don't care about those things, I just want these for. Next we need to create a view, so we're just going to call this table view, and I'm going to give it a capital V, because it's going to default to creating two of them. Now basically we need to do this, so we can easily duplicate the filters, and sorts we're going to be creating here. If we don't make another view first, it's going to be a kind of a pain to do it. Go in here, we're going to create filters. And this is where notions, new filter groups, option comes really in handy, so I'm going to go here and I'm going to make a filter where I'm filtering for status, and I'm going to filter for either open or urgent. And lastly, I want one more filtering for anything where the category is empty. This shouldn't happen with the way that I've set this system up, but just in case it does, I want to have this filter criteria in here, so I can use this as an easy place to set categories for anything that doesn't get it initially. Finally, the last thing we got to do is set up a sort first based on status, and I want urgent to be first, we're going to go descending order, and then I want it to be sorted by date updated, also descending. And lastly, with this table view, I'm going to go ahead and duplicate it, and I'm going to call this duplicate list view. So this is going to be that nice little list style database that is easily viewable on mobile, hit that up, and then I'm going to delete this original table view with the lowercase fee, that's what notion defaults to call it, and I don't need it, because it doesn't have any of those cool filters and sorts on it. Boom, there we're done. Again, a little bit of setup work, but once you've got it set up for each parent notebook, you don't have to do anything except for go through here and sort your notes. And look, I have creating the ultimate note-taking system of notion with nothing on there. We're going to call that YouTube, because this here is on YouTube. So this notes database, as you might have expected, is a template, and it is in the notion template gallery now, so I will have that linked in the description below, and one additional tip that I want to give you here for using this is to drag both the notes area itself, and also the inbox specifically up to your favorite bar. That's going to give you really quick access to basically every part of your notebook. If you open the toggle here, you have access to all of your parent notebooks, and because we built custom views for the sub categories, you can even drill into those sub categories from the side bar. This was really important to me, which is another reason why I built it this way. And then last but not least, you have your inbox at the top, which means that when you're on your phone, when you're on the go, and you don't have a whole lot of time, you can easily open up notion, get to the inbox just a couple of quick taps, and add something to it, and then have it in a place where you know you're going to easily be able to sort it, and organize it later on. So again, use this favorite area to your advantage, and use it for things that you access beyond just your notes database. I've got my inbox here, I've got my notes sitting right here, but I have a lot of other things that I need really quick access to a really frequent basis, including my YouTube video tracker, which basically helps me run my channel, and helps me make videos a lot more efficiently. And speaking of making videos, if you are a content creator yourself, if you make videos here, or even if you're aspiring to get into it in the future, then I want to take a second to recommend Christopher Rhodes's budget filmmaking class over on Skillshare. Christopher Rhodes is somebody I've been following for a long time. He's a channel here called YC Imaging, and his work is absolutely fantastic. In fact, if you've been following my channel for a few months, and you've noticed the production quality increasing over time, that is due in part to a lot of the tips that I have picked up from Christopher. And his Skillshare class really gets into details of how to make the most modest gear or a small budget when you're making a video. And in particular, I really enjoy his lesson about location scouting, which is about taking one location and using it really creatively to get lots of different shot angles or even different sets out of that one small space. And because Christopher's class is on Skillshare, you're also gonna have access to thousands of other classes across topics ranging from digital illustration, to animation, personal finance, to even productivity. And within that productivity category, you'll even find two classes taught by me, which cover the basics of setting up a productivity system, and then how to build strong habits and actually stick to them in the long term. Membership on Skillshare is also really affordable with plans starting at less than 10 bucks a month. And if you're one of the first 1000 people to use the link in the description down below to sign up, you're also gonna get a two month free trial with unlimited use of the platform, so you can try it out before you buy. Like I said at the beginning of this video, I am donating the entirety of my sponsorship fee for this video to the Black Lives Matter organization. Honestly, with everything that's been going on over the past few weeks, I don't know what the perfect thing to say that would be helpful would be, but I do know that saying and doing nothing would be the wrong thing to do. This channel is about self improvement for the most part, but I think that we should be using the gains we make through self improvement to be improving the lives of other people as well, and to be calling out and fighting against injustice when we see it. And it's clear to me that Black people in my country and around the world deal with systemic racism and injustice on a daily basis. In addition to many voices that are trying to say that injustice doesn't exist. It absolutely does, and I want to make some small effort to use my platform to both amplify Black voices and to help, which is why I'm making this donation and which is why instead of calling out a little subscribe stuff that I usually have on the screen here, I just want to point you to a video by a manual that I watched last week called Uncomfortable Conversations with a Black man. This was an eye-opening look for me at some of the different types of racism that people have to deal with on a daily basis. And I highly recommend you go watch it and also subscribe to this channel. He's turned this into a series and the other videos are just as good. Beyond that, hopefully you enjoyed this video. Hopefully you found it helpful in some way. Again, I'm going to have the template link for this note taking system in the description down below, which should hopefully save you a lot of effort if you want to implement it for yourself. And as always, I will see you in my next video, which is coming out in just a few days.
