# How to Meet New People - 6 Tips for Making More Friends
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rb0G0Uw-2Q8
Get a free audiobook and a 30-day trial of Audible at https://www.audible.com/thomas or by texting "Thomas" to 500-500 on your phone.

Huge thanks to Audible for sponsoring this video and supporting the channel!

It can be tough to make friends, especially when you're not a kid anymore. Where do you go to meet new people? How do you introduce yourself and break the ice? And (my biggest challenge) how do you keep conversations going and prevent them from fizzling out?

Today, we'll cover 6 useful tips for talking to people and building new friendships. Whether you're in high school, college, or are already out in the real world, I think you'll find these helpful.

Watch the next video - How to Build Closer Friendships: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JiF8drvonf8

Get my book "10 Steps to Earning Awesome Grades" FREE: 
https://collegeinfogeek.com/get-better-grades/ - or by using the Audible trial link above to get the audiobook version!

Follow Me:
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly
Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Podcast ➔ https://www.youtube.com/TheCollegeInfoGeekPodcast

Subscribe to My Channel:
http://buff.ly/1vQP5ar
**Keywords:** how to make friends, how to introduce yourself, 3 second rule, how to meet people, meet more people, how to talk to people, how to talk to girls, make more friends, better friends, best friends, acquaintances, where to meet people, meetups, friends in college, friends in school, thomas frank, college, high school, study tips, friends, make friends, make friends online, meet new people, making friends, how to make new friends, friendships, friendship, lonely, loneliness, 
**Date:** 2018-09-01

## Transcript
 So a couple of weeks ago I lost all of my friends. You probably remember I put out this video and seven different money mistakes people often make and in that video I publicly declared very stupidly that I actually enjoy looking at financial spreadsheets and ever since then none of my friends have texted me back and weirdly every time I go out in public I just hear people yelling nerd at me. I don't know why. Anyway since then I have been trying to make some new friends and in that process I have made a discovery which is that making friends really isn't as easy as it was back when I was a kid but that doesn't matter I actually I do have some friends still. There's being bang, there's Gary, there's Tyler, Eduardo, see I got tons of friends. Still I would like to make some more and I would not be surprised if you feel the exact same way that I do about making friends because this is a very very common problem. A lot of people find it difficult to make friends especially as they get older or when they say move to a new city. So as somebody who is in fact getting older and who move to a new city in the past year and a half I want to share some tips and strategies for making a new friends and we're going to do something that I haven't done in quite a while which is make a two-part video. So in this video we're going to focus on the process of making new friends. We're going to talk about how to meet new people and also break the ice so you can actually have great conversations. And then later this week I'm going to release a second video which will be all about how to take those casual acquaintances and casual friendships and turn them into deeper, more meaningful friendships. Now today's video is going to include six different tips but before we get into those I do want to share a quote from the author and speaker as zigzaglar. If you go looking for a friend you're going to find their very scarce. If you go out to be a friend you'll find them everywhere. Keep this in mind when you're trying to put the tips in this video into action. If you can remember that making friends is about giving more than receiving about putting in a lot of effort and about helping people they're going to have no problem whatsoever making friends. And with that let's move on to the tips. Starting with tip number one which is to go out and do active things. Now this tip stems from a question I got from a student years ago and that has been repeated by many other people who have messaged me in the intervening years which was where do I go to meet people who could become my friends? And this person the first person to ask me this question didn't really know where to go because they had really only made friends by proximity. Whether it be in their neighborhood when they were a kid or in their dorm in college. And what I told them was if you want to meet friends who actually do cool things were active then you have to go to where active things are happening. You can't just sit around in your dorm room waiting for somebody to walk in and say hey dude you want to play ultimate frisbee? No you need to look at maybe your campus's activities directory or like a meetup group in your city that actually meets for ultimate frisbee. Show up and you're going to start meeting people who are into that activity. Now if you're wondering how to actually find these sorts of activities I do have a few suggestions for you. One look in your local community. For example I go to a gym that's just a few blocks away from my apartment and every single time I'm there I see bolts and boards with advertisements for intermirals sports and other groups that I could easily join if I wanted to. In addition to that there are sites like meetup.com which has hundreds if not thousands of different groups for all different types of interests that are going to be listed for your area so definitely check out that one and you can also look at Facebook. Now you should probably stay off of the newsfeed on Facebook if you don't want to absolutely destroy your productivity but the groups feature on Facebook and the events feature on Facebook. These two are gold mines for finding events where you could find potential friends. And that leads us into tip number two. Don't be afraid to try new things. You might be tempted to look at meetup to look at Facebook and to only look at things you're already into but remember the human brain is very good at adapting and you don't know what you're going to like until you try it. So try something new. For example just this week I tried out rock climbing and mountain biking for the first time and I found no surprise that both of those things are extremely fun. If I only stuck to skateboarding and rollerblading which are the things I did ever since I was a kid then I'd be limiting myself quite a bit but I don't. I actively try to do new things all the time because I know that I'm probably going to like them and even if I don't I can just move on to something else. Remember the only thing you lose if you try something out and end up not liking it is say an afternoon worth your time which isn't that bad of a price to pay. Now if you want a few activities suggestions I will reiterate mountain biking and rock climbing are both insanely fun and if you live in a big city I'm starting to see dirt jump parks pop up for mountain biking so you don't even have to go out into the forest and find a trail and there are also lots of climbing gems and if you're looking for something a little less extreme or a little less active one thing that I really enjoy doing is playing magic the gathering and most towns have a local game shop at host events like Friday Night Magic and Commander Nights where you can show up play that game and meet lots of new people. Now to reiterate these are just ideas you don't have to go have a day of mountain biking and climbing and magic the gathering if something else peaks your interest go out and try it and you just might find a new hobby and some new friends. Now that prospect is very exciting but I do want to remind you tip number three here don't ignore proximity friends you know proximity friends the people who live near you and you had a lot of these when you were a kid right you kind of went out into the neighborhood and just played with whoever happened to be near you and this is probably also the case for school and college and when people get to be adults I think they kind of forget that proximity base friendships can actually be very good they're only looking for the meetups they're only looking for people who share their current interests but the thing about proximity base friendships is that these are friendships with people who might expand your horizons because they like different things than you like keep in mind you don't have to have the exact same set of interests to be friends with somebody and a great analogy for this is your relationship if you have one I've been with my girlfriend for six years and while we do share certain interests we also have a lot of interests that the other person doesn't really like but that doesn't stop us from being great friends in addition to being in a relationship so wherever you live if you find the opportunity to strike up a conversation with a neighbor take that opportunity that could just as easily lead to a friendship as an interest-based meetup group all right so I've given you a few places we can go out and meet new people but that leaves one question unanswered which is how do you actually break the ice how do you get those conversations going that actually lead to friendships well that is what the next few tips are going to cover including tip number four which is to use the three-second rule and now that I'm thinking about an I kind of wish I had made that tip number three but do you like now so here's the crux of the three-second rule if you're at an event and you see somebody who you want to talk to decide within three seconds whether or not you're going to actually walk up and strike up a conversation if you wait any longer than that your brains are going to start concocting all sorts of reasons why you shouldn't right you're gonna think they look busy you're gonna look silly and then you're gonna talk yourself out of doing it so instead within the first three seconds tell yourself either yes I'm gonna walk up and talk to that person or no I'm going to walk away and then act on it and on a related note work to become comfortable with the fact that some conversations are simply going to fizzle out or become awkward this is probably the most common fear people have about striking up conversations deep down we know the other person probably isn't going to walk away or say something ridiculous like oh get are you even think to talk to me original Vivintin Lancast as a third why do you even know how far my family lineage could be traced back quite what but what people are afraid of realistically is the conversation fizzling out or getting awkward and truthfully this is gonna happen sometimes it even happens to total extroverts some people just don't click but if you can get over this fear it become okay with the fact that it's going to happen sometimes that's gonna lead to more interactions which makes it more likely that you're gonna meet people who you actually do click with and finally if you want to keep your conversations going then make sure you take and interest in the other person and ask a lot of questions this is a tip for all the people out there who don't really know what to say in conversation so the new people they know they can come up and say hi then they can talk about the weather if they want but then again they're afraid of things fizzling out if you don't want them to fizzle out well maybe the other person will ask you a question and then you're kind of off the hook but a lot of times they're not going to do that so you have to be the person to ask the first question now I know what you're asking yourself Tom what do I ask them about do I ask them about where they got their shoelaces from or like how many hairs around their head no you use the context of the situation for your initial questions and here's a great example yesterday I went to a dirt jump park here in Denver with my mountain bike and I spent about an hour just jumping by myself but eventually I saw other people jumping and I wanted to strike up conversations with them so I started out my conversations by asking them hey how long have you been coming to this park or what other parks in Denver do you like going to I really want to know where else I can go or do you like to ride that's trail riding that's actual technical rock gardens and stuff like that or what kind of bike hardware you running why are you using a heart tail instead of a full suspension bike there are all kinds of questions based around the context of the activity you're doing and again this is another great reason to go out and actually do active activity based things rather than just sitting around and having casual friendships based on really nothing except for watching Netflix I guess having an activity that you're both participating in gives you context for conversation now there is one final quote that I want to share with you here which is actually one of my personal favorites and it comes from the film critic Jean Youngblood an interested person is an interesting person whenever I hear this quote I think of the concept of a renaissance man or a pecker renaissance woman somebody who knows a lot about lots of different topics so they can strike up conversations with anybody and I'm always reminded of the scene from one of my favorite movies limitless where Eddie's after his party and he's talking to all these different groups of people and no matter who he talks to he's able to converse intelligently with them that's the kind of person that I have always wanted to be and I'd bet that you would say the exact same thing and if you want to be that kind of a person well the only way you're going to do it is by in taking information from a huge variety of different sources regularly and one of my favorite ways to do that is by listening to audiobooks I love audiobooks because they let me learn while I'm cooking or while I'm writing my bike or finally folding my laundry after leaving it in the dryer for three days they're just a great way to take information while I'm doing things that don't require a ton of my attention and if you're looking for a great place to find audiobooks the best place in the world to get them is audible. Audible has an unmatched library of audiobook titles in a ton of different genres. They've got all the best sellers and lots of obscure books so whatever is on your to be readlist whatever is gunking up your good reads they probably have it for you and Audible's membership has a ton of great features as well including the fact that if you don't like a book that you get with your credits so that you buy you can return it and exchange it for another book with no questions asked and one of the best things about Audible is that you can get a free 30-day trial and a free audiobook download of your choosing by going over to audible.com slash Thomas or texting Thomas on your phone to 500-500. Now you guys probably know by now that I always recommend a book in these Audible spots and I am very excited for the book recommendation of have for you guys this week because spoilers it is my own book yes 10 steps to earning awesome grades is now an official audiobook and it is read by yours truly and what's best as I said just a couple of seconds ago you can get it absolutely free by going over to audible.com slash Thomas or texting Thomas to 500-500 on your phone you can get that book or again you can get any other book of your choosing. Anyway I want to give a big thanks to Audible for sponsoring this video and being a supporter of this channel and as always thank you guys so much for watching thank you for so much support over the years thank you for everything basically if you enjoyed this video you can hit that like and I'll thank you for that as well you can also subscribe right there if you want to get new videos every single week when they come out also you can get a free ebook copy of my book 10 steps to earning awesome grades by clicking right there or you can get the free audiobook with Audible description link below or you can get one more video on this channel like clicking right over here thank you guys so much for watching don't forget to come back in three days for the follow-up to this video and how to build stronger friendships until then stay cute.
