# Can Music Help You Study More Effectively? - College Info Geek
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=S5_APAxM5Lg
As a student, I almost always listened to music during studying and homework sessions. 

But does music actually help you focus and study more effectively - or is it just a distraction?

Discuss this video:

https://www.reddit.com/r/collegeinfogeek/comments/44cr8c/can_music_help_you_study_more_effectively/

My book "10 Steps to Earning Awesome Grades" is completely free, so check it out if you're interested in improving your grades!

http://collegeinfogeek.com/get-better-grades/

Blog post with links to albums and research:

http://collegeinfogeek.com/should-you-study-with-music/

----

If you want to get even more strategies and tips on becoming a more productive, successful student, subscribe to my channel right here:

http://buff.ly/1vQP5ar

Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly

~ created by Thomas Frank

Music (there had to be music in this one): Chopin - Nocturne in C minor, B. 108
**Keywords:** study music, study album, study music playlist, music and studying, music focus, music concentration, best study music, binaural beats, brain fm, audio modulation, music and the brain, brain music, how to focus, student tips, college tips, classical study music, 
**Date:** 2016-02-05

## Transcript
 It's a question I get pretty often. Can listening to music help you study more effectively or is it just a distraction? Well as the journalist HL Menkin once said, for every complex problem there is an answer that is clear, simple, and wrong. I've been curious about this question myself for years and I've always kind of secretly hope that the answer came down in favor of music because I have almost always studied with music. But from the research I've done so far of the only thing I can confidently tell you at this point is that we don't actually know. Their answer is going in both directions, and to give you some more detail we're going to dig into that research in a minute here, but first I want to preface this with my own experience because as I said, I've almost always studied with music. I've got like a borderline unhealthy obsession with trying to find new study music. Can I have spent more hours than I can count digging through the charts on sputhic music? Are going through music forums, trying to find new stuff? And when I've studied or done homework, it's always almost with headphones on or something coming out of my speakers. So here's what I found works well for me. For tasks that require low mental effort or tasks that deal with very tangible information that I already have familiar with, high energy music can get me energized and helps me get into the flow state faster. I'm talking stuff like statistics homework or accounting or programming, things where I know basically what needs to be done, and it's just a matter of manipulating numbers or code to get it done. And if you want some recommendations for albums for this kind of work, I can give you a few here. Pomercanic tiger is boundless as a new one I've been really digging lately, also the algorithms polymorphic code, any of the instrumental tracks off of the Metal Gear Rising soundtrack absolutely love that thing, and tied demands young courageous, all great albums he should definitely check out. However, once we get into tasks that are more cerebral or more conceptual or if I'm trying to wrap my brain around something more unfamiliar, I really need to have either very calm music or silence. And if you want a few recommendations for tasks like these, I can give you Austin Winteries Journey soundtrack, any of the Kingdom Hearts, piano collections albums, all of our nerds, the Chopin project, or Tiafini's amazing Majora's Mask tribute album Times End. And regarding silence, studying in silence can work really well for me at times, but other times, it gets really distracting because my brain starts picking out all the little intermittent environmental noises that you can't really control. It's almost as if my brain knows it's trying to use silence to concentrate better, so it starts picking those things out being like that, it's not actually silent, man. Kind of like what happens if I tell you whatever you do, do not think about fluffy red pantas. What do you think about? So if you have this problem as well, calm music isn't the only solution, you can also try like a white noise generator like simply noise or an environmental sound generator like rainy mood or a cup of activity, basically if you deliberately set up the noise yourself, I found that it kind of helps to calm that distraction a little bit. So the other question to get a lot is, is Lyrical Music Fine or is it have to be instrumental all the way? And what I found is for that former type of work where it's either low or mental intensity, you're very math or logic based, Lyrical Music is fine because I can pretty much tune it out and just kind of focus myself on that work, but once we get into the more conceptual work or especially when I'm reading, it has to be instrumental all the way. Anything with Lyrics will just pull my attention and distract me a ton. And this experience is actually writing line with the opinion of the late Stanford University Professor Clifford Nass who was known for his research into multitasking. And Nass said, Music with Lyrics is very likely to have a problematic effect when you're writing a reading, but probably less of it effect on math if you're not using the language processing part to be brain. Okay, so we've gone over what works for me and I can confidently say through years of experimentation that it's probably going to keep working for me this way in the future, but what does science have to say about it? Well, as I alluded to in the intro, the answer is a kind of mixed. For example, once that he done in 2013 at the University of Maryland tested 32 students on several different math tests in different music conditions. They had silent music, high intensity music, and low intensity music. And what they found is that the students scored best under the silence condition with the low intensity music, beating out the high intensity music for second place. And by low and high, I mean like classical piano music versus death metal. So they didn't really have like a nice balance between the music. They went one extreme at another extreme. Still, that's irrelevant to the fact that the silence condition beat out both music conditions in that study. However, another study in France done with 249 participants found that the students who watched a lecture while listening to classical music scored better on a subsequent test than the students who watched that same lecture while listening to nothing. So, the answer is different. And to my knowledge, there hasn't yet been a truly large scale study on music's effect on the brain. But with the results we have right now, I think we can still make a couple of different conclusions. First, it seems clear that high intensity music or music with lyrics aren't really good choices when you're reading or when you're doing something that has to do with language or when you're trying to wrap your brain around something that's totally unfamiliar to you. And secondly, more generally, it could be that music is a kind of given take thing when it comes to your brain. It might be that in an objective sense, it is distracting, but it also raises your positive emotions, it can lessen your anxiety, and it raises your motivation to stay focused. And the net benefit or net deficit is going to depend on who you are, what kind of work you're doing, and what the specific kind of music you're listening to is. And that third factor, the specific type of music, brings up another question. Can music be specifically designed to increase your brain's performance? Well, stay tuned because in next week's video that's exactly what we're going to be covering. In the meantime, if you want to check out any of those albums I mentioned earlier, they're going to be linked up in the blog post for this video, along with my ultimate study playlist on YouTube here. And if you want to discuss this video or get more music recommendations from other students, you can check out the official discussion thread for this video in the college of Vogue community linked down below. That is it for this week's video, so hopefully you found it useful, and if you did, you can give it a like to support this channel, and I would really be curious to hear what your experience was studying with music is, so let me know either in the discussion thread or in the comments down below. And as always, thank you so much for watching, and I will see you next week. Hey there guys, thank you so much for watching this video, and if you want to get new videos every single week, I'm being a more effective student, you can pick that big red subscribe button right there, and also I wrote a free book that I don't even know about a grade so you can click the picture of the book you want to get one, also if you want to find the blog post for this video, links to a lot of the playlist I mentioned and some of the studies I talked about as well, the orange button right there. And last week's video, I talked a bit more about the college and bookie community that just launched, so check it out if you want some more details on that, and if you want to connect, I'm in the community all the time, but I'm also on Twitter and Instagram at Tom Prankley, or you can then comment down below.
