# Why Your Work Disappoints You
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t_FSSC-ixK8
In this video, I'll share the One Percent Rule, and show you how you can use it to ACTUALLY finish things - while also steadily closing the gap between your abilities and your taste. If you want to develop mastery in any area, this is one rule that you need to follow.
📺 Watch this video ad-free on Nebula: https://nebula.tv/videos/thomas-frank-why-your-work-disappoints-you

🛠 COURSES AND RESOURCES: 
Notion channel - https://www.youtube.com/c/ThomasFrankExplains
Free Notion templates - https://thomasjfrank.com/templates/
Learn Notion - https://thomasjfrank.com/fundamentals
Productivity and Habits courses - https://thomasjfrank.com/courses/

🦙 SPONSOR: 
Get a free trial of Skillshare (which includes my productivity course): https://skl.sh/thomasfrank28

🐦 SOCIAL STUFF:
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly
Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Music Channel ➔ https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCmqK2G-3AL_WP5KffH_wqAA
Spotify Study Playlist ➔ https://open.spotify.com/user/thomasfrank09/playlist/4ETfiRPHVmUFLF6q0g8Fux?si=IPfx3dAgQ1SIUwhh5YEQMQ

👐 BUSINESS:
Please contact my agent at thomasfrank@standard.tv

💰 I'm fortunate enough to work with great sponsors who support my work, so I don't use Patreon or any other crowdfunding service. However, if you'd like to support a worthy cause, consider donating to help more children get access to a high-quality education: https://fundraise.pencilsofpromise.org/fundraiser/1489730
**Keywords:** thomas frank, productivity, how to improve, learn new skills, taste gap, ira glass, equal odds rule, how to get good, rapid skill development, rapid skill acquisition, skill development, learn skills, get good, how to progress faster, how to make great things, how to draw, how to make videos, how to sing, learn anything, learn faster, how to learn faster, how to make faster progress, learning, memory, practice, how to practice, 
**Date:** 2019-12-16

## Transcript
 This video is sponsored by Skillshare. Use link in the description down below to get a two-month free trial which includes my productivity essentials course. If you're an ambitious person, then you, like me, are also probably somewhat of a perfectionist, whether you're trying to write a novel or make videos or record your own music, the work that you're creating right now probably doesn't measure up to your standards. There's always some tweaking you could do or something you could change or some improvement that you could make, but it seems like no matter how much tweaking you do, it's still never quite measures up to that vision you have in your head, right? This is called the Taste Gap, which is a term that was coined by the podcast or ira glass. You're inspired to start creating by other art that you know is good, which means that you start out with great taste, but as a beginner, your skills don't quite match up to that taste. And by extension, neither do the first things that you create. And a recently got an email from somebody that echoed this exact idea. There were in the process of writing a novel, but they were frustrated with the fact that the quality of their own writing didn't match up to that of their favorite authors. The Taste Gap was still there, despite the fact that they were able to successfully and accurately analyze what authors did, the way they described environments, the way that they developed characters. Now, you might not be writing a novel, but it's like that you've experienced something similar in some other discipline that you've been a part of. So what I want to talk about in this video is a rule that I've used successfully over the past few years to start closing this Taste Gap and actually start making progress instead of remaining paralyzed by my own perfectionism. It's called the 1% rule, and before we get into the specifics of it, I want to do a quick thought experiment that will hopefully put things in perspective. So, picture in your mind's eye, if you will, your normal everyday routine. Think about the mundane boring sequence of actions that you go through every single day, but with one slight twist, you haven't done any of them ever before. Now, you've seen other people do them, so you know how to do these things, but you have precisely zero experience with brushing your teeth with tying your shoes, using a microwave, you don't know how to read, you don't know how to write, you don't know how to use a computer, you've never done any of these things in the past. But again, you've seen people do them, so they should be easy, right? Now, in this thought experiment, you can probably come to the conclusion that if you've never done these things before, you're going to have a hard time with them. In the real world, the only reason you're able to go through your routine, basically on autopilot is because you've done every single action in that routine so many times that they've all become habitual. Now, most people intuitively understand this, but a lot of them fail to apply it to the art that they want to make and the skills that they want to build. Writing a novel is just like your daily routine in that the process of doing it contains lots of individual steps, and your favorite fantasy author has spent years or possibly even decades practicing each and every one of them. At this point, certain parts in the writing process are automatic for these people, which means that they can now focus all their attention and their creativity on other things. Meanwhile, as a beginner, you're over here trying to split your brain power between adequately describing environments and developing characters and relationships and catching plot holes in 800 other elements that you haven't practiced before. This is why you're experiencing the taste gap. You simply haven't had enough time or enough tries to make some of these sub-skills into nearly automatic habits, and this is what stops a lot of people in their tracks, because so many people are unwilling to let their idealized, perfected vision for their first piece go, and as a result, they never finish it and they never develop necessary skills to close that taste gap. That's where the 1% rule comes in, and it's really simple. It just has two parts. Number one, put yourself on a schedule and publish on a regular basis. It could be a once a week schedule, it could be once a month's schedule, that will allow you to not get mired in perfectionism because you know at a defined point in the future you are going to have to say, this is good enough, it's going out, I'm shipping it. Number two, each time you make something on your defined schedule, focus on getting 1% better in some element of that discipline. This is exactly how I got over my own perfectionism when I started my YouTube channel. I had that taste gap. I was watching tons of YouTubers that I really looked up to, and I understood what made their content great, but I couldn't replicate it myself. So instead of getting mired of perfectionism, I put myself on a once per week deadline, and with each video I would try to focus on something new. Sometimes I would focus on the audio. Sometimes I'd focus on my delivery as a speaker. Sometimes I would get really into animation. I remember one week I was learning how to keyframe animations so I could make pictures move across the screen. And then another week I got really into after effects and learned about easing curves so I could get rid of linear motion and make more natural motion. And then eventually I got into really complex masking. And if I were to try to do all these things at once, well, I would have failed on my first try. But because I was focusing on just one of them for each video, I didn't get overwhelmed and I started to build a repertoire of skills over time. Now, I understand lighting setups. I understand audio, I understand animation, I understand lots of elements that go into the process of making great videos, but it took four or five years to get to this point. Now, the 1% rule is something you can apply to any discipline that you're pursuing. It doesn't have to be video making because let's face it. Video making is a pursuit that is very easily broken down into different steps. Pretty much anyone can identify that there's lighting, there's audio, there's on camera presence animation, all these different things that you could focus on. So let's take one more example that's a little bit harder to break down. Let's take the discipline of singing. I remember when I started singing, I thought it was pretty difficult to identify exactly what a great singer was doing to sound the way that they did. But this is a discipline where the 1% rule can apply as well. In this case, you just need to do a little bit of extra work beforehand to figure out what the sub skills are. And that can involve working with a coach like I do or just going and doing a little bit of extra reading or doing an online community where people can give you some pointers. And eventually, you're going to learn about all kinds of different sub skills. There's resonance. There's eliminating nasality in your singing voice. There's dynamics, vocal fry, head voice, and then ciation, singing with emotion. And once you've identified those sub skills, then you can go start picking projects that allow you to focus on one at a time. For instance, I have a whole bunch of playlists on Spotify that break down singing skills. So I've got one for high voice training. I've got one for low voice training. I've got one for really powerful singing that utilizes a lot of vocal fry. And since I have one vocal lesson per week, I usually pick one or two songs to work on and practice and make recordings of, which means that I'm essentially on a once per week schedule with singing as well. So to recap the two big benefits, the 1% rule are number one, the deadline. As the old aphorism goes, perfect is the enemy of good. And well, a deadline is the enemy of perfect, meaning that it's the friend of good. And it's also the friend of completion. Putting yourself on a schedule means actually finishing things. And let's just say you put yourself on a once per week schedule for two years. That means two years from now, you're going to be able to turn around and look back on a body of work containing more than 100 finished projects. Secondly, there is the improvement, because focusing on getting 1% better in a new area with each project means that over time you get vastly better in many many different sub areas of your discipline. Again, if you make 100 things over the course of two years, that means you give yourself 100 opportunities for practice and improvement. And each time you're picking one new area of focus, you can continue learning and expanding your horizons, but you're also gaining more practice in the areas that you have focused on before. Now, I do want to point out one resource where you can go to learn the sub skills and whatever skill that you're trying to build, and that is Skillshare. On Skillshare, you're going to find a library with thousands of in-depth courses, covering video editing, photography, illustration, animation, and even productivity. And since I talked about my own video editing journey in this video, the course that I want to recommend that this week is how to make an animated YouTube video by my friend Evan, who runs the channel, Polymatter. And if you go to his channel, you're actually going to see evidence of the 1% rule and action, because he's been publishing consistently for years, and you can see gradual improvement in his videos over time. And you also might want to check out Jake Bartlett's course on animating with ease and after effects, especially if you want to learn how to start doing some of the things that we did in this video. Also, Skillshare has incredibly affordable platform with unlimited access to their platform starting at less than 10 bucks a month, which basically makes it like a Netflix subscription that's a lot more useful to your future and your skill development. And even better, if you want to get a 2 month free trial, you can actually sign up with linked down below and get that while also supporting my channel. And by the way, I actually have a brand new Skillshare course coming out in January 2020. So even if you sign up right now and activate that 2 month trial today, you're going to get free access to that course when it comes out. Either way, thanks so much for watching this video. Hopefully you found this useful. It's definitely a rule that has been very, very useful in my life. So I really hope that you can apply it to yours as well. And if you enjoyed this video, definitely hit that like button so that YouTube algorithm kind of likes my channel a little bit more, I guess. Otherwise, you can get subscribed right there if you haven't done so already. And also, maybe subscribe to my music channel right there if you want some cool tunes in your life, I suppose. Otherwise, I'm going to throw a couple more videos on the screen that you can check out if you want. And I will see you in the next video.
