# Is College Worth It? Use the Tony Hawk Method to Find Out. - College Info Geek
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TId9E_72uOI
How do you know if college is a worthwhile investment for you?

What would you say if I told you the answer might just be hidden in... Tony's Hawk's Pro Skater? Yep. We're doing this. Notes and more here: 

http://collegeinfogeek.com/college-worth-it-tony-hawk/

If you want to get even more strategies and tips on becoming a more productive, successful student, subscribe to my channel right here:

http://buff.ly/1vQP5ar

For even more awesome stuff - including a free chapter of my book on hacking productivity - join the College Info Geek newsletter!

http://collegeinfogeek.com/newsletter/
**Keywords:** tony hawk, pro skater, college, university, tuition, scholarships, thps, value of education, Skateboarding, Student, Graduation, degree, 
**Date:** 2014-09-10

## Transcript
 Today, we're going to tackle a pretty tough question. Is college worth it and to help answer that question, I'm going to list the assistance of my good friend Tony Hawk. So the question is college worth it, is a pretty loaded one, and there have been a lot of studies done and a lot of opinions are slung around and usually the answer comes out to be, yeah, in the long run college, is worth it. However, I don't want to focus on any of the big giant studies right now. I want to make it more personal for you, and I'm going to add a couple of qualifiers to this question in order to do that. So when I'm masking is college worth it, I actually want to ask, is college worth it for you, and is it worth it right now? Now, before I ever had any real aspirations to go to college, I was obsessed with skateboarding. And the Tony Hawk's Pro Skater series was my major source of inspiration to start skateboarding. So I want to use this game series as a sort of metaphor for figuring out whether or not college is a good investment for you right now. Now, if you grew up in the 90s like me, I probably don't need to explain how this game works to you, but here's the 10 second version of it. You're a skateboarder and you skateboard and do tricks and try to string together huge combos and get lots of points. One of the major moves in the game is the grind, and when you grind, you get this curved meter that pops up. And this meter is going to serve as our little metaphor for answering this question. Now, in the game, if you keep your little needle in the middle of the meter, you're going to keep sustaining that grind, but if it goes to either side, well, you're falling on your ass. And here's the gist of the illustration. Either side of this meter represents a situation where college isn't a good investment for you right now. The middle of the meter means it is. So let's break down what each of these three states could possibly be. And at the end of the video, you'll be able to assess where you stand right now. So let's first look at the left side of the meter. In this case, I'm going to say that you simply aren't ready for college right now, and that's what makes it not a good investment. I think there are three possible cases that could make you unready for college at this point. So the first one is you simply don't know what you want to do yet. And most students don't know exactly what they want to do, but at this point, you really have no idea if you go to college, you're going to be an undeclared major. Now, if you're in a financial situation where it really doesn't matter and you can afford to take a year to just kind of putter around and take whatever classes are interesting to you, then by all means, go to college. But if you're in a situation where you're going to have to take out loans to go to college and you really truly don't know what you want to do right now, then maybe an expenditure of tens of thousands of dollars is not the best way to figure that out. There are a ton of other things you could do to start getting experience and figuring out what you're interested in. Here's just a few. You could look to get an internship in an area that doesn't require you to be a current student right now. You're good at networking and you can go to some events and meet some people, this can be an option. You can look for volunteer opportunities, try traveling if you have a little bit of extra money and time, or simply just get a job and spend your free time working on personal projects, reading a lot of books, and generally building your interests up. A little bit down the line, you'll know what you want to do, at least roughly, and then you can apply that to a college education. So the second case where you just might not be ready is that you really aren't mature enough for college. And if you're watching this video, I don't think this probably is going to apply to you, but it might. If you know you're the kind of person who just can't manage a demanding workload, then college is going to be very challenging for you. And in this case, I want to point out something in the game. When you're grinding, it's your job to keep moving the needle back and forth, so you stay in the green and stay on the rail. And if you don't feel like you're mature enough to go to college yet, maybe you can make some changes in your life, maybe you can get organized, get a little bit disciplined, and stay in the green, and make college worthwhile investment. And the third and honestly the worst reason that college might not be worth it for you right now is that you really truly can't afford it. Now this is a case that you're only going to know about after you've exhausted a lot of options. So make sure you're looking for scholarship opportunities, look for grants, and try to get a part-time job or have your parents help you save some money so you can make it more affordable. Also, you don't have to go to a super expensive private college to get a great education. You can find community colleges or an in-state public university if you aren't able to secure enough financial aid for something more expensive. So let's look at the other end of the spectrum, the right end. At this point, you don't need to go to college, and that's why it's not a worthwhile investment for you. It might be the case that you're completely 100% self-driven, you're an auto-diadact, and you know exactly where to go to figure out what you want to learn. If you're in a major area that doesn't need a whole lot of crazy big university resources, so say you're not going to be a molecular biologist, then you can probably find the resources you need to learn what you want to learn for free, or for a lot cheaper than you'll find that a college. If this is you, you also know how to set goals and create a plan of action. So you know exactly what you want, you can define a concrete end goal, and then you can break that goal down into many missions, which you can then pursue. Remember, college is a huge bucket of opportunities and lots of people who want to learn things, but at its core, it's a curriculum. It's a path that's set up before you, and if you're capable of creating that path, then maybe you don't need to pay somebody else to do it for you. Another reason why you might be in this area is that you can make connections by yourself, networking is incredibly important, and a lot of the best things that'll happen to you will come out of making relationships with other people. If you don't need to be forced by a professor or a club or an internship program to go out and meet people in your area of interest, then maybe you don't need college, but you need to be willing to get out of your comfort zone, to show up at events where the people who are going to help you along your path are going to be. If this is you, then maybe you don't need to spend a whole ton of money on college. Instead, go read books like the four hour workweek, hacking your education, and the personal MBA, then get to work. And that brings us to the final position of the meter, the middle, which represents that college is indeed a good investment for you. There are certainly career paths in areas of study that require a college, but for most job paths, I've seen college as sort of a middle ground. Yeah, there's a lot of work and you have to be organized and self-driven to get through it, but at the end of the day, it's primarily a curriculum. It's a learning path set out for you, and if you're able to create that for yourself, then you don't need it. However, I know a lot of people want to have that sort of foundation that they can sort of build off of, and if that's you, then college is going to be a worthwhile investment. So hopefully this framework has helped you get a little bit closer to deciding whether or not college is a worthwhile investment for you. If you like this video, subscribe to my channel. Every week, I'll be releasing more videos on helping you become a more awesome student.
