# How Did You Become Super Productive? - Ask Tom
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tiN5GXY4W04
My first Q&A video!

Follow me on Twitter to get your questions answered in the next video: https://twitter.com/tomfrankly

My book "10 Steps to Earning Awesome Grades" is completely free, so check it out if you're interested in improving your grades!

http://collegeinfogeek.com/get-better-grades/

Links:

The podcast: http://collegeinfogeek.com/cast/
My YouTube Story: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q8GqKGmzrY0
My Top 10 Fiction Books: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WJoP3ate_fo
Royal Voice Lav Mic: http://amzn.to/2bVnbKM
The War of Art: http://amzn.to/2bZMdH2
Tomighty: http://tomighty.org/
Caleb Wojcik's channel: https://www.youtube.com/user/calebwojcikfilms

My favorite channels in no particular order:

1. Crash Course
2. Vsauce3
3. Linus Tech Tips
4. Satbag's Goods
5. Caddicarus
6. JonTron
7. I Like to Make Stuff
8. Gary Vaynerchuk
9. The Nerdwriter
10. Anna Akana
11. h3h3 Productions
12. Mowtendoo
13. Tom Scott
14. CGP Grey
15. Geography Now
16. Casey Neistat
17. Comics Explained
18. Regular Car Reviews
19. BrainCraft
20. Caleb Wojcik
21. Alpha M
22. The School of Life
23. Colin Furze
24. yungtown
25. seananners
26. Smarter Every Day
27. Did You Know Gaming?
28. Smooth Mcgroove

----------

If you want to get even more strategies and tips on becoming a more productive, successful student, subscribe to my channel right here:

http://buff.ly/1vQP5ar

Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly

~ created by Thomas Frank
**Keywords:** thomas frank, college info geek, college tips, studying, university, q&a, youtube, video gear, super smash bros, overwatch, creative space, work space, desk setup, best channels, favorite channels, productivity, sleep deprivation, laziness, feeling lazy, knowledge, one piece arc, best fiction, 
**Date:** 2016-09-08

## Transcript
 Hey, what is going on guys? So it is Labor Day as a record this just knocked out a 25-mile bike ride and I thought it would be a cool idea to answer some of your questions So a few days ago, I asked for questions over on Twitter a lot of you guys responded and I'm gonna crank through a bunch of them in this video Now if you want to get your questions answered in future Q&A videos because I think this might be a fun thing to do in the future You can follow me on Twitter over at Tom Franklin. So with that being said, let's get into the first question Do you have any tips on creating a creative yet productive work area? So I thought this might be a good question to start out with because you might have noticed that the workstation in the background has changed a bit since Maybe two videos ago and I'm gonna do an updated workstation video pretty soon. I promise you guys But I did want to give you a few pointers that I have discovered through my own Multiple multiple workstation iterations. What I found works really well for me is to create a balance of having access to all the things I need to be creative and to get work done, but to also have everything that isn't related to my current task at least out of sight and Preferably out of hand or out of access What I mean by that is I have a lot of tools in this little spinning drawer thing over here I've got books behind me. I've got all my camera gear within easy reach and I usually have my overhead shooting set up over in the other room If my friends don't need to use the table, but when I'm working I also try to set down all my other tabs all my other apps and I put everything away and I try to keep the desk as clear as possible and I also use a Pomodoro app called Tomite which basically keeps me focused on the task at hand So remember a balance between access to your creative and productive tools, but also focus and lack of distraction How did you decide to start a YouTube channel? So that's a bit of an interesting story actually because my channel has been on YouTube since 2006 and back when my brother and I created it We shared it and it was just a place for us to dump all of our dumb home videos and ninja fights and all sorts of Really dumb stuff that I have since pulled off for good reason, but the reason I started making educational videos is because I was an educational Blogger in college and then I moved on to being a podcaster and I realized and about 2014 the middle 2014 I think that I was watching a lot of YouTube videos and I was having more fun watching videos than I was reading blogs So naturally I thought to myself why don't I start making videos as well and the rest is a two-year history Now if that's not enough detail for you, I did make an entire YouTube story video which explained my entire journey to becoming a YouTuber And you can find that by clicking the box right there or finding the link down below the like button and that's about 10 minutes of my full high school story and everything That kind of led up to this point when and why did you decide to become super productive? So I like to tell myself that I'm a naturally productive person and in truth I do get kind of antsy if I haven't really done much for a while And if I haven't accomplished anything for you know a few days in fact when I travel to places like San Diego recently for example I could only make it about four days before I started working again So maybe it's a little bit in my DNA that being said there is one sort of catalyst from my past that made me work even harder Then I probably would have worked by default and that was the 2008 stock market and housing collapse crisis You know alien invasion basically This was really traumatic for me basically because I was scheduled to graduate in 2009 and When this happened in 2008, there were all these articles and news reports and people like talk at heads in the TV saying College graduates of this year are completely screwed. They're not going to be able to find a job And I was scared by that and I was even more scared because there were adults that I knew personally in my life Who got laid off from their jobs or who's entire companies went under and I was thinking to myself Am I going to go into college and have to deal with that four years from now and I don't want to make it sound like fear was the only motivator Because I do really have a lot of passion for what I do But when that happened there was like this switch flipped in my brain like I Never want to have that happen to me I never want to be in a situation where an economic downturn or a company going over or under or Basically anybody just saying hey, we don't want you anymore I never wanted external events like that to be able to totally throw me out on the street So when I went into college, I had this mindset of I'm going to get ahead and I'm going to collect as many skills as I can I'm going to have a really versatile skill set so that way if one thing doesn't work I can move right into something else and I'll always be employable now today I don't even want to be employed by anybody else at least not for the foreseeable future But that was at least part of the motivation for working really really hard when I started college How do you study efficiently when you're sleek deprived? Stop trying to work and get some sleep. Who do you mean in super smash for those four and overwatch? Some of you guys might hate me for this, but my main character in super smash for those four has always been Diddy Kong and yes, I know he is the top tier character and you could just say I'm picking him so I can win as many matches as possible But I really truly did enjoy playing him that being said ever since bayonet I got released as a DLC character. She is my new favorite because her movement like the speed and the agility and her skill set It's just sick. I love it. So I'm going to be practicing with her with overwatch I do actually make an attempt to play every single character other than a few that I just don't like and I also spend a lot of time in each of the four classes So I can be a very versatile player that being said my mains right now are Reaper May junk rat Zenyatta and Sometimes Winston if I'm feeling like I want to go tank when do you think is the right time to start applying for scholarships? So believe it or not you can start applying for scholarships as early as your freshman year in high school and in fact There are probably private organizations out there that cater to even younger people So if you are a future-minded person who is even in sixth grade or something you could start But I would say that you want to start getting serious about it when you are in 11th grade That gives you two full years to start making sure your resume is how you want it to be and let's you start thinking about clubs And let's you apply for a decent number of scholarships also Don't stop applying for scholarships after you graduate from high school because the majority of the scholarships I won came after I had started college. I probably won five or six scholarships in college and I won One scholarship in high school so keep applying throughout the entirety of your educational career When you're feeling lazy how do you personally muster that last bit of energy and focus on what is at hand? Okay, so I'm gonna share a few different tips here that really help me but please please listen to me on this first one Because I have learned through personal experience that no matter how tired I am No matter how much I think the day is wasted no matter how much I think this particular tip is not going to help me It always helps at least to some degree and that tip is to take a walk and to do it outside because the Sunlight exposure and the little bit of exercise is really going to rejuvenate you and Sunlight actually does help us To suppress the sleep urge which contributes that afternoon slump and a lot of those tired feelings to get when you're studying So go for a walk do it for just 15 minutes 10 minutes even out make it outside and then when you come back Choose one task clear up your workspace and do a Pomodoro session. This is basically a 25 minute work session Where you focus only on one task you have an external timer either an egg timer or your phone or the app that I like to use Which is for both Mac and Windows and is free. Just called to mighty and basically this external Timer is going to help you to one put the task in perspective. It's just 25 minutes of work You don't have to worry about finishing it and number two put everything else out of your mind Tell us everything all of the knowledge Dude, it's like you don't even know that all the knowledge and universe becomes a long-twenty purchase for to two Lamborghinis. I thought everyone knew that. What is your favorite YouTube channel? Science yours of course. All right number one my channel is not my favorite channel though I am quite proud of animations like the one you're about to see in a second and number two I don't have a favorite channel because my interests really do change on a pretty quick basis So instead of giving you a favorite one which will change like two seconds from now I'm gonna give you a bunch of them and definitely go check these channels out Crash Course Vsauce 3 line as tech tips, saddle drags, cataccharists, John trying to like to make stuff Gary Vayner Trek the Nerd Runner and a Conna H3 H3 mode 10 do Tom Scott CGP grade geography now Casey nice dad comics explained regular car reviews braincraft Caleb logic alpha m the school of life call in fursy young town scenanners smarter every day to genogaming and smooth man group how can you develop discipline instead of motivation? I think the main contributing factor for going from fleeting motivation over to regular and reliable discipline is the habitualization of your work basically showing up every single day sitting down and getting it done without needing inspiration and doing it on a schedule and that is actually the main idea of a book I've been reading recently called the War of Art now this is a book mainly for writers and creative people and people who feel like they have a calling in their lives but I think this is actually a central read for anyone who struggles with procrastination one of the big concepts in this book is this idea of going from amateur over to professional and I want to share with you a couple of sentences from the book about this idea of what a professional is. I think this particular paragraph in the professional section sums it up pretty clearly someone wants to ask some of them if you wrote on a schedule or only when struck by inspiration. I write only when inspiration strikes he replied fortunately it strikes every morning at nine o'clock sharp that's a pro which is your favorite one piece arc so I guess this is another confession time because I only watched about the first 200 episodes of one piece before I gave the show up now I love the show I love the characters I have bought stuff like one piece stuff in Japan like a ship and a t-shirt but there's just too much it's like 700 episodes at this point and I had to move on with my life and I think they pat out the anime way too much so the manga and the wiki is good enough for me and the the film is a pretty cool too but not being said within the first 200 episodes my favorite arc is Alapasta which I have on DVD and I think I like this one more than the Skypea arc just because the the setting is cooler and I think the villains are a bit more compelling as well. Is there any video making equipment that you would recommend? Oh yes there is it's right here okay just kidding I'm not Casey and I stat though I do think there is something to be said for caring way more about the story and the content than the gear if you're a beginning youtuber or you're somebody who has any sort of aspirations and dreams for making video of any sort because those are way more important I mean take for example Jenny Nicholson's channel now I think she literally is filming these things on a potato but one of them has over 2 million views and she's funny her stuff is compelling but I know you guys don't want to hear just that so here are some quick recommendations if you're a beginner. Number one I would start by filming on a smartphone this is an iPhone 6S this can film in 4K the quality is just bananas it's nuts so you don't need to worry too much about a camera but audio is much more important than video for the pleasure of a viewer so this thing has an okay mic it's not that great I'm filming on a shotgun mic which is right above me but if you're just starting out I would recommend a cheap love mic like this one for Royal Voice and I got this on Amazon for I think 16 bucks so it's just a wired mic you can put it into your phone and I use an app called Road Rec to record my audio recordings and I actually tape it to the inside of my shirt just using masking tape and that really helps to cut down on any wind noise. Now if you guys want gear recommendations beyond that I'll probably make an updated gear video about my own setup in the near future but until then you should definitely go over to my friend Kayla Watchx channel and subscribe to him because he makes excellent videos about video gear video techniques and he's the guy who taught me a lot of what I know about how to make good videos. Favorite fictional books so I did make a video on my top 10 favorite fictional books a little while ago and you can check it right there because my picks have not really changed that being said I am currently reading a book called a darker shade of magic and this is highly enjoyable so I can give it a recommendation even though I haven't finished it yet but I'm getting there that about doesn't for the questions I'm gonna answer in this video hopefully you guys enjoyed this new Q&A format and if you did I would love it if you went down in the comments and let me know and if enough people did I'll probably make this an ongoing Q&A format that I'll sprinkle in with the regular videos. Also if you want to ask me your own questions something that you just need to know you can follow me over on Twitter at Tom Frankly and sometimes periodically I will put out a tweet asking for questions which I will pull from for these videos. Also if you want to get my free book on earning better grades you can click the link right there and get it delivered right to your email address and you can subscribe to this channel for more tips on being a more effective student every single week right down there. If you missed last week's video we talked about having to keep you motivated and organized all semester so check it out right there and if you want to connect with me send a raven.
