# A video for anyone feeling behind in life
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TMQZ921XvLg
The early bird doesn't always win.
📺 Watch this video ad-free on Nebula: https://nebula.app/videos/thomas-frank-a-video-for-anyone-feeling-behind-in-life

🛠 COURSES AND RESOURCES: 
Notion channel - https://www.youtube.com/c/ThomasFrankExplains
Free Notion templates - https://thomasjfrank.com/templates/
Learn Notion - https://thomasjfrank.com/fundamentals
Productivity and Habits courses - https://thomasjfrank.com/courses/

🦙 SPONSOR: 
🔥 Try Loom's Business plan for 14 days: https://loom.com/thomasfrank

🐦 SOCIAL STUFF:
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly
Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Podcast ➔ https://www.youtube.com/TheCollegeInfoGeekPodcast
Music Channel ➔ https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCmqK2G-3AL_WP5KffH_wqAA
Spotify Study Playlist ➔ https://open.spotify.com/user/thomasfrank09/playlist/4ETfiRPHVmUFLF6q0g8Fux?si=IPfx3dAgQ1SIUwhh5YEQMQ

🔗 VIDEO LINKS:
- Jimmy Bryant's IG post: https://www.instagram.com/p/CVnwVlsvISA/
- Range: Why Generalists Triumph in a Specialized World - https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/41795733-range
- Jack Butcher's "This is pointless" visualization: https://twitter.com/jackbutcher/status/1334262805218865152

👐 BUSINESS:
Please contact my agent at thomasfrank@standard.tv

🎞 SPECIAL THANKS
Video clips supplied by Getty Images

💰 I'm fortunate enough to work with great sponsors who support my work, so I don't use Patreon or any other crowdfunding service. However, if you'd like to support a worthy cause, consider donating to help more children get access to a high-quality education: https://fundraise.pencilsofpromise.org/fundraiser/1489730
**Keywords:** thomas frank, productivity, education, how to learn, studying, thomas frank behind in life, when you feel behind in life, why you feel behind in life, behind in life, behind in life at 30, feeling behind in life, personal development, personal growth, feeling behind in your 20s, feeling behind in life at 40, feeling lost in life, 
**Date:** 2021-11-20

## Transcript
 I want to share an Instagram post with you. This comes from an artist who lives just about an hour for me up and for college. 32, broke, living with my parents and washing dishes for money. 42, owner business selling millions of dollars in my own art. This is a video for anybody who feels like they are behind in life. And it's also a video for anyone who feels like they are too late that the window of opportunity has closed for them. In this video I want to give you two crucial reasons why it is almost certain that you are not too late to achieve your goals and where this whole feeling of being behind is in many cases complete BS. Reason number one is that the early words don't always win. I'm ever being 15 years old and trying to learn to skate board for the first time. Specifically it was trying to learn the kick flip and I just couldn't get it. I practiced for hours on end but I just would not come to me in meanwhile all these kids were 12, 13, 14 were easily getting it. Which led me to have a thought that I am sure you have had in the past as well. I wish I had started skateboarding when I was 6 years old. If I had done that now I would have 10 years of experience under my belt or 9, I am not so good at math and recording videos and I would be a pro by now. I am sure you have had that thought in the past and I am sure you have had it for other disciplines. I have had it for a guitar as well. I remember when I was going to play bar chords my fingers hurt so badly and I wish that I had just started playing guitar a few years earlier so I would be awesome now. And this was especially present in my mind when I started blogging and trying to build an audience. I remember being 20 years old, I have been blogging for about a year and I was really struggling to bring people to my blog. And then I found another blog being run by a kid who was just 16 years old and not only did have a huge audience but he was also making over $1,000 a month in passive income. Meanwhile I am making no money on my blog and I am getting 8 bucks an hour to work in the IT department on campus. So I remember finding his blog and kind of kicking myself thinking like why did I wait until I was 19 years old to start my website. I am too late. This guy started when he was 14 years old, that's when I started. But now that I am 30 years old, now that I have gone through a lot more life experience, I don't catch myself thinking this way anymore. One of the reasons for that is if you think about it is like a reverse wishful thinking style of procrastination. When we procrastinate we put things off so our future selves have to deal with them. And this way of thinking is just like putting it off onto our past selves, except for it doesn't actually happen. In other case, we don't want our present selves to deal with the hard work required to get the results. We just want the results themselves. But the other reason I don't think this way anymore is I've realized over the years that all the other little things I've been trying to do, little experiments and offshoots, often come back and help me become even better at the main thing later on. And I am not alone in this. In fact, the book range by David Epstein makes this its central argument. In this book, David Epstein argues that in many fields, the top performers aren't the people who started practicing when they were two years old. In fact, it's actually the people who got started a little bit later in life and spent their earlier years exploring and trying lots of different things. The tennis champion Roger Federer is a great example. The book talks about how he didn't get quite as early of a start as a lot of his peers and he spent his childhood playing lots of different sports, not just tennis. But nonetheless, he came up and eventually became one of the greatest players of all time. And this happens in a lot of different fields. People do some exploring when they're younger and eventually they hone in on a field where they start to practice, start to be consistent, but they have this base of other experiences from their past that they're able to draw upon to be more creative and more adaptable than the people who only worked in that single field since they were little kids. I've seen also points out that there are two different kinds of learning environments. Or maybe there's a spectrum of learning environments with two different extremes, kind and wicked learning environments. So in kind environments, feedback is almost immediate and it's usually perfect as well. In chess, for example, when you make a move, you get perfect feedback. There's almost no hidden information. Golf is also a great example and it's worth noting that Tiger Woods is sort of the prototypical example of somebody who is a champion who started off really early on in their career. But most fields are not like chess or golf. Most fields are a bit more wicked. The feedback you get from them is often confusing, it's often incomplete and the information available is also often incomplete as well. These are much more complex learning environments and in these kinds of environments, people who have a diverse array of experiences are often much more adaptable. And I've experienced the benefits of these little experiments and diverse experiences myself. With guitar, I remember taking a bit of time off to learn piano for a little bit. When I came back to guitar, I realized that learning piano actually changed the way that I look at the fretboard. It's actually now much easier to look at the fretboard in ways that help me to build chorus. That was pretty tough for me in the past. And with business, with content creation, all these little different things have done in the past, like a dabbling with website development or dabbling with graphic design, all these different things have come and made me a better content creator overall. So if you feel like you're kind of behind in life, I think there's a better question to ask yourself, which is am I constantly learning? Am I constantly pushing myself forward in interesting directions? Because if you are, it's very possible that what you're doing right now is going to loop back around later on and help you with the next thing. It might take a bit longer than you wanted to, but it doesn't mean that you're wasting your time. Reason number two that you are probably not behind in life is that the term late is kind of relative. Isn't it? See, I think a lot of the anxiety that we feel around being late or feeling behind in life is this idea that the window of opportunity has closed for us. But in many cases, that absolutely isn't true. Jimmy is a perfect sample of that, 32 broke washing dishes living with mom and dad, 42 running a successful art business making millions of dollars. So it really just takes a lot of consistency and patience. Steve Krel is also a great example. He didn't get his first big break, the office until he was 43 years old in 2005, before then his career really hadn't taken off at all. And the common thread between these two people is that they were consistent and they put an effort for a very long period of time, which eventually did pay off. Jimmy has another post on his Instagram talking about how he started being serious about art all the way back when he was 20. And if you're taking a Steve Krel's career, you'll find that back in the late 1980s, he was backing for a traveling children's theater troupe. So they both put in a ton of effort and they were patient and eventually it did pay off. Now, in addition to that patience and that consistency, there are two mega important habits that you need to practice in order to make sure that late doesn't turn into never for whatever it is that you want to do. The first is to simply take care of yourself, because while it's true that we are all going to age, how gracefully you age is almost entirely dependent on your habits, how well you take care of yourself. We've all seen people in their 40s who look and act like they're in their 60s. And vice versa, we've also seen people in their 60s who look and act much younger. They're a lot more energetic, much more exuberant, much more mentally sharp. Think about it. If the habits you adopt today add 10 additional happy, healthy years to your life, then what the heck does late mean anyway? If I'm going to live 10 more years because I have great health habits, that's 10 more years I can spend playing in the guitar, doing whatever it is that I want to do. And in that case, late really doesn't mean anything. So seriously, try to take care of yourself. I think about this a lot more now that I'm 30 and it's going to be more and more important as I get older. And the same is true for you. Make sure you're getting eight hours of sleep at night. Make sure that you are dialing in your diet, making sure that it is balanced. And ideally get some exercise every day as well. The second mega important habit to practice is something called beginner's mind. This is a concept from Zen Buddhism, the way I originally read about it in a book from Mark Benioff, the CEO of Salesforce.com, and essentially beginner's mind means going into new experiences and trying to drop your preconceived notions. You want to listen actively and assume that you always have something new to learn from every new experience. And we all know people who got through school, they got their job, they get comfortable. And this sort of drop this, they kind of think that they already know everything and to become much more part-headed. And once you become like this, you can much less adaptable and your doors really do truly close. But people who practice beginners' mind, people who are always open to learn from new experiences and from new people, they are much more able to adapt and to learn new things and to progress all the way through their lives. So yes, it is true that you cannot get back any of the time that has already passed. None of us can do that. But it doesn't mean that you are too late. It doesn't mean that the doors of opportunity have closed on you. And you would be insanely surprised at what you can do by adopting beginners' mind and practicing it for the rest of your life, by taking care of yourself, and by consistently putting in effort into what it is that you want to do for a long period of time. There's this fantastic visualization by Jack Butcher that I want to show you here because it is very possible that you are right here at the this is pointless stage and you just need to put in a bit more effort. Now, before I go, I want to share one of the most important skills that I've learned over the past few years as both my business and my YouTube channel have grown. And that is the skill of delegating to other people, which has classically been very difficult for me. I've always had this very DIY mindset, but I've also found it very rewarding because when I can give my work to other very talented people that freeze up my time, my energy for other more important things that I can do to grow this business. And one of the most important things that my team and I have realized for working as efficiently as effectively as possible is that we need to document our processes. So now we have this entire knowledge base where I've created instructions on everything from how to connect to our video editing server to how to publish a video to YouTube. And while sometimes I do just write out these instructions, most of the time I actually record my screen using a tool called Loom. Now Loom is sponsoring this video, but I reached out to them directly and asked to work with them because Loom is seriously one of my favorite tools and I use it almost every single day. Loom lets you almost instantly start recording your screen, your camera, or both either on their desktop apps and the browser using their extension or on your mobile device. It is a synchronous video messaging for work and I absolutely love the fact that anytime I need to document something or send a message to my team showing them how to do something, I can mirror instantly record my screen and then the link to the video is automatically put on my clipboard so I can just paste it into our messaging app and they see it right away. They also have some other cool features, like automatic transcriptions and even a button to remove filler words, like um and ah and lots of words that I probably used in this video. Like I said, my team and I use this every single day, they have 14 million other users and if you would like to give it a try as well, the team over at Loom is currently offering my audience a 14 day free trial of their business plan with all of these cool features. Just click the link in the description down below or the one on screen right here to get started. If you enjoyed this video, a like for the algorithm would be very much appreciated and you may also want to check out this video right here on 7 books I think everyone should read in their 20s or maybe this video over here on how to stop overthinking everything. Check one of those two out if you want something more to watch, thanks as always for watching and I'll see you in the next one.
