# Accelerated Japanese Learning Challenge: Preview! - College Info Geek
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UjU8ukIOAdA
I'm going to Japan in two weeks! In light of that, I've decided to embark on a 10-day Japanese-learning crash course... and turn it into a mini-series.

During each of the three weeks that I'm in Japan, you'll get an update on how I'm going about learning, the hours I put it, and the progress I make. Consider it some inspiration to fire up your own self-guided learning goals.

If you'd like to get updates when each video comes out, and get a free copy of my book "10 Steps to Earning Awesome Grades," you can join the CIG newsletter here:

http://collegeinfogeek.com/get-better-grades/

If you want to get even more strategies and tips on becoming a more productive, successful student, subscribe to my channel right here:

http://buff.ly/1vQP5ar

Connect with me on Twitter!

https://twitter.com/TomFrankly

~ created by Thomas Frank
**Keywords:** japanese, language learning, accelerated learning, quick learning, crash course, japan, languages, college, self taught, autodidact, university, thomas frank, 10 days, tokyo, student, 
**Date:** 2015-04-28

## Transcript
 Here's a question that I think about a lot, given a limited amount of time, how much of a huge gigantic body of knowledge can you cram inside of your brain? Now, if you're still studying for finals, this is probably on your mind right now, but I'm interested in this question in the context of self-directed learning. So this is a bit of an announcement video for a challenge that I'm gonna be giving myself. On May 12th, which is about two weeks from now, I'll actually be going out to Japan for three weeks with my girlfriend Anna. Now, this is her first time going out there, but this will actually be my third time, and I'm just gonna throw up some pictures from my first couple of trips to make this video a bit more interesting, but actually my first time going out there inspired me to start learning Japanese, and I studied really hard for quite a while and made some pretty good progress, but after the last time I went, which was two years ago, I completely stopped studying. So I've had my Japanese skills atrophing for about two years now, and now that I'm going back, I'm remembering how amazing it is to be able to converse with people in their native language and how rewarding it is to be able to speak something that you've had to study really hard to learn. So I don't want to go this time for my third time and not be able to speak at the level. I was able to speak at two years ago. So here's the challenge. I want to see how much I can learn in 10 days. How much Japanese can I cram inside my brain through lots of intense studying for from tomorrow, Wednesday, and then 10 days from now. So next Friday. And what I'm gonna do is create three different videos, a little mini series documenting my progress in this little learning adventure. And the reason I want to do this is because since I'll be going on to Japan, it's actually pretty hard for me to make videos, and I didn't want to leave you guys high and drive for three weeks. So instead of just having nothing come out of the channel, I'm gonna do this challenge, and I'm gonna show you exactly how I'm learning. I'm gonna show you the plan that I set out for myself, the goals that I'm setting, and then show you the actual progress. Now, right now, if I was thinking about it, I remember a few kanji or remember some different phrases, I can say things like Sumi Masen or QuoteWalt, Ichigo, Jolly Masen or something like that, but really my skills have atrophied quite a bit, and I want to see how far I can get. So in the first video, it'll be the intro day one video. I'll show you what level I'm at. I'm gonna quiz myself today and see exactly where I am. Day five will be the second video, and I'll show you the midpoint progress, and then the last video will be day 10. I'll be showing you the level that I'm at going into the trip. So yeah, this Thursday and next Thursday will have normal regular videos, but then on May 14th, look forward to the start of that series and the day one assessment to my own skills and also my plan for learning Japanese. Now, if learning a language is something that you want to do yourself, well, maybe this series will give you a bit of inspiration or some direction on how you can do it in a self-guided way, and then later on in the year, I actually want to get more into self-guided learning and do some exploratory videos on that. So consider the series a little bit of a first-for-ay into that topic. If you want to follow along, see my progress, or hear my terrible pronunciation, you can either subscribe to this channel right here on YouTube, or you can subscribe to the newsletter over at college info geek, where you'll also get a free copy of my book on earning better grades. So that's it for this video. I really hope you enjoy the mini series, and I hope you also enjoy the video coming out next Thursday on how to stop making stupid mistakes on your exams. See you then.
