# The 10 Best Chrome Extensions for Productivity
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UqQA3veAako
Today, we'll focus on upgrading your browser by exploring 10 of the best Chrome extensions for productivity.
📺 Watch this video ad-free on Nebula: https://nebula.app/videos/thomas-frank-10-best-chrome-extensions-for-productivity

🛠 COURSES AND RESOURCES: 
Notion channel - https://www.youtube.com/c/ThomasFrankExplains
Free Notion templates - https://thomasjfrank.com/templates/
Learn Notion - https://thomasjfrank.com/fundamentals
Productivity and Habits courses - https://thomasjfrank.com/courses/

🦙 SPONSOR:
Get 10% off your first domain at Hover: https://www.hover.com/thomasfrank

📃 ARTICLE VERSION:
https://thomasjfrank.com/best-chrome-extensions-productivity/

🐦 SOCIAL STUFF:
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly
Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Music Channel ➔ https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCmqK2G-3AL_WP5KffH_wqAA
Spotify Study Playlist ➔ https://open.spotify.com/user/thomasfrank09/playlist/4ETfiRPHVmUFLF6q0g8Fux?si=IPfx3dAgQ1SIUwhh5YEQMQ

⏱ TIMESTAMPS:
00:00 - Intro
00:43 - Workona
02:06 - Habitica Pomodoro SiteKeeper
04:23 - AudiBlogs
05:38 - uBlock Origin
06:54 - Readwise
07:59 - Pocket
08:45 - Notion Boost
09:55 - Web Clippers
11:20 - News Feed Eradicator for Facebook
12:01 - Reader View

🔗 VIDEO LINKS:
Pomodoro Technique: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H0k0TQfZGSc

👐 BUSINESS:
Please contact my agent at thomasfrank@standard.tv

🎞 SPECIAL THANKS
Video clips supplied by Getty Images

💰 I'm fortunate enough to work with great sponsors who support my work, so I don't use Patreon or any other crowdfunding service. However, if you'd like to support a worthy cause, consider donating to help more children get access to a high-quality education: https://fundraise.pencilsofpromise.org/fundraiser/1489730
**Keywords:** thomas frank, productivity, education, how to learn, studying, chrome extensions, productivity extensions, browser extensions, best chrome extensions, best productivity apps, best browser extensions, habitica, pomodoro timer, productivity tools, be more productive, pomodoro technique, notion, pocket, readwise, 
**Date:** 2021-03-25

## Transcript
 Hello, my name is Thomas Frank and I have a browser tab problem. I just can't seem to help myself from having 50 or 80 browser tabs open at one time and completely taking up all of my computer's RAM, which is why I now have this little extension that automatically hides the browser tabs I'm not using and groups them into projects. And that's not all. Today we're going to break down 10 of the best browser extensions out there for boosting your productivity. In this video is sponsored by Hover. So we're going to focus mainly on Chrome in this video, since it is the most popular browser out there and it's the one that I happen to use. But if you're using something else like Firefox or Safari, fear not. A lot of these extensions are on multiple browsers. So when I call each one out you're going to see some icons to show which of the major browsers that extension is also on. So with all of that out of the way, let's get into our first extension, the one that I tease in the intro called Workona. This is probably my new favorite extension on Chrome because to make a bit of an admission here, I'm a really bad tab order. My friends love to make fun of the fact that I often have 50 or 100 tabs open. But that's just my nature. I always have multiple research projects going on. And before I know it, the browser header bar on my computer screen is just this unintelligible mess of tiny slivers of tabs. I can't even see what they are at that point. And that's the problem that Workona helps people like me to solve. It basically gives you this dashboard where you can create multiple projects and then group your tabs into those projects. Now if you've watched my past videos, you've probably heard me talk about an extension called tab copy, which lets me basically copy all the tab links to my clipboard. But I got to say, this is better. In addition to letting you do that, if you want to just paste your links somewhere else, it also saves all your tabs in organized projects. And you can even close those tabs after saving them as resources so you can keep a bunch of different websites in a specific project without having to keep them open. You can also switch between projects and Workona actually suspends the tabs that you're not using and hides them if they're not in the open project. So you only see what is relevant to the project that you're working on. So basically Workona makes context switching a lot better within Chrome, but it also encourages you to be working on one specific project at a time because you know the grouping of tabs you have open are only related to that project. Our next extension is called Habitica Pomodoro Sitekeeper, which is kind of a mouthful, but it is now my Pomodoro app of choice. So if you're unfamiliar with the Pomodoro technique, I've got a whole video on it, I'll link that down in the description below, but in short, it is probably the most effective and easiest to use productivity technique out there. You simply pick a task you want to work on, set a timer, an actual timer for 25 minutes, and work on just that task during the duration. Then you take a break. And because you're using an external timer to guide you and because you're reframing your task as work for just 25 minutes, it's an extremely effective way to get over the resistance you feel to doing a tough task. I use Pomodoro sessions all the time to get myself doing things that I don't want to actually do. And I've tested a lot of Pomodoro apps out there. This is now my favorite one because I use a habit tracker called Habitica. Now if you haven't used Habitica before, it uses RPG and video game elements to sort of build a habit tracking app that keeps you a bit more motivated to track your habits, especially if you're nerd like me. But I will note that even if you're not the RPG stuff, Habitica is a fantastic habit tracking app. Possibly one of the best out there because it's open source, which means it has a ton of advanced features that don't cost anything where other apps that have similar features always want you to pay, which is pretty nice. And in keeping with that way of doing things, this extension for Pomodoro timing has a lot of cool features that a lot of other Pomodoro apps that I've seen want you to pay for, like tracking your Pomodoro stats. A lot of them want you to pay for that. This one does it for free. And it does a few other cool things as well. Namely, it connects to a bitica and adds Pomodoro based habits to your habit tracking. It also has a site blocker, so you can add whatever sites you want to its block list and during Pomodoro sessions, all of those sites are going to be blocked. You can also add costs to websites. And if you add a cost to website, it's going to be blocked all the time, even outside of Pomodoro sessions, and you can get into them for a limited amount of time by paying gold from habitica. Now, personally, I love having this extension connected to habitica since I use the crap out of it, but if you don't happen to use that, or you want something a little less nerdy, there is another extension called Tide, which has a Pomodoro timer. It's got the stat keeping for free. It's got the site blocker, so it's very similar, but it doesn't have the habitica connection. So check that out as an alternative. Next up on our list is an extension called Audio Blogs, which translates written articles into podcast narrations that you can send to your phone, and which are narrated by a scarely good AI narration algorithm. This thing is way better than has any right to be, and I have never heard a text to speech algorithm that works anywhere near as good as this thing. Sometimes it gets inflections wrong, sometimes it's a little wonky, but 95% of the time, it's perfectly listenable. This guide was originally published in March 2012. Since then, hundreds of students, and even non-students, have created their own personal websites using it. And the reason I have this on my list is because for me, one of my top priorities and values in life is daily low-level movement, walks and bike rides. In addition to my sessions in the gym, and more intense exercise. For me, this is a non-negotiable priority in my life. And when I go for these walks and bike rides, I love listening to usually audio books, so I can keep learning or keep myself entertained while I'm out on them. Right now, I'm actually listening to a book called Walkable City, which is kind of making me hate the way that we Americans design our cities. But I digress. Sometimes, I'm on my computer, I come across an article, and I want to read that, but I also want to go out for a walk or a bike ride. So audio blogs let me turn that article into a podcast narration and listen to it while I do that. Next up on our list, we've got U-block Origin, which is a great lightweight ad-blocking extension for most browsers. There are a lot of ad-blockers out there. I like U-block origin, because it is, again, lightweight. It doesn't use a lot of resources. And if you want, you can add sites to a white list, so you can support them and see their ads if you don't be trust them. But I have long held that an ad-blocking extension is almost as necessary for computer security as an anti-virus program. And here's why, a lot of website owners do not place their own ads. They have third-party ad placement extensions that they put on their pages, and they trust the third-party to place those ads. And there have been many instances where those third-party networks have placed ads that contain malware or exploits. So I am not going to trust my computer security to every website in the world that I happen to go to. I use an ad-blocker as a default in the night, white list sites, if I trust them. And one of the really nice things that U-block origin lets me do is add filters, which can block certain elements of websites. For instance, that what's happening section on Twitter is always full of these sensationalist headlines that just suck me in and waste a ton of my time. I never want to see what's happening on Twitter ever again. And luckily, in the my filter section of U-block origin, I can paste this little line of code, and that is exactly what happens. It gets hidden, and that is just... Readwise. The next extension on our list is Readwise. And if you've seen my previous videos, you will know that I absolutely love Readwise. This is a wonderful highlighter app that allows you to make highlights from Kindlebooks, from podcast episodes, from actual print books, have used their phone app with the camera, and the built-in text recognition feature, and in anything that you read on the internet. With the extension installed, all you need to do is highlight some text, right click, and send that highlight to Readwise. This is a great way to keep a collection of the things that you want to remember. If you saw my iPad productivity video from a couple of months ago, you will know that I talked about an app called Command on the iPad. There's a browser that lets you make highlights that actually stay on the web page, even if you refresh, and then automatically sends those highlights over to Readwise, which is freaking sweet, and I really wish that Command was on desktop browsers. Unfortunately, it's not but for now, we at least have the Readwise extension, which while it won't leave those highlights on the web page, we'll send them to your Readwise account, and if you have one of their sync options turned on, can send the highlights over to RemNote, or Rome Research, or if you're like me, to Notion. And while we're talking about Readwise, we also have to talk about Pocket, which is the next extension on our list. Unlike Readwise, Pocket is an extension that just lets you save web pages. Readwise really wants you to make a selection and kind of save a snippet of text. Pocket is just for like, I want to save this cool web page that I found for later. That's exactly what I use it for. If I come across an article that I don't have time to read, I want to read later, or if I come across just like a cool app that I want to share with my audience, I will hit that Pocket button in my browser, and it saves it to my little pocket list, which I can go and review later on. And another cool thing about Pocket is their mobile apps have the ability to download articles for offline reading. So, if you're somebody who commutes on the subway, or you take a lot of flights, or you somehow have a lot of time, or you're offline, Pocket can be a really, really useful app and extension combo. Next up on our list, we have an extension called Notion Boost. So, as you probably know, if you follow this channel or my other channel, Thomas Frank explains, I am a huge user of Notion. I basically run my entire business through it. I've got my task management, and I write all my articles into all my research in it. I absolutely love Notion. But there is a feature that I have wished Notion would add for a really long time, and it's a feature that it's in a lot of other note-taking and writing apps, that is a floating, sticky outline. I want to be able to see all of my headings, it'd be able to zoom to them, and a lot of other apps have this. Google Docs Has It Dropbox Paper Has It, Obsidian Has It, Slight Has It, unfortunately Notion does not. They do have the table of contents block, but when you put that somewhere, it just stays where you put it, and you have a scroll up to find it. Not that useful. So, Notion Boost adds Notion, at least in the browser, to that hollowed collection of apps that have the beautiful sticky floating outline on the sidebar. It does a few other things as well, but that is absolutely the coolest thing for me that it does. I've got a lot of really long articles. I write a Notion. I've got huge research documents, and having that sticky sidebar is really, really nice for being able to zoom to different sections. Next up, we have web clippers. There are web clippers for Notion, for every note, and for one note, and these extensions basically take the entire content of web page, release the text part, and pour it over to the note-taking app that you're using. Now, personally, I don't use web clippers very often because I've got a combination of other apps that basically do the same thing for me. If I want to make sure a bunch of tabs are saved in my resource section, well, I've got work on it for that. If I'm reading an article, and I want to highlight something, I've got readwise for that. And if I want to just put something in my big jumble of stuff that I can go look at later, I've got pocket for that. But for some people, web clipper is going to be the thing that fits the bill. So, we're mentioning it here, and I'm going to mention specifically the ones for Notion, one note, and ever note because there are the ones that I know about. Before I move on to the next extension on our list, which might possibly be the most useful one for most people watching this video, I do want to say that if you're enjoying this video, maybe consider hitting that subscribe button. I've actually got a brand new best note-taking apps video in the works that's going to compare some of the newcomers, like room research and obsidian with our old standards. So, if you like these kind of videos, that one is coming in the very new future, and you're going to want to be subscribed so you don't miss it. Plus, according to my analytics, only 30% of you are actually subscribed when you watch my content. And I know every YouTuber says that these days, it's kind of a trope, but subscribing really does help support the channel and push it out to more people on this platform. So, if you do enjoy this content, and you want to help support it, you want to support me as a creator, uh, consider hitting that subscribe button, and thank you if you do. All right, next extension our list is called new speed eradicator for Facebook. Even though it says four Facebook in the title of this extension, that can eradicate the new speed in the ton of different social media websites in YouTube and Twitter and LinkedIn and Facebook. Instagram may not be in the list there, but most of the distraction-usual suspects are. And all you got to do is hit a little checkbox, and the feed on that website is going to be deleted, essentially. It's going to be hidden. So, that allows you to use social media. If you're somebody like me who needs to make posts on social media, or you want to check your mentions and engage with your audience without getting sucked into your feed. It's something that I keep on almost all the time, only turning off if I really want to check the feed for a specific reason. And that brings us to a last extension of the day, which is called Reader View. And Reader View, like the Reader View on Mobile's Farie, takes a page full distracting elements and boils it down to its essentials, namely the content that you want to read. It also gives you typography options, which is pretty sweet. You can change the font size, you can change the line height. It's pretty nice. Now, some web designers, like yours truly, designer websites, so extensions like this aren't needed. If you go on any of my websites, call Jempo Geek, Thomas Shafrank. We've got single column, minimalist, distraction, free columns of text. It's designed for pleasurable reading. But designers like me seem to be in the minority. It seems like almost every website out there these days has a pop-up asking you to subscribe. They're email newsletter. There's a sidebar. There's mid-content ads. All kinds of crap that is just distracting and makes the page load slower. So, an extension like Reader View is really, really nice for being able to get rid of all of that and just read the thing that you came to read. There are a couple of other cool features as well built in. There's a dark mode filter and actually some light-theming options. There is a text-to-speech mode, which is honestly pretty bad. I would just use audio blogs if you really want that. But there's also a built-in highlighter and like in command, the highlights you make persist even if you refresh the page. Now, it's not going to send your highlights to read by as well. So, there is a couple of different actions to take if you want both those things to happen. That's why command is still the gold standard for researchers as far as I'm concerned, but it is pretty cool having that highlighter feature at least. So, for all this video, we've talked about extensions that can make you work more productively on the internet. But what about making the internet work more productively for you? Well, that's exactly what happens when you have your own online presence where you can connect with people or you have your own platform or you own your content and where you can maybe make connections with potential employers, potential clients, people who you could work with. That's exactly what I do on my website, ThomasJFrank.com. It shows off my work and helps me build my personal brand. And if you haven't started building an online presence for yourself, it's something you should definitely think about and at least take the first step to doing, which is getting your own domain name. Even if you're not ready to build your own website yet, getting that domain name locked down is crucial because if somebody goes out and registered it before you can get it, well, you're kind of out of luck. That's how I am with ThomasFrank.com. I couldn't get that, so at least got ThomasJFrank.com. But that could have been taken as well. So, as soon as you can, it go over to Hover and register yourself a domain name. Hover is a great place to do it because unlike a lot of other places out there, they have a completely hassle free and speedy checkout process. They're not trying to upsell you a bunch of stuff, like a lot of other websites and registers. They also have over 400 extensions to choose from. Your.coms.mees, which are great for your professional presence, but also more fun ones, like.lol on.ninja. I use Thomas.lol for my music stuff. And once you have your domain, they also have a feature called Connect, which lets you easily hook that domain up to online website builders and online store builders. So, if you're ready to claim your domain, make sure nobody else can take it, go over to hover.com slash ThomasFrank to buy it. All with your first purchase, using that URL, you're going to get 10% off and you're going to be able to support my channel. I work really hard to make sure that my content is researched back and detailed and has a high production value and because most of the stuff that I create is free, supporting this sponsor to support me is actually the best way to support this channel if that's something you want to do. And if it is, thank you. Beyond that, make sure you subscribe to this channel if you like content like this and you want to see some more in the future. Like I said, I've got that note taking app comparison coming up. That's a much more detailed topic than this one, but I'm hoping to get it up in the next month or two. And if you would hit that like button, YouTube's algorithm absolutely uses engagement factors like likes and comments when it's determining how far to push a video. So, big thanks to you if you do hit that button. And if you have other extension recommendations you want to make, let me know down in the comments. Let me know what I missed. Let me know what's good for other browsers. And beyond that, I've got a couple of other videos right here and here you can check out. Make sure you subscribe right there. Or don't do any of that and go, uh, and I'll drive a motorcycle off of ramp through a bunch of flaming hoops like Evil Knievel because as always, I'm not sure that but I will see you in the next video. Thanks for watching.
