# Dorm DIY - How to Create Custom Dorm Lighting with Christmas Lights and a Dimmer
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V2BCgLfLhP8
Here's how you can combine a string of Christmas lights with a simple lamp dimmer to create a custom accent lighting setup in your dorm room! Check out the full blog post for more: http://collegeinfogeek.com/christmas-light-dimmer-dorm-lighting/

More college tips: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5ad6grll-ak
**Keywords:** dorm, diy, christmas lights, dimmer, lighting, college, customization, 
**Date:** 2013-01-06

## Transcript
 Hey what's up, it's Thomas from College InfoGeek and today I'm going to show you how to make a cool accent lighting system for your room with Christmas lights and a simple lamp dimmer. Here's an example of how it works. Alright, first step to put this up is to put a nail in your wall up near the ceiling. And if you're in a dorm room you don't want to put holes in your wall as you can use a 3M command strip, but honestly the nails were better for this project. Now, not to insult your intelligence, but I'm going to demonstrate it here anyway. And you want to stick out just a little bit. And then, you're stringing your Christmas lights up by sticking the nail in between the twisted cords. Now, once this goes all the way around the room, basically holds itself up with no adhesive or anything needed. Alright, step two is to acquire a table side lamp dimmer from your local hardware stores such as loads or Home Depot. Looks like this. I've got my mounted to my bedside, but it doesn't come with adhesive, so you might want to buy some mounting tape to mount it to your wall if you want. And you just take the lamp dimmer plug, plug it into any old outlet. And then take the Christmas lights, plug them into the lamp mirror. And you're ready to go. I did not think Christmas lights were dimmer compatible. I honestly bought this set up just to turn them off and on. But I was pleasantly surprised to find out that they actually work on dimmers. So now my room can be sent to any number of different lighting types. That's all there is to it. If you're watching this on YouTube, you can click the link in the description to see the full blog post with cost breakdowns and other information. For more or dorm DIY and college tips and tricks, check out CollegeInphilGeek.com.
