# My (Much Improved) Desk and Workspace
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wgeZtLIJsOY
At long last, I'm no longer working out of a bedroom. In this video, I'll show you my new, much-improved workspace and studio. This is where I produce all of my videos, podcast episodes, and music - and I've worked to make it as versatile and efficient as possible.
📺 Watch this video ad-free on Nebula: https://nebula.tv/videos/thomas-frank-my-much-improved-desk-and-workspace

🛠 COURSES AND RESOURCES: 
Notion channel - https://www.youtube.com/c/ThomasFrankExplains
Free Notion templates - https://thomasjfrank.com/templates/
Learn Notion - https://thomasjfrank.com/fundamentals
Productivity and Habits courses - https://thomasjfrank.com/courses/

🦙 SPONSOR: 
Start browsing more productively and safely with a 30-day free trial of Dashlane: https://www.dashlane.com/collegeinfogeek If you decide to upgrade to premium, use the code "collegeinfogeek" for 10% off.

🐦 SOCIAL STUFF:
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly
Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Music Channel ➔ https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCmqK2G-3AL_WP5KffH_wqAA
Spotify Study Playlist ➔ https://open.spotify.com/user/thomasfrank09/playlist/4ETfiRPHVmUFLF6q0g8Fux?si=IPfx3dAgQ1SIUwhh5YEQMQ

Listen to my new song, "Icicle Swords":
- YouTube: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vDptkei3Hu8
- Spotify: https://open.spotify.com/album/6ZXX84tidQoYoU8ZIHTorZ?si=pLeTVB0OTZOnCiZEIDL7ig

Here's a list of some of the gear I'm using.

Desk and Computer:
- Desk: Jarvis Bamboo standing desk
- Chair: Office Master OM5
- Monitors: Dell U2718Q
- Speakers: Yamaha HS7
- Headphones: Sennheiser HD600
- Interface: Focusrite Scarlett 18i8
- Keyboard: Corsair K95
- Mouse: Logitech G502 Wireless
- Native Instruments Komplete S61
- Native Instruments Maschine Micro
- Elgato Stream Deck
- Startech Docking Station and KVM
- Dynamic mic: Shure SM7B (don't get this without a CloudLifter to boost the gain)
- Condenser mic: AKG C214
- Podcast mics: Audio-Technica ATR-2035

Film Gear: 
- Main cam: Canon C200
- B-cam: Canon EOS R
- Favorite lens: Sigma 18-35mm f/1.8
- Dope tripod: Sachler Flowtech 75
- MUCH cheaper, still-dope tripod: Geekoto tripod

Music stuff:
- Guitar: Fender American Stratocaster
- Bass: Schecter Elite-5 Evil Twin
- Piano: Kawai CA78
- Synth: Korg Minilogue XD
- Looper: Boss RC-300
- Effects pedal: Line6 Helix
- Mixer: Mackie ProFX8 

👐 BUSINESS:
Please contact my agent at thomasfrank@standard.tv

💰 I'm fortunate enough to work with great sponsors who support my work, so I don't use Patreon or any other crowdfunding service. However, if you'd like to support a worthy cause, consider donating to help more children get access to a high-quality education: https://fundraise.pencilsofpromise.org/fundraiser/1489730
**Keywords:** thomas frank, desk tour, desk setup, workspace tour, productive workspace, study space, study area, work area, computer desk, computer setup, ultimate desk, best desk setup, best workspace, studio tour, studio setup, windows mac workspace, dual monitors, windows desk setup, mac desk setup, thomas frank desk, thomas frank workspace, desk, best desk, 2019 desk setup, 2019 desk tour, 2019 workspace tour, 
**Date:** 2019-11-30

## Transcript
 So, the keen item among you have noticed that the last few videos on my channel have been filmed in a brand new space. And that is because, in the last couple of months, I have been building a brand new workspace and studio. And in this video, I'm going to give you a quick tour of that workspace. Let's get started. Okay, so, the biggest change about the space is actually the size of it. I am finally out of my bedroom. And I've got a proper, I think it's 400 square foot space to work with now, which is so much better for the versatility. And we've got four areas I'm going to show you here. We have the desk area. There's a podcasting slash film set area that's really versatile and can actually have multiple different backgrounds. They have a music area, because I've been doing a lot more musically and then finally we have our storage area where we keep lots of sea stands and lights and lenses and all kinds of stuff like that. But, let's get started with the desk since that's probably the thing most of you are interested in. So, the desk itself is a Jarvis Bamboo standing desk, which means it has this little controller over here, which lets me raise the desk or lower the desk. Or I can actually program in different presets, so I could do a standing preset or sitting preset. So, we did a dual monitor video a little while ago, and these dual 4K monitors were featured in that video. I won't talk too much about them. The other kind of big thing on this desk are these monitors. These are Yamaha HS7s I believe, and I now have them on these speaker stands, which put the tweeters at roughly ear height. So, even though this space isn't perfectly treated for audio production, the monitors are at least at the correct height for me to mix music, which I've been trying to learn how to do recently. Also, on the desk, we have a couple of music production things. There is a native instruments machine, which they use as a drum pad, and a S61 MIDI controller, which works really well for kind of composing songs. And then we have a Core Stair K95 gaming keyboard, a Logitech G507 wireless, which I have been wanting them to make for years. I finally answered my prayers. And a few other Nick Nax, we've got a wireless phone charger, which my editor Tony gave to me. A few of these are sand disk. I think they're SSDs, but an external enclosure form. So, these are actually incredibly fast, and I can edit off of these just as fast as I would off of an internal drive, which means if I have to travel, then I can just take one of these with me, and even if I don't have enough space on my laptop, I can just put files on this and edit like normal, which is pretty awesome. So, we also have, oh, we have a Stream Deck here. So, this is the Elgato Stream Deck. Now, a lot of Twitch streamers and people who do game streaming, they use this for tweeting, while they're in the game, so they don't have to all tab out of it. I do something different. I actually use AutoHotkey to bind each of these buttons to a different folder that I have to open really often on my computer. So, this button is for the current video's main footage folder. This one down here is for my screenshot folder. When I hit it, I can automatically bring up a window on my screen. So, with all that said, let's talk about why the desk is so messy, because it's definitely not like a minimalist desk. And part of the reason for that is, I've been working on a project recently, where I had to use Logic Pro to mix some audio, but I wanted to use all this hardware. So, I've got a dock over here, which charges my MacBook and allows me to plug in all kinds of stuff into it. And then right here is what's called a KVM switch. This, if I hit this button, will allow me to switch the keyboard, the mouse, and the speakers, the audio interface, and the monitors over to my MacBook, which I just set in the stock here and plug in, and I'm good to go. I can use my MacBook just like a desktop. So, underneath the KVM, we have the audio interface. This is a Scarlet 1898 from Focus Right, and it's got 18 different inputs, but I use the main four on the front. So, a couple of these will have podcast mics, which I'll show you a little bit later, and the other two are, well, number one. I have my SM7b mic right here, which I'll use for voiceovers or for vocal practice sometimes. Since I started singing lessons about a year ago, and there's another mic over there, which is for the same purpose, but as a condenser mic. Also, going into the interface are, of course, the HS7s, and then these Sennheiser HD 600s, which are at my absolute favorite headphones, and I do most of the mixing for the audio in my videos on these headphones. Last but not least, we have the computer on the floor. You know, it's a good editing computer. It's got a Core i7 in there, GTX 1080, and it lets me get most of my editing done. And then the chair is an office master OM5, which I actually learned about for my latest tech tips video. I like this chair, but I think I already go back in time. I wouldn't buy it, because, at least in my opinion, I think fancy office chairs are a little bit overrated, and I think it's more important to just get up, take breaks, make sure you're exercising, make sure you're staying flexible, and honestly, I've worked in like wooden kitchen chairs, coffee shop chairs. They're all kind of the same. So, I don't know, some people are probably gonna hate me for that opinion, but I don't think fancy office chairs are all that necessary. Anyway, let's move over to the video set area, which is also used for our podcast. So, we have this table here, which is just for my Kia. There are a couple of audio technica ATR, 2035 condenser microphones attached to it. These are what we use for the college info geek podcast. But this table actually pulls triple duty. You can use it for the podcast, use it for videos on my channel. You've probably seen the digital file organization video, or maybe the recent one that Tony and I did on the iPad. It's no taking abilities, and then we also use this as kind of a main B-roll set. Well, sometimes it's set up C stands with cameras going overhead, so we can film stuff top down, or we'll use it for glam footage. And we also have these shelves from my Kia with plenty of fun little props and, of course, the obligatory llama on it as well. And then on this side of the space is all the music stuff. I've been into music for many, many years, but in 2019, my head writer, ransom, he introduced me to an artist named Tashal Tana, and if you haven't heard of them, you really need to go listen to them. But they do what's called live looping, where they use a looper pedal to create loops with multiple instruments. And that, I kind of went crazy when I learned about that. So, I've got this looper pedal over here. It's a boss RC300, which allows me to do multiple loops at the same time. There's a line six helix for guitar tones and bass tones. We have a Corg mini log xd synthesizer, which is polyphonic, so it can do chords. It can do our PGAators, all kinds of stuff, a Roland SPD SX drum sampler, so I think he drums a mixer for all of it. And then the guitars and the piano, this is a Kawaii, I think C-A 78, so fantastic digital piano. So, all this runs into the mixer, that runs into this interface, and I'm able to plug my laptop into this if I want to, so I can record, or I can plug into this P-A over here if I want to just output the sound to just kind of jam out. So, I've been doing that to create some compositions, like the one that I just recently put up on Spotify called Icycalswords, which sounds a bit like this. And of course, I'll have that link to the description down below, but we're going to move on to the storage area. So, this is one of the reasons I'm really happy to be out of the bedroom. I have more storage for the gear that we need to make a better quality videos. So, let's kind of start back in the corner here. I've collected a lot of tri-pods over the years, but my absolute favorite one is this Sackler one, MKBHD, talked about this in his studio to our video. And this thing is amazing because you can just adjust the height of it with three little levers to the top. And that has enabled us to just take a lot more b-roll, a lot quicker. And one of the biggest things that I try to keep in mind when building the studio whenever I buy a piece of gear is, is it going to reduce the amount of friction involved in creating something? If I can make that friction go away, if I can make the process faster, that means I can make better things more quickly. One other thing that I do want to note about most of the tri-pods, not all of them because we do have a bigger camera we're working with now for some of the shots. But for the camera that Tony is holding on the gimbal right now, we usually have these guerrilla pod heads on, we have the attachment on every camera we use. They have an old ADD right here, so it's the attachment right there. And then I try to keep a guerrilla pod head on nearly every tri-pod or tri-pod attachment that we use. That way, instead of having to screw in to a tri-pod plate, which again takes time at friction, we can just click it in instantly. And we're good to go. So I have that on here. I have that on the overhead setup, which we're going to talk about in a little bit. I have one on this C-stand here, and that just makes creating things really quick. And I want to give a shout out to Bob Clagga, I like to make stuff, for giving me that tip. And speaking of C-stands, we do have, I think, two C-stands right now. These things have been a godsend. I used to use the cheap lightstands off of Amazon, and well, they work for cheap lights, but when we're suspending cameras over stuff, when we're putting heavy lights on things, the all steel C-stands really, really help. And for anybody who does their own video production, you're going to want sandbags. Because if you throw a sandbag on a C-stand, this thing is not going to tip over even if you have a good amount of weight on the C-stand. So anybody who works in film production will tell you these things are worth their weight in gold, even though they're just their weight in sync. Speaking of lighting, I'm going to come back to this, but I do want to quickly go over here and show you one of the things that's kind of above my desk. So one thing that I've tried to do with my video production is use better lighting techniques, and one of those techniques is to use what's called a hair light. So we have a light that's going to above my desk, so whenever I'm sitting and doing a regular video, I kind of have some nice lighting on the back of me. But this thing is easily able to, and if you want to step back, you can show this swing over. And now we can light b-roll that's going top down on the table really, really easily. So again, it's all about versatility. So now let's go over to the shelves here. These are theme of the video, IKEA shelves, but they work really well. And here we've just collected a lot of the film gear that we need quick access to, so all of our lenses, and we've collected quite a few lenses. We're not using a Canon C200 for most of the A-roll that we shoot, which is pretty great, and the quality on it is amazing. We have some audio gear up here. These are the camcorders that we actually used to use for the podcast, but now that we have the C200, which can film for more than 30 minutes, we don't really need these for much anymore. So maybe I should sell them. Another thing, another one of these little jobie grillopods on a tripod attachment, so any tripod that doesn't have a grillopot head already on it. We can just throw this attachment on there, and we're good to go. Same with our little sliders, so if we want cool sliders shots, I've got a grillopot attachment on there, we're good to go with that. And then over here, we have a pegboard, also from IKEA, though I do want to give a shout out to Matt Diavella for giving me the idea for this guy, and this is where we keep the gimbal usually, with for not using it, which we are right now. We keep switch pod, which my friends Pat and Caleb actually invented, and I kick started, actually love this thing, and I actually don't know how this little ukuka got here, but I think you did that, didn't you? Actually, I like it, it's dope. And we have these little drawers too, so we've got some little attachment screws, bolts, stuff like that, can go in here. And right beneath it, we have a drawer unit, which also doubles as the charging station, so for batteries, I want to get a label maker, so I can have a dead and a live thing, but right now it's been putting dead ones up here, and fully charge ones down here, so I'll just throw them in there when I'm not using them, they'll charge up, and then this one is batteries for the C200, I've got a iOS cord for iPads and stuff like that, and then within these drawers we have a kind of rough organization, a method that makes sense to me, so like tools and stuff going here, this drawer is going to be for just random film things like filters, this is a random cord drawer, so each of my cables display port cables, and then this is the audio drawer, which is mainly just XLR cables for microphones, and this is the microphone that we actually shoot most of our videos on, down here we've got extra extension cords, extra plug strips, and finally just some random stuff that goes to the C200, I try to keep that grouped. And that brings us to the last part of the studio that I'll show you, which is the overhead setup, so sometimes we will set up for overhead with a C-stem, the B-roll area, but this is just for quick and dirty overhead shots, I can go in here, instantly turn these lights on, and then if I have like a book that I'm going to show off, I can slide the camera into here, again, we have a Joby Gorilla pod head on this arm, which I believe is from Manfrotto, and we can just do really, really quick overhead shots, and then I had this monitor laying around, so I thought, well, I can flip the screen out on the camera and see what I'm doing, but if I want to have a better view of what I'm doing, I can actually plug this little HDMI mini HDMI cord into the camera, and then see what I'm doing on the monitor, and the monitor's on an arm, so it can easily be adjusted for position, and if you can come in close here, the one thing I do want to mention, I have these little sticky cable holders, these are super cheap, and you can get them at Home Depot actually, so if I don't want this cable to spawn back here, you can just easily shove it in there when I'm not using it, and these actually work really well for phone chargers, any kind of cable that you want on your desk, but you want out of the way, it's really nice to land you think. So, like I said earlier, one of the reasons that I set the studio up this way was to reduce the friction involved in creating things as much as possible, and when I'm actually sitting out at the computer, one of the other tools I use that really reduces the friction in my life is Dashlane. Dashlane is a tool that gives me a ton of shortcuts for what I need to do online. It automatically logs me into websites and even auto fills long forms, and it works on every single platform that I use, so it works on like PC, it works on my Mac, it works on every single one of my iOS devices on the go, and if I were an Android user, it would work there as well. Dashlane essentially gives me a convenient and secure place to store and access my passwords, my form data, and even payment information, so it'd have to go hunting for my credit card or build some sort of memory palace every time you want to buy something, and that helps me spend more time doing the work that I want to do. So if you want to give Dashlane a try for yourself, go over to Dashlane.com slash college info geek and sign up to get a free 30 day trial of Dashlane premium, where you can try all of the features out for yourself. And if you do like it, you can also use the code college info geek once you upgrade to a paid subscription to get 10% off into support my channel. Big thanks as always to Dashlane for sponsoring this episode, and thank you for watching as well. Hopefully you got something useful out of this episode, and I will see you in the next video. You can get subscribe right there if you haven't done so already or click right over here, which is probably covering my face to get one more video on this channel.
