# My Top 10 Favorite Fiction Books!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WJoP3ate_fo
I'm prepping for my talk in Vermont this week, so here's a fun video about my favorite fiction books.

What are your favorites? And what should I read next?

Links to the books (only a couple; I won't spoil the whole list!):

HPMoR: http://hpmor.com/ is the official site, though I actually recommend checking out xenohedron's PDFs, which include Daystar's re-written versions of the first four chapters (the originals are considered by the community to be a bit rough compared to the rest of the story; Daystar's versions bring the writing up to the standard of later chapters and make the book easier to get into), and are formatted to look very similar to the printed canon Harry Potter books: https://github.com/xenohedron/hpmor-pdf

Hitchhiker's Guide, narrated by Douglas Adams - Unfortunately, it seems this is the only way to acquire this version these days: http://www.amazon.com/Douglas-Adams-Hitchhikers-Restaurant-Everything/dp/155800758X
**Keywords:** fiction books, The Hitchhiker's Guide To The Galaxy (Adapted Work), Fictional Book (Literary Genre), booktube, peter brett, demon cycle, warded man, mistborn, brandon sanderson, wax and wayne, shadows of self, snow crash, diamond age, Neal Stephenson (Author), Ready Player One (Book), Patrick Rothfuss (Author), name of the wind, 
**Date:** 2015-10-22

## Transcript
 Hey, what's up guys? A couple of notes before we get started today, number one, thank you so much for 100,000 subscribers. We hit that milestone on Tuesday of this week, and it's just absolutely insane. I can't really think of words to say right now. However, there will be a proper 100,000 subscriber bonus video coming. This is not it. And the other thing I want to say is that I'm feeling a little bit off-course from my original plan schedule, because in last week's video on public speaking, I said the next video would be on presentations. And because I'll be flying out to Vermont next Wednesday to give a presentation of my own, I haven't had enough time to really put the quality and preparation into that video that I want. And I think you guys deserve. So I'm going to put that one off a little bit, I'm going to get through that presentation and today I still want to release something. So I thought it would be fun to go through 10 of my favorite fiction books. So this is ostensibly a top 10 list. I know the top three at least are my top three and the rest of them are sort of maybe in dubious order, but these are things that I really enjoyed reading and I hope maybe you can find something that you'll enjoy as well on this list. Now a couple of ground rules before we get started. Number one, I have not included graphic novels because I could probably fill an entire list with graphic novels on another day and number two, no two books from the same series. Now I'm not saying the same author is off limits, but the same series is. Now that being said, let's get started with number 10, which is snow crash by Neil Stevenson. And just let you know, I am very aggrostic when it comes to the format of books I read. I like Kindle books, I like physical books and I like audiobooks. So if I don't own the physical edition, I'm just going to pop a picture up right here. Like this. And snow crash is on the list because I absolutely love Stevenson's writing and I love Cyberpunk fiction. This is the book that actually coined the term avatar in cyberspace terms. And I really enjoyed it. There's one other Stevenson book I've read so far that I like more, which is coming up in the list. I highly recommend this book if you like cyberpunk fiction at all. Number nine of my list is Ready Player One by Ernest Klein. Now this is a book that didn't really change my life or teach me any big lessons or anything, but I just absolutely enjoyed listening to it. It's a book about basically virtual reality, a kid who goes into a huge virtual reality world. And there's all these 80s video game and movie and music references. And even though I wasn't born in the 80s, a lot of it was stuff I watched growing up as a kid. So it was just super cool to basically nerd out while listening to this book. And I did listen to it. I will recommend the audio book version of this book while I usually like to create the character voices in my head and narrate my own way. I really liked Will Wheaton's narration of this book. Will Wheaton's amazing in general and his narration to this book is great. So definitely check it out. Read it either way, but I love the audio book version. Book number eight is the silence of Titan by Kurt Vonnegut. You're probably getting a little bit of a sci-fi vibe here. And yes, that's the majority of my favorite fiction is sci-fi and fantasy. But I absolutely love this book. It has a lot of themes about free will and actually made me think a lot. And my friend Martin, who is actually my roommate, recommended this book to me and I believe it is his favorite book. It didn't really top the favorite list for me, but I did enjoy a lot so it makes this list. Book number seven is Ender's Shadow. Yes, Shadow, not game. I absolutely love Ender's game. It's also one of my favorite books. However, I thought Shadow was a little bit more compelling because it tells the story from Beans perspective instead of Enders and there's a little bit more gradiness to it. There's a little bit more of the tactical nitty-gritty details of how they win the battles. And I really like seeing his perspective and also that secondary perspective opened up a lot of new perspective on Ender's thoughts. So definitely check it out if you haven't read it, but I would recommend reading Ender's game first. Book number six is the Desert Spear by Peter Brett. On this book is part of a series called The Demon Cycle and there are currently four books out right now. I've read all four and I'm eerily awaiting the fifth one, which I believe should be the conclusion of the series. Basically it's a story about these demons who come up at night and they're basically invincible and unkillable to all the humans until, well, you'll just have to read what happens. But it's pretty darn cool. And this is the one book on my list that I like better than the original start of the series. I absolutely love the first one which is called The Warded Man or The Painted Man depending on where you live, but the Desert Spear has a much more interesting setting in my opinion and some cooler relationships that are built along its storyline. So definitely recommend the entire series, but the second one is my favorite so far. Book number five I actually own in print and it is Missborn by Brandon Sanderson. Now I'm going to go on the limb here and say that the entire Missborn series, at least the first three books are my favorite in the number five category, I just arbitrarily picked the first one because I think I love all three equally. But the reason I like Missborn so much is number one, it's just a great fantasy series, but number two, the magic system is so well thought out and it's actually got limitations and hard rules and I think that makes for more interesting character interactions and situations than more arbitrary just with bag magic systems like more Tolkien's fiction will have. So that's why I love them and I will also note that there is a new series of Missborn books called The Wax and Wayne trilogy which uh there are two of those out currently and those ones are usually shorter, I think they're like half each one is like half the length of a normal Missborn book, but they're also really great fun to read so I recommend basically everything in the Missborn series and pretty much everything Brandon Sanders and has wrote is great. Book number four is the Diamond Age by Neil Stevenson and yes this is the second recommendation for Neil Stevenson on this list and over on my bookshelf right there I have pretty much every other book Neil Stevenson has written since then except for seven years which is his newest one, I have yet to get through those ones because uh well reading can be tough when you run a business but I did get through both Snowcrash and Diamond Age and I think I like the Diamond Age a little bit more probably because of the character interactions but also because his mixture of the cyberpunk like ridiculous future nanotech setting mixed with the Victorian like the research and the Victorian fashion and ideals was just awesome and uh everything Neil Stevenson just dreams up in that head of his is just super cool to read about and now this is another one that I did an audiobook format and I'm not sure if the audiobook version was as compelling as the Will Wheaton narration of Ready Player One but I really did like it so if you're into audiobooks I would recommend the audiobook version of this though if you're not reading it would be cool too. Book number three on this list well if you've been drawing conclusions about my taste based on the other books on this list you probably then wondering if this one's gonna come up and yes it is the name of the wind by Patrick Rothfuss I absolutely love this book this was recommended to me on a whim from my friend Carly I read nothing about it going in and honestly I think that's like the best book reading experience you can have so yeah I like just taking things on blind recommendation if they are good I got lucky with this one because it is absolutely amazing like misfortune it has incredibly well thought out magic system with physical properties limitations but also I just like the characterization of kvoth a little bit more than the characters in misfortune and that's why this book gets a little bit higher spot on the list from me all right moving on to the pen ultimate pick on this list and this might be where any dislikes for this video come from because my pick for number two is Harry Potter and the methods of rationality which is a fan fiction yes now this fan fiction story was written by an artificial intelligence researcher named L.A. Zerude Kowski who's also written a lot on rationality and critical thinking and this book is basically his attempt at teaching rationality and critical thinking without you really realizing it so this book basically imagines a universe where Harry Potter instead of just being a normal 11 year old boy is essentially a genius who thinks through everything rationally and like a scientist and what I love about this book is all the other characters are adjusted to match Harry so it's not like he's just going through and having an easy time with everything all the other characters are much smarter and if you like things like Sherlock or Death Note or more rational cerebral pieces of fiction then I think you'll really enjoy this I'm not going to say you're going to enjoy it more than canon I personally do but I don't want to say that it's better than canon because obviously builds upon the already excellent foundation of story and setting and characters that J.K. Relling has built so I absolutely love the canon but for me I think I enjoyed M.O.R. a little bit more and also it got me into reading about rationality and reading about critical thinking skills and heuristics and biases and things that have made me a better thinker so this is one of those rare pieces of fiction that has made a tangible change in my life and that's why it's such a high place on this list but it's not the top pick because that one is the Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy of course and if you've read the about section on my YouTube channel or any of the pages on my website you've probably noticed the references to this book and it's no secret that this is my absolute favorite piece of fiction which is why I have the faux leather cover bound addition of all five of the books absolutely love these books so much they are ridiculously imaginative and I just love the dry British humor that Douglas Adams puts into them just read these books no matter who you are they are fantastic they're weird and if you watch the movie and didn't like it well I absolutely love the movie so we're kind of on opposite sides with that thing but I will say that the book version is just so so much better I grew up listening to the audio book version of this book every night for years and there are actually multiple versions there's like a there's a version that is read by an entire cast where every character has their own voice actor that one's pretty cool Steven Fry has his own narration version which I believe is the most popular that one's awesome but the one I recommend if you can find it is the one that is read by Douglas Adams himself his narration is just amazing it's it's just awesome so I will try to find that link to it in the description below but if I can't well it is up to you Google it I suppose so those are my top 10 favorite fiction books at least in this point in my life now I'm curious to know what you think of the books on this list do you like some of them do you dislike some of them and I also want to know based on what I've told you about my favorite fiction books what should I read next all right guys that's it for this week's video thanks so much for watching and I will see you as always next week
