# What to Do When You're Too Lazy to Stick to Your Habits
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WKV0xrfH8yY
Want to build strong habits? Today I'll share a hack I've used for a long time which makes the process much easier.
📺 Watch this video without AdSense on Nebula: https://nebula.tv/videos/thomas-frank-yt-what-to-do-when-you-re-too-lazy-to-stick-to-your-habits

🛠 COURSES AND RESOURCES: 
Notion channel - https://www.youtube.com/c/ThomasFrankExplains
Free Notion templates - https://thomasjfrank.com/templates/
Learn Notion - https://thomasjfrank.com/fundamentals
Productivity and Habits courses - https://thomasjfrank.com/courses/

🦙 SPONSOR: 
The first 83 people to sign up with this link will get 20% of their annual subscription to Brilliant: https://brilliant.org/thomasfrank

🐦 SOCIAL STUFF:
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly
Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Music Channel ➔ https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCmqK2G-3AL_WP5KffH_wqAA
Spotify Study Playlist ➔ https://open.spotify.com/user/thomasfrank09/playlist/4ETfiRPHVmUFLF6q0g8Fux?si=IPfx3dAgQ1SIUwhh5YEQMQ

🔗 VIDEO LINKS:
Freedom app/website blocker: https://freedom.to

👐 BUSINESS:
Please contact my agent at thomasfrank@standard.tv

💰 I'm fortunate enough to work with great sponsors who support my work, so I don't use Patreon or any other crowdfunding service. However, if you'd like to support a worthy cause, consider donating to help more children get access to a high-quality education: https://fundraise.pencilsofpromise.org/fundraiser/1489730
**Keywords:** habits, power of habit, habit building, bad habits, break habits, good habits, build habits, better habits, productivity, going to the gym, gym, consistency, too lazy, too tired, i feel tired, stop forgetting, how to remember, discipline, self discipline, motivation, how to get motivated, how to be motivated, thomas frank, 
**Date:** 2018-07-20

## Transcript
 The philosopher Aristotle once said that we are what we repeatedly do. Excellence then is not an act, but a habit. And this reality is reassuring. Because it reminds us that achieving our goals requires lots of little manageable steps over time rather than one giant, herculian effort. But it's also stressful because it means committing to changing or behavior on a day-to-day basis for a long period of time. And whether you're trying to increase your endurance or learn to play an instrument, read more, or even do something as simple as take care of a plant every day, you probably know from experience the process of adding new habits into day-to-day life is a difficult one. Now, I wanted to know what exactly makes this process so difficult for different people. So a couple of days ago asked over on my Instagram what was the biggest thing that prevents you guys from adding new positive habits to your day-to-day life. And I got some pretty interesting answers, including some funny ones like pizza and evil twin of Jordan Von Strangle that hits me with a whip every time I'm trying to do something useful. But a lot of the answers seem to be variations on two key problems. One actually remembering to do the habit and the other one which was by far the most common answer, pure, unadulterated laziness. So today I want to share a little hack that I've been using for quite a while which can help with both of these problems. This is something that can help you both remember to do those habits and actually make them easier to do. And it involves using if then logic to bind those habits to things that you already do every day. If then logic crops up everywhere from math to computer programming to game design and it's usually implemented in what are called conditional statements. So let me briefly explain exactly what these are and how they work using one of my favorite games magic the gathering. In magic you have two different types of abilities, activated abilities and triggered abilities. Activated abilities are ones that require you to take action to use them. So for example take this card, birds of paradise. This little symbol here is telling me that I have to tap the card in order to use the action printed on it. By contrast triggered abilities are ones that automatically happen when something else happens. So in the case of a card like mana war, the ability on the card is going to be triggered automatically when it enters the battlefield. You don't have to do anything. It's a conditional statement. If it enters the battlefield then you bounce something back to your opponent's hand. And then your opponent probably flips the table. So let's move on from there and look at how these conditional statements might be used in a computer program. Say YouTube's recommendation algorithm. Now this is an incredibly complicated piece of software and even YouTube's engineers don't know exactly how it works. It's kind of a black box. But one thing we know that it does do is change up the recommendations you see on your homepage based on your behavior. So for example if you were to click the like button on this video then some code will automatically go into effect to show you more videos like this one. And likewise if you were to click the dislike button you would see fewer videos like this. By the way that's an invitation to click the like button. So here's how all of this relates to habit building. What we want to do is set the if part of the statement as something you already do every single day or hopefully multiple times a day. And then set the then part of the statement to the habit that you want to start building. In an ideal world this would mean that you would start to do your new habits automatically regardless of what they were going to the gym more often. Actually remembering to oil your cybernetic augmentations. Just meditating every single day whatever it is. There would be absolutely no conscious effort involved. It would be like that triggered ability on the magic card. But unfortunately at least in this context we aren't atomotons. Our brains don't run on computer code. And as a result there's no 100% foolproof way to build this triggered ability into our minds. The best that we can do is try to set things up so that the habit that we're trying to build is more like that triggered ability like that man of work hard then that activated ability like the birds of paradise. And this actually works out really well because I freaking love jellyfish and my friend had a parakeet in high school and I hated that thing. Anyway the best way to accomplish this is through environmental design. You want to start looking for ways that you can set up your living space and your tools so that the things you do every single day both remind you to perform your habits and make it easier to do so. And with that it is time for some examples. I'm going to start with a thing that actually gave me the inspiration for this whole conditional statements idea in the first place which was putting a doorframe pull-up bar in my office doorway. That way every single time I walk into my office I do five pull-ups and I get really good at pull-ups as a result. And I got to admit this is not an original idea. My dad used to be in the military before I was born and he once told me that to get into the mess hall where they actually ate lunch dinner and all those other meals of the day. A breakfast, second breakfast, 11-Z's, all those things. You had to do five pull-ups before you could actually go in there and as a result all the cadets got really good at doing pull-ups. And doing pull-ups is something that I personally want to get really good at hence the doorframe pull-up bar to my office. I also applied this idea back in college to the task of doing push-ups every single morning and getting up early on a consistent basis. And I did this by putting my alarm underneath the coffee table in my room. Not only did that require me to get down on my knees and reach for the phone to actually turn it off in the morning which was more moving around more action that would actually wake me up. But at that point I was now down on the ground and I might as well do some push-ups since I'm down there. And this example is a great illustration of how our brains are not like computers because I could easily just get up and not do the push-ups. So it's really all about putting yourself in the position to make doing the habit easier. It's not about a full-proof method. Now so far I'll talk about our habits that improve your physical well-being. But what if you wanted to write more often? What if you wanted to get into a journaling habit? Or do nanoreemo? Or write the next great Harry Potter fan fiction that dethrones the current greatest one? Which is clearly my immortal. Well, what if you went into your computer's startup settings and said to automatically open up your favorite writing program every time you turn your computer on? And you compare that up with the application blocking properties of an app like freedom which could lock down your browser and your games, making writing the obvious choice whenever you turn your computer on. Now putting all these ideas aside, you could of course use a task manager or a calendar app to create reminders to do your habits. But this only solves the reminding half of the problem. Changing your environment and your tools to create these little, if then pairings to create these conditional statements actually solves both halves the problem. It both reminds you to do the habit and combat laziness problem that's so many if you sided by making it so much easier to do. Now there are lots of other methods out there for building strong habits. But for me using conditional logic was a creative solution that helped me get even better at doing it. And it's worth remembering that for any problem there is almost always a creative solution out there that hasn't been found yet. So instead of sticking to these established methods, be they online lists or even videos like this one, it's often better to analyze the details of the problem yourself and try to come up with a creative solution. Doing this is a skill that can benefit you both in your personal life with things like habit building, but also in your career. And if you're wondering how you can start improving that skill, one useful tool you should check out is Brilliant.org. At its core, Brilliant is a tool that can help you learn math, science, and computer science much more effectively than with traditional methods. But along the way, it can also help you become more creative and capable problem solver as well. All of Brilliant's courses prioritize active learning and problem solving right from the get go. So you'll find yourself immediately improving your analytical and creative capabilities, whether you're learning calculus, figuring out how gravitational physics works, spring down sorting algorithms, and computer science, or tackling any of the other courses in their library. This also means that you won't find yourself bored, because unlike traditional lecture-style classes, you'll be using what you learn right away. I'm a huge fan of Brilliant's learning philosophy, which prioritizes active learning, and curiosity, and allowing for failure. So if you want to start improving your problem solving skills, I definitely recommend you give them a try. To start learning free, you can head over to Brilliant.org slash Thomas Frank, which will find a description down below. And if you're among the first 83 people to click that link and sign up, you're also going to get 20% off of your annual premium subscription. I want to give a big thanks to Brilliant for sponsoring this video and being a huge supporter of this channel in general. And as always, guys, thank you so much for watching this video. If you enjoyed it, click in that like button as appreciated as always. As we talked about, that conditional logical start to kick in, and it helps both you and my channel. And if you haven't subscribed yet, definitely do so right there. So you don't miss out on future videos. You can also click right over there to get a free copy of my book on how to earn better grades or click right here to see one more video on this channel. Also, while you're here, don't forget to follow me over on Instagram, where I'm doing IGTV videos, answering DMs and posting all the time. So definitely do that. Thanks for watching, and I will see you in the next video.
