# The One Hour Morning Routine
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xvEi1Iv2Ujo
Today, I'll show you a quick morning routine that only takes one hour, but that still hits all the key areas - nutrition, hydration, exercise, learning, and more.
📺 Watch this video ad-free on Nebula: https://nebula.tv/videos/thomas-frank-the-one-hour-morning-routine

🛠 COURSES AND RESOURCES: 
Notion channel - https://www.youtube.com/c/ThomasFrankExplains
Free Notion templates - https://thomasjfrank.com/templates/
Learn Notion - https://thomasjfrank.com/fundamentals
Productivity and Habits courses - https://thomasjfrank.com/courses/

🦙 SPONSOR: 
CuriosityStream: https://www.curiositystream.com/thomas - get a 30-day free trial, plus free access to my streaming platform, Nebula.

🐦 SOCIAL STUFF:
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly
Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Music Channel ➔ https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCmqK2G-3AL_WP5KffH_wqAA
Spotify Study Playlist ➔ https://open.spotify.com/user/thomasfrank09/playlist/4ETfiRPHVmUFLF6q0g8Fux?si=IPfx3dAgQ1SIUwhh5YEQMQ

🔗 VIDEO LINKS:
Smoothie video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fyyKrMeNPBM

👐 BUSINESS:
Please contact my agent at thomasfrank@standard.tv

💰 I'm fortunate enough to work with great sponsors who support my work, so I don't use Patreon or any other crowdfunding service. However, if you'd like to support a worthy cause, consider donating to help more children get access to a high-quality education: https://fundraise.pencilsofpromise.org/fundraiser/1489730
**Keywords:** thomas frank, productivity, morning routine, morning routines, one hour morning routine, wake up on time, wake up early, how to wake up, wake up, morning ritual, entrepreneur morning routine, sleep, sleep tips, breakfast ideas, quick breakfast, healthy breakfast, hydration, morning exercises, morning workout, i have no time, good habits, how to build habits, daily routine, quick morning routine, short morning routine, 
**Date:** 2019-11-02

## Transcript
 This video is sponsored by CuriosityStream. Get access to my streaming video service Nebula when you sign up for CuriosityStream using the link in the description. I have a confession to make. I am fascinated by morning routine videos. It's just interesting to see the habits that successful people pack into the first parts of their day. But there's a slight problem with most of these videos. Most of these routines take entirely too long, and replicating them yourself is just not practical. Due, simply don't have time for an hour of meditation in the morning or a long session at the gym or writing 8 pages in your gratitude journal. By the time you wake up in the morning, you've probably got an hour tops before you need to be the first thing on your calendar. So here is my proposition. Let's put that hour to good use. Let's build a morning routine that only takes an hour, but that is still comprehensive and that covers six major areas. Nutrition, hydration, a bit of exercise, hygiene, of course, some learning and finally, number six, some light exposure. And sure, you won't have time to mindfully pour water over your tea pot for 30 minutes to build up a patina or log 20 miles in Strava. But hitting these six areas will give you a great start to the day. And with some good planning and timing, I do think that it's doable and under an hour. And here's one way that you could do it. Just throw yourself out of bed the moment your alarm goes off. Don't let the snooze button waste any of your precious time. If you could avoid that, this should only take about 30 seconds. Once you're up, do all the basics. Brush your teeth, shave if you need to, and take a shower. Now, you could also shower at night to save time, but I like to shower in the morning and I found that it only takes about four minutes anyway. Do save some time when you're getting dressed. You can lay out all your clothes the night before so that they're waiting for you right when you wake up and so you don't have to spend time deciding what to wear. I'll talk this part to take you about 15 minutes tops, as long as you don't find yourself staring at a styrofoam head. With hygiene taken care of, the next item on your list is hydration. I find that three most important things for feeling fully awake in the morning are sunlight, movement, and hydration. So right after showering, I'll drink a full blast of water. Now this is probably the quickest step in the routine unless you like me and have plants that also need hydration. Even so, after two or three minutes, you'll be moving on to the next step, which is my favorite, making coffee. Now with only an hour to spare, my brewing method of choice is going to be drips and you can just set it in, get it. And since your cup of Joe is going to take about five minutes to brew, you've got some time to get a bit of exercise in. Now like I said before, you don't have time for a lengthy gym session, but with an inexpensive pull-up bar on the door, you can do some pull-ups and most people other than those who live here have access to the ground, which is great crunches, push-ups, and lots of other things. Your fist is one area that can eat up a lot of your time, but if you choose the right foods, you'll make prep, eating, and clean up all-go really quickly. I like to start with a piece of toast, and here's a trick. Put some frozen spinach in a bowl with olive oil, chopped garlic, and salt. Microwave that for 90 seconds, and you've got a serving of vegetables to go with your toast. Finally, hard-boiled eggs are a great way to round things out. You can make them in both in the weekends, or just buy them boiled and peeled from the store with the idea. As an alternative to all of this, you can also make a smoothie, and I'll link to my smoothie recipe in the description down below. Either way, prep should only take six to eight minutes. Now, we can bundle nutrition with learning by reading my eat, but with the time limit that you're on, you probably don't have time to get deep into a book, so instead, you might want to opt for an article. In this case, the book that I'm reading right now has chapters with several article length subsections, so it's easy to read one in about 15 minutes. After that, cleanup is also really quick, since we didn't use that many dishes. Now, the last thing that we mentioned wanting was some sunlight exposure, and normally, you would go outside for a walk to get that, but perhaps, like me, you currently have 18 inches of snow outside your window, and it's freezing cold outside, in which case we're not doing that. Instead, open up a window, and then maybe use the rest of the time for extra reading, or meditation, or really anything else that you're trying to learn, starting your day with a bit of progress on a goal feels great, but whatever you decide to do, try to keep the 22nd rule in mind. Scepting's up so that it takes less than 22nd to start using them. This will save you time, but more importantly, it'll remove friction that can prevent the formation of good habits. Of course, you could also just use this extra time to pack up your bag so that we once your hours up, you can easily roll into whatever it is that you need to do next, which, in this case, is filming a video. Now, this routine is just a suggestion, and there are definitely changes that you can make. Since if your commute involves walking or biking, then some of that exposure is already taken care of. And if you want to even more time for extra size if you're learning, you could just skip breakfast altogether. A lot of people practice what's called intermittent fasting, where they restrict their meal times to an eight-hour window during the day, and then fast for the other 16. Plus, all that stuff about breakfast being the most important meal today is just marketing by cereal companies. Though while we're talking about breakfast, I do want to note that reading isn't the only way to bundle learning with it. In fact, maybe you're watching this very video while you eat breakfast. That's something that I do all the time. I love watching videos in the morning, but what I don't like is sitting through ads before they even start, which is why I got together with a bunch of other educational creators and built Nebula. If you haven't heard about it, Nebula is a completely self-funded streaming service to let's you avoid ads and allows us to create what we want without worrying about YouTube's algorithm. You'll find my content there alongside people like CGP Gray, Windover Productions, Kurskasat, and more, plus originals that we're creating, like working titles, which breaks down the intro sequences to iconic TV shows. But here's the best part. We've teamed up with CuriosityStream, so that when you subscribe to their service for just $2.99 per month, you get access to Nebula for free, which means that you get ad-free videos, you get to support independent creators, and you also get access to thousands of high-quality documentaries on CuriosityStream. If you use my link in the description to sign up, you can get a 30-day trial for free and start watching documentaries like the Science of Sleep, or David Atboro's Light on Earth. As always, thanks for watching, and huge thanks to be choose to support what we're building over on Nebula. You can get subscribed there if you haven't done so already, and I'll see you in my next video.
