# How to Remember More of What You Read
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xw8KuGD1fJ4
Get access to over 2,400 documentaries on CuriosityStream: https://curiositystream.com/thomas - and use code "thomas" to get a free 31-day trial when you sign up!

Huge thanks to CuriosityStream for sponsoring this video and supporting my channel.

Spending hours reading books doesn't make much sense if you can't remember any of what you've read. Today we'll dive deep into some of the techniques you can use to increase the amount of information your brain actually stores and recalls from your reading sessions.

Get my book "10 Steps to Earning Awesome Grades" FREE: 
https://collegeinfogeek.com/get-better-grades/

Follow Me:
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly
Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Podcast ➔ https://www.youtube.com/TheCollegeInfoGeekPodcast

Subscribe to My Channel:
http://buff.ly/1vQP5ar

Links from the Video:

My Power of Habit notes: https://thomasjfrank.com/reading/charles-duhigg-power-of-habit/

How to Read FASTER: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kmDMrxUSXKY

How to Read MORE Books: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iiNISuM4wl0

How to Read Textbooks: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tgVjmFSx7rg

My Video Gear:
https://www.amazon.com/shop/thomasfrank

Background music via Musicbed. Get a 30-day free trial of awesome music for your videos: https://mscbd.fm/thmsfr
**Keywords:** thomas frank, productivity, education, how to learn, studying, remember what you read, remember more, memory tips, how to remember, study tips, how to study, how to read a book, reading tips, study faster, memory techniques, how to memorize, recall, highlighting, taking notes, note taking, note taking tips, how to take notes, how to summarize, reading comprehension, forgetting, forgot, stop forgetting, test tips, exam tips, revision, review, 
**Date:** 2019-03-31

## Transcript
 When I was a kid, one of my favorite shows on Nickelodeon was Jimmy Neutron, and when I watched that show, one of the inventions that stuck out to me the most was Book Gum. These were a little sticks of gum that each contained the entire text of a specific book, and as Jimmy put it, when you chew it, you know it. And ever since I saw that episode, I've always wished that invention actually existed. How cool would it be to be able to just chew a stick of gum and know the text of Moby Dick or your math textbook? But of course, Book Gum does not exist sadly. So what I want to do today is talk about what you can do to remember what you read better because you can read more books. You can read them faster, but if you are not in taking the information and you're not able to recall it and apply it later on, then what are you really reading for in the first place? And as I see it, there are two different categories of books that we need to cover. First, there are books full of facts and concepts that you need to simply know things like the mere exposure effect from Daniel Kahneman's thinking fast and slow, or the definition of a caraville, which you can learn in Daniel Borsan's history text that discovers. The information contained in books like these is of a more academic nature. It's less applicable to your life. You can't use it so easily, but you still may need to know it, be it for a test on the road or totally because you want to. So first, we are going to quickly cover five specific techniques that you can use to more effectively remember the information from basically any book that you're reading. But these are going to be especially useful for these more academic types of books. After that though, we are going to talk about the second category of books. These are the more actionable practical books, things like music theory or the science of cooking. These kinds of books are actually trying to teach you something that you will use and as you may imagine, the most effective way to remember the information in these types of books is a little bit different. But first, let's talk about those five general reading techniques. And the first one is called Pre-reading. So to effectively pre-read before you dig into the actual chapter, first, go over the book's table of contents, skim the chapter, look at the chapter, subheadings, maybe some bold lists, and then go to the back of the chapter. If there's a summary or a few questions, review those as well. Doing this before reading has the effect of priming your brain, to more rightly pick out the most important information when you're actually going through the text. And if you want a really great example of how priming can affect your brain, just briefly close your eyes and think about a specific color. And do that for a couple of seconds. Then once you open your eyes again, you're going to start noticing that color everywhere in your environment. You've primed your brain. And pre-reading is the exact same thing for words on a printed page. Secondly, highlighting can be very effective. But only if you do it right. See, a lot of people have the tendency of highlighting way too much when they read or going through the text and highlighting immediately instead of trying to read and understand the text first. So as Walter Pock points out in this book, how to study in college, read the text before you start marking it. This has the dual effect of making sure that you're focusing all of your attention on actually understanding what you're reading instead of looking for sections to highlight. But it also prevents you from highlighting too much. And this is important because the more that you highlight, the less useful those highlights are. I mean, imagine if you highlighted every single piece of text in a book. You could have essentially just changed the background color of the paper and gained nothing. Anyway, other than that one little word of warning about highlighting, I do have one additional tip, which is that it's good to know if you are doing your highlighting on a Kindle or on a digital platform of some sort, usually your highlights go to a specific area of the app. For example, in the Kindle app, you can bring up all of your highlights for a specific book in one convenient place. Tip number three, take notes after you read. And notice that I said after you read. Now, you don't have to wait specifically until you end an entire chapter. But I think it's good to at least read a section, try to get into it and then go over it again and take notes on the most important details. Now, you might be asking, what are the most important details? How do I know what I'm supposed to take notes on? And hopefully your pre-reading will give you a little bit of illumination in this area because you're going to start picking out what's most important. But in general, some good things to look at for include key terms, switch off and bolded or italicized main points, and also examples and stories that highlight those main points. And these can often be summarized. You don't have to take notes on them in too much detail. Now, again, the length and the specific format of your notes is going to be completely up to you. You're going to get better at it over time. But if you want some examples, I can provide a few, including my own notes on Charles DuHiggs, the power of habit, which I published on my personal website, and I'll have linked in the description down below. That brings us to a very related tip, which is to summarize what you read after you're done reading it. And with summaries in particular, I think it's good to finish an entire chapter and then go back, try to pick up the main points, maybe look at your notes, and then write a summary. Again, you don't want this thing to be too long. You just want to be a very distilled version of what you read that contains the most important and salient points. Finally, seek out secondary sources of information that can complement what you're reading. This has the dual benefit of building additional neural connections to the material that you're forging through the book, but it also keeps your level of interest high or could potentially boost it for topics that you're not super interested in. Because a lot of times, staring at a piece of dead tree on your desk isn't the most interesting way to learn about a topic, right? And make no mistake about it, interest is the most important ingredient to effective learning and long-term recall. As the author Francis Lockwood put it over a hundred years ago, in the long run, the secret of study resides in our ability to bathe our thought, our task, our lesson, in the stream of interest. So, if you can, and you have time to do it, find other sources of information that can boost the level of interest you have in the topic. Now, this could be other books, but it could also be a podcast episode, or a museum tour, or maybe even a video game. The reason that I still remember what a caravill is, is because I was actually using them in civilization five, as I read about them in the discoveries. That's what I paused for a second to point out that I played over a hundred turns of soot five last night to get bureau for the stupid caravill section, and it turns out, unfortunately, this civilization doesn't even get caravills because they get a better unit automatically. You get the point. All right, with my future self-settiting complaints out of the way, it is now time to move on to that more practical category of books. Books that are actually trying to teach you something that you will use in the future. So, as you probably could have guessed, the most effective way to recall the information in these kinds of books is to mix reading with doing. Mix the academic study with practical application. I mean, that's kind of the point of these kinds of books anyway, right? Now, what I want to do with this section of the video is just give you a few practical examples of how I'm putting this concept into action. And let's start with Brian Boone's book on music theory. One thing that I learned about early on this book is the interval patterns that define different types of scales. For example, there's a specific interval pattern for minor scales, and that differs from the one for major scales. Now, I could have just read about this. After all, it is music theory, after all, and the interval patterns aren't too difficult to grasp and understand. But to understand them better, after I read about them, I went and wrote an interval pattern down at a piece of paper at my piano. And then I spent some time picking random notes and building scales from those notes using the interval pattern. Doing this helped me to build a more concrete understanding of how these patterns worked. It was more solid than if I had just read and tried to memorize them. And to further solidify that mindset, I also spent some time improvving within the scales that I had built. Now, regardless of what you think of this piece, it's obviously more fun to play than just going up and down scales. And again, this goes back to that quote about interest. If you can bind what you're learning to something that you're more interested in, like playing fun music, you're going to understand it and remember it and recall it a lot more effectively. For another example, let's talk about the code book by Simon Singh. This book traces the entire history of cryptography, starting from very simple Caesar ciphers and skiddleies, going all the way up to theoretical quantum cryptography. Now, while remembering the historical details in this book, with mostly intel use in the techniques we've already talked about, the actual methods of crypt analysis, like frequency analysis, or much better understood through practice. And wouldn't know it in the back of the code book, there was an entire code breaking challenge. So while I was reading the code book, I also spent some time trying to work through those problems. And interestingly, as I worked through them and gained more practical experience in crypt analysis, my interest level rose, and I was able to remember the details more. Like, that's the only reason I can remember what a skiddley is. Fun little side note, that knowledge of what a skiddley was actually helped me to beat Nescape recently. So if you want to get better at beating escape rooms, you may want to read the code book. Alright, so we have covered a lot of information in this video. But I do want to leave you with one final tip. After you finish reading a chapter or a section, go for a walk, take a break, hit the gym, take a little bit of time to refrain from taking more information. Because in this modern world, we have access to so much of it. There are so many different sources. And if we're not careful, we can find ourselves spending literally all of our waking hours in taking information. But if you want to be able to use that information, if you want to be able to recall it, you can't constantly be in taking new things. You have to give what you've already read, we've already taken in, time to kind of marinate, time to set itself up, and actually integrate itself into your existing banks of knowledge. So use these techniques to start learning more effectively. But at the same time, always keep in mind the words of the great Gabe Newell. Now, earlier in the video, we talked about how exploring topics in different mediums can help you to more effectively remember what you've read. And a very easy way to do that is to go out and find a documentary on the same topic you're reading about. CuriosityStream has over 2,400 documentaries from some of the world's best filmmakers covering science, technology, history, and more. So whether you're reading about the history of the Apollo Space Program, or the reign of Louis XIV, you'll be able to find something there that could further expand your knowledge and interest. And if you're looking for a place to start, I'm going to recommend the Deep Ocean series, which is narrated by the always excellent David Attenborough. Or you can dig into original series, featuring Stephen Hawking, Sirgrine Weaver, and Derek Muller, and you can do it from anywhere. I still find CuriosityStream on Roku, Smart TVs, iOS, Android, Chromecast, and, of course, on the web. You can get unlimited access to everything on CuriosityStream for this $2.99 per month. And if you'd like to try it out for free first, you can go over to CuriosityStream.com slash Thomas and use the promo code at Thomas at checkout to get a completely free 31-day trial. Huge thanks goes out to CuriosityStream as always for sponsoring this video and also supporting my channel. And thank you guys so much for watching as well. Hopefully you found something useful in this video. And if you did, definitely hit that like button and also subscribe right there to get new videos every single week. You can also click right over here to get a free copy of my book on how to earn better grades. Watch one more video on this channel right here or check out our latest podcast episode right over here. Thanks so much for watching. I will see you in the next one.
