# How I Organize My Notes, Homework, and School Files - College Info Geek
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yoheFZaYvLU
As a student, I wanted to build a system that would ensure I could always find files immediately, and also help me to never be without access to homework and projects - even if I forgot them back at my dorm.

Here's a look at that organizational system.

My book "10 Steps to Earning Awesome Grades" is now out and it's free! Get it here (and get a copy of my graduation planning spreadsheet as well):

http://collegeinfogeek.com/get-better-grades/

If you want to get even more strategies and tips on becoming a more productive, successful student, subscribe to my channel right here:

http://buff.ly/1vQP5ar

Connect with me on Twitter!

https://twitter.com/TomFrankly

Companion blog post with notes and resource links: 

http://collegeinfogeek.com/organizing-school-files-and-notes/

~ created by Thomas Frank
**Keywords:** organization, files, file cabinet, notetaking, notes, notebook, refillable notebook, organizing, school, homework, projects, papers, essays, student, college, education, University, Computer File, 
**Date:** 2015-07-09

## Transcript
 There comes a time in the life of every student when inevitably they'll lose some very important school file, and then they'll have to make an excuse to their teacher. My flash drive got lost, or my dog ate my homework. Please do not consider the fact that dogs are not allowed in the dorms. That kind of thing. But this is the rule, and you can be the exception to that rule. Now when I was in high school, I was often a bonehead who would just put my files on flash drives, and then inevitably lose those flash drives. But when I got to college, I got my act together, and I can brag truthfully about this. I never once arrived at a class and realized I didn't have an assignment that I needed to bring with me because of the system I built. So in this quick video, I want to show you the system for organizing my files that I built over the four years I was in college. We'll talk about the best ways to store your files, so you always have access to them. The actual hierarchy of folders I built in my computer, so everything was really easy to find, and also ways to organize your paper files. So first let's talk about file storage. Now whether you have one computer or multiple computers, I recommend using a cloud storage system. And the one I've been using for multiple multiple years is Dropbox. I absolutely love Dropbox, and their free option comes with two gigabytes of storage, which is pretty much good for anybody who isn't going to be doing design or a lot of photography or video work. And they offer apps for almost every platform out there, as well as an app that is accessible through the browser. So keeping your file stored in Dropbox means that even if you forgot to bring your computer to class for some reason or maybe it's dead, you can go to a computer lab in the building access to file right on the browser and print it out. Now in doing some research for this video, I did some poking into other cloud storage options, and I want to say that Google Drive is also a really strong competitor to Dropbox. And it might even work better for you. Reason being is that Google Docs actually gives you 15 gigabytes as opposed to Dropbox's too, so it's a heck of a lot more free storage, and it also integrates really well with Google's other products. So if you already use Gmail or Calendar a lot, or you like to write paper's collaboratively in Google Docs when you do in group projects, then drive as a perfect option. Whichever one you choose, we'll give you the option to organize folders, however you like, and I'd like to submit my own system as something that will work really well for you. So in my top level Dropbox directory, I've got multiple folders that each represent different areas of my life, and everything related to school goes into my college folder. My next level of folder separates everything by year and after that, I have everything separated by class. Inside of individual class folders, I usually keep all regular assignments just sitting there, but projects get their own special folder as well. This well-designed tree structure ensures that I'm always able to find the files I need right away, rather than hunting around a giant jumble of files on my desktop, looking for the right exact name. Now, the one thing I'll note here, and this applies to every organizational system you use, is that you have to be constantly vigilant about keeping it in working order. It's easy to initially set up this pristine, well-oiled system, but then when you're working on an actual paper, and maybe you need to go to bed, or you need to rush off to a class, it's also really easy to say that documents straight to the desktop. And over time, doing this will ensure that you're going to have that jumbled mess you wanted to avoid in the first place. So be kind to your future self, and make sure you take that extra 30 seconds to find the correct folder for an assignment, and also give it a name that makes sense. Speaking of naming files, I know a lot of students will make multiple copies of an assignment because they want to save all versions. And the cool thing about Dropbox and also drive is it has version history. This means that you can actually log into your Dropbox account and see previous versions of a file that you've worked on. If you find that you've screwed up a file and already saved it, you can actually roll back to a previous version and erase those mistakes. Now, let's talk about notes. Actually, don't keep my notes in Dropbox, and that's because I took almost all of my notes on Evernote. The structure of my Evernote account is very similar to my Dropbox. I have notebook stacks, which represent areas of my life. And then inside those stacks, there are individual notebooks for classes or different projects, or just places I want to keep notes. As an example, here's my classes notebook stack. I used to have two of these, one for current classes and one for old classes. Now, all my classes are old, so it's just one. But as you can see, all my classes are listed here, and each notebook, you'll find all the notes I took for that class. Evernote also allows you to put tags on your notes, so maybe you want to tag certain notes as lecture notes and other notes as final exam review. This allows you to easily filter through all the notes you have for one class and find what you're looking for fast. Now, Evernote also has other features and uses that can be really beneficial to you as a student. And I actually wrote a blog post featuring many of these uses, which you can find by clicking the card right now or looking down in the description. To round out this video, let's talk about paper notes. So I was kind of a minimalist when I was in college, and I didn't want to have too many notebooks in my bag. So I actually got a refillable notebook, which I would use for all my subjects. I divided the notebook with the same colored flags that I've marked up this book with. And when I'd run out of paper in one section, I would just take all the notes out of it and add new paper. The old notes would go into subjects specific folders back in my dorm room, and I always made sure to mark page numbers on them, so I could put them back together easily when I was reviewing at the end of this semester. And these folders in turn were stored in a black file box that I kept in my dorm room, and I highly recommend getting one of these if you don't have one. So that's it for this video. Hopefully some of these tips will help you become a more organized student, which in turn should help you cut down on stress when the demands of the semester start piling on. If you enjoyed this video or found it helpful, then leaving a like is much appreciated, and I will see you next week. Alright there, and if you missed last week's video, we talked about Marcusa really as he's thoughts on self-discipline, and a lot of people like that one, so definitely check it out. Lastly, if you've got questions or just want to connect with me, I'm Tom Franklin on Twitter, or you can leave a comment below. Thanks for watching.
