# The 10 Best iPhone Productivity Apps in 2021
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yrPPf3Rl5KU
Today we'll explore 10 of my favorite iPhone apps that help me stay productive.
📺 Watch this video ad-free on Nebula: https://nebula.app/videos/thomas-frank-the-10-best-iphone-productivity-apps

🛠 COURSES AND RESOURCES: 
Notion channel - https://www.youtube.com/c/ThomasFrankExplains
Free Notion templates - https://thomasjfrank.com/templates/
Learn Notion - https://thomasjfrank.com/fundamentals
Productivity and Habits courses - https://thomasjfrank.com/courses/

🦙 SPONSOR: 
The first 1,000 people to use this link will get a 1 month free trial of Skillshare: https://skl.sh/thomasfrank06218

🎥 NOTION TUTORIAL CHANNEL:
Thomas Frank Explains: https://www.youtube.com/c/ThomasFrankExplains

🐦 SOCIAL STUFF:
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly
Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Podcast ➔ https://www.youtube.com/TheCollegeInfoGeekPodcast
Music Channel ➔ https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCmqK2G-3AL_WP5KffH_wqAA
Spotify Study Playlist ➔ https://open.spotify.com/user/thomasfrank09/playlist/4ETfiRPHVmUFLF6q0g8Fux?si=IPfx3dAgQ1SIUwhh5YEQMQ

🔗 APP LINKS:
- Otter: https://apps.apple.com/us/app/otter-transcribe-voice-notes/id1276437113
- Notion: https://apps.apple.com/us/app/notion-notes-projects-docs/id1232780281
- Authy: https://apps.apple.com/us/app/twilio-authy/id494168017
- Command: https://apps.apple.com/us/app/command-browser/id1485289520
- Readwise: https://apps.apple.com/us/app/readwise/id1476885528
- Tide: https://apps.apple.com/us/app/tide-sleep-focus-meditation/id1077776989
- Fitness: https://apps.apple.com/us/app/fitness/id1208224953
- Audible: https://apps.apple.com/us/app/audible-audiobooks-podcasts/id379693831
- Adobe Scan: https://apps.apple.com/us/app/adobe-scan-mobile-pdf-scanner/id1199564834
- Spotify: https://apps.apple.com/us/app/spotify-discover-new-music/id324684580
- Airr: https://apps.apple.com/us/app/airr-highlight-podcasts/id1355926315

👐 BUSINESS:
Please contact my agent at thomasfrank@standard.tv

🎞 SPECIAL THANKS
Video clips supplied by Getty Images

💰 I'm fortunate enough to work with great sponsors who support my work, so I don't use Patreon or any other crowdfunding service. However, if you'd like to support a worthy cause, consider donating to help more children get access to a high-quality education: https://fundraise.pencilsofpromise.org/fundraiser/1489730
**Keywords:** thomas frank, productivity, ios productivity apps, iphone productivity apps, best productivity apps, productivity apps 2021, notion, otter, ai transcription, be more productive, audible, podcasts, spotify, airr, tide, pomodoro technique, readwise, command, highlights, kindle, 
**Date:** 2021-06-30

## Transcript
 This video is sponsored by Skillshare. Today we are going through 10 of my favorite productivity apps for the iPhone here in 2021. Though I'm actually going to start this list out with a productivity feature of the iPhone that isn't actually an app but is useful nonetheless. It's this little magnetic wallet thing that you can get from Apple that just snaps onto the back of your phone. But the cool thing is it's got this little thumb-slidey thing where if you have a credit card you frequently use or in my case in office access key, it's very easy to slide it up, scan it wherever you need to scan it and put it right back on your phone, just like that. So figured I'd mention that because I've been enjoying this and it's definitely a purchase that I don't regret. Let's get into the list of apps. And the first step I can talk about is called Otter, which is an amazingly good AI voice transcription app. So as YouTuber, I get a lot of ideas for content often at times when I can't easily either write something down or pull my phone out to take notes and in those cases I take a lot of voice but a lot of times I would love to have those voice notes translated into text so I can then port them over to notion or use them and actually you know go through the text and edit it and things like that. Otter is freaking amazing at doing that. I've tried a ton of other apps some that have Apple Watch integrations which I really would like for Otter but they use this built-in series dictation which is just not that great at translating your voice into readable text. Meanwhile, Otter does not as far as I can tell have a real human shoved into your phone who's literally you know acting as a court stenographer and typing out your text but it might as well. The transcription is nearly as good as the human transcription that I actually pay for for these YouTube videos which means that when I speak something while I'm driving or I'm out of the bike I can basically guarantee that when I come and read the text later on it's going to look pretty much like I said it. It also keeps the audio file it's not quite as high quality of an audio file as you get with regular voice memos so I don't use it for song ideas but it does keep the audio file which is nice because it allows me to export both the audio file and the text into drum roll please the very next app on our list which is you saw this coming notion. So notion is an app that I talk about a lot in fact I have a entire second channel called Thomas Frank explains full of notion tutorials link in the description down below if you're curious and if you haven't heard of notion it is basically an all-in-one workspace app which allows you to take notes it allows you to manage tasks it allows you to pretty much anything you want and at this point I'm using it fully for running my channel for managing my tasks for running projects and for taking all the notes that I want to take and for writing all the scripts for my videos. Now last time I talked about notion on my channel there was no actual official widget but now there is and in fact there are a couple that are very useful which I want to show you right now the one that I keep right on my home screen here is the favorites bar and a trick that I use is I keep a dashboard page with links to a lot of things I'm working on because I often have more links than will fit on this widget's area I think it only keeps about nine links at one time. So using this dashboard I can actually create like a central place for all of the important things on my life including my tasks, my notes, content with my channel with Thomas Frank explains my other channel and ongoing projects and I have like this hub page that allows me to easily get to anything I want to get when I want to add something or reference something. The other nice thing though is there's another widget which I keep over here on this quick access area which shows you your recent pages so instead of relying just on your manually created favorites bar you have all of your recent pages right here and I can get to say the research and notes for this very video and look there's auto there's notion and there is our third app which I'm going to now smoothly transition into it. So offie is a manager for two-factor authentication codes that functions a lot like Google Authenticator. Hopefully you're using two-factor authentication on any account that offers it in addition to your passwords if you care about your online security. Now one thing you might not know about two-factor authentication is there's two different types SMS based or text message based and app based like Google Authenticator or in this case offie. SMS based authentication is actually a lot less secure because identity thieves and you know hackers and people like that have been known to spoof your SIM card essentially calling up your phone company convincing them that they are you and convincing them to set up a new device with the exact same SIM information so they get the text messages that you're supposed to get including two-factor off messages which is why whenever I have the choice I use app based authentication instead of text message authentication. But there's a problem with app based two-factor off especially with Google Authenticator at least last time I used it it didn't sync between different devices which means if you accidentally drop your phone down an elevator shaft you're out of luck and you have to spend a ton of time doing password resets or hopefully pulling you know backup codes that you had for your two-factor authentication it's a whole big mess. So that's why I like Authy because you can log into your account and get your two-factor Auth codes back and as long as you're using a secure password for that account I think it's still pretty secure. Now the next step that we're going to talk about is the only one on my list that doesn't have an Android equivalent. This is an app called Command which is actually a web browser and it has a killer feature that you probably know about if you saw my iPad video earlier this year. That feature is that you can highlight text within any web page and then once you highlight it not only is it going to stay highlighted or highlight not sure how you're supposed to say that when you refresh the page but you can also tap your highlights and you can add journal entries which allow you to essentially take notes on the highlights you make. I have written entire articles inside commands a journal feature because I'll take a highlight from something I'm reading on the web get inspired and then I was you know think I'm going to take a little bit of a note and then it balloons into a huge article. The other thing that I love about Command is it actually can send the highlights that you take to readwise account and I guess I should just talk about readwise now because it is the next app on our list. So readwise is basically a highlight manager for the knowledge that you intake from various sources. Books, Kindle books, podcasts using an app called Air which I will talk about a little bit later even tweets and content from your web browser. Now there is a way to sync highlights from mobile Safari to readwise but it's kind of a frictionful process and Command makes it much much easier. So I love doing research and doing highlighting using the Command browser when I'm reading blog posts and articles. But coming back to readwise readwise is essentially a highlight manager that can resurface and help you recall the knowledge that you gathered over time. It's got this data review area which will actually give you a collection of different highlights so you can remember them more usefully. I don't use that too much. What I actually do is I kind of use this as a database for a lot of the highlights that I take in books and other pieces of media. But the thing that I really love about readwise is that not only does it store all of my highlights here like these highlights from the book Ask You Water that I've been reading really recently but there is a native integration with both Notion and with Rome Research and also with Remnote I believe. So whenever you take a highlight from Kindle or from the Command browser or from even the Safari extension or tweeting readwise to roll up a tweet thread it'll send it to readwise and then readwise will do if we kick that highlight over to your integration platform. In my case it's Notion so I have a beautiful readwise database on Notion where I've got all of my highlights from books and articles and all kinds of media sources and then when I'm doing research for an article I can pull in my highlights into my research areas and actually now with Notion's synced blocks feature I don't even have to copy and paste. I can just create a synced block and port content over from my highlights area into whatever article that I'm writing which is next up on our list is one called Tide which is my favorite Pomodoro timer for the iPhone. Now it's got a ton of different features it can track your stats it's got all these nature sounds so you can create these soundscapes and help you focus. Personally I just like the way that it looks I like the fact that it's free and I like the fact that I can open up I can hit the focus button I can choose 25 minutes and I can start a Pomodoro session. And like I've said before the Pomodoro technique is one of the most powerful short-term productivity techniques there is because it externalizes the self-discipline that you need to keep working but it also reframes your task from output based to input based as in I have to write a paper which is really daunting and scary to I just need to work on this paper for 25 minutes and then I'm allowed to take a break. The next step on my list is actually a built-in app in the phone so if you have an iPhone you already have this and it's the fitness app or I don't know if it's called fitness or activity but this is absolutely a productivity app for me because when I'm active when I'm moving when I am exercising every day I also feel more energetic and I get more done and I work with more focus. Exercise is absolutely associated with cognitive performance and if you want to learn more about that there's a great book by Dr. John Rady called Spark. Highly recommend that especially if you like books full of scientific studies but having this app and specifically it's integration with the Apple Watch and the face here that shows me where my rings every time I look at the Apple Watch encourages me to get my exercise done and actually got the trends thing activated here so I can see that pretty much all my trends are on the up and moving more of an exercising more of it's standing more walking more all kinds of stuff. One of my favorite things about the fitness app is the sharing aspect of it so if you go over to the sharing tab you're going to see that I actually have shared my fitness data and vice versa with some of my friends Brian from real engineering who probably forgot to put on his Apple Watch today my friend Chris who wrote the productivity project in hyper focus my agent Dave and also Renee Richie from the channel Renee Richie who talks a lot about Apple. So using the sharing feature we all get notified when we work out we send each other fun emojis to encourage each other we'll sometimes check in and be like hey how come you haven't gotten your workout done today it adds some nice accountability into your daily exercise routine even if your friends are far-flung across the globe so next up in a list is audible which is an app that I've been using for a very very long time but I've actually been using a lot more heavily recently because I am now writing an e-bike to my downtown coworking office on any day where I don't have to sit in this chair and film videos in my studio and I absolutely love writing my bike getting out of the house going somewhere else to work and that whole process of writing actually about 40 miles in the e-bike gives me a ton of time to listen to things that I can use to educate myself so audible is probably my number one resource for that since I love listening to audiobooks and one thing that I did want to point out on the iPhone now that the home screen widgets feature is live is that audible has a widget which allows you to scroll down and basically resume the last book that you're listening to or pick one of the four that you listen to most recently other than that one so it's a nice way to just launch into a book that you're listening to recently without having to open up the app and wait for it to load. Next up in our list is an app called Adobe Scan which is probably the best free document scanner app on the iPhone. This is going to look really weird because you're going to see a camera and I'm moving it around. Hi other camera anyway this is a great app for scanning paper documents and then exporting them as PDFs or as a picture files and porting them into your knowledge management system. In my case it's going to be notion might be a room research or ever note for you but it's really nice to have a document scanner app on the phone. Next up we have Spotify for podcasts. Yep I have finally switched over to just using Spotify as my default podcast player. I resisted it for a very long time. I was a podcast fan but it's good enough now in Spotify. They've got the speed controls. They've got the sleep timer function and it's fast. That's really nice thing. Now I really wanted to recommend an app called Air instead of Spotify in this slot in the video. Air is a really cool podcast player that has a killer feature. My friend Ali Abdullah actually turned me on to this app so you may have heard him talking about it if you watch his videos. But Air is not just the podcast player. It's also an app that integrates with readwise and it has this really cool feature where if you're listening to something in a podcast episode and you want to make a highlight of it, you want to save it, you want to add a note to it. You can do that by hitting this little quote button here and it's going to save either the last 30 seconds or the last minute. You can change the duration if you want and you can add a little note that's going to send that to readwise. Which again would send to notion or room research or rem note if you have the integration created. It is super cool. But the performance of this app is just it's just not great right now. It's slow. If I want to like rewind 15 seconds, it takes like five seconds just to do it and start playing again. So I'm really hoping that they're going to improve the performance of this app and once they do that, I'm going to be probably switching over to using it because I really do want to use that readwise feature. I just needed to be fast. Now, if you're watching a video on my channel about iPhone apps, then I would say it's probable that you also watch one of my favorite tech YouTubers, Marquez Brownlee, aka MKBHD. And if you do, I want to let you know about a new course he dislodged over on Skillshare all about how to create great YouTube videos. I cannot think of many other people who I would rather have teach me how to make a great YouTube video than Marquez, especially because his quality is, well, let's just use the term that he uses. It's absolutely crispy. It's amazing. I take in a lot of inspiration from his setup, his gear, the way he films things to improve the quality of the footage on my own channel. And if you want to learn how to upgrade your own YouTube game or even start a channel if you haven't done it yet, his course over on Skillshare is a great place to start. And the one of the things about Skillshare is that when you join, you don't just get access to Marquez's class. You get access to thousands of classes that can boost your skills and your creative abilities in a ton of different areas, including productivity because I have three different classes on Skillshare of my own, one on building a productivity system that combines apps to make sure that nothing ever falls to the cracks. Also on Skillshare, you're going to find classes in graphic design, in video animation, in music production, in storytelling and public speaking. There is a ton that you can learn on Skillshare and it's also a very affordable platform. In fact, if you are one of the first 1,000 people to sign up for Skillshare today using the link down below, you're going to get a one month free trial, which means that you can go take my classes. You can go take MKBHD's class for free and test out the platform for a month before you have to pay anything. It's a great platform. I really think you're going to get a lot of value out of it and you're going to want to keep paying for it after that trial period is over, but you've got that trial to try it out. So once again, go to that link down in the description below, sign up if you want to the first thousand people to get that free one month trial. Thank you for watching this video. Hopefully you found something helpful here and I would also like to hear from you. What are your favorite apps that I did not mention in this video? Leave down in the comments section below and we can all try new things out and probably end up spending too much time on our phones and not actually being productive. Whoops. Anyway, I'll see you in the next video. Bye.
