# How a Nap Can Boost Your Productivity (If You Do It Right)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ysoGeZQ3dEA
Start building your problem-solving skills at Brilliant for free: https://brilliant.org/ThomasFrank - and be among the first 83 people to sign up to get 20% off your subscription.

Huge thanks to Brilliant for sponsoring this video!

Naps can be a huge productivity booster... or they can waste the rest of your day and leave you feeling like you just got by a truck. So what's the difference between a good nap and a bad nap? You'll find out in this video.

Get my book "10 Steps to Earning Awesome Grades" FREE: 
https://collegeinfogeek.com/get-better-grades/

Follow Me:
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly
Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Podcast ➔ https://www.youtube.com/TheCollegeInfoGeekPodcast

Subscribe to My Channel:
http://buff.ly/1vQP5ar

Links from the Video:

Why You're Always Tired: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HmZs6_CJ_u8
The Feynman Technique: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_f-qkGJBPts
The Pomodoro Technique: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H0k0TQfZGSc
Improving Your Study Space: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kB6wJkWO2SY

Pzizz app: https://pzizz.com/

My Video Gear:
https://kit.com/tomfrankly/my-video-gear
**Keywords:** naps, napping, how to nap, how to take a nap, is napping productive, should you nap, should you take naps, should i nap, tired all the time, why am i always tired, why am I tired, why you're tired, nap tips, napping tips, better naps, sleep mask, pzizz, nap apps, sleep apps, sleep tips, how to sleep, better sleep, sleeping, thomas frank, 
**Date:** 2018-04-13

## Transcript
 The surrealist painter of Salvador Dolly had a pretty interesting hack for generating new creative ideas. During the acronyms he would sit in his chair with one arm draped over the side of that chair holding a key, and beneath that key there was an upside down plate. From there he would let himself drift off until just before the moment he was about to fall asleep. At which point the key would fall from his hand to clatter onto the plate and wake him up, often with a new artistic idea in his mind. Dolly called this technique sleeping without sleeping, but you might recognize it as a pre-alarm clock version of the modern power nap. And he wasn't the only one who used this. Thomas Edison was rumored to do the exact same thing with a ball bearing instead of a key, and Beethoven, while he didn't use this key in plate method, was fond of taking Naps in his carriage in order to get new musical ideas. All of these people knew well the benefits of an afternoon nap, which is, if you think about it, probably the best productivity technique ever. I mean, if you think about all the other ones who talked about on this channel, whether it be the Feynman technique or the Pomodoro technique, or even just cleaning up your study space, they all kind of sort of involve work, which makes them a hassle, right? Who needs that? Right? By contrast, taking an app in the afternoon involves basically no effort whatsoever, and yet has a ton of productivity benefits. It can help deal with feelings of fatigue and leave you more energetic for the rest of the day, and it can also help with creativity and memory consolidation. But if you do it wrong, it could also just leave you feeling groggy and waste the ton of your time. And because of that, I put on my research and had this week, and I wanted to figure out what actually makes a good productive afternoon nap. So that is what you're going to learn in this video, and I've got five big things to share with you, ranging from basic nap techniques to some more advanced stuff, and some tools, and even an app that can help you out. But first, we do need to answer the question, why do people like to nap in the first place? There are a couple of really important reasons for this. Number one, being that a lot of people are actually pretty sleep-deprived. In fact, a couple of years ago, the CDC put out some statistics showing that over 40 million people in the US alone get less than six hours of sleep at per night. That being said, there is one other big reason why people like to take naps, and it has to do with your circadian rhythm, that built in biological mechanism that governs the ebbs and flows of your energy levels throughout the day. Most people experience their biggest dip in energy levels in the middle of the night, around 2 to 4am when they are conveniently fast asleep. But there is another pretty big dip in energy levels in the afternoon, around the hours of 1 to 3pm. Now, the degree to which your energy actually drops in the afternoon is definitely going to vary, both from person to person, and based on a ton of different factors, including the quality and amount of sleep you've actually got at night. But the fact still remains that an afternoon nap is a great way to deal with that dip in energy when it happens. So that brings us to our big question. How do you take a proper afternoon nap? When that leaves you feeling revitalized and productive afterwards, instead of like a truck hit you basically, which is what I've always experienced. The first tip I have for you has to do with the duration and timing of your nap. We'll start with duration. For most people, the best nap duration out there is going to be a 10 to 20 minute nap, the prototypical power nap. The reason thing for this has to do with the sleep cycle, which I've detailed in other videos, we're not going to get too deep into here, but basically, sleep happens in a cycle of about 90 minutes and it goes through several different stages. And the later stages of the sleep cycle involve slower brainwave activity, and if you're woken up during one of these stages, you're going to experience what's called sleep inertia, the feeling of grogginess and that desire to go right back to sleep, which is not what you want from an afternoon nap. Now, if you happen to have 90 minutes free in the afternoon, then by all means, get yourself a 90 minute nap, get a full revolution through that sleep cycle, and that's actually going to get you some additional benefits that a power nap won't get you such as memory consolidation. But I'm guessing that you like me and most of the people do not have an entire hour and a half in the afternoon to spend contact out on a couch. So 10 to 20 minutes is going to be the best bang for your buck, and you're going to want to take that 10 to 20 minutes between the hours of one to four PM. And this is because before one PM, you're probably not going to be all that tired that afternoon energy dip hasn't hit you yet, but more importantly, after four PM, if you take a nap, you risk messing with your night's sleep. So try to stick it within that window. Now, at this point, some of you probably have a little nagging question in the back of your mind. It has to do with that 10 to 20 minute recommendation, and that's that it takes people quite a while to fall asleep, right? And you're correct. The average person takes around 14 minutes to fall asleep at night, and some people definitely take longer. So given that, wouldn't attend to 20 minute power nap be basically useless if you're not going to fall asleep until 15 minutes into it? That was my suspicion as well, but then it came across an article on Lifehacker called How I Mastered the Power and App Written by a guy named Daniel Tener. And through his experience, he realized that he could gain a lot of benefits from napping even if he didn't fall asleep. The act of simply laying down and closing your eyes for a while and just relaxing can help with those feelings of a tea and make you more productive. And with more, he notes that getting rid of that expectation too fall asleep can actually help you eventually learn to fall asleep more easily. And he notes that napping is a skill. So when you start out, you may not be able to fall asleep or get into that relaxed state, but after a while you're going to find it easier and easier to do. Alright, my third tip for you here has to do with your environment. And it's going to come as a surprise to basically nobody watching this, that the best environment for taking a nap is pretty much the best environment for going to sleep as well, some place that's dark and quiet. But the problem is unless you work from home, you probably don't have access to a perpetually dark and quiet place. And that's why keeping a couple of simple tools in your bag can help you out a lot. For starters, you can pick up a five-veller eye mask at Target or Walmart, and I can help make it basically any place dark, and as a bonus it will definitely come in handy if you ever find yourself on a red eye flight, which I did a couple of weeks ago. And on the noise front, ear plugs are extremely cheap and really easy to use, or if you can afford it, and you are able to sleep on your back instead of your side, noise cancelling headphones can definitely be a good investment. Speaking of headphones, my fourth tip for you here is to try out an app called Pieces, or Pizzes, or Pizzas, I don't know how to pronounce it, but it's a pretty cool app for helping you take a nap. At its core, this is an app that generates ambient soundscapes that are great for falling asleep too, and you also have the option of having a voice guide you to sleep, kind of like a guided meditation, and there's a lot of granularity in your options with that voice. You can turn it off completely, or you can actually have it fade out after a few minutes and just transition to that music. Additionally, there's a sleep timer function, so you can tell that you only want to nap for 20 minutes, and it'll wake you up, which will help prevent you falling into those deeper stages of the sleep schedule, and hitting that sleep inertia. And that brings us to our last and most advanced tip, which is to try taking a coffee nap, which involves drinking a cup of coffee, or something else caffeinated, and then immediately taking a 20 minute power nap. Now, you're probably thinking to yourself that this sounds stupid, right, because caffeine is going to interfere with the quality of your sleep, but actually caffeine takes about 20 minutes to really kick in in your system, so by immediately taking a power nap right after you drink that cup of coffee, you actually gain the benefits of both a nap, and a cup of coffee. I've seen several prominent internet people praising the benefits of this practice, and yes, I'm going to go with internet people, because I can't think of a better term for it, but CGP Grey uses it, Tim Ferris uses it, and studies done in both the UK and Japan have found that it is more beneficial than a nap alone or coffee alone. And to give you a little insight into how this works, essentially, as you go through the day, your brain generates a chemical called adenosine, which builds up the desire to sleep. Now, obviously, once you take a nap, your brain is going to clear out some of that adenosine by sleeping, which is going to help you feel more energized and get rid of those feelings of fatigue. And, as you may have heard me talk about in other videos, caffeine molecules are actually very similar in structure to adenosine molecules, which means that they actually block those adenosine receptors, preventing the actual adenosine molecules from plugging into them and making you feel tired. So, you kind of get the best of both worlds. The nap clears out the adenosine that's already there, and the caffeine prevents more from plugging into those receptors, making you feel more alert. Now, one word of warning here, if you are going to try this technique out, you still do need to be very careful about building up a dependence to caffeine. So, if you are going to try taking a coffee nap, maybe take it easy on the coffee in the earlier part of the day. And, I do want to note one other thing while I'm talking about warnings here, and basically being your dad, which is that nap should not be used as a banday. They should not be used to cover up other bad health habits that are constantly making you tired. Aside from getting enough sleep at night, you should be making sure that you get enough exercise, you should make sure that you go outside and get sunlight exposure off and enough. Make sure you're drinking enough water, make sure that your nutrition is good. Basically, everything I talked about in my why you're always tired video, you should be making sure that you have taken care of in your life. Provided that you do have those things taken care of, though, naps can be one more tool in your arsenal for helping boost your productivity in the middle of the day. And, as Edison and Dolly and many other throughout history knew well, a nap can also help to boost your creativity and might actually help you solve a tough problem that you've been stuck on. And, on that note, if you're looking for tough problems to solve, problems that will improve your critical thinking skills, your analytical abilities, and improve your mastery in both math and science, then you should check out Brilliant. Brilliant is a learning platform that takes an active, challenge-based approach to teaching math, science, and computer science. And, throughout their courses on astronomy, on gravitational physics, calculus, computer algorithms, computer memory, and many, many more, you're going to find yourself immediately thrown into challenging problems that number one, build your interest in the subject immediately, which often doesn't happen in courses that start more passively, and which build your expertise much more efficiently. Additionally, when you find yourself stuck on a challenging problem in one of their courses, you're also going to find it extremely detailed wiki with tons of example problems in detail that can help to flesh out your understanding and an active community of thousands of other learners. So, if you want to start improving your problem-solving abilities, I highly recommend giving Brilliant a try. You can go over to Brilliant.org slash Thomas Frank to start learning for free today, and the first 83 people who click on that link in the description down below will also get 20% off of their annual subscription. Huge thanks to Brilliant for sponsoring this video, and being a continued supporter of this channel, and as always, guys, thank you so much for watching. Also, it has come to my attention that a lot of you do not know that I have a podcast, and I do, I do with my friend Martin every single week, so if you want more content like this, but in a longer format, definitely check out our latest episode right here. Lastly, you can find one more video on this channel right over here, smash your face on your phone, or do whatever you want, I'm not your dad, do whatever you want, I don't care, man. Yeah, videos over. I'm going to go take a nap.
