# The best way to tame your overwhelming to-do list
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zfnvbw4s9CA
If you can't do it all, you have to learn how to prioritize. Here's how.
📺 Watch this video ad-free on Nebula: https://nebula.app/videos/thomas-frank-5-steps-to-tame-your-overwhelming-todo-list

🛠 COURSES AND RESOURCES: 
Notion channel - https://www.youtube.com/c/ThomasFrankExplains
Free Notion templates - https://thomasjfrank.com/templates/
Learn Notion - https://thomasjfrank.com/fundamentals
Productivity and Habits courses - https://thomasjfrank.com/courses/

🦙 SPONSOR: 
Be one of the first 200 to sign up and get 20% off your Brilliant subscription: https://www.brilliant.org/thomasfrank

🐦 SOCIAL STUFF:
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly
Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Podcast ➔ https://www.youtube.com/TheCollegeInfoGeekPodcast
Spotify Study Playlist ➔ https://open.spotify.com/user/thomasfrank09/playlist/4ETfiRPHVmUFLF6q0g8Fux?si=IPfx3dAgQ1SIUwhh5YEQMQ

🔗 VIDEO LINKS:
I Cooked a Chicken by Slapping It: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LHFhnnTWMgI

👐 BUSINESS:
Please contact my agent at thomasfrank@standard.tv

🎞 SPECIAL THANKS
Video clips supplied by Getty Images

💰 I'm fortunate enough to work with great sponsors who support my work, so I don't use Patreon or any other crowdfunding service. However, if you'd like to support a worthy cause, consider donating to help more children get access to a high-quality education: https://fundraise.pencilsofpromise.org/fundraiser/1489730
**Keywords:** thomas frank, productivity, do delay delegate delete, time management, task management, to do list, to do, to do apps, overwhelmed, get more done, get things done, procrastination, delegation, priorities, prioritization, 
**Date:** 2021-04-04

## Transcript
 This video is sponsored by Brilliant. Do, delay, delegate, and delete. These are the classic 4Ds of time management, which I've been described in countless different productivity books and articles, and together they help you answer one big question. How should I deal with all the tasks that I'm supposed to do? Most of us have too many things to do. Our to-do lists are a mile long, we're stressed out, and half the time we don't even know where to start. And this, this is the problem that a decision-making framework can help you to solve. In the 40s form one of those such frameworks, but today I would like to submit for your consideration and improved version of that framework, one that adds a fifth element, automate. Now to be fair, you could consider this to be a subtype of delegate since you are technically delegating to a robot, but I prefer to give it its own equal position and list so that we can form our own shiny new productivity term, the dad method. So, let me level with you here for a second. We productivity gurus, we live, and die by the arbitrary acronyms and methods that we coin. In fact, entire careers have been built off of this practice. GTD, the Pomodoro technique, 8020. They are the bedrock upon which we're built. So, let's make a deal, you and I. You've a grudge mean, my shiny new productivity term. Let me get mine. And in return, I will not share with everyone your secret, shameful Harry Potter fan fiction, Derek. So, let's get started, and let's start with do, the domain of weddings, Shilobuff, and extinct birds if you say it twice fast. In the context of decision making, do really means do now. So, how do you know if you should do something right now? Well, answer a simple, ask yourself these two questions. Number one, is the task at hand, both urgent and important. And number two, can you do it in under two minutes? If the answer to at least one of those questions is yes, then yes, do it right now. So, answering that first question is kind of obvious. Your palaces on fire. It's 1158 p.m. and the term paper is due in two minutes. The president has been kidnapped by ninjas. These are all tasks that would be found in the first quadrant of the classic Eisenhower matrix, which is used by project managers to prioritize tasks based on their urgency and on their importance. When a task falls into the fire in ninjas quadrant, it should probably be done right now. The second question refers to the two minute rule that David Allen describes in his book Getting Things Done. If you can do a task in two minutes or less, then it as well should be done right now. Now, like the 20 second rule that I've talked about in other videos, the two minutes here is really just kind of an arbitrary marker. Get another pithy term that sticks well in the mind and helps business authors bag those. In general, even if it's a little over two minutes, if you can do it quickly, do it now. Otherwise, delay it. To remix a line from Toy Story, delaying is really just procrastinating the style. In the key to delaying a task strategically instead of merely procrastinating is to first get very specific about the details of your deferment, the what, the when, and the how. And then secondly, you want to get those details into an external system that you trust. So what I want to do here is share two big tips from proving the way you use your to do lists. First, create an inbox for yourself. So an inbox is a place where you can quickly dump tasks wherever they come up and wherever you are. It should be a low friction way to get things into your system that you can access at a moment's notice. Keypoint, low friction here. Secondly, have a specific time for processing that inbox. And this is the part that most people tend to skip, which is why they're to do lists so often fall victim to entropy. Another term that I'm going to use in my, basically, entropy means chaos. When people don't process their inboxes, they become a mile long, and eventually they become the chaotic mess that people no longer trust. And then they start trusting their brains. But when you take time every single day or at least each week to process your inbox, your system remains something that you can trust. Next up, we have Automate, which is objectively the coolest step since it doesn't fall for robots. For millennia, humans have used tools to conquer their environment and shape it to their will. Now in most cases, these tools have simply made the work that they were already doing a little bit faster, or a little bit easier. But then, somewhere along the line, we started building these rude, gold-bergest contraptions that, in some cases, did the work entirely for us. So the line between automation and mere optimization gets pretty blurry pretty fast. Did the Ox-Drawn plow merely optimize work once done by hoeing, by humans, or was the man driving that Ox forward one of the world's first automation engineers? And if so, what was a stack overflow ranking? Anyway, wherever you place that line doesn't matter so much as long as you understand that you can use tools to do things faster. And if you can approach a repeated process with a creative systems-based mindset, then you'll start to see opportunities for automating at least some of the pieces of it. One method for doing this is called templatization. This involves basically boxing pieces of a project up into a master template, which you can then copy for each new project instead of making each of those little pieces over and over and over again in a row process. For a very, very simple example here, let's look at just a slice of the editing process for this video. To stay organized when we make a video, we have folders for the footage that we shoot, though I'm shooting right now, for the project files, for music, for sound effects, for images, basically every different type of media. Now for each video, I could manually create these folders, which I used to do, or I could simply make a folder called template that already contains all these folders. Then I can just duplicate that folder and rename it for every new video that we make. Another method is called a process automation, which basically means building a robot to do the job for you. You might use robots to build cars, to cook a chicken by slapping it. In terms of chicken integrity, this chicken is looking pretty good. We're up another degree Celsius. Let's go! Or to automate tedious processes on your computer. And tools like Zapier, Integramat, and IFTTT are all great places to start exploring if you're interested in that last option, though they won't cook chickens for you. Of course, process automation has existed for quite a lot longer than robots have, just under a different moniker, delegation. Now, honestly, if I want to break into the area of business writing where the real money is, then I should probably flesh this section out more than any of the others. I should also throw around terms like management theory, an agile framework, no bathroom breaks. After all, it is the managers who call the shots in most companies, which means that it's the managers who hire business authors to come speak at their corporate retreats and stop motivational platitudes for $50,000. One can dream. Now, if you're watching this video, my guess is that you don't count yourself amongst the ranks of these people, and you don't know how to dress for their cocktail parties. You may also think that delegation is not a strategy for you. But that's probably not true. Let's consider for a moment the simplest and cheapest way to delegate any task there is. Could you trick a little brother into doing it and will it take payment and left over Halloween candy? Even if he decides to demand cold hard cash, it's still might be worth taking that deal. And to know for sure, you first need to understand the value of your time. Like money, time is a resource. Whenever you choose to do something, you incur an opportunity cost. You're losing the opportunity to do literally anything else that you could have done with that time. You are giving something up. So one easy way to value your time to understand this trade-off is to take the amount that you make and figure out your per hour rate. So for example, if you make $60,000 a year and you work an average of $1800 a year, which is the average here in the US, then your per hour rate is roughly $33. Now, this is an incredibly oversimplified way of valuing your time. There's a lot of other factors we can include here. But for simplicity's sake, we're doing it this way because it's at least a good way to help yourself be more open to a delegation that would make sense. For instance, if your per hour rate is $33, and you can pay some in a million long for $30, then doing so makes sense unless you're somebody that really likes mowing lawns. The bottom line is that you should start at least thinking of your time as a valuable resource. One that is at least as valuable as your money and honestly probably more. Do that and you're going to start opening your mind up to more delegation opportunities. But you're also going to realize that some of the tasks in your plate just aren't worth your time or the money that you would spend delegating them. And these are the tasks that you should simply delete. But how do you know whether or not it's a good idea to snap a task out of existence instead of doing it? Well, when faced with this question, I like to remind myself of the any benefit approach that Cal Newport discusses in his book Deep Work. As he explains the book, people often add new tools, new products, and especially new social networks into their lives, if they provide literally any benefit no matter how small. And in doing so, these people fail to consider the cost of these additions. In the case of social networks, it's more wasted time scrolling through feeds, more cognitive switching penalties that make you less productive. So Newport advocates rejecting this any benefit approach. Instead, scrutinizing any new product or social network or tool to determine it's net benefit. And I think that we need to consider this when we're adding things toward to do lists as well. I know that I'm guilty of adding tasks, willy-nilly, tiny little things that I just think have to be done. And then when I screwed nice these things later on, I often realized that I was wrong. They really didn't matter. What I try to do now is consider the opportunity cost, like we just talked about the delegation section of each task. I asked myself, what could I do instead? And as it turns out, I usually have quite a few options that are either more enjoyable or their higher value. By thinking about these alternatives, it becomes a lot easier to just say no to all these tiny tasks that really, at the end of the day, don't matter. So that in a nutshell, is the dad method. Now, if you are an agent of a big book publisher, I will take one. Please, and thank you. For everyone else, here is a quick summary of the process reversed, so that it fits into a nice, neat flowchart. For any task that you are faced with, ask yourself, number one, does it even need to be done? Number two, do I need to be the one to do it? Number three, can I automate it? And number four, do I need to do it now? Out of the five steps in the dad method, perhaps the most rewarding and yet the hardest to master is automation. Now, it's core, automation is really just problem-solving. Can you take a problem and creatively figure out how to solve it by building a system instead of by doing it manually? Peter Parker, brilliant but lazy, right? And this is a fundamental skill that is sought after and pretty much every industry today. It is often crucial in hiring decisions. And luckily, it's also something that you can learn through practice. And one great resource for learning this skill is brilliant, which is a learning library that actually kills two birds with one stone. The library of more than 60 in-depth courses teaches you math, science, and computer science skills, like how to build a search engine, or how to figure out probabilities, while also building your universally applicable problem-solving skills. This is because Brilliant's entire approach to learning is based on active problem-solving. So, when you're working through their courses, you're not just passively learning, like you often do in school, you are doing. So, if you'd like to try out Brilliant for yourself, you can actually start learning for free by going over to Brilliant.org slash Tom's Frank, or by clicking the link in the description down below. And if you're one of the first 200 people to use that link and sign up, you're also going to get 20% off your annual premium subscription. And you'll be helping to support this channel by supporting the sponsors who support me. That was a lot of instances of the word support. Maybe I should automate that. But seriously, if you do choose support my sponsors, thank you so much. You're really helping the channel out. But also, if you made it to the end of this video, thank you for putting up with all my stupid jokes, and thank you for watching my videos. Seriously, I really appreciate you, hopefully you found something useful in this video. If you haven't subscribed yet, a little button right there, where you can subscribe, you get notifications of new videos. I love a couple of other videos on screen. If you want to watch some more stuff that have made in the past. If you want to hit that like button, that's always appreciated. But of course, I can't tell you what to do, so if you don't want to do any of that stuff, go fight a shark for all I care because I am not your dad.
