# Become a Better Speaker: 9 Essential Public Speaking Tips - College Info Geek
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zZBJZ-dBVbE
Speeches and presentations can seem like the scariest things in the world (except hippos - those things are scary as all get out). With practice, though, you can reduce the anxiety they cause, calm your nerves, and become a great public speaker.

Today we'll cover 9 areas of focus - including eye contact, body language, speech rate, and methods of practice - that you can improve in order to start delivering great speeches.

The companion article for this video contains a LOT of extra detail, bonus resources, links to videos of great speakers, and even a couple old videos of me practicing speeches (one is pretty terrible). Check it out:

http://collegeinfogeek.com/public-speaking-tips/

My book "10 Steps to Earning Awesome Grades" is completely free, so check it out if you're interested in improving your grades!

http://collegeinfogeek.com/get-better-grades/

If you want to get even more strategies and tips on becoming a more productive, successful student, subscribe to my channel right here:

http://buff.ly/1vQP5ar

Twitter ➔ https://twitter.com/tomfrankly
Instagram ➔ https://instagram.com/tomfrankly

~ created by Thomas Frank
**Keywords:** Public Speaking (Literature Subject), speech class, speech tips, public speaking, how to be a speaker, speaking skills, presentations, presentation tips, presenter, speaking on stage, stage fright, speech anxiety, eye contact, body language, speak slower, speak faster, college speaking, high school debate, 
**Date:** 2015-10-16

## Transcript
 Hey, what's up guys? Today, we are going to tackle one of the most highly requested topics on this channel, which is how to become a better public speaker. Now, this is actually perfect timing for this topic because last month I went down to South Carolina to give a talk at a conference called Fincon, where I talked about building a YouTube channel, something I'm pretty passionate about, and actually this month I'll be going to Vermont in a couple weeks to give my first paid speaking engagement. So speaking is becoming a larger part of my life, and while I'm not a professional speaker, I do have a lot of experience speaking in public, and I've gained a lot of insights and skills over the years through practice, and I want to help impart some of the knowledge I've been able to gain to use, so you can become a better public speaker technically, and also start to calm some of the nerves and anxiety that you might get when you have to get on stage in front of a bunch of people. So to that end, I've got nine specific public speaking tips for you this week that can help you become a better speaker, and the first one is to pay very, very close attention to your rate of speech when you're on stage. Most inexperienced speakers tend to speak a lot more quickly than they think they're speaking, and it's because when you're on stage, you have all this anxiety, and you have all the material up in your head, and you're just trying to get through it as quickly as possible, because the number one thing you want to do is get off stage to where nobody's judging you anymore, right? But the problem is, this isn't YouTube, the people sitting in the audience aren't looking at a bunch of other tabs, and they're not liable to click away after two minutes. They've sat there, and they've dedicated some time to listening to what you have to say, so if you can slow down and give them some breathing room, then they're going to be able to contemplate what you've said and more easily follow along with what you're talking about. Also, your rate of speech isn't the only thing you can control to make your speech better. You can also employ strategic pauses to highlight certain points. Now, there's a lot of speeches that I've watched to study to become better speaker myself, but there's actually a fake one that I really, really like and want to use as an example here, and it's this 2023 TED Talk that the producers of the movie Prometheus put out as an advertisement for the movie, and in this TED Talk, Guy Pierce's character is talking about cyber individuals and basically his ambitions to take over the world. But when I watched this, I thought it was a fantastic piece to study for public speaking because he employs these pauses so dramatically and so effectively. So check that video out after you watched this one and start to learn from it. Now, another thing Guy Pierce does amazingly in that video is my second tip, which is to pay attention to your body language. And this is important for two specific reasons. Number one, your body language forms a large part of the non-verbal communication that complements the verbal communication of your words. The way you hold yourself, the way you're poised, your posture, the way you move your hands and gesture to highlight certain points. These all go hand in hand with the words you're speaking and can help to complement and drive home those points. But the other reason is that the unconscious body language that a lot of inexperienced speakers have is something that can harm you. We have a lot of nervous ticks. For example, when I was an inexperienced speaker just starting out a lot of things that I would do, I would put my hands in my pockets and I guess the camera's fixed right there. But I can try to show you, right? But my hands in and out of my pockets over and over again while I was speaking and I would also pace around the stage really distractedly, kind of moving and I wasn't really consciously pacing and using that to effect. I was just doing it unconsciously. So these are things that you can control to both not distract your audience, but also to help bolster your points. And my third tip is to consciously try to improve your ability to make eye contact with your entire audience. Now one thing rookie speakers do a lot of times is they'll fix it on one section of the audience and they'll stay there during their entire speech because they're nervous. But the problem is there are people over here and over here and your entire audience are the people you're addressing. So you want to make sure you're trying to make eye contact with each and every single person during your speech. Now I know it can be difficult to make eye contact when you're already nervous about being on stage. So you can employ a classic speaker's trick which is to simply look over the heads of the people in the back row who are far enough away that they probably won't be able to tell that you're not looking them directly in the eye. But I do want to challenge you. The next time you have to make a speech, if you're feeling nervous and you find it difficult to make eye contact and you want to employ this trick, I do challenge you to at least try to make eye contact with a couple of people throughout your talk. Because this is something that gets easier to do over time and it will make you a more engaging effective and more human speaker. Now speaking of practicing that eye contact the fourth tip is to in general practice practice practice practice practice and when you think you have practice all you could potentially ever practice do it again. The idea here is not to practice your speech until you get it right, but to practice your speech until you can't get it wrong. And this is because mastery helps to get you through any anxiety you're feeling. As we talked about in my test anxiety video, anxiety can actually block your brain for making connections. So the more of a concrete grasp you have on your material, the more likely you're going to be able to get past those anxiety blockers, get the thoughts out of your brain through your lips and into the ears of the eager audience. Also, mastery is important because when you're getting something right in your practice situation, it doesn't necessarily mean you're going to be able to get it right in the more stressful situation where you're addressing real living, breathing, farting, human beings. So make sure you practice until you know your material cold. Now on that note, you might be thinking, well, my speech teacher told me not to memorize my speech. And in general, I do agree with that piece of advice, but I want to drill into it and give a little bit more of a specific opinion on it. So in my mind, you should not write your speech out like an essay and try to memorize it word for word. If you do that, you're going to sound unnatural. You're going to sound robotic. You're going to sound, well, like you're reading. But I do think you should write your speech out in the form of bullet points. Have the main points listed out. Have any details and facts and statistics and figures you want to cite right now. And memorize those. So when you get on stage, you don't have anything in your hands, except maybe a presentation remote or prop. And you can you can recite the entire speech from memory because you know your points cold, you know exactly what it is that you need to communicate to your audience. Now another final note on practice is that practice works for individual speeches, but it's also something that's going to make you a better speaker over time. So if you feel like right now, your public speaking skills aren't at the level you want them to be. The best way to get better is to simply speak again and again and again. There's an organization called Toastmasters where you can get with other budding speakers and people who want to improve their skills and actually get up and give speeches in a non-threatening environment. You can take a speech class at your school, which I definitely recommend you should do. And you can also do things that aren't really public speaking, but just things that give you performance anxiety. If I'm being honest, the thing that has helped me become a better public speaker, the most, is running my podcast in my YouTube channel because each and every week, I have to create something where I'm speaking to an audience. Yes, my actual public speaking experiences have contributed to my skills, but I've done way more videos and way more podcasts and those have helped me as well. So if there's something that gives you performance anxiety, whether it be dancing in public or doing karaoke with your friends or something, anything that gives you a little bit of anxiety at upfront, but then afterwards you realize that the world didn't end, even though you did it, that's going to help build your confidence and decrease the amount of care you have, what people think. And those improvements will all feed back into your speaking ability. Now, my fifth tip is also related to practice, but it's a little bit of a technical improvement you can make to your practice. And it's to do exactly what I'm doing right now. When you practice, take a video camera with you and film yourself. This is what I would do every single time I had a speech in college. I would go find an empty classroom and with my first few rounds, I wouldn't videotape it because I was just trying to get the material down in my head, so I memorized it all. But once I had the material down, then I would film myself doing each and every take. And afterwards I would watch the take review each aspect of my performance and pick out the things that could be improved. This is a huge upgrade over just practicing for an empty room because you're not always aware of the things you're doing. Maybe you have a nervous tick. Maybe you're looking back at the slides too often or maybe you're pacing too much, but the tape doesn't lie. So if you can watch that tape, see your mistakes. You can know what to correct and you're going to be able to practice more effectively and maybe have to practice even less than you would originally need to. So tip number six is to know who your audience is. And by that, I mean, realize that people in your audience will most likely fall into one of two categories. Number one over here, you have the people who are rooting for you. They want to see you succeed. They're invest in your topic and these are your champions, like your fans, right? And over here, you have the evil people who are going to laugh at you and throw tomatoes at you and curse your family for all eternity, right? Or now. Over here, actually, you have people who are bored. And that's not because of you. It's because their minds are elsewhere. They don't want to be there. They'd rather be off doing something else. And whatever you do, if you perform badly, if you perform really good, or if you're more in the middle and just doing a mediocre job, it's likely that that's not going to have much of an effect on them at all. Now, you do want to get the most number of people possible into that that former category of the people who are really invested in your topic. And that's what the other tips in this video can help you do. But I want you to realize that the people in that ladder category, the people who just don't care, they don't matter. So don't worry about what they're going to think when you're creating your speech or when you're up on stage, delivering it because that anxiety isn't worth it. If you get feedback later on after the speech that you can use to constructively improve, that's good, but don't let it worry you in the moment. Moving right along, my seventh tip is to focus more on the topic and less on the aspects of your performance when you're delivering your speech and also when you're preparing. I've found through experience that when I'm really invested in what I'm talking about and more specifically when I'm invested in a transformation, I want it to have on the audience. I don't care so much about the technical aspects of my speech. I don't care about my body language. I don't care about my eye contact. I'm not even thinking about it because it's become almost as if I was explaining something I cared about to a dear friend and I want them to learn what it is that I know. So the focus comes off the nervousness of standing on stage and addressing a bunch of people and it's placed on this is what I know and this is what I really want you to learn. I'm really excited about it and I hope that what I say can teach you or persuade you to take some action. Tip number eight, don't have a stupid what I mean by that is think about your appearance, dress well and try to make a great first impression when you step on stage. This is important because of the halo effect, which is also known as exaggerated emotional coherence and it's basically a term to explain the fact that humans makes split-second first impressions of people right when they meet them. So the problem with this is that maybe it's not a problem, maybe it's just a fact of life. What happens is people use those first impressions to essentially fill in what they don't know about the person and also make judgments about what comes next. So if you get on stage and you're dressed well you hold yourself well and people are impressed with you and they're more likely to forgive any mistakes you make and they're also more likely to be receptive to whatever is you're saying. But if you don't look good then it's going to be a lot harder for you to convince people of what you're talking about and those mistakes will be all the more glaring. So first impressions matter. And my ninth and final tip is take a breath. Don't think you need to be perfect. Bokusing on perfection is the number one way to trip yourself up to give yourself massive amounts of anxiety and to fail. Don't worry about being perfect. Just get on stage and deliver the best speech that you can give. There's a book I write in college called Confessions of a Public Speaker by a guy named Scott Birkin and I highly recommend it if you want to get better at speaking. It's on my essential books list but there's a passage in here that really resonated with me when I read it and he says I don't want to be perfect. I want to be useful. I want to be good. I want to sound like myself. Nobody gives a perfect speech. Even if you think somebody gave a perfect speech that person can point out all the errors and all the things they wish they would have done better. So get on stage focus on doing good, focus on improving over your previous performance and then just focus on that topic like I said. Try to enact a transformation in your audience and you're not going to care so much about your nerves and your performance. So those are the nine tips I wrote down for this video but I do have a little bonus tip of sorts for you and it's to study people who are great public speakers. I have a playlist of videos here on YouTube that I've been building for a few years and whenever I need to make a speech of my own I'll go study some of those speeches and try to pin point exactly what they're doing that I'd like to improve on with my own skills. So in the companion blog post for this video I've linked to that playlist and as a bonus I've also linked to some of my earlier speaking videos and just for warn you one of the earlier ones is really really bad. So laugh at me all you want I don't care because I have improved and I just kind of want to show you guys that practice does make better. Not perfect. So that's it for this video. Hopefully it helped you out and if it did I just want to let you know that next week we're going to follow up this topic with an additional video on how to craft great presentation so we'll talk about making great slides and using story and narrative to keep your audience engaged. So if you haven't subscribed to this channel you can click the subscribe button to get notified about that video and others in the future and if you like this video click that like button to support this channel and other than that I will see you guys next week. Hey guys thanks so much for watching this video if you want to get new videos and being a more effective student every single week you click that big red subscribe button right there. I also wrote a book on how to earn better grades so if you want to get a free copy of that with the picture of the book and you can find those speeches on my playlist along with notes and a summary of this video in the companion blog post which you can find with the indie orange button right there. Last week's video was over some of the struggles I'm dealing with my work light and what I'm doing about it so check it out also you can see a pretty cool skateboard is going to be that video which I enjoy filming and if you want to connect I'm on Twitter at Tom Brinkley's this looks like Instagram and otherwise you can leave a comment below.
