# Wilderness Medicine Expedition - Cambridge University medical student VLOG #03
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-6YiD77uWD8
A trip to Yorkshire Dales National Park with the Cambridge University Wilderness Medicine Society (CUWMS). Each term, we do a couple of trips to various pretty parts of the UK. We spend the weekend hiking through mountains, doing the occasional medical scenario, eat lots of food and play lots of group bonding games like Mafia, Articulate and more. 

Massive thanks to everyone who went on the trip for (a) being awesome and friendly and lovely, and (b) being cool with a fat camera pointed at their face for a lot of it. Love you guys xx

Who am I:

I'm Ali, a final year medical student at Emmanuel College, Cambridge. This vlogging thing seems quite fun so I'll be vlogging life and other things throughout the year. I'm pretty into music and coding as well, so maybe there'll be some of that on this channel.

Follow me plssss:
- Snapchat: aliabdaal
- Twitter - https://twitter.com/AliAbdaal
- Instagram - https://instagram.com/AliAbdaal
- Website - www.aliabdaal.com
**Keywords:** Cambridge medicine, Cambridge medical student, Cambridge medicine vlog, Cambridge medical student vlog, medical student, medicine vlog, medicine, medical student vlog, Oxbridge, Oxford, Cambridge, cambridge medicine, oxford medicine, yorkshire dales, wilderness medicine, mountain medicine, mountain rescue, cambridge university societies, cuwms, cambridge societies, cambridge university wilderness medicine society, expedition medicine, 
**Date:** 2017-09-11

## Transcript
 Hey guys, welcome back to the channel Any driving and coming to a second and minutes of jam How do you feel about this early? I'm feeling quite happy because I need to get to spend more time with you guys Yeah! Why are you so happy? Hi guys, so we're on our way to the Yorkshire Dales And we are going on a wilderness medicine expedition This means that we're going to spend the weekend hiking around Yorkshire and along the way we're going to be doing like medical scenarios So like someone's going to break their leg Someone's going to, you know, step on a landmine And then everyone else are going to have to be doctors and try and work out what's going on And then use the first aid kit to like save the day And in the car we've got K, U, Han and Suji, say hi everyone HELLO! How are you guys feeling about the trip? Really excited Pumpt Pumpt Pumpt Pumpt Pumpt Pumpt Pumpt Pumpt Pumpt Pumpt Pumpt Pumpt Pumpt Pumpt Pumpt Pumpt Pumpt Pumpt Pumpt Welcome everyone Hope you're all ready for it And so can we just go around Ali to want to start and save you? Hi Ali I'm a final year Pumpt Pumpt Pumpt Pumpt Pumpt Pumpt Pumpt I'm Rachel I'm finally I'm President Pumpt Pumpt We're going to time some of the Yorkshire three peaks Which is the same sighting Two hours later Oh, so we've arrived After a long journey And did like a brief exception Now we're going to go to sleep Wake up at half-five seven for a nice breakfast See you tomorrow Good night Good night Good morning It's about half-five seven in the morning And we've been treated to a wonderful breakfast of porridge, tea, coffee, raisins and toast By the committee And we're going to set up for a long hike in about 20 minutes time Okay, we're climbing this hill, it's very steep Yeah, but beautiful weather today Can you feel the breeze? It's very tiring I can't breathe Everyone sit simultaneously It's great One, two, one Are you warming up me? Two, one, two I'm going to be shit Hi everyone So, as you can see, the weather is absolutely beautiful About half way through the day We've made it to the top of the river Oh my god Oh my god That was such a pleasant feeling It's all my guess I think they're clearly a test day So you need to check with danger at first We've just had some spontaneous teaching On how to do splints Which is very enjoyable We have lots of pretend patients And how to use essentially this tent to stay warm And use it as a stretcher To carry people down the hill So that was already entertaining I think quite a lot of people enjoy being carried Lazy, lazy burgers Help you scream She screaming Let's climb My legs are on my knees What's going on? What's going on? What's going on? What's going on? What's going on? My legs are so wide What's going on? What's going on? It's out I don't think I can move it Do you say anything? Okay Yes, I'll respond Excuse my fingers All right Okay So that was our first scenario We had one medic And one expedition leader on the side of the mountain With the rocks around And we had two casualties And the guys had to kind of assess them And make a plan Pretend to call mountain rescue They did reasonably well We're going to have a debrief session When we finish our walk and get down to the pub Where the committee will kind of explain what was going on And we'll have a chat through Have a discussion about what could have been done better What was done well? That sort of thing So yeah, we're on the second half of the day now Going to head down Head to the pub It should be good Stolen at least cumbra Stolen at least cumbra Let's look through and his wallet Oh, yeh, she looks all right now He hasn't significantly more hair So the wilderness met as cities are historic The time and the 19th century And basically we've been trying to find the state of the art wilderness metacle care From that time for a And what sort of food and drink can you expect on the wilderness metacle? So we like everything to be naturally sourced for a drink People should get involved with the society Because it is the best society We have very wonderful weekends away Very sociable, we learn things, we have fun And we escape from Cambridge mainly And pretend that life is good All right, we're back at the cottage We just had a really fun game of Mathia After playing bit of art, take your day And now it's dinner time, it looks amazing
