# What happens after medical school - UK medical training explained
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-8VOMX5JYoQ
In this video, I explain the basics of the UK medical training pathways beyond medical school, and give a quick update as to where I currently fit into the picture. 

💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking 

📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

TIMESTAMPS:

00:22 - The basics
00:46 - Overview of the Foundation Programme
01:13 - 'The Choice" - Core Medical vs Core Surgical Training
01:29 - Speciality Training
02:31 - Run-through specialities / GP
04:24 - The foundation programme in more detail - how you get allocated to regions
05:38 - The foundation programme - job ranking
06:40 - Update from my end - where I fit into the programme currently
07:25 - The Academic Foundation Programme (AFP)
08:47 - Brief introduction to the Academic Clinical Fellowship (ACF)
09:40 - Summary of UK medical training pathways
10:15 - Closing comments

LINKS:

BMA Medical Training Pathway - https://www.bma.org.uk/advice/career/studying-medicine/insiders-guide-to-medical-specialties/medical-training-pathway
BMA - Applying to the Foundation Programme - https://www.bma.org.uk/advice/career/applying-for-training/applying-to-the-foundation-programme

🎬 My online course on video editing - https://skl.sh/32TpEvm
🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal

Who am I:

I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking 

📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal
**Keywords:** uk medical training, uk training pathway, medicine training, what happens after medical school, what happens after med school, after medical school, after med school, ali abdaal, FPAS, foundation programme, FY1, junior doctor, academic foundation programme, afp, F1 junior doctor, 
**Date:** 2018-03-14

## Transcript
 Hey guys, welcome back to the channel. If you're new here, my name is Ali. I'm a finally a medical student at Cambridge University. And in this video, I'm going to be briefly explaining how the UK medical training system works beyond medical school. And at the end of the video, I'll give you a quick update as to where I'm currently fitting into this grand scheme of things. As usual, everything's time's time down below in the description, so you can skip ahead to the right bits of feel like it. But yeah, let's jump into it. We're going to be talking about how UK medical training works. So, as you might know, medical school lasts five years in the UK. So, we've got one, two, three, four, five. And some medical schools require you to do an intercalated degree, like Cambridge and some medical schools' optional. So, in those places, medical school lasts six years. You get into medical school at roughly the age of 18, and you leave at roughly the age of 24, give or take a few years. Let's say if you haven't done an intercalated degree or you took a gap year or you're a graduate student, etc, etc. And then beyond medical school, you join the foundation program. And every single medical graduate does the foundation program. And the foundation program lasts two years. So, those are FY1, and FY2. And in each of those two years, you usually have three different rotations of four months each. And these rotations might be, for example, general surgery, general medicine, psychiatry. And then in FY2, you might have ONG as number four. You might have, I don't know, cardiology as number five, and respiratory as number six. You know, that sort of thing. There's loads of different combinations. So, after you two use the foundation program, that's when you make the choice. I'm simplifying a little bit, but I'll give you more caveats as we go along in the video. The choice is basically between core medical training and core surgical training. CMT and CST. And core medical training and core surgical training lasts two years. And you choose one or the other. Now, after doing two years of core medical training, let's say you want to become a cardiologist because cardiology is a medical specialty. You would apply for ST3 cardiology, so specialist training 3 in cardiology. But let's say you want to become a plastic surgeon. Plastic surgery is obviously a surgical specialty. So, after you're two years of core surgical training, you would then apply to ST3 in plastics. Specialist training 3 in plastics, and it's a 3 because you've done two years of surgery training already. So, this is your third year of surgical training. And most specialties go up to ST8. So, year 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, and 8. That's like six years were. And after ST8, that is when you become a consultant, effectively. So, you leave medical school around the age of 24. You make the choice at around the age of 26. Your core medical training and core surgical training lasts two years. That takes you up to age 28. And then from ST3 to ST8 to 60. So, that takes you roughly about to age 34 to 35, which is pretty much the earliest time you can be a consultant in the UK. So, that's how it works to the basic core medical and core surgical specialties. But what if you want to become a GP or what if you want to become a psychiatrist? That's when we talk about run through specialties. So, with run through specialties, everyone still does medical school. Everyone still does FY1 and FY2. It's just a for run through specialties. You have a few more options when it comes to the choice. As we discuss, you can either go down to CMT or the CST, core medical training, or core surgical training group. Or, instead, you can go for a run through specialty, which starts off as ST1. So, specialty training one. And you go from ST1 to ST8, usually, but, you know, some of some of some of some are a bit short, or I can't remember which one. Let's say you want to become a GP, GPs one of the short ones. You join ST1 and then you have ST2 and then you have ST3 and then you're a fully fledged GP pretty much. So, it's taken you three years beyond the choice. So, three years after foundation years to become a GP, therefore, in total, it takes you five years after graduating medical school roughly about the age of 29, 30 to become a fully fledged GP. Now, let's say you don't want to become a GP and you don't want to become a hospital medic or a hospital surgeon. Let's say you want to do obstetrics and gynecology, which is the specialty that I'm currently interested in. So, you do your FY1 and your FY2, but then when you make the choice, you can apply to ST1 and Ops and Gynec. And Ops and Gynec goes all the way up to ST7. And then after ST7, you can become a consultant. So, you're effectively missing out on the core medical training or the core surgical because you're instead focusing on the specialty from the moment you finish foundation years. So, ST1 through to ST7. And there are loads of other run through specialties like psychiatry, pediatrics, neurosurgery, a few others. Of theology, I think, and I'll put a link to the BMA's medical training pathway in the description below if you're interested. But to be honest, this should hopefully give you a fairly broad overview as to where you go after medical school. So, two years of foundation training, probably two years of core training, like core medical or surgical, and then probably five or so years, five or six years of specialty training, otherwise you might do a run through program. In general, the earliest you can become a consultant in a medical or surgical specialty is about the age of 3435-ish. And if you want to go down the GP route, it takes five years from medical school. So, you're about the age of 29-30 by the time you become a fully fledged GP. Okay, so that was a rough overview. Let's now talk about the foundation program because that's the thing that happens immediately after medical school. And that's the thing that I'm part of at the moment. Basically, for the foundation program, the whole of the UK that's Scotland, that's Wales, and that's England. The whole of the UK is still up into various different regions. So, all of Scotland is pretty much one region. All of Wales is pretty much one region, and England is still up into like loads of different ones. I'll put a number of here once I want to fact check myself. So, for the foundation program, you apply to a particular region. And the idea is that you rank them all in order of preference. So, I've ranked East Anglia as my highest preference because East Anglia includes Cambridge and I really like Cambridge. And it includes some of the smaller hospitals around Cambridge, like Ipswich, Bedford, Peterborough, King's Lynn. Those are the places that we've been asked Cambridge students on our clinical placements. If you want to go for London, London is split up into three regions. Number one is North West London, at the moment. Number two is North East Central. And number three, South terms, which covers a broad area including like Brighton and Kent and like a load of other places. So, yeah, you rank your regions in order of preference. And you get matched to a particular region based on your F pass score, your foundation program application score, I think score. And your score determines which region you end up in. North West London and North East Central London are two of the most competitive regions. So, you need a higher score to get into London. East Anglia is not particularly competitive. Scotland is not particularly competitive. There are other areas like Yorkshire and Trent and so on. They're not that competitive. So, you need a lower F pass score to get into those. Now, once you've been matched to a particular region, then at that point you have to rank order pretty much all of the various jobs in that region. So, job number one might say FY1, Foundation U1. So, a rotation number one, A&E, Rotation number two, General Surgery, Rotation number three, General Medicine, FY2, Rotation one, Psychiatry, Rotation two, Option Gini, Rotation three, Pediatric. So, each job is pretty much a list of six rotations and the order in which they, in which they come and the hospitals in which you'll be based. So, for example, it might say that for job number one out of five hundred, you're based in Adam Brooks Hospital for year one and Kingsland for year two. So, you have to pretty much look at this list of five hundred jobs or however many there are that usually loads and you rank them in order of preference. And then those jobs are allocated in order of, again, the Foundation Programme School, the F pass score for each person and that Dean. So, for example, I've got a relatively high score relative to the rest of East Anglia. Therefore, it's, it's, it's no one near the high score. So, I'm unlikely to get my very first choice of jobs, but I think I'm probably pretty likely to get at least, you know, something in my top five, maybe in my top ten. So, each year usually buy around the first week of March. You find out which specific region you're going to end up in. And then you have about a month to rank order all the jobs. And then by about April time you'll, you'll know which hospitals in particular you're going to be in and which rotations in particular you're going to be doing. So, that's where we're at. At the moment we're in between March and April. So, I know that I'm going to be assigned to the East Anglia Dinary, which was which was my first choice, the love Cambridge. And I'm now in the process of ranking all the jobs. So, I can, you know, work at which ones I want. But yeah, hopefully that was a relatively understandable overview of how medical training in the UK works. I'm just going to say one thing about the academic foundation program, because that is something that I applied for, but I didn't actually get and there's going to be more on this in my video coming up at some point about how to deal with rejection. So, the academic foundation program runs alongside the foundation program. It's the AFP for short. And you know how I said in the foundation program, you have these six rotations 1 and FY1. Sorry, 3 and FY1 and 3 and FY2. The academic program is pretty much the same. You do foundation you one foundation you two. Except usually, one of your rotations, usually something in FY2, is that like a research block of some sort. So, when you apply for the academic foundation program, you rank the sort of research you would like to do. And then you have an application form and you have an interview. And kind of the scores from that decide which order preferences are allocated in. But I applied to the Essex Bedford Hotfordshire Region for one of the academic programs there. And I applied to London generally for one of the academic programs there. Because when you're applying for AFP, the regions are slightly different. So, for example, London is just all one big zone rather than three different scenery. So, my application was strong enough to get interviews at both places. But then my scores at interview weren't high enough to get offered a place. I got put onto the reserve list, which meant that they said on the in the feedback that you were appointable, but other people scored higher than you. So, they were given their preferences first. And then I wasn't given anything because I didn't rank high enough at the interview. So, that was a bit of a blow. I would have quite liked to do the academic foundation program. But hey, it is what it is. And now, instead, I'm just going to do the normal foundation program in Cambridge. The academic foundation program is a good gateway drug to get you into some kind of research some kind of academic career. There is this thing called the academic clinical fellowship program, which is beyond the scope of this video because most people are watching this going to be applying to medicine. And if you're worrying about stuff like the academic clinical fellowship program, which comes like eight years down the line, then I'll put a link in the description below. But it's not really worth worrying about at this point. But the idea is that if you want some kind of academic career, if you want to do research on the side, if you want to do teaching on the side as well, kind of lecture lecturing for university, it's useful to have some kind of academic stuff under your belt. The academic foundation program is the first way into that. It's not the only way into it. If I want to go down the academic route, not having done an AFP will put me at a slide disadvantage, but it's by no means the end of the world. So, I'm hoping that if I do decide to go down the academics route, I will at least have some research experience under my belt that I can get through the normal foundation program. I want to have a specific four month block in which to do but I'm hoping to get involved with projects and things. So, I have absolutely no idea how long this video has been, but to summarize, you have six years of med school. You usually have two years while you always have two years of the foundation program or the academic foundation program. After that, you make the choice and the choice is between core medical training, which is two years, or surgical training, which is two years, or a run through specialty like GP, or psychiatry, or opting gyne, or whatever, which have their own own number of years. And usually, after you've done your specialty training, you're a consultant. And that's usually about the age of 35, 36. If you've done everything on time, if you're not taking any time out. So, that's pretty much how it works. I hope you found this video useful. And, yeah, as I said, I'm currently matched to East Anglia, and I'm in the process of ranking my jobs, and I'll do another video explaining what happens. Once I find out where there were, I'm going to be for the next two years. Definitely going to continue vlogging. Definitely going to continue making videos, hoping to go, as well as videos for medical applicants, I want to go also into videos for medical students. So, videos about all skis and videos about, you know, other sorts of stuff. So, we'll see. I hope you enjoyed this video. Thank you very much for watching. If you liked it, please give it a thumbs up. If you haven't subscribed to the channel, please consider doing so. Have a lovely day, and I'll see you in the next video. Bye-bye.
