# University Freshers - 5 Top Tips (2018)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-m7DLiFH-CE
Today we're offering some tips for freshers starting university for the first time. We talk about how to settle in, how to deal with freshers week and our recommended strategy about clubs and societies. We also address how to make the most of your spare time, and we end by sharing some tips for studying at university to make it an enjoyable and stress-free experience. Enjoy xx

PART 2 on Matticus' channel - 
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Of9e21mYHtQ

💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking 

📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

📝My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://paperlike.com/ali
🎶 Where I get my music from (amazing for YouTubers) - http://share.epidemicsound.com/ali



TIMESTAMPS:

01:14 - Settling in to Uni
03:59 - Freshers Week
08:07 - Clubs & Societies
11:25 - Free time?
15:55 - How to study

🎬 My online course on video editing - https://skl.sh/32TpEvm
🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal


Who am I:

I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

My most popular videos:

- How I take notes on my iPad Pro in medical school - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=waR3xBDHMqw
- Mu 2018 university desk setup - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zdew7At9S2U
- How to study for exams - Evidence based revision tips - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ukLnPbIffxE
- Study with Me + My revision method - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yiRYn97GJhM
- iPad Pro vs iPad (2018) comparison for college / university students - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tIdU4Sw6a5Y
**Keywords:** top tips for freshers, uni student, university student, top tips for university, top tips for uni, uni life, uni life tips, starting university, tips for university, tips for students, university freshers, uni survival guide, freshers advice, freshers week, freshers week university, freshers week london, freshers week oxford, freshers week glasgow, freshers week uni, freshers week ucl, ali abdaal, 
**Date:** 2018-08-15

## Transcript
 Hey guys, welcome back to the channel. If you're new here, my name is Ali and I'm a junior doctor. My name is Matt Gris, I'm a small channel, Matt Gris, and I'm studying to be a physiotherapist. And today we're going to be giving you guys tips for new pressures going into university. I've had six years at university, you've had three plus one, four, and then one more before I graduate is a physiotherapist. And you were a fresher twice. So like between us, we've got a lot of experience with tips for new pressures going into university. We're going to be making kind of five main points on my channel, and then five points on Matt Gris's channel that's going to be a video there. So in this video, we're going to be talking about setting into university, freshers week, clubs and societies, tips for studying, and like tips for what you can do in your free time. So that will be this video on my channel. And then on my channel, we're going to be looking at making friends, what stuff to bring to uni, heartbreak at uni, and a few other bits and bobs. Alright, so let's just get into it. As usual, everything is going to be in time stamps in the video description, so if you want to skip around you can. And just quickly, this video is very kindly sponsored by Primark. Primark have this exciting new brand of homeware. It's all quite reasonably priced. It all looks pretty nice as well. So if you're thinking of getting out of your university room with some nice looking but reasonably priced stuff, you can check out their new range. Alright, so point number one, settling into university for the first time. It's quite a daunting time, because it's your first full lot of people is the first time that they've moved away from home. One of the most important tips that I'd give is if you're moving in, try and get into a combination as soon as you're allowed to, because the quicker you can sort of get to socialize with people. And it's weird, because in the first stages for early stages you sort of make friends, they might not be like lasting friendships, but it's good to form bonds in the early stages as well. Yeah, absolutely. Like, that kind of initially settling into university affairs. That was like, I was really scared about that. I was like, oh, I'm going to make friends. Like, what's it what's it going to be like? There was one tip that I got from the student room, which was, you should always bring one of those door stoppers so you can just leave your door open. Like, if you leave your door open and people like walk into you, like walk across your room in halls or whatever, then they will feel compelled to come in and say hi, because everyone is going to be in this. I want to make friends stage. So if your door is open, it's very welcoming and also something that I that I heard that I practiced was that you should bring a few snacks, a few drinks with you. So I remember I took a few cans of Diet Coke and a few things of Capri Sun, you know, for about two primary school days. And whenever anyone would come into my room, I would offer them a Capri Sun or a Diet Coke. And that was a really nice way of getting to meet people, people sit down for a few minutes. We'd have a chat and a nice way of getting to know people in this settling into university stage. I probably not gone with Capri Sun, I was gone with the fruit shoot, if you remember. Fruit shoot. Oh, fruit shoot, yeah. Oh, mate. Those were definitely no one refused them, so there we go. At the same time, they're like interesting what you're saying about and the door wedged open, because I think it gives a good impression if your door is open. It's sort of more welcoming people, which just come in and you'd be like, hi, introduce yourself. Yeah, and to be honest, that's something I'll be doing for the last six years at university. Whenever I'm in my room, sometimes even when I'm not in my room, the door is just always open. I have a very liberal open door policy, so like, you know, people feel like they can come in and I think that's a really good way of making friends. I think as well, like you want to unpack as soon as you can as well, because home sickness is a big thing. So you want to make your accommodation as homely as possible, and you do that by say, if you have like something and you bring from home, even if you have a teddy bear, I don't have a teddy bear, but I know people, but teddy bears into uni, and that makes them feel more comfortable, or anything you can bring from home, hanging up pictures, posters, just to make your accommodation more homely. That's definitely, I mean, that's what I did as well. Yeah, I agree, lifestyles. Yeah, I think posters are really good, but because like the walls and your halls are going to be that really bare, and like often they're going to say you can't hang stuff on the walls, but if you use those command strip things that don't like, you can stick posters on the wall and then when you take them off, it doesn't leave them or anything. That's how I kind of spice up my university room, and all that note, thanks to prime market. If you feel like, you know, decking your room out with some really stylish cushions and throws and do vays and all this sort of stuff, you can check out their homewear range, it'll be linked in the description down below. All right, so those are our tips for setting into university. Let's now talk about Freshers Week. So I remember when I was going to university for the first time, I was really scared about Freshers Week. So I don't drink, and I heard that Freshers Week is all about drinking and clubbing and partying, and I was very, very concerned that, oh, if I don't do these things, am I going to make friends? Well, what's it going to be like? And I think, firstly, what I would say is that if you don't drink, then it's completely okay. Most universities, in my college, most clubs and societies, they will have alternative freshers events where they'll have something else going on even when there's like a club night. So I remember, in manual college, put on a movie night, there was like a board game tonight or something organized by the JCR, the junior common room. I don't know if that's like a standard university phrase. I can't remember, it's probably more like the posh like Durham also. Cambridge, the posh type thing. Anyway, so yeah, they're all these alternative freshers events organized, and also loads of different societies organized, they're all alternative freshers week. So if you don't drink, and don't feel like doing this whole clubbing thing, then that is completely fine. But equally, if you do rank or clubbing or whatever, that's fine as well. Like the thing that I've realised is that no one really cares what you're doing freshers week. I think at least I felt freshers week, I felt like there was a lot of pressure on me to kind of fit in and make friends and do all these things. But at the end of the day, it's pretty much just another week, everyone forgets about it, and it's not that important in the grand scheme of things. I don't know what you've done. Quite a lot of people were so drunk, in freshers week, they don't even remember freshers. In any way, so it's just one of those things that it's interesting that you're talking about the not drinking parts, because I don't drink, but I did go clubbing. Now that's an experience, going to a club with everyone else drunk, and then you've been the only sober person. I don't know if it's possible to get sort of a little bit drunk on the fumes of people that breath from alcohol, but I did actually have a good time. I think if you haven't been clubbing before, then it's definitely worth a go. I mean, would you say, worth a go? Yeah, I think worth a try. Like, provided it doesn't like clash with any of your personal morals or beliefs or whatever, you might as well give it a try. Who knows, you might find you like it. Again, I'm always up for trying new things generally. I mean, I had a good time, and from that, I realized that it wasn't for me a part of the reason would probably talk about a bit later in the clubs and societies thing, but I ended up getting a lot into sport, and you actually meet more people from the withdrawal people who are more like minded if you just stick to the things that you want to do, and don't get to a peer fashion, going clubbing, although try out, definitely worth a try. It's a good fun getting back at like 3 a.m. in the morning, going for a cheeky cabab as well, down the road. Oh, yeah. I mean, like, to be honest, would like me and my friends would be going for that cheeky cabab anyway after a few hours of board games and playing articulate or whatever. So, you know, I think that's the thing with fresh as a week, and university as a whole, that you can pretty much make of it, whatever, whatever you want, and the nice thing about university is, as I said earlier, that no one really cares what you do, so you can become this kind of independent free spirit if you want, and I think ideally, and everyone kind of learns this as they go through university, you realise that actually I can just be myself at it, and it's okay, I don't feel the need to become, you know, to be someone who I'm not, if that makes that a good one. And one thing that I also was concerned about fresh as a week is that, oh, you know, what if the friends that I make in fresh as a week are going to be, you know, all the friends I'm ever going to make, essentially. But I think, like, looking back on it, there was almost no overlap between the people that hung out with the fresh as a week, and the people that I ended up becoming friends with long-term. I don't know if you found that as well. I've sort of found that as well, so from what I'm the grad, I noticed that a lot of people hung out on first week, you know, fresh as a week. I was like, oh, these guys are awesome, we had a great time clubbing and getting a cheeky macadies at 3 a.m. in the morning, but it, I realised I don't really speak to them. I didn't speak to them by the end of the year, and the mix two or three years. I didn't speak to them at all. I don't even talk to them. I had some of them and I'm not even friends with them. Basically, you're not tied into the people who hang out with the fresh as a week. You make friends from common interest that you share, join in the late late-to-date. Don't worry about who you make friends with the fresh as a week. So basically, in conclusion, I think everyone has some degree of anxiety about fresh as a week. Don't worry about it. It doesn't really matter when the grand scheme of things. That is quite fun. You should enjoy it. That's the first week at university. It's all good. All right, point number three. Let's talk about pubs and societies. Are you joined loads of new things at university? I did. So I actually did my undergrad at the Royal of Ecology in London. But no one really knows about it. So I always tell people, I was at King's because I didn't do modules at King's as well. And I ended up funding enough. I was tied to another university, university, university college, London, UCL. So I ended up joining all their clubs and societies, because I had so many clubs and societies. And I signed up to loads. What you want to do is sign up to loads of clubs and societies on the mailing list. You might get spammed a bit. But it's good to have that option. So you know what to do. I ended up picking up what I started. Moetai, kickboxing just before you knew, but I picked it up again at UCL, ended up competing and got into like amateur competition as well and did loads of interclubs. And that was really good fun as well. I got really fit, really strong. And you meet loads of people who are like minded. And the best thing about kickboxing. I mean, if you don't like getting other people. But like I ended up making really good friends. And you can hit your friends in the face. They hit you in the face. And then your friends at the end. So I don't know what could be possibly better than hitting someone and then still being mixed with them at the end. I don't know. That's the same for you. I also ended up doing parkour. If you guys know it is parkour and gymnastics. So I got into flips and doing jumps and wars. And that's something I never would have gotten to if I didn't join UCL parkour club as well. So that's really cool. That's a lot cooler than this society that I joined. I joined like the Pakistan Society, the Islamic Society. I tried out rowing. I started squash, joined the chess club. And I signed up for the mailing list of about 100 different societies. And I kept getting emails through. But that was fine because I knew that, oh, there's a Cambridge University win surfing club trip next weekend. And like even though I never ended up going win surfing, it was always there as an option. I was thinking, oh, maybe I could try that. And actually, one thing that I would probably do again if I had that time again, I'd try out more things. I think I boxed myself in quite early on with the societies that I joined. And I kind of wished that I had a more kind of scatter gun approach to it, just like try out loads of different things and see what sticks. But yeah, with clubs and societies, just join the mailing list of everything. Try stuff out. You might like it. You might not either way, at least you've tried it. And then you won't kind of look back on that time and think, oh, I wish I'd done it. I'd done more. I think, yeah, that's interesting that you see that, because I actually joined a lot of mailing as well for a lot of the clubs. So I was in like Taiwan, this society, uh, Wushu, I actually had a look at in Wushu at Imperial College. And my friend was in very only recommended, you know, you can come along join us. So I ended up trying that as well. In addition to all the other things that I was doing, I was like, like, music society, corporate society. And it was interesting because for my undergrad, I was so keen on joining so many different clubs. But now I'm doing a post-grad and MSC Physiotherapy at the University of South Hanson. And to some degree, I've kind of, because I know what I want now, one, I know what I like to do. Yeah, I've only joined Gymnastics Society. And I've also got a couple of things. So I do that outside of uni. But the only society that joined just Gymnastics Society, which is, yeah, I mean, it's okay to, I guess, if you know what you want to do, it's fine to block yourself in a bit more. But if you're a fresher, if you don't really know what you want to do, it's best to get out of there, join loads of, get spam by loads of people, join a mailing list, and you'll probably find you'll make a lot of friends that you, I like minded. All right, so let's now talk about free time. And I've had so many messages from people on Instagram, for me, I'm on Instagram, saying that how much free time will I have at university, will I have time to do anything else? What are your thoughts on this whole free time debate? The free time debate, I'm like most people and very guilty of saying, I don't have the time, I don't have the time, I don't have the time, I'm so busy. But after watching one of your videos that you talked about, there's no such thing as not having enough time, it's all about making the time for it. I think that's so true to like, it's just completely true. So for me, like, if I work a daily, like, usually physios, quite an intense course, so especially since I'm doing a two year masters, it's like nine to four, you're finished, and you're like, okay, I have a couple of hours before I have to go to bed. What do I do? I tend to go to the gym or I go out and do flips in the common, and that does take up like an hour or two, and that hour or two could be spent socializing. A lot of the time it depends on what you sort of prioritise, that there are some days when I do prioritise, not being, not anti-social, but kind of doing my own thing instead of going to the pub and having a few points when we're mates, considering that drink as well, which has been having lemonade. Yeah, yeah, so I think this free time thing, as Mathica says, it is just about making the time to do whatever you want to do, and something that I have been doing for ages is having work as kind of like my default thing that I'm doing when I'm, when I've not got anything else to do, but if anything else comes up like, you know, a social event or a dinner or a club or a society, anything like that, that will generally take priority over work. Unless, of course, you know, I have an essay in for the next day that's important, or an exam to revise for, then the priority shuffles around a bit. So I think that is how I kind of got around it. I'd always do stuff and then work would just be my default, and I think I was quite good at not overly wasting time. And like, I suppose people say for you, you know, you think physiotherapy, you've got a YouTube channel, you're doing gymnastics, parkour, powerlifting. Still have some remnants of a social life as well. I still sing friends once in a while. I love what you said about not wasting time, because I think I'm very guilty of that. I'm probably like, if I would have another university degree, it would probably be in procrastination, because I'm very good at just sitting there and just thinking of other things to do. So that's like quite a big thing. If you are good at wasting time like myself, then it would be a bit more difficult, which is why I start planning out my day now. Like, sometimes I plan out a week in advance, and then every day I'll write like a two-do list, and I'll have a tick box. And I found when I was very bad at managing my time when I was doing my undergrad. But now that I'm doing my post-grad, my physio course, because I know I have much less time to work with, and especially since you get more busy, I don't know if that's the same for you sort of coming to your four-fifth and sickly of medicine. Yeah, I don't know. So for us, second year was probably the busiest, but then after second year I just got so chill. Like, 30, I was insanely chill. I had like a lecture a week, four-fifth and six years have been pretty chill, because in hospitals you kind of go in in the morning, you get what you want to get done, and then you pretty much have the whole afternoon free to do whatever you want. So it was a different sort of free time. But I think the thing with that is that that was when I had the time to start the YouTube channel and to do all this kind of editing. So my thing has always just been to always have something to do rather than ever having to sit down and work out what do I do now, because I have free time. There's a pendulum what course you do as well, like obviously it's a medic, or as any science subjects. So from what undergrad, biological sciences was something like 22 hours a week for physio course I'm doing now at 1. we are 35 hours of lectures a week, so that's quite a lot, and really depends what course you're doing. I know people who do history and English they have like eight hours of contact time a week, so that's you know out of the week, that's a lot of time that they have to be doing their own study or just doing whatever they want. So yeah, I think manage your time, you get better at managing your time when you realize you have less of it, because you realize how pressure to it is. Yeah, there was a said that there's a medic in the year above me, obviously two years above me, and I was talking to him about time management a few years ago, and he always looked up to him because he was like doing loads of staff, doing loads of sports, getting pretty good marks, taking an Arabic language course, really good at singing and guitar as well, and I was telling you now how do you do all this in your free time? And he said something really profound, he said that time is like a muscle in that the more you exercise it, the more you can get out of it, and I really thought he was like, oh yeah, that's like profound advice, that the more you stretch your time and work it, the more you end up getting out of it, and then you get people messaging you being like, oh how do you have the free time to do this, that other, so yeah, make the time to do stuff, have a priority list, find some kind of balance, and finally let's talk about studying tips for studying at university, do you have any thoughts on that front? I think tips are still, you can sort of, I mean we're talking about this earlier before we start rolling the video, but we're talking about can you study too hard? And I think that's quite a big thing for people, I know for me I didn't really work very hard from my undergrad and then had to like pull my socks up the third year and it's still managed to get it to one, even though it's averaging like a mid-due to which wasn't great by the way, so tips to you haste is like studying hard if you're first in second year's count because it'll make your third year a hell of it much easier, but for my physio course I'm doing now, it's very different because this is something that I know I definitely want to do, so I am studying very hard because it's a short course it's two years, so I know I have to like, to get the top marks, I'm gonna have to study all the way through and there's no room to sort of mess about because I know for some of the BSE physios I share classes with and languages with their first years in count, so they, it doesn't matter as much for them, they just have to pass, so I guess it depends, what your view is on it. Yeah, so I think when it comes to studying, it's that whole debate of how much you study versus how much do you do everything else and especially if you're Asian, your parents are going to be like, you know you should be studying all the time and you university, the whole point of university studying, but actually, you know, it is about having a balance, I've spoken to people who didn't do very well at all in their exams, had to reset, got to choose the classes of that sort of thing, and they have almost invariably said that I wish I'd studied harder throughout the year, but equally I've spoken to a few of my friends who have done like insanely well come sort of top five in the year in the whole year group, who have said that actually maybe they think they've spent, they spent too much time studying and they sort of wish that they had done a bit more other stuff, so I think kind of being on either end of the extreme is, I don't know, it depends what you want, but it seems like it might not be the optimal thing, as always as everything in life, it is about having a balance, and what's worked for me is this whole thing about having studying as the load priority, but still doing it a bit of work throughout the year, and actually if there's one thing I would say, if there is any advice, I think it's applicable to everyone, is that you will benefit a lot from doing a little bit of work consistently, because especially because on active recalls, based on repetition, I've done loads of videos about evidence-based study tips, if you can do something over a long period of time, you are far more likely to remember it and to actually internalize it than if you just cram before the exam, so studying for 20 minutes a day for like every day is going to be so much better than just cramming for your exam, so if you can get that 20 minutes, that half an hour, that one hour in, you will be absolutely sailing through university, especially if you can be doing efficient techniques like active recall and like categorisation, all this other stuff that we've talked about in other videos, so consistency was studying, doing a little bit each day, and you have just have so much more time to do everything else in life, but if you live it all to the last minute, and you're trying to cram your entire medical degree into the month before your exams, you will struggle, it's not going to be fine, it's going to be a really stressful experience, and you just won't have a good time and exam time. Yeah, cramming is definitely not the way it works, like GCSE, probably up to A level, maybe up push, but anything beyond that, like uni, it doesn't really work, so definitely like space repetition, and I know you were talking about, I think you recommended anky this flashcard, oh yes, yeah, I love it. I did try that, but I ended up sticking with something called Debt Revising, it's like this online app, you can log into with Facebook, and it's just you type in sort of flashcards, you create your own flashcards, you have a question, you have an answer, and you have like it, if you remember it really quickly, you have it on hard or good or forgot, and from there, it also uses this algorithm, and in that sense you can sort of, that's a way you can do a bit of studying every day. Yeah, that's quite similar to Anky, then, and like memorising Quizlet, there's all these various flashcard apps that have this feature of, the harder the flashcard was, the more likely it has to come up again, and that's a good way of, and as you said, getting worked on each day, without having to think too hard about it. One thing I would also say for studying is that, especially like, this is definitely true of medicine, I don't know, about other courses, but there is a huge over glamorization of how hard it's going to be. So everyone who applies to medical school has this idea and that head that medical school is a really hard and that you get a lot of books and then you have so much content to go through, and then we all feel good about buying massive textbooks and about, you know, pouring over our textbooks and doing a nice little study spread, and maybe Instagramming it or whatever, and we feel good about the fact that we're working so hard, whereas in reality, medicine is quite straightforward, there's not much that's difficult to grasp in terms of content, it's just a reason I've very large amount of content to that you have to learn. And when you're doing, when you have a fairly large amount of content you have to learn, I think the traditional idea of I'm working hard, which is, I've got a textbook open in front of me, I'm making notes from the textbook, I'm highlighting stuff, all of this stuff is a total waste of time. You can see my other videos on this about the evidence behind whether summarizing, making notes, highlighting, underlining, whether all that stuff is good, long story short, it's not, there's very specific techniques which involve making questions for yourself, actively testing yourself, all of these efficient study techniques are the way to study in a way that means you have a lot of time for everything else. So I think that's that's the biggest thing, if you're the sort of person that spends hours pouring over a double-paste spread in a textbook, because in the back of your mind you feel that that's what you should be doing, maybe reconsider that, because if you can get more efficient technique you'll have so much more time to enjoy the rest of university rather than being pouring over your books. Well, I guess it also depends on how you learn best as well, like for physio there's a lot theory you have to learn but then it's really hands on as well and I find it I learn quite well from, you know, doing practical sessions and doing these manual techniques and mobilizations and doing these active range of motion tests on on people, on my classmates and on my coursemates, all right, and I don't know if that's, I mean I do learn well from theory but I feel like you really drill it in when you when you actually do it hands on as well. Oh yeah, 100% that's like doubly true medicine or probably equally true medicine, most like half of our exams, in clinical school are practical-based exams. There's only so much you can learn from the textbook the rest of it comes from from the experiential stuff. Okay, so that brings us to the end of this video. We've talked about selling into university, we've talked about fresh as week, clubs and societies, free time and some tips for studying and now we're going to be doing a part two on Mathickers' channel that'll be linked here and everywhere in the description below and in that video we're going to be talking about how to make friends at university what stuff we'd recommend, you bring to university, dealing with heartbreak, I think we've both had some a little bit of heartbreak activity and stuff about accommodation and a few other things. So definitely check that video out. So thank you very much Mathickers. Yeah thanks for having me. That's quite all right and we'll see you guys in the next video. If you liked the video, please give it a thumbs up. If you haven't subscribed, please consider doing so and you can subscribe to his channel as well. We'll be here somewhere. Thanks for watching and we'll see you in the next video. Bye
