# Top 5 Revision & Study Tips for Students
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0duNfnP8Z50
Get a 30-day free trial of CuriosityStream - https://curiositystream.com/ali and use the code ALI at checkout! 

If you sign up to CuriosityStream, you also get access to Nebula for free, where I'll be posting exclusive content that you won't find on YouTube.

My Nebula profile: https://watchnebula.com/aliabdaal

Check out Simon Clark on:
Twitter: https://twitter.com/simonoxfphys
Youtube: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCRRr_xrOm66qaigIbwFLvbQ

00:43 - Tip #1 - Spaced repetition diary
03:04 - Tip #2 - Better results in less time
04:56 - Tip #3 - Make studying great again
06:36 - Tip #4 - Take care of yourself
09:09 - Tip #5 - Don't compare yourself to others

My new discord server - https://discord.gg/jwYwgUv (where we chat about books, productivity, study tips, podcasts and other wholesome things)

💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking 
📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

My Spotify profile - https://open.spotify.com/user/1111404728?si=7QYptBTLREWbU1OCHHxrBw

🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal

Who am I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 


If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭
**Keywords:** how to study, studying for exams, study tips, studying tips, how to study science, spaced repetition, revision timetable, how to study effectively, how to prepare for exams, how to prepare for lectures, study with me, how to revise, study techniques, exam revision, college study tips, how to study for exams, study motivation, revision tips, best way to study, how to get good grades, how i study, study hacks, memory palace, how to memorize, ali abdaal, simon clark, 
**Date:** 2020-02-13

## Transcript
 Hey friends, welcome back to the channel. Today's video is a collab with my friend Simon Klock, where we're going over five top tips for studying for exams. Now Simon is another YouTuber. He studied physics at Oxford University and then did a PhD at Exeter University. He's really cool. He's got loads of experience with taking exams, so we're going to be learning from his wisdom. And actually when he came over to my place the other day, he and I spent three hours discussing answers to various questions that people sent in via Instagram all related to revision and study tips. And I'll be uploading those to YouTuber for the next few weeks, but if you want to see them right now, you can find them on Nebula, which is a streaming service that Simon and I are both helping to build. Nebula is partnered with CuriosityStream, who I very kindly sponsored in this video. So if you sign up to CuriosityStream, you'll get free access to all the videos on Nebula, but I'll tell you more about that at the end of the video. Tip number one, the spaced repetition diary. If I could travel back in time and slap two words into 10-year-old Simon's head, they would be spaced repetition. I cannot stress on how important this technique is. Space repetition is all about resetting the forgetting curve. In the 1800s, a scientist called Ebinghouse discovered that if you memorize basically anything, your memory for that will just decay exponentially over time. That's why we can read something in a textbook and think that we understand it, but if we come back to it a week later we'll find that it's probably completely gone. Ebinghouse found that if you interrupt this forgetting curve by revising the topic the next day, it actually takes you longer to forget it again. And then if you revise it a week later, for example, it takes you longer still. And by the time you've done this handful of times, IE you've repeated the topic at spaced intervals over time. It's pretty likely to be in your long-term memory, so you're unlikely to ever forget it. So how do we do this? Well, I've got my own patented retrospective revision time table theories. I'll put a link to that in the video description, but Simon actually has his own rather interesting method for doing the same thing. It's a given example. When I was doing my third year exams at Oxford, it was the best like academic performances, my academic career really, really well. I think the reason for it was I used this technique, where I would, on a given day, if I studied a particular subject, right in a paper diary, I did, on say, the first of May atomic physics looking at a particular sub topic. I'd then go forward a day and write down that topic again, go forward a week, write that topic, go forward a month and write that topic. And then as you went through your revision, you gradually populated this diary with the revision that you needed to go back and look at on a given day. So you get to say, I don't know, May 14th, and you would say, right, well, I now need to revise this part of a topic physics, this part of generativity, this part of subatomic physics, and you would have already made checklists of stuff to go over again, as well as the stuff that you had to look forward to in your revision plan. And it meant that I covered everything several times at these increasing intervals, and it just stayed in my head so much better. So if we're using Simon's method, we'd get to any one day and we'd already have a pre-populated list of all the topics that we need to study on that day based on our space repetition intervals. But it was the ease at which I could rock up to the library open up my diary and say, right, what's today is the 14th of May, okay, I've got these five topics to do first. Let's go. And it just made life so much easier, and I did so much better because of it. Tip number two, better results in less time. I would place a large amount of money on a bed that I would have done better at uni if I had done more extra curricular activities, and if I'd actually had less time to do my work. I think one of the biggest problems I had was that I let my work just expand to fill the time that was available, which was all day. I think if I'd actually said, you know what, I'm going to learn how to play tennis, and I had a session that say I was really ambitious. I had a session every day for a clock. That meant that I had to go to my lectures in the morning, and then I had four hours from 12 to get all my work done. And it meant that I had to actually really focus and get this stuff done in that time chunk. And then, you know, when it got to four o'clock, it's like, out of time, got to go to tennis. And constraining the work, I think, would have made me so much more focused, rather than just like, oh, you know, I've got all day get around to that at some point. Like, we can take our time with this. There's a concept in the world of productivity called Parkinson's Law, and that's the idea that work expands to fill the time that we allocate to it. I noticed this in my life pretty much every day. Like, if I'm off work, and I set myself the goal of filming just one video in the day, I will procrastinate. I'll do anything else until 9pm when then I'll bring myself to film that video. But if I set myself the goal of filming, say five videos in the day, and only give myself an hour for each one, I end up getting most of them done, and also I have more fun making the videos. In the same way that I think only diamonds can be made under pressure, you have to put yourself under that bit of pressure in order to actually get good work done. And then as an added benefit, you get to four o'clock and you've done the work, you get to go and go to tennis, and then you can enjoy yourself and you actually have allocated time, your mental health will be better off for it. So your work is better, and your mental health is better. You just have to take that first kind of counterproductive seemingly step of saying, actually no, I'm going to dedicate these hours to definitely not working. That's my deadline, and then just stick to it. Point number three, make studying great again. You're not going to want to actually study if you're doing so in a way that is just unpleasant. I'm a huge fan of making studying a more pleasant thing to do. Like if I've got exams to study for, I enjoy going to libraries and coffee shops, and I'll tell myself that because I'm studying and being productive, I shouldn't feel guilty about buying, let's say, five lattes for the day. That just makes studying more pleasant, which means I'm more likely to do it. And similarly, I'll often play my Spotify study with me playlist through my AirPods or headphones, think in the video description if you want to check it out. And yeah, as Simon says, the evidence is probably that it's so optimal to study with music, it probably is slight hit on your efficiency. But for me personally, I'm more than happy to take that hit on my efficiency because it means that I've got loads of the rings and Harry Potter bangles playing through my ears and making me feel like an absolute legend while studying. And that just makes it more pleasant, which makes me more likely to actually do it. So you've got to, yeah, not maximize fun. Minimize pain. Let's probably the best we're doing it. Before we continue, just a very cheeky plug. If you want to hear at mine in Simon's thoughts on loads of study related topics, like, you know, procrastination, motivation, revision time tables, study methods and strategies, tips for memorizing content, tips for understanding content, how to do well in maths and physics type exams, how to do well in essays, how to do well in medical exams. Unlike a load of other stuff, we have uploaded full length discussions of all of those that covers like three hours worth of content over in Nebula, which is a streaming platform that Simon and I are helping to build. If you don't have a Nebula account, you should definitely sign up for a trial of curiosity stream, however I can't leave sponsoring this video. And because curiosity stream and Nebula are friends, it means that if you have a curiosity stream account, you will get free access to all of the stuff on Nebula, including all of this revision stuff, and all the videos in my own workflow series, where I kind of deep dive into my favorite productivity apps. That's the end of the plug, that's moving on. Point number four, take care of yourself. I've made a lot of mistakes in, you know, my academic career, but I think possibly the single largest one was not taking better care of myself. And I feel like it's the one aspect when you're putting together a study plan that just gets overlooked. You're like, I've got this many hours in a day after, you know, finishing lectures and such and so that's the number of hours I'm going to do of work. And I think it's so incredibly counterproductive to do that, because it just ignores the fact that you are a biological system that requires maintenance, and it requires downtime. And, you know, you actually have to look after this, this body that you're is carrying your brain around. It's all well and good saying, oh, you know, but the brain is going to go and do this many hours of work, and the brain is going to do this. The brain is carried by the body, and the body is going to break down if you don't, you know, give it some time off from time to time, and say all the brain. So when you're, you know, studying, when you're crafting a revision plan, you have to be realistic in saying, you know, I need a couple of hours a week, just reading a book or going to the cinema or playing video games, whatever it is, it's highly individual. And, you know, that's absolutely fine. That's the way it should be. You shouldn't look at what other people are doing, and say, well, I need that much free time. You need as much free time as you need in order to keep your brain functioning at optimum efficiency. When my friends and I were preparing for our final year medical school exams, we had this great system whereby during the daytime we'd be studying either by ourselves or kind of in a group, but then most evenings for a few hours we would get together usually in my room because my room had an open door policy, and we would order pizza or sushi, and we'd play board games for a few hours, like avalan and articulate absolutely incredible board games if you haven't played them. And then after that few hours of downtime, we'd wake up the next morning, and then we'd just kind of repeat the process. And all of this just made it really, really fun, because they meant we were doing our work efficiently and kind of working together as a team, but also we had this kind of chill downtime to relax. You know, in the same way that in the run-up to an exam, you might say right, I need to revise all the time, and then I'll go to bed late every night, get up early and study from the first thing in the morning. You wouldn't say to an Olympian to train absolutely every waking hour of the day in the run-up to the Olympics. You would expect them to take some slack time to let their muscles recover, let some slack time to allow their heads to get into the right headspace for the Olympics. The exam that's coming up for you is your Olympics, and you've got to make sure that you're in the right sort of frame of mind and in the right condition physically mentally to do that. And that's not just about the knowledge and the techniques you're having your head, it's about where your mental health, and your physical health, are at. You had to be in the right place if you want to do well in your exams. Tip number five, don't compare your behind the scenes to someone else's highlight real. Something that one of my choose to set to me at Oxford was that don't be distracted by whatever analysis is doing, because some people will look like they are doing everything incredibly easily, and they don't have to spend long hours in the library. And the fact is they do, they might want you to think that they don't, but what they're effectively showing you is it's like a highlight real. It's like a sizzle real of their academic potential, whereas what you are seeing is the day to day behind the scenes in real time. You don't see the sexy kind of like sizzle real at the end of it. Other people do, so you know, remember the way that you view other people is, how other people potentially view you. So don't compare your real time experience to someone's edited highlights. In the same way that when you're at the gym, you don't compare your middle to somebody's end or somebody's beginning at the same time. It's not an equal comparison. You are seeing things at a different rate of time when you're comparing your studies to somebody else's. My friend Paul used to teach medical students while we were at university, and he tells us this great story about one of his physiology classes, and he was him as a teacher and there were three students, and he asked, you know, to the group, there's random niche question about physiology, and what are the kids somehow knew the answer to that? And he saw that the other two were kind of feeling bad that they didn't know the answer to her, and were like, very impressed that this other guy knew the answer to this niche question. And so Paul asked the guy, like, how did you know the answer to that? And the guy's reply was that LOL, I'm so far behind at all of these lecture series, I was flicking through the lecture notes, and I just happened to read that one fact earlier this morning when I was going through it. And I think this is great because so often we're comparing our own performance to kind of the performance of our friends around us. But I think it's really important to recognize that our friends and colleagues and everyone else is just winging it just as much as we are. So that was five top tips for revision from my friend Simon Clark. I'll put links to all of his social stuff down below. You should definitely subscribe to his YouTube channel. Here's YouTube channel with actually one of the fundamental inspirations for my own when I discovered it a few years ago before starting out on YouTube because as soon as I discovered Simon's channel, I felt a real kind of kinship with him because, you know, he won't mind me saying, he's a bit of a nerd, he kind of sounds like I do, he enjoys singing, he was vlogging about his life as a PhD physics student. And before seeing Simon's channel, I thought that in order to do well on YouTube, you had to have like allowed an effusive personality and be like over the top. But Simon did such a great job of creating like thoughtful, valuable content. And so that was like a big inspiration for me to start this YouTube channel. So I'll be indebted to him for a very long time. But yeah, that was five of this top tips for studying. And if you liked that discussion, you should definitely check out the rest of our series over on Nebula. If you didn't catch it earlier in the video, Nebula is a streaming platform that Simon and I are helping to build. And it's sort of like a YouTube alternative where we can put sort of more detailed or kind of more weird content that might not necessarily work well on YouTube. So for example, like three hours worth of discussions about various study tips, probably isn't the sort of thing that I'll put into YouTube video. I am planning to cut them up over time and make individual YouTube videos out of them because that's how the platform works and that's what's good for the YouTube algorithm. But if you want to see the whole series and you care about kind of mining us for all of that insights, then you should definitely sign up to Nebula. To get access to Nebula, you should totally sign up for a free trial of curiosity stream. And then once that's over, you can sign up to the subscription, which is like $3 a month or $20 a year. And that gives you free access to all the thousands of documentaries on curiosity stream, which is founded by John Hendrix, the founder of the Discovery Channel. And curiosity stream has documentaries from all sorts of things, ranging from science, technology, education, lifestyle, food, loads of cool stuff. And on top of access to those thousands of documentaries on curiosity stream, you also get free access to all of the videos on Nebula, including all of these study tips videos that Simon and I made, along with my own workflow series, which is where I do a deep dive into all my favorite productivity apps. And you'll have access to loads of other stuff from tons of other creators as well, including Thomas Frank who you might. You know, no one loves if you're into this productivity stuff as much as I am. But yeah, that was five tips from Simon Clark. I'll put a video over there somewhere that has more revision Q and A stuff with some of my friends from Med School. Thanks so much for watching, and I'll see you in the next video. Bye-bye.
