# We broke up…
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0l5tcF6Rao0
Sign up to Morning Brew for free today: https://bit.ly/mbaliabdaal

Sheen is leaving for Dubai so in this video we're going to be answering some viewer questions about how our journey's been together and what our plans are for the future. 

Check out Sheen's channel: @SheenGurrib 

00:00 Intro
02:09 Is Sheen your lobster?
02:58 Did you guys do it?
05:02 Is this a break-up?
05:29 Why is Sheen leaving?
06:48 Would you visit each other?
07:27 Did he know where Mauritius was on the map before he met you?
08:29 If you were to give each other a leaving gift what would it be and why?
09:18 What will you miss the most about each other?
12:03 How was the journey together?
14:19 Will you be looking for a new room mate?
15:33 What is the first thing you'll do once you leave?
16:04 What was your favourite thing to do together?
16:52 How relieved will you be once she leaves?
17:11 What have you learned most from each other?
18:22 What have you incorporated from each other's lifestyles into your own?
19:53 What will happen to Woke Wednesday?
20:34 What's the one thing that annoyed you the most?
22:48 Advice for Ali's new room mate
23:24 What's the most wholesome thing you've done for each other?

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

PART-TIME YOUTUBER ACADEMY:
🍿 My 6-week live online course - https://academy.aliabdaal.com

MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
✍️ The best summaries of books (Shortform) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
📚  How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound

🎙 My weekly podcast - https://www.notoverthinking.com
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/friendzone/
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮  Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.notoverthinking.com), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://email.aliabdaal.com).

🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, q&A, ali abdaal room mate, ali abdaal roommate, ali abdaal relationship, ali abdaal girlfriend, ali abdaal personal life, sheen gurrib, ali abdaal sheen, ali abdaal girls, ali abdaal girl friend, ali abdaal friends, ali abdaal sheen q&a, sheen gurrib q&a, woke wednesday, sheen ali, ali abdaal moving, dubai, moving to dubai, 
**Date:** 2021-09-03

## Transcript
 Did you guys do it? Do what? I don't know. Do we do it? Yeah. That's all the question said. Did you guys do it? Yeah. Hey friends, welcome back to the channel. Today we are doing a final farewell Q&A with my housemate Sheen. We've been living together for the last one year. So you know exactly what it's like to live with me and loads of people who ask questions about it. And this is your last day. It is. How do you feel? Why'd you look so happy? Can you please pretend? I'm just excited to be filming a video with you. Okay. Let's say that's what it is. Let's say that's what it is. Yeah, how are you feeling? It's been a whole year and two weeks of living together. I know. But in a while, how long did I tell you I was going to be being full? You told me Sheen told me she was going to live with me for a month and it's been a year and nearly a month. Mm-hmm. That's great, isn't it? Yeah. Lucky yay. You've done well. So how are you feeling? I mean, I'm obviously feeling a lot of feeling. A lot of feelings. A lot of feelings. What are you feeling? Um, I feel standard about a new thing. Oh. Yeah. What? I have all of my friends in Cambridge. Okay. A lot of your friends. Well, most of my friends. Okay. I hear. And obviously, I'm moving as always daunting, isn't it? So. Okay. For most people. For most people. Okay. Yes. How are you feeling? Um, I'm feeling a little bit melancholic. Okay. Because I won't be seeing very much of you. Because you're going to move to Dubai. Mm-hmm. Well, you're only answering questions. I'm also feeling excited because I'm moving to London. And so it's like a new chapter in my life as well. So it's exciting time. But there's exciting times, yeah. It's sort of like graduating university, where it's like, you feel sad that it's over, but you feel excited for the next step. Yes. Good, good work, but yeah. Yeah. Right, should we get onto the questions? Should we get onto it? Great. By the way, this is a new series that I'm going to call Meal Time Mondays, where we could food and... Why are you copying my work Wednesdays? We're not going to be talking about work things. Okay. Meal Time Mondays. Anyway. Meal Time Mondays. Great. So we've taken questions from Instagram and Twitter and stuff. Lots of them were not PG, so we have cut those out. But we've left a few G.C. ones in just for you guys. You dirty dogs. Okay. Is she in your lobster? What happened? You don't know what that means. Lots of lobster. Have you known what friends? Um, I have. You know when Phoebe is like a Rachel and Ross or each other's lobsters. They will always find each other. Oh. I was thinking it was like her crabs and a barrel analogy that any time. Well, you just pull them back. You pull them back. Because I'm familiar with a crab and barrel. No, because apparently lobsters are very um... What you call it? Hey, bonding. They are so neat, specifically. So they will always go back to their partner. I don't believe in the idea of soulmates because that's a myth perpetuated by romanticism. C.C. the work of the school of life and a land of otomb. But yeah. Great. What do you think is she in my lobster? I don't believe in soulmates either. Great. So, no. Did you guys do it? Do what? I don't know. Do we do it? Yeah. That's all the question said. Did you guys do it? Yeah. I don't know what that means. I mean, I do. Start YouTube? Yeah, we did. Yeah, we started the YouTube thing. Um, we were on one another's podcasts. I think I probably counts. Yeah, and we were on each other's YouTube channel. Yeah. There we go. I think people need to specify it and do it a bit more specific when asking questions. Yeah, we're a bit different. We're a bit down when it comes to these things. Yeah. We interrupt this Q&A to bring you a little sponsored segment. Now, interestingly, a few days after Sheen and I recorded the Q&A, I got an email from Morning Brew. Morning Brew is an email newsletter. It's completely free. It's an email newsletter that I read religiously every morning. And I told Sheen, Sheen, Morning Brew, I want to sponsor the channel. And she was like, oh my god, she's because she subscribed to Morning Brew as well. There's no reason not to. There's a link in the video description. Enter your email there and you'll get a really interesting digest of the days news. And to be honest, I don't listen or watch the news in the slightest except the Morning Brew digest that I see every day. I also have a subscription to the economist, which I never read because Morning Brew just sort of gives me all the information I need about the world. And it does it in like a fun and engaging way, which means I don't have to sit through the drudgery of like the guardian. For example, browsing my Morning Brew is my favorite thing to do in the mornings instead of scrolling Twitter when I'm on the toilet. So I can just within five minutes get up to date on like business and life and tech and what's going on in the world. For example, a few days ago, there was a really good issue where they links this Washington Post article about how there are some people in the pandemic who are working two jobs instead of just one. And none of their, neither of their employers knows that this person is actually working two jobs at the same time, which is apparently legal. And that has given me an idea for a new potentially interesting series of videos further down the line. So it's that sort of stuff alongside kind of business tech finance. And sometimes even geopolitics that you get in Morning Brew. So if you're at all interested in business finance on tech, there is literally no reason not to subscribe to Morning Brew. It is 100% free and you can just stick your email down in the video description. There's no spam, nothing like that. It's just genuinely a really good start to the morning. It is completely free of charge. You don't have to pay anything at all for it and it takes less than 15 seconds to subscribe. So hit the link in the video description and start subscribing to Morning Brew from today. So thank you Morning Brew for sponsoring this video. Is this a break up? This is a break up. Have you kicked me out? Please a clear question. Oh no. You have it. Chose to leave spontaneously. Good. I would have quite a happy life with you forever. Oh, I don't believe it. Why do you think that? Why do you? Why don't you think so? Because whenever asked you if you would miss me, you were like, no, I am so excited. Oh, I swear, there's not what I said. Yes, you did. I said I wouldn't miss you because I'm not really familiar with the feeling of missing someone. Yeah. So why is she leaving then? If you haven't kicked her out. Why is she leaving? Why don't you tell the people why you're leaving? Why are you leaving? I'm telling the people. Yeah. Why I'm leaving you. Yeah. So it's not technically leaving you. It's just the you part, unfortunately, it's just like collateral damage. But I am leaving to Dubai for a job. So that's why I'm unfortunately having to leave you behind and move out. I'm very sad. It is very sad. Why are you going to Dubai for a job? I understand Cambridge. I've offered you a job. But you're not staying in Cambridge yourself. No, I don't remember. Well, you did not. I did not. When I thought I offered she in a job and offered to sponsor her visa as well. You did, but I didn't see any formal offer. I believe in formal offers. I don't give anyone formal offers. But if you don't give me a formal offer, I'll be kicked out of the country. I have this business work. We don't believe in formal offers. We don't believe in contracts and employment. Lower in that kind of stuff. Don't see that. Well, if I don't like Dubai, the offer still stands, right? Yeah. I'll come back. I'll give you a minute time. There we go. She has actually been a huge asset to the business. Oh. In my life. Thank you. So I'm here. Wait for the questions. Oh, sorry. I want to volunteer information. Yeah. So where is she moving to? We're best able to. Yes. She is moving to Dubai. Would you visit each other? I'd visit you. I don't know if you'd bother visiting me. Well, I have to come back for my graduation next year. Next year. Well, like summer of next year. Yeah. Okay. So then I can visit you then. Who? You can visit in Dubai any time. Yeah. That's what I have a free holiday house. Sick. And Dubai. Yeah, we're going to do lots of outings to Dubai. I'm going to bring all the boys along. I'm going to do some team hangouts in Dubai. What boys are you bringing along? The lads. Okay. I don't know if I can post the lads. You can post the lads. Okay. What's you going to post the lads? Why won't you post the lads? Why would I? Okay, anyway. Yes. So stay tuned for the Dubai vlogs. Hmm. My own vlogs. Not here. Did he know when Mauritius was on the map before he made you? Oh. Did I know when Mauritius was? Do you know when Mauritius is on the map? I don't remember. Yeah, it's like somewhere of the coast of Africa. But like surprisingly far off the coast of Africa. Yeah, but where along the coast of Africa? Towards the bottom middle a bit. Yeah. So it's near Managasca. Yes, which is also off the coast of Africa. Yeah, but Africa is this long? Oh, it's obviously that bit of the bottom. Yeah. Yeah. Okay, so now you know where to? This is in the Indian Ocean. But did you know before then? I guess you've had, you've met other Mauritian people before me. Um, do I know Tulfiq before you? No, you knew me before me. No, I think you were the first Mauritian person I met. But your mom said that you had a lot of Mauritian neighbors growing up. Neighbours. Did you have like a Mauritian person who got married in your house as well? Oh, that was my grandma's house like when I was not born. Oh, okay. Yeah. You went out there. Okay, cool. Sorry about that. I don't think so. It wasn't the UK. Yes, in South End. Hmm. I didn't know they were from Mauritius. Okay, great. If you were to give each other a leaving gift, what would it be in my? Oh, do not you want to wish them? What? Don't say you're leaving me with a word of wisdom. I want a real gift. A real gift. Hmm. I've already gifted you a camera. I think that's it. That was bad there. Was that birthday? Yeah. Oh, shit. I need to figure out a leaving gift. Hmm. Microphone? Does that count? Why? Because you believe in practical presence? Yes. I don't believe in sentimental goods. I have no value other than the sentimentality of them. Hmm. What would I get you? I think I'll buy you a nice brush and hairdryer. Oh, yeah. Because you bought many and they're all wrong. I brought one hairdryer. Yeah, but that's also not good. So I just get you the right stuff. Oh, thanks man. That's very kind. How was the journey together? Oh, you're telling me. How's the journey been this last year for you? It's been interesting. I think we were reflecting on this yesterday, right? We've been through a lot of milestones together. Right, in each other's lives. Have we? Yes. As in this posture, what has happened? Oh, yeah. Other's lives. What's the interesting thing that happened? Yes. And I think given that I finished my PhD, yeah. started job, started podcast, started YouTube. Yeah. And then even for you, you quit your job. Did you were doing YouTube full-time? You started PT YA. Yeah. Um, started writing your book. Yeah. All of this happened this year. Oh, yeah. Mate, so much has happened in the last 12 minutes. And you started hiring a proper team. Yeah. So, yeah. All of this happened this year. So, it's been very busy, yeah. And it was COVID, but in lockdown a lot together. Well, pandemic, more and more. Worst of all, I think we did lockdown really well. I think we did. Yeah, we didn't get sick of each other. I'm talking on your behalf, because I don't want to hear you contact me during lockdown. I remember, you know, the peak of lockdown is when you started PT YA. And then you were having your long ass sessions here. And I would just go and walk and I come back. And you'd still be doing the live session. And it was cold and dark. Yeah, right? Teaching people had to be part-time YouTubers. Six weeks at a time. These were the days where you were not leaving the house at all. Yeah. You were just sitting here. Hopefully on the computer all day. Yeah. So, for me, I think it's been a year of growth. Okay. And I've had a, I'm very grateful, because it's been a tough year, generally, but we had a good time. And overall, it's been net positive. Why has it been a tough year? COVID. Oh, okay. As then, I'm saying objectively, it's been a more difficult year than usual. I couldn't go home to see my family. I couldn't see my friends. And, you know, just people are dying and stuff like that, so. Okay. Objectively tough year, but I think we did okay. I think we did. How was the journey for you? Pretty solid to be honest. Mm-hmm. I feel like times just gone so fast. It feels like only yesterday that I was kind of driving back home from work for the last time, thinking, I'm intending to travel the world, but now there's a pandemic, and so I'm kind of stuck in Cambridge for a whole year. Yeah. And yeah, all these random things happened, like, launching a YouTube workout to me, rising the book, building a team. Yep. It's not stuff that I thought would happen before this year, but it was kind of cool. And it was nice having you by my side to be a sounding board for the various issues along the way. Mm-hmm. And to make you two. And to make you two. Random times. Random times, yeah. I really appreciate that. Yeah. Out of service is the level language after all. So what will you miss the most about each other? You go first this time. I've got something to remember about. No. No. I can't go first every time because then you're just saying, you're the same. I think I'll miss your council and your advice. Okay. The way I kind of process problems, is by processing them in my head and not by talking to someone about them. And since we started living together in the whole lockdown and stuff, where you'd be like, hey, what's going on? I can sense that something is wrong. I'd be like, oh yeah, okay. Here's the problem that I'm having. And like, discussing it with you would actually be helpful. Mm-hmm. And I was like, damn, I should do this more often. This is pretty great. So I think I'll miss that aspect a bit. But you can't keep doing it with whoever comes next. Yeah. No, I think you've taught me that it actually is okay to talk about stuff with friends. Exactly. I think before I felt like, I don't want to burden my friends with my own stuff. Because everyone's got stuff going on in their own lives. And that's all good. Yes. But I think you've made me appreciate that, like, you know, sometimes friends want to be burdened by your stuff. Yes. And that's totally okay. Yes. Once you don't overdo it. What I will miss most about you, I think the way I deal with stuff is very emotional. Okay. And very like, got reacted. Mm-hmm. And something I've learned from you because of the way we've dealt with things is to be more logical about things. Okay. So then, for example, when I'm stressed about, when I was telling you, I'm stressed about moving. Yeah. You're like, what exactly about moving? You kind of break it down into a logical set of things. And then you realise that, huh? Actually, it's not that bad. And all of these are things that I came control and things that I can't control, there's no need to worry about. So I think I really appreciated having someone to get me out of my head. When I would worry about things, and you wouldn't just rationalise it, and then suddenly it's not that big of a deal. Oh, that's something I won't miss. Sick. Well, you know, if you have a problem, you can always just bring me. Twice, because the first time I'm interested in rain. The first time I went rain because my fans always don't do not disturb. Yeah. But you bring me a second time. Okay. Yeah, what does that mean? Caledrate, right? Yeah. We'll have time difference now. Yeah. So I mean, Caledrate, right? Yeah. Wow. Okay. Can we do some Zoom call? I'll try to plan my stressed out times. Will you be looking for a new roommate? Huh? Will you? Me, no. I've loved my lesson. What about you? Um, not like actively looking for a new roommate. But I do have a friend who suggested living together. And this is a male friend. And so like, I've been living with girls for the last like four years. One, two, three, one, two, three, four, four years. Yeah. I think it'll be interesting living with a guy and seeing what that's like, whether the dynamic changes. You're going to love it. Yeah. I think it's a lot simpler. It's a lot simpler. I don't find, I don't think that your male friend will have any issue with you living with a fridge or open, for example. Oh, I see, yes. All having your clothes on the floor everywhere. Yeah. You're shoes on the sofa, stuff like that. I don't think they'll care. Yeah, might be easier. That's true. Yeah. So we'll see how that works living with him. Mm-hmm. But it sounds like you're keen to just live alone. Yeah, I mean, I've always lived alone during my time at uni. This was the first time I had a roommate. And I never going back. No, it's more that I don't know anyone. And the reason it was easy to do it with you was because I already knew you. So, okay. But I don't know anyone there. So I would rather live at my own. What is the first thing you'll do once she leaves through a party? Um... Cry? Probably lie in your bed and cry. Okay, good. No, you worked. What is the first thing you'll do? No, genuinely. I'd be like, it's place of 17, you know. I'm not open to fridge and leave it open. And you were like, yeah. I want everything to go bad in the fridge. Yes, exactly. Okay. What was your favorite thing to do together? I quite enjoyed filming these videos. Really? Yeah. I feel like we have more like chats in these videos than we do. Like, yeah. I decided the videos. I do have your engagement and focus a lot more when there's a camera in front of us. And you thought I'd just do work Wednesdays because I wanted to. The reality is, it's just to have a chat with you. Oh. That's it. That's sad. That's fine. It is what it is. I think of my favorite thing is when we go to Mackey's drive three. Oh. Yeah, randomly at night when we are stuffed. Yeah. We decided to go to McDonald's. I really like that. Nice. It's all about the midnight McDonald's drive three. We haven't been in a while. It has been a while, yeah. I wasn't thinking about it earlier today. Should we go to net? Well, I don't want to commit to it right now, but. It's all last night together. No, it depends how I feel. Wow. How relieved will you be once she leaves? I think I say him to you. She leaves. Hmm. I don't think relief is the thing that would be in my mind. Okay. I don't view it as any kind of burden you being here. Okay. Oh, that's nice. If you leave, it's not a sense of relief at all. Okay. That's really kind of you. What have you learned most from each other? I think I've learned how to care less about things that don't matter. Okay. Yeah. That's a good thing. Yeah. It's a good life, Lester. I've learned that from you. Nice. Hmm. What have you learned? I've learned from you that like being direct and like truthful does not have to be the same as being mean. Hmm. And there is a way to be nice to someone and to take their feelings into account. Without it detracting from the message at hand. Nice. And I think I've learned that like even though everyone on the surface will present a very confident and independent like facade. Everyone has like insecurities inside and that when talking to people especially from a position of power or from a position of like closeness within friendships or relationships, it's important to recognize that. So it's similar to what Alanda Patons says that like fundamentally we all have a three-year-old child within us and that three-year-old, three-year-old child sometimes needs to need to nurturing and soothing and to kind of like always speak just someone as if they are a fully rational, capable adult, et cetera, et cetera. It's actually not doing them a service because it's ignoring the fact that we will have this emotional side of us that needs to be suited from time to no. What have you incorporated from each other's life styles into your own? I thought it started going to we work a lot. Excellent. After I quit my job as well. I think especially your whole thing about, you know, if you really want to do something, you definitely have time to do it in between things. I used to watch a lot of TV when I recently moved in. I don't watch TV that much now. You don't, yeah. Yeah. That's weird. Yeah. What is that? I think it's probably because you're always doing stuff so I end up doing stuff as well. And I don't really like watching TV on my own. So we used to watch TV together sometimes, but then you stopped and then I also stopped. So now I just end up working whenever I have free time. Well, like, by working, you mean doing working on your own projects and stuff? I mean having fun. Exactly. Sorry. Yeah. Yeah. I don't say. Obviously doing things that is not actual job work, but like things I want to do. Nice. What about you? What's the question? Well, have you incorporated from my life style in your own? Hmm. I think you have given me an appreciation of how nice it is to have a clean room. And so I'd like to think that I'd kind of take that forward. Yeah, I've been putting in practice yet. Not yet. It's a work in progress. Also, I got you. I introduced you to the drinking bottle. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Great. Yeah, I don't have a bottle of water on my desk. Nice. Most of the time. So every time you're hydrated, you can think of me. Exactly. What'll happen to work Wednesday? There we go. What will happen to work Wednesday? You tell me. What will happen, Ollie? I don't know. Well, people seem to think that work Wednesday should end without you in it. I was watching the one with which between you and Elizabeth and like 50% of the comments were like, oh my god, Elizabeth is so much better than Ellie. So, continue doing it with Elizabeth. That would be good. Well, Elizabeth won't be into by either. Yeah. So, I think work Wednesday will definitely keep going. It will be on. And hopefully we can have you on every now and then. We'll fly you to Dubai every now and then. Oh, work Wednesday. So, you know, keep watching so that we have enough money to fly him in. Yes. There we go. What's the one thing that annoyed you the most? Yeah, I think for me, the time that I was most annoyed. But again, it's less annoyance and more immersive annoyance and being upset. Oh, hello, okay. And it was when it was my birthday. Yeah. And you forgot that it was my birthday that weekend. And you planned a trip. On that weekend. Yeah. And the fact that you forgot was not the issue. Yeah. The fact that you planned the trip was not the issue. Yeah. The issue was when you found out that that happened. Yeah. It was just your reaction of like, eh, it's fine. It's not your birthday. But we've resolved that. We haven't talked about it. Mm. We're happy with it now. We both understand each other's point of view on that. But I think that was probably the one time where I was most annoyed slash upset. Mm. Yeah. All right, yeah, forever. Yeah, I think probably the thing, I won't say it annoyed me. But like, the thing that probably came closest to annoyance was just, you prioritize how you think someone is feeling versus how they're telling you that they're feeling. Oh, yeah. We have that issue. Yeah. And so if I'm telling you, Shane, let's film a video. I'm, I'm more than happy to do it. Mm-hmm. Et cetera, et cetera. But like, you asked me like an hour before and I was like a homicatide. Mm-hmm. You, you wouldn't interpret that as, oh, he's actually tired and he's, he's, he's actually lying to me. He's, he's, he's actually, the, the thing he's saying to me about how he's feeling is not true. I know better because I can see from his face that he is actually tired and annoyed and ABCDE. And I think you ascribe a whole story to what you think is going on in my head. Mm-hmm. And in reality, in my head, it's like, what the hell do I write for chapter three of the book again? Mm-hmm. Uh, and so when that comes out, especially when you become upset as a result of the story, you tell yourself about what you think I'm thinking, despite it being contrary to the thing I'm telling you that I'm thinking. Mm-hmm. That gets annoying because now you're upset and in my mind, like, you have literally caused it brought it upon yourself and you have put the blame on me for bringing it to you even though I'm everything I've said has been contrary to that. Yes. So that's probably been the thing that's most annoying me. Yes, but we've talked about this and that comes from our different ways of communication and our different ways of listening to people, etc. But then we learned. Yep. And I'd like to think that it doesn't happen after that, but cool. Advice for Ali's new roommate. You should join our support group. Molly and I have started, why? We can do an induction. Yep. Yeah, and prep you because we didn't get any preparation. So, um, but I think it's, no, it's fun. You'll have a lot of fun living with Ali if anything. He's quite easy to live with. Maybe just, you know, recalibrate your expectations in terms of how often he will want to hang out with you. Which is not very open. But otherwise is good. Excellent. What's the nicest most wholesome thing you've done for each other? I think there was one time where I had like a thing on my eye and you were like, I had this like style on my eye and you were like really took care of me and like brought me, like tea with rags dipped in it so that I could put them on my eye and you were like bringing me blankets and bringing me food and that kind of stuff. So that was nice and wholesome. Okay, um, for me it was one time when I got some sad news and you said, oh, let's just go to the movies and I didn't know that you were meant to be recording a podcast and you cancelled it. And I thought that was really nice of you. Oh, it was very caring. People complain that the podcast not consistent. What, it was my fault I apologize. What can you do? Okay, I think you have enough questions now. Okay, so this brings us three, yeah. So this is the first half of the Q&A that we've done on this channel. The second half of the Q&A is over at Sheen's channel and that will be linked right over there. So hit the subscribe button on this channel and on Sheen's channel Sheen is a little pleasure and we'll see you next on the channel when I'm into by slash when you come back to the UK. So thanks for watching guys. We'll see you later. Bye.
