# Arrogance, Expectations & Inspiration - Personal Q&A with my Brother | Ali & Taimur Abdaal
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0Mzj2i7Z8uE
🎙Our weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking 

🏙 Taimur's Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/refrigerated/
📸 Ali's Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal

🐧 Taimur's Twitter: https://twitter.com/taimurabdaal
🐦 Ali's Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal

TIMESTAMPS
0:01:08 - Introducing Taimur
0:02:53 - Similarities and differences
0:04:11 - Fights and disagreements
0:04:50 - What inspires you about each other?
0:05:56 - Academic pressure growing up?
0:06:53 - Taimur’s weird instagram captions
0:08:14 - How the podcast + YouTube channel has changed our lives
0:09:20 - Taimur’s weird username 
0:10:22 - Best and worst things about Oxford + Cambridge
0:11:29 - What are you proud of about each other?
0:13:39 - Does Ali brag about his accomplishments?
0:15:53 - Comparison 
0:16:37 - The most annoying thing about having a doctor brother (Rant)
0:19:28 - Podcast preparation + scripting
0:20:02 - Hobbies, favourite movies and series
0:22:33 - Blog posts
0:23:26 - Our shared projects

👩🏼💻 Taimur's startup: https://causal.app
✍️ Taimur's blog: https://taimur.me

--------

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
😃  How to be Happier - Stoicism Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/stoicism

TOOLS OF THE TRADE:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk
📚  How I remember what I read - Readwise - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali
What I Use For Analytics - https://go.aliabdaal.com/tubebuddy
🌐 My website platform (Ghost) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost

OTHER RECOMMENDED COURSES
📔 Effortless Output with Roam Research - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/roam
📓 Building a Second Brain - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/basb

🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** ali abdaal, taimur abdaal, q&a, not overthinking, not overthinking podcast, ali abdaal podcast, taimur abdaal podcast, ali abdal, taimur abdal, personal questions, taimur abdaal blog, ali taimur abdaal, taimur abdaal instagram, ali abdaal books, 
**Date:** 2019-11-14

## Transcript
 Hey guys, welcome back to the channel if you knew here at my name as I was on the channel. Oh, every day. Hey guys, welcome back to the channel if you knew here at my name as I was on the channel. I need to do some more. No. Hey guys, welcome back to the channel if you knew here at my name as I was on the channel. I'm a junior doctor working in Cambridge. And today I'm joined by my brother. Hey folks, I'm Tableau. I'm Ali's brother. Yes, and we've already done a video together where we address some questions that people sent in via Instagram and those are questions related to like a life advice and our opinion about things like success and motivation and hard work and all that sort of stuff. But we also had quite a few questions from people asking about us and our relationship and how we grew up and all of that sort of stuff. So if you're interested in maybe the two of us, maybe you listen to our podcast is called Not Over Thinking Maybe you want to find out more about us or we'll be talking about some of that in this video but otherwise this video is not going to be very valuable at all. So if you're looking for something that actually I'd value to your life, I'd recommend following you just like checking out any of the other study tips videos or productivity videos that I've made or alternatively you can check out channels like Peter McKinnon or Matt Diabella to get some inspiration for value. Anyway, should we just get started with the question thing? Let's do it. Okay, so the first thing is I guess no one really knows you via my YouTube channel. Yeah, people know you via the podcast. Can you tell us a little bit about your, what is your CV look like? What does my CV look like? Yes. I don't like the idea of like presenting yourself with like a CV, but I'll do it anyway. Thank you. I studied maths and university. I graduated a couple of years ago. Where did you study? I studied at Oxford at university college. I had a great time. After I graduated I worked in London as a data scientist for a year and started called nested in the property space. And for the past few months I've been running my own start-up with one of my friends. Okay, what does your start-up do? So we're building a new kind of... All right, here's the spirit. All right. This is literally what I tell. You know, potential customers, investors, the whole thing. We're building a new kind of modeling tool for spreadsheet users. Spreadsheets haven't really changed over the past few decades. But they're so flexible and easy to use that people use them for all sorts of things. And modeling is a really valuable use case. And enormous amount of economic value flows through spreadsheet models. Most companies make decisions based on models they build the spreadsheets, but spreadsheets aren't really suited for the job. So in the same way that companies like AirTable have taken the data storage use case of spreadsheet and turned it into a certain product. We're doing the same for the modeling use case. We have two sort of main... How long do you want me to go on for these things? These things can go on for... Yeah. That was an hours. So you're basically trying to make a different version of Microsoft Excel. We want to take one of the things that people do in Excel, which is building models. If you're run a business, you might have like a financial model to forecast how much money you will make next month. That's what I mean by one. Okay. So you're building basically an app? Yeah. Yeah. Okay. That one cares at this point. All right. You said enough. Got it. Question number one is what is different about you both and what's similar? I studied medicine. He studied maths. I think actually one thing which I think is not really that different is the academic stuff. I think it's easy to read a lot into what someone studied at university. And like quite frankly, that was probably a point when you were considering studying something like maths. And for most of my life, I want to be a vet. So like there's nothing fundamental about us that made me do maths and you do medicine. All right. I think it's pretty understandable. Okay. Yes. So I wouldn't read into that. You seem to be very into the knife advice kind of angle. Of course. All the time. I really don't like that stuff. Okay. And we've had various podcast episodes. You can check out on not overthinking.com where we've discussed the issue at length. But how we feel about life advice. I'm a big soccer for life advice. Timmer doesn't like it. I think he's wrong. But you know, what else? Yeah. I think we're broadly, honestly, pretty similar. I'm dressed kind of similarly. Yeah. You're wearing my t-shirt right now. I think is that mine? Uh, my French. No, I actually bought this one as well. So my tactic when I come to great t-shirts is that I try every single brands. Great t-shirts. And I've settled on the Abercrombie ones and the All Saints ones as being like, I've really good. Like, good fit. It doesn't shrink in the wash too much. And, you know, looks really good. French connection one, not a massive fan of, so I've got used to all my shirts. Anyway. All right. What do you both usually fight about or disagree on? It's not something the same person. Where's the fight all the time? Where's the fight about everything? It's a fight about it. Yeah. And the fight is used to get pretty, uh, pretty brutal. But for the record, I used to win most of them. He did win most of them. I was bigger. Yeah. At the time, this was like when you were like 11-12. Yeah. I had the advantage of being slightly bigger. No, you're slightly bigger than I. Toler. What do we disagree on? We disagree on the life of twice thing. Actually, I think, I think, broadly, we have similar views. It kind of depends how you define the defined terms. I feel like we agree about most things in life. Yeah. I think we both kind of think in roughly the same way. They're both pretty reasonable when it comes to the other person's views on things. I was like, I think we can get each other. Right. Is there anything that inspires you about your brother? Question applies to both of you. Ah. I didn't sign up for this. So, I quite like how you seem to come up with like original ideas. Okay. So my thing is that I read about things on the internet and in books and podcasts and stuff. And then I repackage up those ideas and kind of sell them with my own spin on them. Whereas I feel like you spend a lot of your time actually actually kind of observing the world and thinking about, I wonder why that's the way that it is. Whereas I would just completely miss that observation and spend my time thinking about what's the next video I can make. Right. So that inspires me about you and encourages me to be more original thinker. Oh, thank you. I'm glad you said that because I'm that is something I'm trying to do. Okay. I'm glad you appreciate that. I'm also glad you said that because the thing I find inspirational about you is that. Yeah. I feel like you just you just get stuff done. You know. You said I commit to things and follow through and that's something I'm not particularly good at. Maybe I'm too caught up in trying to be original trying to do something novel. I think there's a lot of times when I should just get things done. And I think you're pretty good at that. Alright. Moving on. Growing up, did you feel pressured by parents teachers et cetera to do well academically? Yes. Yeah. I guess. So my thing like in secondary school was kind of very self motivated. There's this exam that you have to take all the 11 plus to get into grammar school. We got our rankings in this is the exam when we were in year seven, which is the first year of secondary school in the UK. And I found out that I ranked first in that exam. And so like in my year group. And so like my whole raison d'etra, my whole lingua franca for that. For those three years was to try and maintain my position as number one in the year. And it was a very kind of self driven thing. It wasn't that my mom was telling me I'll eat you have to come first. But it was that was like my whole my whole identity was tied up in this. And so that was sort of like an internal pressure based on this external milestone. Yeah, and based on that poor decision you made to tie up your identity and that. I then had to tie up my identity in not wanting to be worse than you academically. And so you kind of screwed us both there. Well. Yep. Sounds like it. What is up with your Instagram captions? Who's that directed at? You. Oh. I think this kind of comes down to wanting to be like authentic or whatever. Okay. Can you can you describe what your Instagram captions are normally like. And the process that goes into them. So basically my my policy with Instagram captions is the same as my policy with wishing people happy birth down Facebook. Which is that I just have a standard format I like have decided on. And I don't do anything and I just do that format because I feel like if you're intentionally sticking to a format. There's nothing really inauthentic about that. Like you're just, you know, there's the format my happy birthday format for example. It's always all lower case. Happy space birthday space. And then their first name with the first letter capitalized and then the next animation mark. It's been like that. Honestly since I've been about 13 is the same with the Instagram captions. My captions are usually just a single word or a phrase that describes what's going on in the picture. I feel like if I do if I do something thinking I will get caught up in like. What am I trying to signal here? Well, how am I trying to come across like am I really being authentic about this? So I like to just forget about that. Do you know what I mean? I don't know what you mean, yeah. I choose to actually not do that. But then I'm kind of different in that my whole. Yeah, you're not playing the same game. Once you're going for the whole public figure thing then you can kind of feel. Yeah, how is the podcast and your YouTube channel affected your life both positive and not? So how is the podcast affected your lifetime? Honestly, not hugely. It's a fun thing we do every week. It's nice that people listen to it. It's nice to hear people's thoughts. I think it's often. It's nice to get our own thoughts out there and kind of have a record of things because I often find that. When I'm like hang out with my friends and we're talking about stuff. It'll often be stuff that we've talked about on the podcast and my thoughts already like, you know, thought through and solidified on these topics. And so it's really useful just for my own thinking, I think. Yeah, sounds reasonable. Yes, same with me for the podcast. It hasn't really affected my life that much. The YouTube channel has affected my life massively, but I mean, you know. It's just, it's quite nice kind of being occasionally recognised on the streets. It's quite nice being this sort of like, F-list celebrity whereby, you know, when people kind of meet me there, like, if they've seen the videos, hopefully they'll already have like a positive image of me, which means I have to work less hard to get them to like me, which is quite nice. Get them to like you. Yeah, that sounds problematic. We can do a podcast episode about this. It's quite nice having the extra money. I mean, yeah, you know, there's all these benefits of having a YouTube channel. Why is your username refrigerated? Oh, that you're trying to be authentic as well. This was not me trying to be authentic. I was trying to be ironic. No, not ironic. I think when I was about 13, here's a story. When I was about 13, I decided, oh man, I really need to get my life in order. And the thing that I thought we'd get my life in order is that if I had like a consistent username across all my kind of online things. Okay, which other time was various forums and stuff? Yeah, so I think before that, I had a username for like, Frogger 22, bunch of other even more embarrassing ones. Yeah. However, also when I was 13, I was binge watching Naruto, and on the website that I watched on NarutoSpot.net, shout out to them. There was like a chat box. And someone had a username called Desk Lamp. And I thought that was hilarious. I thought like, well, I've just like taken an object. And that's their username now. And I was like, okay, cool. That's a nice format. I want to like think of any equivalent. And so I think I kind of settled on refrigerator. And occasionally that's taken. I mean, go with refrigerators. Oh, that's very well thought through. Yeah. Clearly, age 13 was a good idea. Yeah, yeah. Transpiration or yeah. What was your time at Oxford like? And what did you enjoy the most and least? Good friend. I think I had a great time. Enjoy the most. No, it's going to be generic stuff. People. Yeah, I made friends. I really like my friends. There are a few, I'm glad I sort of got into sort of tech and started doing that kind of stuff with other people. That was nice. Enjoy the least. I think my attitude towards studying was really bad. I kind of went in, not really caring about academics. And I kind of thought, ah, whatever. I just wanted to sort of coast and scrape through. I think that was really silly. And I think I would have enjoyed it more and got more out of it. If I hadn't waited until fourth year to actually start applying myself in my subjects. Yeah. I mean, it's kind of the same for me, minus the academic part. So, yeah. The best part was the people that you meet the friends, blah, blah, blah. The location is quite nice. It was nice being in Cambridge. It was nice being in the college system, whereby you already have the had this existing network of friends. I got very involved in the Pakistan Society and the Islamic Society. So that was good. Made some friends through that. At least favorite part. I mean, obviously lectures were kind of boring sometimes. But I think everyone finds that. And yeah. It is what it is. What's one thing you both have proud of about each other? Oh no. We've sort of done this already. Maybe you can link my Twitter thread about being proud of it. You have a Twitter thread about being proud of it. You have a Twitter thread about being proud of it. Yeah. I don't think I've seen that one. Ah, it's good. Okay, can you? Can we do that now? Yeah, let's read it now. I've got a bust out. I think this was actually pretty interesting one. Pretty interesting Twitter thread that you published. No, no, the discussion. It's not about me just saying. It's about the discussion. I think it's a very sweet people. Yeah. Bro, how do I see all my tweets? Oh, there we go. I don't know, man. There's a lot of me shilling for my start-up at the moment. Shilling for your start-up. What does that mean? Just like plugging it. Oh, when people are talking about spreadsheets. I feel like, hey, have you got like one of those things? What? Where it searches the word spreadsheet. Yeah, yeah. If you ever tweet the word spreadsheet, I'll be on it. That's what. This is how you get tables attention these days. Okay. Here's a tweet as the original tweet. What do people mean when they say I'm proud of you? It seems to be subtly different to I'm happy for you, which kind of means that I'm happy that you're happy, I think. Have you ever told someone you're proud of them? Please help me out here. And then I've said, I think I've said it a couple of times instinctively as it can phrase you say when someone accomplishes something. But I think I actually meant I'm happy that you're happy. Like I'm happy for you. And so there was a few interesting replies. Emma Bone at Emma Bone 13 on Twitter said, To me, the phrase I'm proud of you in part means I'm happy that you're happy. But also adds recognition that you had to overcome something to achieve that happiness. That a part of the process you struggle and you had to overcome obstacles and barriers to get the happy outcome. Okay, so that's kind of, that's kind of the difference between I'm happy you happen to get a free chocolate cake from the bakery or something like that. All right. I'm happy that you had this food the taste of good. I'm proud of you for having a good meal. Yeah, I'm proud of you for having a good meal. Yeah, I'm proud of you for having a good meal. You're acknowledging something, effort. Yeah. Add, add, add, add. It is adds on Twitter said, I think it means I'm happy for you. And also I feel like I've had some hand in your success. And he said, that's how he usually reads it, but that might be very cynical. I think that was interesting. Okay. And we'll link the rest of the tweet, if you want to have a look at the rest of it. Well, okay. She'll show that one down. Sorry. It does only brag a lot about his accomplishments. I think this is an interesting one because I don't think you outwardly do. Yeah. But I suspect you are inwardly quite arrogant. What does inwardly arrogant mean? Just a general use of the word arrogant. Like you feel like you feel like you're a big deal or something inwardly. Come on. You're inwardly. What's the difference between that and being confident in your book? Sorry. What's the difference between that and being confident in your book? I think it comes down. Okay. I think it's linked to the spiel you say about diversifying your identity. And I'm on board with that. But the fact that you are so open about saying, I have diversified my identity. And I get my self-esteem from all these different things. Okay. Sort of implies. And I feel like a general behavior is sometimes. Yep. implies that you think your sort of, you know, success in various different areas is like really meaningful. And meaningful is wrong way because that's fine. That's not an objectionable thing to believe. Okay. But I think you think you're a big deal. So inwardly. So in my book, the difference between arrogance and confidence is confidence is kind of knowing that you're a big deal. arrogance is knowing that you're better than others. Okay. I think arrogance inherently implies a more kind of relativistic sort of viewpoint. Whereby, you might look at someone and kind of feel that you're better than them in some way or another. Because of your accomplishment or because of something or another. Whereas confidence is not relative. It's just, you know, I'm secure on myself. I know I have a nice life. What else? I don't know. Again, the focus on the external achievement side of things has the driver for confidence. It doesn't sit well with it. I don't know. Wow. Okay. But I mean, I only doesn't brag about his confidence. See, I think inwardly, I am too proud of the fact that I've done these things. inwardly. I know where you might inwardly, the fact that I've got 300,000 subscribers on YouTube or nearly means that I'm probably being like, oh yeah, check me out. I'm a fucking dumb. I fear that there might be a little bit of that going. Yeah, 100%. I agree. Lock me up, you're honest. Have you ever felt your parents, friends, etc. were comparing you both? How did you feel about it? Yeah, I feel like people implicitly do this all the time with siblings. People always ask things like, oh, who's the, something one? Who's the sports you want? Who's the clever one? Yeah, who's the good looking one? Yeah. That doesn't end well for either of us. That one. Like, where? Yeah, I think people actually do do that. It's like one of my least favorite things. I think whenever I am in a situation where, you know, I'm meeting some siblings or sort of two or three people who are in some group, I kind of make a conscious effort to see them as, their own people and not try and draw comparisons like, oh, who's better at this? Who's like, that's, you know, but I think people do that. I don't like it. I don't like it. What's the most annoying thing about having a doctor brother? Oh, God. I've got a lot to say about this. Yeah, my favorite. I like late on things. I have a lot of woes. Sorry. With the medical communities. Our mom is a doctor. A lot of the kind of the sort of the people in our local Asian community are doctors. A lot of a family of doctors. And for that reason, kind of growing up, you're kind of fed this weird narrative that like being a doctor is a huge deal. And being a doctor is like the best thing. And also, when you're surrounded by lots of people who are doctors, often the conversation will be about medicine. So we had a bunch of people over a couple of weeks ago. I've all these people. I was literally the only person who didn't study medicine and wasn't a study medicine, or kind of saying this. There was like eight sort of kids. I was the only non-medic. Most of the conversation was about medicine. And look, on the face of it, this is fine. It's not a problem. I feel like if you've grown up in that kind of environment where most people only know about medicine, talk about medicine, then you kind of implicitly feel a bit devalued. And I want to say, I kind of feel a bit marginalized when it comes to... Oh, God. Correct me. I'll river this. It's a familiarized, my life. Why don't you? You're a political marginalized? I'd be deadly seriously. I'm a marginalized community. If anyone understands what I mean, please reach out. We can start a support group. Non-medic synonymous. I'll go find me, Paige. Anyway, I feel marginalized because the fact that a lot of people around you don't really get what you do and what you care about, they're not explicitly saying they don't value you or they don't value these other things, but you kind of implicitly don't feel valued. I often go to family events and stuff. We had a wedding in Pakistan a few months ago. And you know, all the family from around the world kind of converge on this one place. And you haven't seen all these people for a few years. And you know, people were like, oh, I'll eat martial art later. I've heard you've, I've heard you're a doctor now. You've graduated from Cambridge. That's, you know, martial art well done. You must be so proud. And then they look at me and they say, oh, they're more of... So what, what do you, what do you up to nowadays? And you know, I sort of say something about tech or whatever. Something regionary because I don't, I don't even want to get it. And then like, oh, okay, cool. I wouldn't say they feel sorry for you. But actually, I have heard stories about like other people who, you know, from similar kinds of backgrounds who didn't do medicine. And people straight up assume that they didn't do medicine because they didn't get into medicine. So I know someone who didn't maths. And yeah, he would say they're oftentimes when he meets people, you know, he'll say, oh, you know, I saw your maths and whatever I do this now. And they'll try to out say, oh, yeah, medicines really hard to get into in the UK. Yeah. It's completely insane. Um. Anyway. Anything else? Any other words? I'm glad I got that out there. Um. Whew. It's really annoying. Right. Next question. Are you a product class scripted or do you just prepare an outline and let the thoughts flow? Great topics though. The podcast answer scripted. We try and think of topics ahead of time. I feel like you haven't been pulling your weight on the topics for a reason. No, I don't think of any topic like all the topics that I want to talk about on life advice topics. Yeah. How do we do motivation? Productivity, time management discipline. Oh, blah, blah, blah. Yeah. And where's the topic? You want to think of it? I like, huh. I wonder why people say that they're looking for ambition in a partner. Or what makes a silence comfortable? That's not how I think. Hobbies, favorite movies and series. All right. What are your hobbies? No, I'm going to do it. My hobbies. I like play ping pong. Yeah. Disco dancing. Yeah. We'll stop talking. Yeah. Stop the reference. How do you feel about that? What hobbies do you have? I feel like you would have thought about it. Because like I said, humans are not valued based on the human value and more valued based on the things or the extra things that bring to the table. And something about, you know, this whole state of hobbies being like this thing that you're supposed to have. Everyone should have a side hustle even though that's that's a myth. All right. I think that the question itself is innocent. But I think like asking that question. I mean, this is a different format. So I'm not saying this is bad in this format. Yeah. Funa mist. There's no shade on you, bro. No shade on you, Funa mist. But I think just the question itself has a lot of assumptions of like, you know, lots of people do plenty of things with their time. That it wouldn't be easy to sum up in some known category. You know, like if you play music instrument, it's easy to say, Oh, I play the piano. Yeah. This is my musical hobby. This is my sport hobby. I read this genre of books. You know, if that's what you do, great. You have a good answer for this question. If you do other things, which are a bit less standard, a bit harder to define. Like browsing forums and kind of vaguely reading about web design and vaguely trying to code. Yeah. It's supposed to package up into my hobby is, you know, the interest. Yeah. Yeah. You sound like an answer to that. Exactly. Yeah. I don't like that question. But what are your hobbies? If you want to package it up? These days, I think my work is sort of a hobby. You know, trying to build this kind of tech company to do with statistics and spreadsheets. I'm trying to learn the piano. I'd like to get back into Babmonton and Fishkeeping. I need to make an effort to do those two things. Cool. What about you? Yeah. So, music wise, guitarist singing in piano that I'm trying to improve all three at. Sport toys, a place to caution Babmonton. And then it's going to make videos on the side. You get me. Nice. Favorite movies? Oh. I was a big fan of it. Oh my god. Spiderman far from home. So good. Yeah. That was amazing. Best movie I've seen in a while. Nice. My favorite movie is still probably the Dark Knight. Really? Yeah. I just haven't seen something that comes. Like, comes closely toppling that as like, wow. This is a masterpiece. Yeah. Yes. Favorite series? Game of Thrones? Obviously. Norriso. Absolutely amazing. Mass apart my upbringing. Hi Tamor. You haven't written a blog post in a while. Will you be writing anytime soon? Ah. Thank you for reading the blog. Thank you for noticing. Yes. I actually sort of continued writing a piece this morning that I've been working on for a while. The whole kind of, the my current lifestyle is sort of thrown my writing routine out of whack. Which is really just a bad excuse for saying I haven't written properly in a while. But I'm getting back into it. What sort of stuff do you write about? Can you plug your blog to the viewers? Yeah, sure. I have a few pieces about very tangible topics that I'm interested in things to do with business and tech and the economy. Have a few of those. And then the stuff I'm sort of doing more of these days is just personal thoughts on things and introspection done publicly. I suppose. Public introspection. Public introspection. I don't know if that sounds like it's a felony. Yeah. Have you two done any projects together? We've done some projects. We have B-Matte Ninja. Oh yeah. So we made these like question bags for the B-Matte and the UK cat, which were medical school. We're online learning platforms. Not question bags. Online learning platforms for these medical school exams. So we worked on that. Do you do anything else together? We used to play World of Warcraft together. I remember there was one summer when we were kind of, you were filming me and we were kind of leveling up. Yeah, that was it. I was like products really good. Wait, we should get some time. That would be so good. Yeah, maybe not. And that's it. That actually brings us to the end of our Q&A. Kind of talking about each other and stuff. All right. If you guys enjoyed that, let us know in the comments and stuff. And you should definitely follow our podcast at notoverthinking.com. Available at all podcast players and things. If you like this sort of thing, I'll put a video over there. That there. That where his where a table faces. That will be like the previous video that we did about kind of life advice and stuff. And a little playlist of other kind of life advice videos. But yeah, thanks for watching and see you later. Bye.
