# I WAS WRONG - How I Set Goals
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0rkRC728rIU
To improve your thinking and learning skills, visit https://brilliant.org/ali and sign up for free. The first 200 people will get 20% off the annual Premium subscription :)

I never used to be a huge fan of goals. They just seemed a bit pointless compared to the value of a robust system. But over the past year speaking to different experts, I've come to realise that there may be more to this whole goal thing than I previously thought.

August- https://youtube.com/user/augustbradley
Ben - https://youtube.com/channel/UC07WXGmXVbNrv3VMOp5DvDw

Timestamps
00:00 Introduction
00:27 Part 1 - Forget Goals, Focus on Systems 
02:04 Part 2 - How To Actually Think About Goals
07:15 Part 3 - Yin and Yang

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
📚  How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali
What I Use For Analytics - https://go.aliabdaal.com/tubebuddy
🌐  My website platform (Ghost) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost
🎤  My podcast hosting platform (Transistor) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/transistor

OTHER RECOMMENDED COURSES
📔 Effortless Output with Roam Research - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/roam
📓 Building a Second Brain - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/basb

🎙 MY WEEKLY PODCAST - https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCdXpN-Z7LyTgc3OLo_Zw2Pg
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app. And we post clips + full episodes on the YouTube channel, so please subscribe to that!  

BE MY FRIEND:
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮  Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, how to set goals, goals, new years resolutions, how to actually set goals, how to set new years resolutions, how to reach goals, the importance of goals, why goals matter, do goals matter?, 2020 goals, 2021 goals, 2021, productive goals, targets, systems thinking, goals 2021, 
**Date:** 2020-12-31

## Transcript
 So for a long time, I used to think that goals were a bit pointless. What is the point of setting a goal? If we can't control the outcome and we're just going to be unhappy until we hit the goal and then when we hit the goal, we're just going to set a new goal. Why can't we just forget about goals? And instead focus on just being satisfied in the present in the here and now. But I am pleased to say that I was absolutely wrong about this and so in this video, I'm going to break down why I used to think that goals were pointless. How I now approach setting goals and how I'm now thinking of goals moving forward in terms of setting goals for the new year. Part one, forget goals, focus on the system instead. So for this YouTube channel, for example, I've never really had any goals for it. Like I couldn't care less how many subscribers I have or how many views I get because all of those things are outside of my control and as the stoics would say there's no point in worrying about something that is outside of your control. For me, what was more important than having a goal of a certain subscriber count or a certain view count, what was more important than the goal was actually the system to getting there. So my system was of just I want to release at least one to three videos every week without fail and that's the only thing that I care about. This is something that James Clear actually talks about in atomic habits. He says that if you want better results than forget about setting goals, focus on your system instead. For example, if my goal is to get absolutely hench and become a gym shock athlete, then just having that goal isn't really important. What's more important is the system, the process, the working out every day, the eating healthy, the taking steroids, not that bit. And there's two main issues that I've got with setting goals. The first is that they encourage us to focus too much on the destination and not in and I'm a big believer of journey before destination as Brandon Sanderson would say. And secondly, goals restrict our happiness in a way because when we set a goal, we're making this implicit contract with ourselves, which is that once I reach this goal, then I will be happy. And that means that we're constantly attaching our personal happiness to these goals. And so if we hit the goal, then we just get a slight release of happiness, and then we just set another goal. And if we don't hit the goal, then we'll be unhappy because we didn't hit the goal. So because of all these reasons, until recently, I'd come to the conclusion that, okay, goals are a bit pointless. Let's screw the goals and just focus on the systems instead, but I was wrong about this. And actually, in doing my deep dive livestream interviews with lots of cool people over the last few months, I have started to change my mind about the goals thing. Part two, how to actually think about goals? One, the goal is the compass. You don't want to just have a system and process just for their sake of areas. What's the trend? What's the point of that? What's the direction? The goal is the compass. At the same time, a goal by itself is, is not anything. You need a system and process to get there. It's you need both of them. Now, yeah, at the end of the day, the system and process, I think requires a lot more focus and energy, and matters more. But the goal is where you're trying to get. It's, it makes no sense to try to say one is better than the other. They work complimentary. They're perfectly in tandem. That was August Bradley, who I interviewed in September, and who's an expert on systems thinking. He says that, yes, systems are really important, but without a goal, we don't really have a direction that we're going to. A goal doesn't have to be a traditional smart goal. A goal doesn't have to be a traditional goal. A goal could be, I just want to be more relaxed in my life. I want to reduce my stress level. That's a goal. A peaceful existence with no schedules on nothing, schedule on my calendar could be a goal. Okay. You can pick the goal you want. Any goal is a value goal. It's what matters to you. So if you just want to have a chill life frame that is a goal. This is really important. It's like technically traditionally we're supposed to think of goals as a specific measurable achievable realistic time balance and all that stuff. But what August is saying is that we actually don't have to think about him in that way. A goal of having a peaceful life or having an empty calendar or it's just like completely legit to have as a goal. Three, we all have goals even if we're not articulating them. This was where August called me out on my BS when I said to him that, well, August, I don't really think I've got any goals. First of all, I suspect, I don't know you that well, but I suspect you have some goals. You just have an articulated them, but interestingly, there's certain things you want. Clearly, you're a hardworking ambitious person, building interesting things that doesn't happen randomly by accident. Like, what? I built a million plus YouTube channel. How that happened? No, you had some things you were reaching for. And so it's helpful to be explicit and intentional about them. I think I don't believe you don't have goals. I do believe you might not have clarity on them, but I don't believe that they're not in you. This was a really good point. Like, I could convince myself that I didn't have goals, but actually, it was probably a failure of my imagination to actually articulate the goals that I did have. Four, all of behavior is outcome oriented. So in philosophy, there's a concept called teleology. And basically, it's the idea that every human action is to create an end. So like, you and I right now, we're both actually trying to create an outcome. We're having a conversation which might be just the outcome, it's for us to learn from each other. Or it might be to produce this video. Every human behavior is to produce an end in psychology, it's called perspective. But basically, the perspective is the idea that the thing that makes this conscious human beings is that we can imagine a future. And so for me, when I say that I don't really have any goals from my YouTube channel, because I don't care about the numbers, I just want to upload one, two, or three videos a week. Ben Hardy is saying that that is actually a goal itself. Everything you're doing right now is, in my opinion, to achieve goals, even if you're not admitting their goals. Even if you don't want to call them goals, you're getting up to produce YouTube videos. And so to me, those would be called goals. But what's in my opinion more exciting about that is the idea that you get to choose the future that directs your present. And that's called living consciously. Five, be honest about what you want. I get the idea that goals can be limiting. But the idea is that everything you do is to create now come anyways. And so why don't you just be honest about what the outcome is that you want? This is what I want. This is what I'm going for. It's okay if I don't, I mean, you can do whatever you want psychologically to make yourself feel better if you either achieve it or don't. But the point is it's just to be honest and blunt, motivation is a lot more easily created if you're clear about the outcome when you want. And if you're explicit about it. And flow is a lot easier if you're just, if you're just focused on one thing at a time. I think the whole argument against goals goes against human nature to be fully honest with you. One issue that I've always had with goals is this niggling feeling that if you set a goal, then you're just unhappy until you hit it. Like my goal is to become a gym shock athlete. And so in a way, I am actively choosing to be slightly less happy because of the fact that I'm not yet a gym shock athlete. But when I said this to Ben, he again called me out on my BS because this is totally wrong. Six goals don't have to make you unhappy. My major goal is to sell millions of copies of this book. But that does not make me unhappy in the present. And actually Dan Sullivan has a antidote for this as well. He calls it measure the gain not the gap. And it's an ebook I would recommend everyone read. It's free. He gives it away. But basically says rather than measuring yourself against your ideal, you measure yourself against your former self. You measure yourself against where you were. So if you measured yourself against where you were three months ago, you probably have made progress towards whatever goal you've made. And if you're measuring yourself against your former self rather than your future self, then you're always going to be recognizing progress and you're always going to be feeling good. Seven goals give you purpose. This is one of the key ideas in man's search for meaning, which is a book written by Dr. Victor Franco, who was a psychiatrist who was in the concentration camps and survived. And he wrote about the experience of his life and the life of his friends in the concentration camps in World War II. The thing that he figured out is that if we don't have a purpose towards our future, like if we're not striving for certain goals, then our present doesn't have any meaning either. He said that what man needs is not a tensionless state, but a striving and struggling for a worthwhile goal. Part three, Yin and Yang. So after all that, I realized that I was wrong about goals. I used to think that if you set a goal, you're going to be unhappy in the present and if you hit the goal then what I ever said, if you don't hit the goal then you're going to be sad about it. But now, I've realized that goals are actually useful for all these different reasons and it's really about the Yin and Yang balance between self-improvement and self-acceptance. Like it's totally okay for me to be fully satisfied with my life right now, which I am, but at the same time having a goal of becoming a gym shark athlete or whatever. And this tension between these two states of self-improvement and self-improvement and self-improvement is acceptance, we don't have to resolve it. And apparently this is one of the key differences between Eastern and Western styles of thinking. Like in the West, we are very keen to have a logical conclusion to every point. And this is how I definitely think, where it's like, okay, well, how do I reconcile this idea that on the one hand, goals are a kind of legit, but on the other hand that I want to be happy with where I am. And I used to think that I had to resolve this conundrum. If we think about it more like Yin and Yang, it's like apparently Eastern philosophers and Eastern things, but think about it. It's like, on the one hand, you've got self-improvement. On the other hand, you've got self-acceptance and the two can co-exist in harmony. And it's really just about navigating a balance of the two, rather than trying to solve the equation and come to the bottom of it all. So moving forward, I am definitely planning to set goals for the new year in terms of having this self-improvement aspect. So I want to become a gym shark athlete. I want to train in emergency medicine and maybe work abroad outside of the UK. I want to get married and have four kids, probably not this year, but maybe at some point. But the point is that all of these goals are just directions. Like if I actually want to hit them, then yes, the systems and the habits are what is important. But if I don't have the goal, then I don't have a direction to go in in the first place. In fact, one of my goals for the new year is to understand a lot more about how computer science works. Now, when I was applying to university, I was torn between applying to medicine and applying for computer science. And I went for medicine in the end, which was actually a great decision and one that I don't regret. But I still like computer science and I want to kind of take it a bit more seriously. So getting more proactive computer science is the goal and the system that's going to help me get there is by taking online courses over at Brilliant who are very kindly sponsoring this video. If you haven't heard, Brilliant is a fantastic platform for online courses on maths, science and computer science. Their courses are fun, interactive, and engaging. And the teach stuff in a really first principles way that really helps you understand what's going on. These days, I'm taking Brilliant's course on crypto currencies, which builds it up from the ground up and teaches you about things like cryptographic signatures and how this sort of stuff applies to currency, like Bitcoin. And actually, I lost about, I think it was 30,000 pounds in 2017 on Bitcoin. And I'm hoping that I don't miss to make that mistake again because now I actually want to, you know, understanding how Bitcoin actually works. If, like me, you're also interested in learning how to code, then Brilliant has a fantastic introductory and advanced course on Python, which is the world's most popular programming language. If that sounds up your street and you want to join me in leveling up our collective knowledge and understanding of maths science and computer science concepts, then head over to Brilliant.org forward slash Ali. And the first 200 people to hit that link, which is also in the video description, will get 20% off the annual premium subscription. If you like this video about goals and you want to build better systems and habits, which are the things that will ultimately help you hit those goals, then you should definitely check out my video over here, which is all about my summary and discussion about James Clear's fantastic book Atomic Habits. Thank you so much for watching, happy new year, and I'll see you in the next video. Bye-bye.
