# Study With Me + 10 Productivity / Revision Tips - Cambridge University medical student VLOG #31
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0VjvUUHsuYs
🎬 Check out my FREE 36-video online class on how to study for exams - https://skl.sh/2UOx68x 

Another 'study with me' video, but we include 10 productivity / revision tips that you might like to apply to your own studies. Featuring spaced repetition and active recall, the most efficient study techniques. Enjoy xx

- Follow ± DM me on Instagram: https://instagram.com/AliAbdaal
- My weekly email newsletter: https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
- Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
- My website / blog - www.aliabdaal.com

REVISION TIPS VIDEOS:

1. Watch this first - How to study for exams, evidence-based revision tips - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ukLnPbIffxE

2. Watch this second - How to study for exams #2 - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z-zNHHpXoMM

3. Last 'study with me' video featuring the magical active recall spreadsheet - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yiRYn97GJhM

4. Exam Revision Q&A - Motivation, stress and time management - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tkHw25cS_bk 

5. Exam Revision Q&A - Last minute study tips, flashcards, how to use active recall - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q58SMId-_Ko

🎬 My online course on video editing - https://skl.sh/32TpEvm
🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal

Who am I:

I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

- Follow ± DM me on Instagram: https://instagram.com/AliAbdaal
- My weekly email newsletter: https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
- Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
- My website / blog - www.aliabdaal.com
**Keywords:** study with me, study motivation, how to study, study session, study together, lets study together, study inspiration, motivation to study, exam studying, study tips, final exam studying, medical student, med student, medical school, cambridge uni, cambridge university, college student, medical school vlog, uni vlog, exam revision, how to revise, uni student, university of cambridge, school of medicine, day in the life of, med school vlogs, 
**Date:** 2018-04-18

## Transcript
 Hey guys, welcome back to the vlog and to another study with me video. That's days of fairly chill day, which is the way I like revisions to be, where we sort of taking it at a leisurely pace, doing bursts of active recoil and space repetition to maximize efficiency. We're not being overly concerned with 100% productivity, and hopefully you'll see that A, we get a lot of work done, but B, it's also quite chill and fun, and I'll also be including 10 study productivity tips, hacks things that we used throughout the day, so hopefully you'll find those useful. Anyway, I work over late 30, A, M, lay in bed for about 30 minutes, doing absolutely nothing slash browsing YouTube, and from 9 till about 10, 15, I was editing an uploading one of the revision Q&A videos I didn't have a shower, and this is point number one, one of my productivity hacks, as it were. Normally, I have a shower first thing in the morning to wake me up, but if there's something specific that needs to doing, that I imagine will take around an hour or less, I jump straight into it, and then I use the shower afterwards as a sort of break. From 11, 10 to about 11, 30, I inspect some time tidying my room, tidying my desk, packing my broken drone to send it for repairs. There will be more on this when I put together the vlog about our trip to Singapore and Bali. Point number two, this is another trick that I use before settling down to work. I make sure that my room and my desk are tidy, yeah, it does sort of waste time in the tidying phase, and I guess you could see it as procrastination from actually doing the work, but I think the overall benefits of having a tidy room and a clean desk are far better for my own mental state, then trying to squeeze out that extra 20 minutes of productivity at the expense of a nice room with good, fun, shway, as it were. After that, the work session starts, because I don't like having a revision time table, I first need to decide what to actually do, and I think to myself, if we have the exam later today, what topic would I be least comfortable with? I decide that if I had to take a history from a patient with a psychiatric issue, like depression or anxiety or suicidal ideation or mania or bipolar disorder, I wouldn't quite remember that. So I spend the next hour or so getting my head around that, and then after I've read over something, for example, back to a side scale. I try and write down from memory exactly what I learned. This is point number four, this is active recall in action. There's nothing really fancy about this. I just like using different colors and arrows and spacing things out on the page, because it gives me more recall cues. For example, at some point, if I forget the back suicide scale, it might help me jog my memory that I remember writing down the three components on the right-hand side of the page, green. Then I can remember, oh yes, there were three components, and that cues my recall of, oh yeah, those components were number one, planning number two, circumstances number three, what happens after the fact? So this is why I use different colors and the iPad makes this super easy, but to be honest, I've been using different colors for years, even with paper. Also, it makes the notes a bit more of a pleasure to look at, a bit more of a work of art, you feel like nice when you look at them. There's no understanding the importance of that. My friend Katherine and I then spend the next half an hour doing psychiatry history role-place, so putting into action the theory that we did earlier, I acted like an asylum seeker from abroad, whose family was murdered by men with machetes, and I've got symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder. I've got my asylum seeker hearing the following week, and I've taken an overdose of parasy tomorrow, because I know that if I get deported, I'll be tortured in my home country, so I might as well end it now. Katherine has to talk to me, ask about my symptoms and assess my suicide risk to work out where we go from here. We then swap roles, she acts as a young lady with a past history of sexual abuse from a partner, she's been homeless for the past two years, and her dog has just died, which has pushed her into a spirative depression. She's come to the GP practice with a social worker, and I'm acting as the GP in trying to talk to her about what she's been going through, so that we can make an action plan. From two to about 250 PM, I make lunch, so I make my usual combination of pasta with tuna and pesto and recently I've started adding peace, because that increases my green vegetable intake, and that's revolutionized my lunch. Out around 3 PM, Paul and Alex, two, or other friends, come up to the kitchen, and we decide to do some work. We go over the thyroid, the acrimagallia, and the cushing's examination, and there are two little tips here. Point number five, is that Paul sat down, and he was like, right guys, let's go over some examinations, how about we do the thyroid? He's taking the lead, he's making us do work, and the rest of us were sort of in this inertia mode, where we'll, you know, we're having lunch, we're feeling a bit lazy, but if someone comes along and says, right guys, we're doing work, let's do this, this, and this, then we're quite happy to come and board with that. And I think this is important that whenever you're doing a work session with friends, at least one person needs to take the initiative and say, right guys, we're doing this, and then everyone else will sort of follow. If you can't see yourself taking the lead with that sort of thing, because you feel like you're not that sort of person that just sort of takes the lead, I would really implore you to work on it. Leadership skills are so important and literally any workplace environment, especially in medicine, you know, it's a good way to practice the skill in a chill setting with your friends rather than, you know, for the first time when you're in a cardiac rest and you're with you and you're the most senior person on the team. And point number six, something that we do in this little session as well, and that is, you know, this thing that act of recall is a way of life. So instead of pull the just going over the thyroid examination and us being like, yeah, that makes sense, we need that. That instead of being spoon fed, one of us says, actually, can I talk to you through it myself and you fill in the gaps that I missed? In this example, I had done the thyroid examination a few days ago and I forgot some of it, but that's fine because that's the perfect state to be in in order to act of recall, because when you've allowed yourself to forget something and then you're retrieving it, that strengthens the connections in that thing. It would have been much easier for pull to spoon feed us the examination for the thyroid or for us to read it in a book and then be like, oh yeah, I knew that. That requires literally zero brain power, but because we're trying to actively recall it first without looking at the notes without having it explained in advance, that is going to strengthen the memory ultimately, and that's much more efficient. Anyway, also in this session, we draw diagrams for the acromegely man and the kushing's man. This is another important point. This is a point number seven, learning by diagrams. I really like learning by diagrams. It's sort of based on what I previously said about curing recall, and if you can cue a recall of fact or anything based on images, colors, position on the page, these are all things that you can use to your advantage to maximise your efficiency. And because active recall is a way of life, point number eight is that we encourage one another to act of recall. So for example, if I'm doing the acromegely examination, and I'm trying to remember what the details were, and I remember that there were five things in the hands. I would say to my friends, like, right, guys, don't tell me, don't tell me, I'm going to get this, and I really try really, really hard to think about what those five things were. The ideas that the more effort this takes, the more strongly that memory is going to get encoded. Right, so that's done. From four to five, PM, I've decided that I've had enough, I had to do some piano practice, and he's at an app called site reading factory, which just generates random pieces for you at your level, to try to learn how to read music, and then spend some time catching up on the techniques that I'm interested in, and reading about what happened at Mark Zuckerberg's Congress hearing. From five PM to about six, 15 PM, I go back into work mode, and I add the cardiovascular examination to my active recall spreadsheet. So in one column, I write questions that could come up in the exam, and in the second column, I write answers to those questions, but then I color the second column in white, so that when I'm looking through the questions I can't see what's written on them, this is why I like firstly having a big white screen monitor, and secondly, using online slash PDF versions of books rather than physical books. There's much easier to do a split screen when writing these questions for yourself, and let's call this study tip number nine. This is my magical spreadsheet, active recall system, which I've alluded to in this vlog, which I'll be linked above and below, and everywhere. I've also got a magical spreadsheet, space repetition system, which again, you can read more about in this video, or the video link below. So from 1615 PM to about 645 PM, Katherine comes to my room anyway, and she asks what we should do. I decide to follow point number five, I decide to be a leader, so I offer a default position, I say, or I Katherine, I've just written these cardiovascular examination questions, why don't we go over them? And because, you know, it's quite a reasonable suggestion, she's like, oh, great idea. So we sit at my desk and go through these questions together. And this is point number 10. This is something more about active recall. I'm going to keep going on about active recall because it's literally the most efficient way to learn anything ever. What we do is that I read the question out loud, and then we both stay silent while we both write the answer down slash think about what the answer would be. And only when we're both ready, do we look at the answer? This means that while we're working together, we're still having to use our own brain and our own active recall to get the answers. We're not just passively piggybacking on what someone else is doing, which would be a really tempting thing to do. By about 7pm, we're done with work for the day. Overall, just under 4 hours in total, I want to think he was for pretty productive hours, because it was mostly built around active recalls face repetition. In the past, I might have attempted to like read my textbook, make notes from the textbook, et cetera, et cetera, on these topics that I would have spent like 8 to 10 hours doing the same topics, but because making notes and reading textbooks is so, so, so inefficient. I think I would have learned less than I did in these four quite efficient hours. Then from about 6.45 to about 8pm, I filmed the intro for one of the revision Q&A videos. Catherine helped me set up the lighting, which is very kind of her, and then spent some time editing this video. At 8pm, we order pizza from Z's, which is our favorite, like, pizza place in Cambridge. So from about 9.15, we eat at around 10pm. I decided to go to the gym to burn off those calories that I just ate in the pizza. I do a quick session of squat, overhead press, and bench press, while listening to the audiobook for the Wise Man's Fear, which is a sequel to the name of the wind, which I talked about in, I think, my February favorite I then get home, get into bed around 11.30. Spend half an hour replying to nice comments and questions that you guys have been sending in on Instagram, and then call it at night. I hope you guys enjoyed this study with me video and learnt something from it, all the best with your revision. See you in the next one. If you liked the video, please be able to thumbs up if you haven't subscribed to the channel, please consider doing so, and have a good night. Bye-bye.
