# Euthanasia - Medical Ethics and Law at the end of life
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1dIU1YhZX94
Interview Crash Course Online - https://courses.aliabdaal.com/interview-crash-course-online. 

In this video, we discuss the legal side of euthanasia/physician assisted suicide. To summarise - euthanasia is illegal in the UK. 'Passive euthanasia' is a confusing term which we should avoid. 'Withdrawing medical treatment' is good medical practice when done appropriately, and is NOT the same thing as 'euthanasia'. 

Throughout the video we talk through the case of Dr Cox and Lillian Boyes which illustrates a lot of these points and is pretty seminal as far as legal cases go.

CORRECTIONS:

In Re T (Jehovah’s witness case) it was the refusal that was deemed invalid, not the original consent (Molly said that the consent was found invalid). 

And in the case of Nigel Cox, he was found guilty of attempted murder, not of manslaughter as we say (at 12.48). 

Profound apologies for the inaccuracies, and many thanks to Dr Fistein from the Cambridge Clinical School faculty for pointing out the errors.

TIMESTAMPS:

01:04 - Introducing the Dr Cox + Lillian Boyes case
02:27 - More information about the case
04:31 - Active Euthanasia vs Passive Euthanasia
05:49 - Physician Assisted Suicide
06:43 - Don't use the phrase 'passive euthanasia'
08:36 - Doctrine of Double Effect 
12:25 - Dr Cox - The verdict
14:03 - Ali's closing remarks
15:55 - Possible MMI scenario
17:00 - Sneak preview of the next video

6med:

6med is a company that my friends and I have been running since 2013. We've taught courses on interviews, BMAT and UKCAT to ~5,000 students with glowing reviews. As we graduate from medical school and become real doctors, we didn't want our course material to go to waste, so we're making YouTube videos on everything we know and releasing them over time.

If you'd like to check out the courses, or our online BMAT/UKCAT question banks, check out https://6med.co.uk.
Interview Crash Course Online - https://courses.aliabdaal.com/interview-crash-course-online. 
6med Interview Crash Course - https://6med.co.uk/interview-crash-course
6med MMI Crash Course - https://6med.co.uk/mmi-crash-course

Who am I:

I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

DM me on instagram if you have any questions or just want to chat :)
- Instagram - https://instagram.com/AliAbdaal
- Twitter - https://twitter.com/AliAbdaal
- Website - www.aliabdaal.com 

🎬 My online course on video editing - https://skl.sh/32TpEvm
🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
**Keywords:** medical ethics, medicine interview ethics, medicine interview questions, medicine interview, medicine interview preparation, how to prepare for medicine interviews, medical school interviews, med school interviews, medical school interview prep, tips for medicine interview, medicine interview tips, interview tips, euthanasia, assisted suicide, physician assisted suicide, medical ethics euthanasia, euthenasia, dignitas, active euthanasia, passive euthanasia, dr cox, 
**Date:** 2018-01-10

## Transcript
 Hey guys, welcome back to the channel and happy new year. If you're new here, my name is Ali. I'm a final year medical student at Cambridge University, and this is the third video in our series about medical ethics, and today we're going to be talking about youth in Asia and medical ethics at the end of life. We're going to be talking about these topics in two videos. In this video, we're going to be focusing on what is arguably the most well known case in the UK. We're going to be introducing some terms like active youth in Asia, active youth in Asia, inclusive youth in Asia, vision assisted suicide, and explaining what those terms are, and more importantly, how to use them appropriately. Because I think there is a lot of confusion surrounding those terms and a lot of medicine applicants seem to be using them in kind of the wrong context. And we're going to be explaining the law in the UK as it stands at the moment. So, the legal status of youth in Asia and physician assisted suicide, and we're going to be talking about the doctrine of double effect. If you haven't heard of these terms before, that's absolutely fine. All of it should hopefully make sense by the end of the video. And then in part two in the next video, which should be out at some point next week, we're going to be talking about assisted suicide and cases where people have tried to change the law surrounding assisted suicide and the ethics associated with that. So let's just jump right into it. We're now going to cut to a video of Charlotte and Molly, who you might know from the last two videos, and they're going to be introducing to us the case of Lillian boys. Here we go. So I want you to imagine that you're a consultant at the hospital. You've been treating this patient who's called Lillian for many years. And she's suffering terribly with arthritis. And she's a palliative patient. She's someone who is never going to get better. And all we're trying to do is relieve her symptoms. To one day onward round, Lillian says to you as her consultant, I am in so much pain and I am suffering so much that I just don't want to live anymore. I want you to do something that will end my life today. What do you do as a doctor in that situation? You know this patient really well. You can see that they're really suffering that their symptoms aren't being managed. And they're desperate that their life would end to relieve them of the suffering. What would you do in that scenario? So this is actually a real case from 1992. And this was Dr Nigel Cox. And he was asked by Lillian to do this thing to end her life in order to relieve her suffering. And it's become one of those seminal cases that we talk about a lot in discussions around youth in Asia and end of life care for the patients. So we'll be going back and forth to this case as we go through explaining end of life care and ethics around youth in Asia and assisted dying. And we'll tell you what happened as we go along. So that's the case. Have a think about it. Think about what you might do in that scenario. A little bit more information that might help you. This is the most severe case of rheumatoid arthritis you've ever seen in your life. And you really admire Lillian's resilience in the face of a condition previously. She was always taking things rather well. Being good human about the whole thing. But now it's sort of gotten to the point where you really can't take the suffering anymore. And it's an unbearable agony. On top of rheumatoid arthritis, she's got internal bleeding. She's got septicemia. She's got vasculitis, which is causing her internal organs to become gangrenees. And it's further contributing to her suffering. And her two sons, Patrick and John, are by her bedside. And they and all three of them are begging you to expediently end her life to relieve her suffering. What would you do? So if you were asked this or something similar in an interview, you could go with the four principles approach. I always recommend for answering medical ethics and areas that we mentioned in the first video. So in this scenario, we've got kind of the four principles, Adults as well, and other. The principles of non-maleficence, not doing harm. And the principle of beneficence, doing good. They're sort of in conflict because ending someone's life isn't really doing good. And you could argue that ending someone's life is not doing harm. Because you're relieving their suffering. But you could also argue that ending someone's life is precisely the definition of doing harm. And then autonomy and justice come into it. Autonomy, the patient wants this. So in terms of autonomy, we should surely be helping her end her life. But in terms of justice, we can ask about fair allocation of resources and just kind of fairness in general. Is it fair for us to take the life of another human being? Regardless of what the intention is. So this is a really tricky case. And this is the case that's going to hopefully form the undercurrent of this video. And we're going to be kind of referring back to it as we explain things in a bit more detail. So in your interview, if you're asking me like this, yeah, you could go with the four principles approach. But everyone is going to be doing that. So if you know a little bit more, if you can give a little bit more about arguments surrounding youth in Asia and assisted suicide, then you're definitely going to be standing out. So to that end, let's introduce some terms now. And Charlotte and Molly are now going to explain what after youth in Asia, passive youth in Asia and physician assisted suicide. What does terms actually mean and how you should use them? Here we go. So youth in Asia literally means a good death. And there are some terms that people use that we just want to clarify. So you'll hear people talking about active youth in Asia. And active youth in Asia is when you actually do something with the intent of ending someone's life. So that would be, for example, injecting a drug that does nothing else but kill someone. So that's active youth in Asia. Now you'll hear people talking about passive youth in Asia. But we don't think that's a particularly helpful term to use. Because passive youth in Asia people mean that you're doing something like withdrawing or withholding treatment that results in someone dying. But calling it youth in Asia is not helpful at all because youth in Asia is illegal. But withdrawing or withholding treatment in a patient's best interest is good clinical practice. And so what we'd advise you to say is active youth in Asia is definitely illegal. But withdrawing or withholding treatment in accordance with a patient's best interest is good clinical practice. And is what happens often down the country in every hospital every day. Okay, so there's also a third term called physician assisted suicide. And then this instance involves a physician. So a doctor providing a patient with a treatment which is going to end their life. But the doctor does not actually physically give them the treatment. The patient actually takes it themselves. So this is the physician assisted suicide and this is also illegal in the UK. So active youth in Asia, passive youth in Asia and physician assisted suicide. All of those things are illegal in the UK because the intent is to end someone's life. And intending to end someone's life constitutes murder. So all illegal in the UK, but as we've said with drawing or withholding treatment is good medical practice and is not illegal. If it's done in accordance with the best interest of the patient. Okay, so we've defined some terms and I just want to reiterate, please don't use the phrase passive youth in Asia. Passive youth in Asia is so confusing because as they said passive youth in Asia we think of it as you know unplugging a live support machine. But something is only ever defined as youth in Asia. If your intent is to end their life and if your intent is to end someone's life then that is murder and that is illegal in the UK. With drawing treatment is not the same thing as passive youth in Asia. So please don't get this too perturbed confused. And in fact what we also just is just never ever use the term passive youth in Asia because it's just hugely confusing. With drawing treatment is good medical practice in some circumstances. It's not illegal, it is a good thing to do. The thing about with drawing treatment is that and the reason why it's so confusing is that often with drawing treatment will result in someone's life ending. But your intent when you're with drawing the treatment must be that you think clinically that the treatment itself is no longer in the best interest of the patient. So there's an important distinction here. You're not saying that continuing to live is no longer in the patient's best interest. You're saying that the treatment in particular that you are currently giving them is no longer in their best interest. So if they're plugged up to a load of machines then you can make the argument that you know the suffering caused by being plugged up to loads of these machines is no longer in your best interest. Yes, if you unplug those machines the patient will probably die. But your intent is to relieve their suffering because the treatment is not in their best interest. Your intent is not to end their life. And yeah, a lot of people say that this distinction is just arguing over the semantics. Like what difference is there between me saying that I'm going to unplug the lives of what machine to end their life? Versus I'm going to unplug the lives of what machine because I think the lives of what machine is no longer in their best interest. And kind of we can we can argue about this all day. The point is at the moment in the UK your intent cannot be to end their life. Your intent must be that you are withdrawing treatment because you think the treatment is no longer in their best interest. So we've defined some terms. We've said that please never, ever use the phrase passives in Asia when talking about this whole topic. Now let's go back to Dr. Cox and here's Charlotte and Molly again. Okay, so going back to Dr. Cox. What actually ended up happening was he injecting the drug and Lillian died shortly afterwards. It couldn't be determined necessarily whether she definitely died because of the drug he injected or not because she was so poorly at the time. But that is what happened. So thinking about Dr. Cox's defense legally, how might he have defended himself doing what he did? Because it sounds like what he did was active in Asia which we've just said is completely illegal in the UK. He gave her a drug and she subsequently died. But actually there is one example where this might be a loophole. It's called the doctrine of double effect. And what it means is that it's based on your intentions essentially. So a lot of patients nearing their end of their life are on quite high doses of some quite serious drugs. And those drugs could if we give them in high enough quantities actually shorten the patient's life. But it's worth noting that actually we need to give sufficient amounts of drugs to make sure that a patient is comfortable at this time. It's paramount that we don't let patients die in distress and in an undignified manner. And so it should be allowed legally. It is allowed for doctors to give quite high amounts of these drugs. So the point of the doctrine of double effect is that even if a doctor gives a drug knowing that it may shorten a patient's life if their intent is to give that drug in order to improve their symptoms and to make them more comfortable and their intent is not to shorten their life then that is considered legal in the UK. You hear this quite a lot in relation to morphine a very strong painkiller and actually all the researchers suggested that if we use morphine properly it doesn't shorten people's lives. So in reality this isn't really used as a defence. But if we think about going back to Nigel Cox again it would absolutely not have been a defence for him even if he tried. So what Nigel Cox actually did was use the drug called potassium chloride. Now potassium chloride is good for one thing and one thing only and that's stopping someone's heart. There is no other symptomatic relief to be gained from injecting potassium chloride. And so by using that substance Dr. Cox was never going to be able to use the doctrine of double effect as any sort of defence. So that's the doctrine of double effect and that's an important concept to understand and this whole debate about youth and easier and assisted suicide. The thing with the doctrine of double effect though is that it is mostly a theoretical argument these days. Palette of Care has gotten to the point where we're very rarely prescribing drugs that have the side effect of shortening someone's life. There is very little evidence that morphine in particular shortens people's lives. That's the most famous one that people think of. There is a small amount of evidence maybe that benzodiazepines drugs that reduce people's agitation towards the end of life. There is some evidence that maybe those might reduce their life and maybe in those cases you might apply the doctrine of double effect. But in general, the vast majority of positive care patients we don't need to shorten their life in order to relieve their suffering. So the doctrine of double effect is, as we said, mostly a theoretical concept in these cases. So we've defined the doctrine of double effect. Let's now talk about what happened to Dr. Cox. So we'll tell you a bit more about what actually happened in the case of Dr. Cox. So although we've said that he couldn't use the doctrine of double effect as a legal argument in this case, it was eventually found that he was guilty. It was eventually found that he was guilty of manslaughter, but not murder. And that's because as we said earlier on, it wasn't clear whether Lillian would have died with or without his injection because she was so ill anyway. So he was found guilty of manslaughter. He was actually given a suspended sentence, so he didn't go to prison for this. And he wasn't actually struck off from the GMC. So he's still maybe practicing now. He has definitely been practicing since this happened in the 1990s. So what we can learn from this is that this is a particularly difficult case. And sometimes in the law, although things like active youth in Asia are strictly illegal in certain instances, we can start to appeal to what other doctors would have done and other doctors might actually sympathize with how horrifically difficult this decision was for Dr. Cox. And therefore his sentence has been slightly more lenient. So what we're saying is that none of these situations are clear cut and they can all be fought differently in the courts and all come out differently depending on the specific situation that you find yourself in. So yeah, so that was the case. And let's be clear about this. We're not advocating what Dr. Cox did. We're not saying what he did was right. We're saying what he did was strictly illegal, but we're conceiting that, yeah, this was a terribly difficult position to be put in and a position that, you know, us as clinicians, we would never want to be put in that position. It was a very difficult decision he had to make and he did what he thought was right at the time. And, you know, you can form your own personal opinion as to whether you think it was a good thing he did or a bad thing he did. The fact of the matter was it was illegal. Maybe should the law be changed? I don't know. That's the topic of debate. And that's kind of what we're going to be talking about in the next video. Incidentally, Dr. Cox's trial. They called up to eminent rheumatologists who were given the facts of the case and they were asked what they would have done in that circumstance. One of them got to distressed and wasn't able to answer the question and the second one said that he wished he would have had the courage to do what Dr. Cox did in that circumstance. So, let's leave it at that. You can form your own conclusions from all the facts that we've told you so far and we'll put a link to the Wikipedia article. You can read more about this. I think it's hugely interesting. And if you're interested in that, yeah, you can follow that link. So, this concludes our first admittedly quite heavy video about end of life and youth in Asia. We've talked about the current legal status of youth in Asia in the UK. It is illegal, 100% definitively. There is, like, there are pretty much no two ways about it. We've talked about the doctrine of double effect. We've defined some terms. We've said that past of youth in Asia is not the same thing as with growing treatment. With growing treatment. It's good medical practice. In some circumstances, past of youth in Asia is always illegal. And throughout the video, we've been referencing the case of Dr. Cox and the really, really difficult dilemma associated with it. And if you get asked something about youth in Asia in your interviews, you can reference the four principles of medical ethics as you should, because it's a great way of structuring your answer. But now you can draw a little bit more about what you know about the legal status of youth in Asia and a little bit more about maybe referencing the Dr. Cox case. If you feel like it, if it kind of goes in with the flow of your interview, and that would really help you stand up. I think one MMI scenario that I've heard some universities ask, it's quite mean because it, you really shouldn't be expected to have the level of knowledge at your stage of the application. But one MMI scenario that I heard was there was a patient, you were a doctor and you had to kind of explain to a patient who asked you that he wanted to end his life. So the scenario was kind of what would you do in that circumstance. And a way to answer that is I think what they want you to say is firstly, you would, you would want to kind of explore the patient's concerns like ask them why they're feeling that way. You'd really try to get to the bottom of it. Ultimately, if they press you, you do have to say that you're bound by the law that, you know, ending someone's life is illegal in the UK. And you can kind of explain that palletive care is really good these days. A lot of patients are afraid of maybe dying in pain, dying in suffering, dying and able to breathe. And generally, palletive care is really, really good. We can generally deal with most of these symptoms. So that's how our tackle one of these MMI scenarios. But to be honest, if you get something like that, that's really mean. That's more like, finally, a medical student. What they would get in their final oskies rather than what you should really get as a medicine applicant. But hey, you've got the information now if you do get hit with that quite mean scenario. So that brings us to the end of this video. Thank you very much for watching. We've said that youth in Asia is strictly illegal in the UK. But people have tried over the last few years to change the law in the UK. I personally think the law should be changed in the UK. In favor of maybe allowing a little bit more leeway for youth in Asia for a physician assisted to a side. And that's going to be the subject of the next video. We're going to be introducing these cases of people who've tried to change the laws. We're going to be talking about why they've tried to change the law. We're going to be talking about the ethics of assisted to a side. So yeah, I hope you found this video useful. If you did, please give it a thumbs up. If you haven't subscribed to the channel, please consider doing so. Have a lovely day and I'll see you next time. Bye.
