# A day on Senior Medicine placement - Cambridge University medical student VLOG #05
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1wLNDHVQxU4
A random day of Senior Medicine placement, where we go to the gym, hang out on the wards, have a teaching session, realise we're addicted to Everwing (a Facebook messenger game) and play Pandemic (an awesome board game). Today was pretty representative of a 'standard' day on placement, which made it tricky to turn into a hopefully-entertaining video.

Who am I:

I'm Ali, a final year medical student at Emmanuel College, Cambridge. This vlogging thing seems quite fun so I'll be vlogging life and other things throughout the year. I'm pretty into music and coding as well, so maybe there'll be some of that on this channel.

Follow me plssss:
- Snapchat: aliabdaal
- Twitter - https://twitter.com/AliAbdaal
- Instagram - https://instagram.com/AliAbdaal
- Website - www.aliabdaal.com
**Keywords:** Cambridge medicine, Cambridge medical student, Cambridge medicine vlog, Cambridge medical student vlog, medical student, medicine vlog, medicine, medical student vlog, Oxbridge, Oxford, Cambridge, cambridge medicine, oxford medicine, med student vlog, med student, oxbridge medicine, oxbridge medicine vlog, life of a medical student, 
**Date:** 2017-09-20

## Transcript
 Good morning everyone. Welcome back to the channel. My name is Ali and this is week two of our senior medicine placement in Kingsley Hospital. It's about 6.20 in the morning. We did a city thing yesterday in that we signed up for the local gym and also signed up to attend a circuit training class at 7 in the morning. So we're going to drive down the two circuits and then make it back with the hospital to time for a night. I feel like death warmed up two hours later. I feel quite good. I feel good that it's now in M and I'm using it now. I've been transformed to the morning gym life and it's a little fun until 16 am tomorrow. Okay so it's about a half past 10 in the morning and I'm now hanging out in the doctor's mess at the hospital. I just spent a while speaking to a palliative care patient. We have a seminar where we have to discuss a palliative case with the consultant and kind of reflect on how it made us feel and that's sort of thing. So that was quite an interesting experience. Maybe I'll talk about that a bit later but I need to gather my thoughts about it first. So it's a long time and we're all playing this random Facebook Messenger game called everyone would recommend it's surprisingly addictive. So calcium and phosphate have this kind of weird balance the act of thing. But the cats go numbers free in the gym so convulsions are rid of me a technique and numbness around the mouth and up your lips. Well again guys we just finished our amazing teaching session with the emergency medicine consultant. It was it was really good. So there were four of us and he just took us around A&E and we saw patients that was a lady who came in with fluid that was speaking from a nose which could have been sweeper spinal fluid from the brain and she had some other symptoms. A lot of us did a five minute history where we asked her about what was going on and asked the court questions. One of us did an examination of the cranial nose and it was really like short and snappy and he was really kind of making us think about what the important questions were because before kind of for the last two years we've kind of been trained to kind of go through the whole process but now we have to start getting into the into the mindset that we're asking the important questions because we don't have half an hour to do to you know to be with someone in A&E. So a few x-rays as well there was a lady who would come in with chest pain which everyone I thought was something cognitive related but actually it turned out that after doing the chest x-ray there was actually a little nodule in one of the lungs which could have been some kind of cancerous thing. So the doctor who saw that was telling us about the sensitive conversation she had to have with the family and the hospital and yeah quite an interesting session all in all. All right let's go. Let's go. Oh dear. Okay okay okay one minute. Ready? Come on. Do you know how we grew up? How do you reckon people are preparing? One bitch. They asked for what to do. Okay so you can get them one thing which I mean it's all up. Great. The game in America. See you. Level 18 and you got a 5,400. No as in his level is asked for some of the characters. Let's see. Let's see a character. This is a strawberry pie that I made with some blueberry yogurt and banana. So we have a WhatsApp group with some of the guys in the ear below and we invited them all over to play our ticket, but none of them responded. So the four of us are going to play pandemic instead. The nice thing about pandemic is that it's a collaborative board game. Previously we were all always kind of into the competitive ones but the problem with the competitive ones is that someone wins but then everyone else kind of has to lose. It's really quite draining to have to spend a few hours trying to actively screw over your friends. So with this one we're all kind of putting our putting our heads together and actually trying to be the game and it's surprisingly hard. Oh we just finished our game of pandemic and we were close to winning it and then we got destroyed because a card came up that we weren't expecting. We all have a palliative care essay thing that we have to do for tomorrow that very few of us have actually started. So I think that's what we will be doing for the next hour or so. But I think we'll end this vlog today. Thank you very much for watching. I hope you enjoyed it. If you liked the video please give it a thumbs up. If you haven't subscribed yet please could you do so and I will see you in the next one. Bye. Bye. See you!
