# Money, Relationships and Hair Loss - Answering your Assumptions
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3NdH1pdQVhE
In this video, I'm addressing lots of assumptions that you guys sent in via Instagram. Lots of the comments were about money and relationships, but there were a few about how I'm going bald, how arrogant I come across in videos and how I probably went to private school. For the record, my feelings weren't at all hurt by these, it was just banter, so please don't feel bad for me. Enjoy xx

TIMESTAMPS
0:01:37 - Money
0:08:00 - Relationships
0:10:38 - Hair loss 
0:11:02 - Arrogance
0:14:12 - Nerdiness
0:15:35 - Private school
0:16:00 - How I never reply to messages
0:17:14 - Being a doctor
0:18:14 - Miscellaneous 

--------

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
😃  How to be Happier - Stoicism Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/stoicism

TOOLS OF THE TRADE:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk
📚  How I remember what I read - Readwise - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali
What I Use For Analytics - https://go.aliabdaal.com/tubebuddy
🌐 My website platform (Ghost) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost

OTHER RECOMMENDED COURSES
📔 Effortless Output with Roam Research - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/roam
📓 Building a Second Brain - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/basb

🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** assumptions about me, reading your assumptions about me, reading assumptions, answering your assumptions about me, reading peoples assumptions about me, reacting to your assumptions about me, reacting to your assumptions, answering assumptions, responding to your assumptions about me, assumptions tag, reading your assumptions, answering your assumptions, ali abdaal, money, relationships, ali, doctor youtuber, hair loss, desk setup, notion, notion app, 
**Date:** 2019-08-16

## Transcript
 You were born rich, super rich, rich family, kind of looks like a baser male. His parents are currently looking for an arranged marriage for him. He is really nerdy and nice and probably gets friend zoned a lot. Hey guys, welcome back to the channel. If you're new here, my name is Ali. I'm a doctor working in Cambridge and because everyone's doing it, I'm going to jump on the banwagon and make a video where I address some assumptions that people have sent in about me via Instagram. Now, normally, I like to think that I make videos that add value to people's lives in some ways. So, for example, giving tips for how to study effectively or giving tips for productivity. This video is not one of those. It's a purely self-indulgent video that is not really going to add value to anyone's life, unless you really care a lot about me as a person. So, if you're looking for something that's going to add value, then please have a look at some of my other videos. I've linked to the most valuable ones in the video description. Or you can go off this channel and watch anything by Matt Diavello or Thomas Frank, because those videos will add form of value to your life. This one, but I haven't said that. If you're interested in this video, I'm going to be addressing some assumptions that people have sent in. So, because I like categorization, I've split up this video into nine segments. Firstly, we're going to be talking about money. Loads of the assumptions were about how rich I am and how I was born into rich family and stuff like that. Secondly, I'm going to address various assumptions about relationships. Thirdly, I'm going to address a few comments about me being bold and losing my hair. Fourthly, some comments about how can come across this arrogant to overconfident or cocky in my videos. Number five, comments about me being a massive nerd and not having any friends. Number six, comments about me going to private school. Then we've got some comments about how I never replied to Instagram DMs. And then some comments about me being a doctor and finally will end with some miscellaneous comments. So, yeah, everything's going to be in timestamps in the video description and in a pinned comment. So, please don't watch this whole video. Just kind of skip to the section that interests you the most. You probably have better things to be doing with your life. But now, let's just jump into it. Right, so firstly, let's talk about the money assumption. So, you were born rich, super rich, rich family, coming from a pretty rich family, upper class family, very privileged and rich rich, rich parents. Parents are really rich, infinite money, rich, introvert rich, rich. Oh, I'm kicked, he's rich, rich, you know, you kind of get the idea. Loads of comments are talking about how rich I am. I know it's a bit weird when people talk about money. But I really don't think that should be the case. And so, I'm going to kindly talk about money here. And I'm going to make a few more videos where I address kind of money and how I make money and money and personal finance and all that kind of stuff. A few points that I want to make in this video. So, firstly, yes, I am rich or at least I consider myself rich. It kind of depends on how you define rich. So, I think there's kind of two ways to look at it. Firstly is kind of a relative way of looking at wealth. I, you know, let's say you're earning $20,000 a year and all your friends are making $10,000 a year. You're going to consider yourself pretty rich. So, that tends to be how most people view rich and kind of the rich people get. And they're still hanging out with more rich people than, apparently, from what I've heard, they tend to think of themselves as a less rich and be less happy with their own money relative to their friends because it's all very comparative. So, that's kind of one way of looking at wealth. The way that I prefer to look at wealth and the way that I'm trying to move towards and that I'm trying to train my brain into thinking about being rich is that I think being rich and having like a rich life is one in sort of where it's not based on what anyone else is making or what anyone else is doing, but purely based on what I want to be doing in my life. And if I'm at the point where money is not a limiting factor in the experience that I want or in my personal happiness, then I would consider that a rich life. By the grace of God, I am in a position where now where money isn't really a fact, isn't really a limiting factor. Like, I have everything I need and I have a lot more than I need and I don't really want any more stuff. And I know that stuff doesn't bring me any happy any extra happiness. Yeah, I like buying tech and things like that because they're helps me make better videos or so I'll tell myself. Yeah, I mean, like, you know, thankfully in a position where I don't need need to make more money in order to be happy. This all sorts of evidence that shows that once you get beyond a certain level of wealth of income, I think sometimes that figure is put about $50,000 in the US. Once you get beyond that point where you're where you stop worrying about your bills and you stop worrying about, you know, day-to-day costs, at that point, you know, more money doesn't correspond to more happiness. And that's definitely something that I've experienced. If the comment is about me being rich, then yes, that's absolutely true. If we go by the absolute definition. The next thing that I want to address is, how did I become rich? Uh, so, uh, this sounds really weird. I sound like an absolute threat. Oh, well, it's fine. We need to talk about money. People to talk about money more, I don't mind being the first one, at least amongst my kind of friends to actively talk about it in public. How did I become rich? The most obvious thing that made me rich was the fact that six years ago I set up a company called Six Med. That's been running for the last six years. It's still going in in 2013. We started off teaching courses for students applying to medical school in the UK. So we started off with BMAT courses for an exam and then turned it into UCAT courses and then interview courses and then made like question banks and stuff. So for the last six years, I've been working on this company on the side while being a doctor and while being a medical student at Cambridge. And so through that, I have made a pretty decent amount of money. So that is kind of how I became rich. And therefore that's how I have all the money to buy kind of expensive camera equipment and all the tech that you see in my videos. So yeah, there's no denying that point. But then if we kind of look a little bit further back, it's useful to understand the sort of stuff that led to that business starting. I'm not taking any credit for this in the slightest because I was dealt a very good hand at birth. I happened to have been born with the right jeans and the right environment that gave me a pretty reasonable IQ and therefore I wasn't really held back by intelligence as a concept, although, you know, again controversial, depending on how you define intelligence, depending on whether you think IQ is a valid measure of intelligence. And I had a mum who very much valued education to the point that she moved us from Pakistan to Afrika and then ultimately to the UK because of education, we moved around within the UK again because of education. And because of that emphasis on education, I was able to get decent grades and then I was able to get into Cambridge and that obviously helped my life. And then also alongside that, we worked comfortably enough like my mum's a single mum but she is a doctor. And so, you know, we had a reasonable enough standard of living. But it wasn't to the point of extravagance. It wasn't to the point where money just wasn't an object at all. Like it was kind of there in the back of my mind, but it wasn't really big deal. And so, I think that partly fostered within me and my brother kind of like an entrepreneurial mindset, which meant that from the age of about 12, I taught myself how to code and I started kind of making websites for businesses and individuals and stuff and making a bit of money that way. I started doing tutoring. I started helping teach maths and English at this tutoring center when I was like 13, that made it a bit of money. And then every year from about 13 to 18, me and my, my friend James, we tried setting up a new business like an internet business every year. And for five years in a row, those internet businesses failed. And we made like 50 quid across the five years in total. But then when I was 18, 19, instead of this company, I was able to take all of those lessons learned from all these failures and turn them into a business that, by the grace of God, did very, very well. And so, while six-med while the business was the most proximal thing that made me a lot of money, there's a lot that went before that. And I can't really take credit for any of that because, you know, it was just the hand I was dealt. It was the fact that I was super privileged. And I had the lucky set of circumstances that meant, you know, as long as I didn't squander the hand that I was dealt, I was going to do reasonably well. That, I hope kind of address to some of these questions. I'm not trying to defend my position. I'm not trying to say that, hey, look, I'm a self-made man because I don't think there is any such thing as a self-made man. Sure, if I was born in more kind of trying circumstances, then I might have had some ground to stand on. But I've led, by the grace of God, a very privileged life where, you know, I've been able to focus on my education and do other stuff on the side without really having to worry about all the other stuff that sometimes people have to worry about. And so, all of that leads to this kind of thing about being rich. So, yeah, that's what I'm going to say on that front. I'm going to make a video in a couple of weeks time where I talk about kind of tips for entrepreneurs. So, if you're interested in becoming rich and you are interested in entrepreneurship as a thing, maybe setting up your own business. First that you can learn from people far more intelligent and far more successful than I am. You should read the four hour work week by Tim Ferris, you should read, I will teach you to be rich by remebering me to say the, you should read, show your work, but Austin Clayon, you should read the third door recently by Alex Banyan, you should read Shudog by Phil Knight. There's all these various books where you can get this wisdom from people about how to set up businesses. I've been reading the stuff for the last like 10 plus years. So, I've kind of gained, I like taken a lot of lessons from all that stuff and applied it to my own life. So, I'm going to be making a video where I talk about 10 top lessons for entrepreneurs. If you're interested in that, just drop a comment down below and I'll explore the process of making that. But now, that's what I'm going to say about money. I think I'll rub it on for a while. Let's talk about relationships. So, relationships with the second most popular category of assumptions. So, we've got, uh, he has a girlfriend, slash single barely bin and any relationships. So, I don't have a girlfriend and I am single and I have, yeah, it's fair to say that I have barely been in any relationships. His parents are currently looking for an arranged marriage for him, not really actually. Like, I've asked my mom to look for an arranged marriage for me, but she doesn't really know many people. And so, you know, she's kind of told me that I've got to find someone by myself. Where were we? Uh, he is dating Molly, but has a secret crush on Paul because he passed Cambridge with distinction, wink face. Right. So, Molly is my housemate. Molly and I are not dating objectively. She's dating another friend of ours. He's great. We're not dating, we're not together. Secret crush on Paul. I have a crush on Paul. It's not that secret. Everyone knows it because Paul passed Cambridge with his distinction. It's not because Paul passed Cambridge with his distinction. Molly also passed Cambridge with distinction. I have a crush on Paul because Paul is just amazing. Next one, you believe in polygamous relationships for men. Uh, I actually believe in polygamous relationships for everyone, not just men. You will only be in a relationship with the same profession or anything equal to it. Uh, I don't really care about profession. I think, yeah, chances are most likely that I'll end up out of jelly personality-wise with someone who's probably of a similar, similar level of education, probably similar background, probably similar to a rich profession. But, you know, I'm not going to say no to someone if I, you know, everything else is great and we go on really well just because they're not a doctor or anything or that. Try to be a motivational public figure, but ended up being romantic interest of brown teenage girls. I mean, if I am a romantic interest of brown teenage girls, I don't really have much to show for it. So, I thought I'm going to say on that front, more into blondes than brunettes unfortunately, heartbreak emoji. Uh, I actually kind of like brunettes, more than blondes, if you can stereotype and generalize to that for that extent. Early Loki has yellow fever and would love to find a girl from the Orient, right? This is extremely problematic. I'm not going to address this. Once to get set up with my friend from Cambridge. Oh, yeah, hit hit hit me up by email or Twitter DM or Instagram DM or something and we can talk about it. And that he is really nerdy and nice and probably gets friend zone a lot. nerdy, yeah, I think I'm pretty nice and probably get friend zone a lot. Yeah, I'm in friend zone a few times. I can think of about three instances where I'd like someone and they've been like, oh, I just consider you a friend. Which is fine, like friend zoneing in general is, you know, sometimes a problematic term because it's sort of implies that if you're nice to someone then then they should start liking you sort of being attracted to you. But that's not the case at all, obviously. Like there is no compulsion for anyone to be attracted to me just because I'm friends with them. So I don't really like this whole friend zone thing. As relationships, let's move on to the fact that I don't have any hair, which was actually, surprisingly, a distressingly common category of assumptions. So, say saving for a hair trans plant, sometimes wears a bandana to hide his rapidly receding hairline. Yes, that's very true. The only reason I sometimes prepare bandana is to hide my rapidly receding hairline. We'll be bald by 30. Five, that's five years from now. I think it might even be sooner than that. Kind of bald, not just kind of. And worried about his hair loss and uses bandanas to hide it. Sorry, yeah, fine, 100% lock me up here on a 100% true. Okay, next we go into assumptions about arrogance. So you come across as arrogant in your videos. Maybe overconfident is a better description though. So this is fine line isn't there between arrogance and confidence. And I think, yeah, I do sometimes skew too far the other way into arrogance. I think when you are doing this thing of sitting down in front of a camera, talking to the camera and hopefully talking in a way that keeps people engaged. Naturally, there is an element that some people will think comes across as arrogant because, you know, how dare you have the audacity to sit there and give people advice about stuff. Like sometimes we've had comments from people, you know, just sort of asking how I feel about the fact that, for example, I didn't come, you know, top of the year and Cambridge every year. And so how do I have the right to give people advice about studying? My whole thing is that I'm not coming from the place of an expert. I'm not saying that look, I'm the expert, follow me. I know what's going on. What I'm saying is that, okay, I've done all right. These are some techniques that have worked for me. This is what I'm going to share with you guys. I accept that that can sometimes come across as arrogant because it's not a normal thing. Like if I was talking like this, sort of very matter of fact, I'm kind of loud. This is I'm talking out of volume that wouldn't, I wouldn't really be talking at in real life if we were having a conversation. This might come across as arrogant. I don't know, man. If that comes across as arrogant, then fair enough. You can be kind of arrogant, but I can't tell if you're just doing it sarcastically or not. Okay, so that's a good point. Sometimes I do the whole self aggrandizing humor thing just for bands. I think Robert Downey Jr is a master of doing this. He's just so funny when he's on like talk shows and stuff and he was one clip from Jonathan Ross or something. Jonathan Ross says, oh, so you're pretty famous, you know, worldwide. He was like, oh, no, it's not just worldwide. It's like intergalactic. You know, just like self aggrandizing humor. That's a really bad example. That's sometimes what I try and go for, just for a bit of bands. Just adds a bit of a spice to life. You let the whole Cambridge doctor thing get to your head a little bit. Maybe I let the whole Cambridge doctor thing go to my head a little bit. But then the thing about the whole Cambridge doctor thing is that you're surrounded by 300 other people who are also medical students at Cambridge. You're surrounded by 2,000 other people who are in different years who are medical students at Cambridge. Because everyone has that going for them, it becomes a lot less of a thing in people's identity. Obviously, when I film videos and if I'm opening a video with high guys, I'm a medical student at Cambridge or I'm a doctor. Me, I guess I can come across as me letting you get to my head. I already don't think I'll let it get to my head. But I understand that it's inherently more brandable to be a doctor and doing other stuff. And it's also inherently more brandable when you're a medical student, if you're a medical student at a top university. I don't know if I said I was a medical student at some university that no one had heard of, it doesn't quite have as much kudos. And so if you're in the business of making content and trying to make a YouTube channel and stuff, it makes sense to go for the brandable bits. Equally, you know, clickbait titles and stuff. I made a video entitled How I Ranked First at Cambridge University. It's not strictly true. I actually ranked second in one year in one subject. I had to go for the clickbait title because when you're in this business, you want to get the views, man. And as long as what you're delivering has value and I think that video was generally valuable to a lot of people. A lot of people wouldn't have discovered that video if it weren't for the clickbait title. And so I don't feel bad about doing clickbait titles provided what I'm saying in the video provides value. And that makes sense. So, I don't think I let it get to my head, but, you know, what else? And he flexes the Cambridge Medicine degree to a majority of people. Not really because most people I meet are in that sort of strata of the population whereby a Cambridge Medicine degree is nothing particularly fancy. I don't really hang out with many people for whom who would be impressed by Cambridge Medicine degree. Yeah, that's all the comments about arrogance. Let's go move on to comments about me being a massive note. So firstly, he kind of looks like a beta male. He revised 10 hours a day and never saw the light of day during his A-level's slash uni life. So A-level's not really like, as I said, right at the start, I was blessed with having a high enough IQ that I didn't really need to study that hard for exams. So he's to study during A-level's in just a season stuff, obviously, but it wasn't a case of 10 hours a day never seeing the light of day. At university, first and second year, I think I had a good balance. In third year, the year that I did really well in, I was spending 10 hours a day in the library. But like, it was fun. We would do it. I was doing it with my friends. I was coming out to, you know, have meals and start pretty awkward and eight with the nerds at lunch in secondary school. That's absolutely true. Like, I was super lucky to have to be a, be a massive nerd. And secondly, have a load of friends who were also massive nerds and we would all, and we're all still really good friends to this day. They're all doing incredibly well. And yeah, we used to sit down and have lunch together and towards the end in sixth form IE in year 12 and 13 when we were 17, 18. We'd spend a lunch time going to the music block and singing songs on the piano because my friend James could play the piano really well. And I'd kind of learn to have to sing along with it. And then before that, we used to hang out into computer room at lunchtime, trying to play this online text-based game. But it was because of those lunchtime spent in the computer room being a massive nerd that I developed this interest in learning how to code. And that has had so many positive effects on my life that I'm really glad that it happened. You were a super nerd and had very little friends in high school. I was a super nerd, but thankfully, I had super super nerdy friends. So that was great. Got all A stars and A levels in GCSEs. Yes, that is true. Let's move on. We now have some stuff about me being, something like stuff related to school. So we have a school tri-hard. Yeah, I was a school tri-hard. I assume you had a private school education. No, so I actually went to a state school, I think you don't pay money for it. But it was a selective state school or a grammar school. So you had to take an exam to get in. Not quite a private school, but it was a very good education that I'm extremely lucky that I got private school boy. No hate your one of my inspirations. Again, no, but thank you. Okay, then we have a few comments about. Doesn't reply to people who need help and do you need help in DMs? At least reply by I can't help. Doesn't reply to DMs. Always thought he was nice and all, but he didn't answer my Facebook message and all YouTube up until the point where I had about 10,000 subscribers on YouTube. I thought I did a pretty good job of sort of replying to every single Instagram DM that I got and replying to every email that I got and every Facebook message. As the channel has grown, it's now going to the point where everyone who has had any level of success or popularity or whatever has this thing where more people are messaging than it's physically possible to reply to. I could spend four hours a day replying to messages and if I spent four hours a day doing it, then it would probably be able to reply to everyone. I work full time. I get home at 7 PM sometimes. I still have to make videos and stuff because that's the reason people are following me. And so as much as I would love to answer every Instagram DM and email that comes my way, it's just, it's just not possible. And what a lot of people do is that they outsource it, they kind of pay someone to answer emails for them. Occasionally, my house might Molly helped me answer some Instagram DMs because she knows the sort of advice I would give and she's also very good at answering questions about medicine and how to study and stuff because she's very clever. Other than that, I'm sorry, if you're sending me in Instagram DMs, they're just going to appear in the request list. And occasionally, you know, if I'm sitting on the toilet, I try and reply, it's just impossible to guarantee it. Next, we have some stuff about being a doctor, so we have this assumption. Parents force you to become a doctor lawyer or engineer or else you'd be kicked out. Not really actually, um, I get the stereotype of the, you know, the Asian parents and stuff. So my mum is a doctor, but she didn't actively encourage me to be a doctor. She actually thought I'd do something like maths instead because she thought, you know, because I was a maths of nerd and wasn't really a people person that I'd kind of get along with maths better. He would rather be an influencer slash content creator than a doctor. This is actually not true. The problem with being an influencer slash content creator is that it probably is quite a short-lived thing. Whereas being a doctor is a very, very rewarding because you'd get to directly, well, touch people's lives physically, I'm just, and better, more likely. And be it's a very kind of long-term goal. You can be a doctor for the rest of your life and you work your way up and there's all different things that you can do within medicine. Whereas, you know, I'd like to be still making YouTube videos 10, 20, 30 years from now, but let's say I'm 55. I can't imagine I'd be making a video sitting down here and talking about assumptions. Obviously, I want to keep being a doctor because it's just fun and it's cool and it's interesting and I want to be a content creator on the side. Next one, you're going to give up being a doctor and focus on entrepreneurial pursuits instead. So, kind of similar to similar answer. No, I want to stay a doctor and do the other stuff on the side. And now, we're just going to end with some miscellaneous comments. Firstly, you are low-key trying to secure an apple sponsorship. It's not very low-key. I think I'm pretty obvious about trying to secure an apple sponsorship. I also don't think apple-do sponsorships. I think the most that they do is they send out review units to reviewers, but I don't think they pay people to promote their products because they just don't really need to. You swear a lot off camera and throughout medical school. Yes, easily gets pissed off, but he doesn't want to show it because he wants to be a nice person, no offense, smiley face. So, I actually don't easily get pissed off at all. I can't remember the last time I was angry. I think partly it's, you know, innate personality and secondly, it's embodying the the teachings of stoicism, which is a school of Greek philosophy that should read books about recommended reading. Happy by Darren Brown and the guide to the good life, the ancient art of stoic joy by William Irvine, both really good books, introductions to stoicism, the main idea being that it's not events themselves that make us angry or make us sad. It's the story we tell ourselves about those events. If something goes badly for us or if someone does something that quite makes us angry, we don't actually have to be angry. We are actively choosing to make ourselves angry and there's another nice quote that in-between stimulus and a response. There is that gap and in that gap. We're allowed to choose our response. So, I never get angry. I know we get pissed off because what's the point? If it's something I can control or I can change, I will do something about it. If it's not, then let it be as the Beatles famously said. You have never cheated on a test. You prioritise your study over everything. Selfish and kind interesting. I actually have cheated on a test. When I was in the final year of primary school, when I was in the sixth grade, when I was like 10 or 11, those are maths test things. Me and this other kid called Rory, we were sort of top of our class in maths. We kind of sort of went to each other and had an unspoken agreement that we would kind of share answers on this test and I still feel bad about it about it to this day. But yeah, I cheated on that one test when I was like 10. You prioritise your study over everything. I'm not really studying anymore, so no. And also, I actually prioritise my studying below everything else. So, my theory for getting through university is that studying is the default thing that you do, but only when you have nothing better to do. So, socially events or sports or hang out with friends or eating out or whatever. All of these took precedents. I think the thing that I did well is that, then when I didn't have any of those things to do, my default would be to study rather than to like watch Netflix or something like that. So, actually studying was the lowest priority item in my list. Selfish and kind mean everyone's kind of selfish. I certainly am. And I hope I'm kind. You have imposter syndrome to a non-trivial capacity. So, I actually don't really get imposter syndrome that much. I used to at the start, like especially with this YouTube channel with anything whereby you think that, oh, why am I qualified? Why am I ready to want to do this? But then, I read a book called Show Your Work by Austin Plion, which is really, really good. And you should read that if you're interested in this sort of thing. And that was just completely eliminated all my imposter syndrome. And I now recognize that, yeah, I think if I were trying to present myself as an expert on anything, I would get pretty bad imposter syndrome. That's not the vibe I'm going for. What I'm going for is, yeah, this is me. This is what works for me. Take it or leave it. So, I actually don't get imposter syndrome at all in almost anything in life. He helped all of his friends get through med school. So, it was more that my friends helped me get through med school. But I think also, we did a very good job of working together. So, for example, I was the one who, you know, if I can shoot my own trumpet pioneered that we all have this shared Google Drive, where we put all our essay plans. And in our SEC first and second year, when we didn't have Mark's games to our past papers, I made a Google sheet with every post paper on it. And we would crowd source Mark's games based on me and my college friends. There were about 16 of us. And so, we all kind of worked together. And then in 30, we were all sharing essay plans. And then in clinical school, when we started doing placements and doing oskies and role plays and stuff, we'd all work together. And I thought I did a pretty decent job of getting everyone to work together. And my room became like the social hub, but also the place where people would go if they wanted to practice, you know, a role play for, you know, how to have to take a history or how to examine a patient. So, yeah, we all kind of helped each other. And ultimately, one, his YouTube content was super, then it became like an advertisement of Apple, face palm emoji, fair enough. And finally, you don't care, slice to anything about your impact on climate change. But that's actually true. I actually don't really care about climate change. It's one of those things that I know I probably should care about, but it just doesn't affect me emotionally. It doesn't affect me physically. I know there's nothing really I can do about it. I know that me recycling isn't really going to make any difference to the grand scheme of things. Climate change will only be solved when or it's not going to be solved at all if you look at the evidence. But the needle is only going to turn by change happening on an industrial level. And so, for me personally, it's one of those causes that I understand that I probably should care about, but I just don't. I think I was a pretty accurate assumption. So, all right, so that was all of the assumptions. Thank you very much for watching. I hope you found that very interesting. If you liked this video, I'll put a video over there. That's a link to some of my life advice sort of videos where I'm answering questions about line motivation and time management and productivity and all that sort of stuff. So, that'll be linked over there. Thanks for watching, and I'll see you in the next video. Bye-bye.
