# Charlie Gard - Medical Ethics and Law
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=43swgRhxbmk
In this video, we'll be discussing some of the ethical and legal issues raised by the case of Charlie Gard. Charlie (4 August 2016 – 28 July 2017) was born with a rare, incurable and life-limiting disease called MDDS. His case became controversial because the medical team and parents disagreed about whether experimental treatment was in Charlie's best interests. 

Abi and I are 6th year medical students at Cambridge University, and in this video we've tried to introduce you to some of the issues that Charlie's case brought up. We've made every effort to check our facts, and have referenced a number of useful resources (that we ourselves used) below. If we've made any mistakes, or if you disagree with our analyses, please do comment below - we'd love to learn from you.

💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking 

📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal 

TIMESTAMPS

00:38 - What happened in Charlie's case - A summary
02:56 - Opening remarks from Justice Francis' statement
05:12 - The legal side of things
06:00 ----- Dr Hirano's experimental treatment
08:08 - Moving on to the ethical issues
09:10 - 5 ethical issues raised by Charlie's case
09:50 - #1 - Autonomy
11:40 ----- UK vs USA systems
14:05 - #2 - Beneficence vs Non-maleficence
18:02 - #3 - Justice / Allocation of resources
19:37 - #4 - The ethics of experimental treatments on children
21:38 - #5 - Was this euthanasia?
24:19 - Wider social issues raised by Charlie's case
26:45 - Concluding remarks

LINKS

- BBC Article - A really good overview of what happened - http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/health-40554462

- Wikipedia for more in-depth stuff - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Charlie_Gard_case

- Charlie Gard: An Ethical Analysis of a Legal Non-Problem - Blog of the Journal of Medical Ethics - http://blogs.bmj.com/medical-ethics/2017/08/11/charlie-gard-an-ethical-analysis-of-a-legal-non-problem/

- Great Ormond Street Hospital - Official statement, July 2017 - http://www.gosh.nhs.uk/news/latest-press-releases/gosh-position-statement-issued-high-court-24-july-2017

- Melanie Phillips - “A cruel and ignorant campaign” - http://www.melaniephillips.com/cruel-ignorant-campaign/ 

- Mr Justice Francis’ judgment July 2017 - https://www.judiciary.gov.uk/wp-content/uploads/2017/07/gosh-v-gard-24072017.pdf

- Forcible “euthanasia”: the ECtHR´s Charlie Gard Decision - https://www.ejiltalk.org/forcible-euthanasia-the-ecthrs-charlie-gard-decision/ - A piece that (I think wrongly) labels the case as euthanasia. There’s a rebuttal on the same website that’s also worth a read to hear the arguments against it - The Charlie Gard Case: Behind the Hyperbole - https://www.ejiltalk.org/the-charlie-gard-case-behind-the-hyperbole/

- “Never let an ill child to go waste” - Blog of JME - Iain Brassington commenting on the US media’s misunderstanding and politicising of the case - http://blogs.bmj.com/medical-ethics/2017/07/07/never-let-an-ill-child-go-to-waste/

- Isaiah Haastrup - A “Charlie Gard” legal battle - http://www.bioethics.net/2017/11/isaiah-haastrup-a-charlie-gard-legal-battle/

-----------------
Who am I:

I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking 

📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal 

🎬 My online course on video editing - https://skl.sh/32TpEvm
🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
**Keywords:** medical ethics, medicine interview ethics, medicine interview questions, medicine interview, medicine interview preparation, how to prepare for medicine interviews, medical school interviews, med school interviews, medical school interview prep, tips for medicine interview, medicine interview tips, interview tips, euthanasia, assisted suicide, physician assisted suicide, medical ethics euthanasia, euthenasia, charlie gard, charlie, gard, baby charlie, 
**Date:** 2018-01-27

## Transcript
 Hey guys, welcome back to the channel. If you're new here, my name is Ali. I'm a final medical student at Cambridge University. I'm Abby. I have another final year student. I'm also New Year. And today we're going to be talking about the Charlie God Case. So we're going to be talking a little bit about the lore side of it and we're going to be focusing on the medical ethics side of it and the medical ethical issues that it raised along with issues that it raised for wider society. Does that sound alright? Sounds good to me. Excellent. As usual, everything that we mentioned is going to be linked in the video description. So you'll can see the structure of the video and you can like share of specific bits and you can you don't have to watch it all in one go. All of that stuff. But yeah, let's let's get started. So a little while ago, in our August 2016, there was this boy called Charlie God, who was born with sadly a very sad condition that causes brain and muscle damage. It's called NDDS, but there's kind of a whole group of conditions like this. That sadly very nearly generative. So they get worse and worse as the life goes on. We don't really have a treatment for it. Usually causes death within the first year of life. And this randomly, this was extremely upsetting for the parents and they kind of cast around looking for any hope and hope was offered by a particular American doctor who said that he had an experimental treatment that might make a difference. They wanted to fly him over to the US and the doctor's at great home and street, which is like the top children's hospital in this country. So no, that wasn't in his best interest. Because of that whole cop battle ensued, which is what we're kind of be talking about for the rest of the video. And as you probably know if you're watching it, there was also a huge media storm over this particular case. It was very highly covered, both in this country and interesting. He also in the US and was linked into a lot of other issues. So it became quite a big, quite a big issue. Yeah, so that's basically what happened with the Charlie God case. It was ultimately a really controversial case that captured the attention of everyone from Donald Trump to the Pope. And, and eventually, everything kind of hinged on this idea of what's in Charlie's best interest. Great, almost free hospital thought that continuing to provide treatment or providing the experimental treatment wouldn't be in his best interests. And they got the opinion from lots of experts agreeing with them. But Charlie's parents felt that, you know, we should give him a chance at the experimental treatment. What's, you know, what's the harm in it. And that was what the courts kind of decided. So we've deliberately just given you a very kind of simple summary of what happened. But there is a very, very good BBC News article that we link in the description below. And they'll also appear on screen somewhere here. If you're not entirely familiar with the details of the Charlie God case, we would really recommend you have a look at that BBC News article. Because that is, it's very readable. It covers exactly what happened. It answers questions like, you know, why were the courts involved? Why did they want to fly to the US? Why did they ultimately decide against giving treatment? It's very readable. So, if you don't know much about it, I'd suggest you pause the video now and have a read at this article. And then we will be waiting when you get back. Okay, so that was what happened in the case. Before we talk about the, the legal and the ethical side of it, I just want to read you a little bit of Justice Francis' opening words. So he was the judge who presided over the case and who kind of saw all the evidence provided by both parties. And on the 24th of July 2017, he wrote like a 20 part statement, which again, we're linking the description below, which is again very readable. So you should have read a bit if you're interested in this. But I just want to read you the first paragraph with a bit sort of paraphrasing a bit. Because I think it really sets the tone of what this case is. It is impossible for any of us to comprehend or even begin to imagine the agony to which Charlie's parents have been subjected in recent weeks and months, as they've had to come to terms with the decision that they have now made. A lot of things have been said by those who know almost nothing about this case, but who feel entitled to express opinions. I must again pay tribute to Chris God and Connie Yates for the love and care which they have at all times given to their wonderful boy Charlie. There are few, if any, stronger bonds known to him and kind, than the love that a parent has for his or her child, to lose a child particularly at such a tender age and in such tragic circumstances, is grief of a magnitude of immense proportions. These parents should know that no parent could have done more for their child. They have, however, now accepted that Charlie's life cannot be improved and that the only remaining course is for him to be given palliative care and to permit him to die with dignity. So that's what the judge said on the 24th of July and Charlie tried to keep passed away on the 28th of July. And I do think that it's worth remembering through all of this like because I think good, actually it's kind of in the perfect domain and it's really hard to talk about because it's a child who's died, right? And yeah, I think we do have to remember through all of it that you're dealing with loss that Nigel Vaskin really comprehend for these parents. But because of how incredibly overblown and amplified all the issues where by the media, it has become a bigger issue and something that's worth discussing beyond that. But yeah. So that's what happened with Charlie's case and again, links in the description if you want to read more about it. It would suggest you kind of find out more about the story of what happened because now we're going to be talking about the legal side of it and the ethical side of it. So let's start by talking about the legal side of things. Why was a judge involved in the first place and how did it all work? So there's a great article written by a guy called Ian Brassington again linked below and it's in the blog of the British Medical Journal, the Journal of Medical which is a fabulous journal. It's very good journal and it's a very readable blog so I was suggest you read that if you want a kind of more opinionated version of what happened he as then he gives his own opinion rather than just stating the facts. And I kind of agree with the opinion he says that legally this case was very straightforward. The problem was there was a disagreement between the parents and and the hospital as to what the best interests of Charlie were. Parents thought he should continue to have treatment and have this experimental treatment, the hospital thought that that was probably futile and it wasn't in his best interests. So given that dispute the courts an independent body will brought him to kind of a dueticate to hear the evidence from both sides and to decide what really is in Charlie's best interests. In all of this Dr. Harano is the US doctor who came and said actually I think we could do something to help Charlie and he was offering something called nuclear side bypass therapy which I don't claim to be an expert on the talk. But man the standing is it's quite an experimental therapy hadn't yet been tested in in a child at all I think. The problem is that it's thought that at the time when he actually gave his initial assessment he hadn't necessarily seen up to date scans of the child and it wasn't really it wasn't really kind of transferred in the way that we normally would. So it's quite a complete thing in medicine for doctors to say the hospital we work at here, Adam Brooks, a lot of the doctors were discussed with their colleagues in different countries and they have these clever rooms that look all futuristic with their big screens and they bring up scans and some things they have the expertise and some things other people do. And it wasn't the information wasn't really shared in this way it was more like somebody coming in offering something that was new without necessarily having a full view of the fact or without necessarily having leaves properly with the doctors that were looking after Charlie. So that was one of the kind of problems in the case. And Dr. Harano has often been criticised by commentators afterwards for being the main person to provide on due hope to Charlie's parents because he was the one who said that they could offer this experiment to therapy. Importantly Charlie had a strain of the mitochondrial disease that this treatment had never been tested on before. It had been tested on mice in a variant of that particular one but Charlie's condition was a lot worse because it affected his brain and muscles rather than just his muscles. Again more facts on the week pediatical we put a link in the description but you know that that was one of the issues around this that this supposed expert from America was offering this treatment even though the evidence really wasn't there and the doctor's a gosh and there and their team of experts around the world said that actually the evidence probably isn't there the judge agreed with them and that was why the best interests decision weighed on the side of not offering the treatment and with the drawing life support care from Charlie because it was felt that every day that he was around was a day where he was experiencing suffering and just being unable to express it because you know the brain damage and the muscle damage. So that's the legal side of things. Again we'll put links in the description to the statement that the justice made which you can have read of by yourself. It's it's very easy to read and very illustrative as to what went on in the case. But now we want to focus a bit on kind of the medical and societal ethical dilemmas that the case raised. We're not pretending to be experts in medical things so we're just yeah not even vaguely. Yeah absolutely and we're just going to kind of raise the points and you know I think it's important to be aware of these. If you're applying for your medicine interviews and watching this then yeah just being aware of these points is a good thing and if you're not only just interested in the case it is very interesting as is the whole field of medical ethics generally. It's very important I think with more and more of these cases this is one at the moment the baby club. I say it how fast people know I'm causing. And it's not the same case and they're definitely it's been less big in the media and they're out the same kind of factors around it but it's another piece of a baby who the doctors and parents don't agree over whether his life should put should be continued. So this is kind of something that's going to keep coming up because of various factors that will probably don't value them. So in terms of structure we're going to be talking about five main ethical issues that the case of Charlie guard raised. Firstly we're going to be talking about autonomy. Secondly we're going to be talking about this balance between benefits and normal deficits. Thirdly we're going to be talking about justice allocation of resources. Fourthly we're going to be talking about the ethics of research and experimental treatment especially in kids and finally we're going to be discussing a little bit about youth in Asia and whether the Charlie guard case falls under the blanket term of youth in Asia. And then after that we'll be discussing a little bit about wider societal issues that the Charlie guard case brought to light. Do you really love things to discuss honey? I don't think so discuss yeah. I'm afraid of being able to do it. Yes exactly. So we're just going to just touch on them. Let's start by talking about point number one which is autonomy. So in this case when we see autonomy which is generally means you're right to make a decision. We actually must be talking about the parents' right to make a decision because with a young baby and with the disabled young baby there's not that much personal autonomy that we give them. So here it's really interesting we're talking about how much control does a parent have over their kids life and in this case over their kids medical treatment. Which is quite a big issue something that most of us probably struggle with the teenagers. I'm most controlled about parents deserve to have a rural life, right? But it gets particularly for in cases like this where the doctors disagree about what should happen next. And generally the accepted legal position has tended to be that parents have the right to choose between choices that are offered normally. So if they're kind of two reasonable choices given as the way to go forward with a young child the parents are the ones that normally have the right to make the decision. But if the doctors say that's not a reasonable option and that could be the other way around from this case that could be that doing nothing isn't a reasonable option or that we've grown care isn't a reasonable option. Then the normally doesn't come under parental autonomy to choose those things. And part of that is because you're dealing with a patient who doesn't have an opportunity of themselves. Yeah so autonomy is one of the four principles of medical ethics and it's kind of the structure that we always suggest you answer the medical ethical questions with. Again there's a video on that on the channel again we'll link in the description below. But yeah as I've said this case was very much about autonomy. Should the parents decide or should the doctors get to decide? And in English it's not that the child is kind of the property of the parents. What the parents believe or choose doesn't automatically trump what the medical opinion is and ultimately as we said earlier it's all about the best interest of the child and the doctors have to take the parents view into account. But if they disagree with the parents view as was as was the case here then it goes to a third party and independent court to decide what happens. Yeah and I think it's really interesting you're saying in English law this is the case and I think that's why this is such an interesting area of ethics is because we do need people to have decided what's right and it's different in different parts of the world because people have decided differently. It's very like finely balanced and it's very difficult to know what's corrected during these really painful situations that are basically always going to be painful and difficult but there has to be some solution. Absolutely and what I'll be saying this thing about this being specific to English law is part of the reason why this case got a lot of media attention in the US especially because in America the system of the courts is very politicized political parties are point particular judges and as soon as something goes to the courts it becomes a political affair. Where is it? And you can watch on TV exactly because it's like media or what you think. Where is in the UK the courts are by their very nature like specifically designed to be independent from the government. So it's not like you know the courts do what the government says it's kind of like the courts are supposed to keep a check on what the government is doing and all this so a lot of American commentators were saying that in America we would have a system where we would care about what the parents say we wouldn't ignore their decisions and they were making it out as if you know the state the government the NHS was holding Charlie captive by not or by ignoring what the parents were saying but that's not really what happened at all. It was it's more that you know when the parents and the medical profession have different views you need an independent third party are you the court to you know arbitrate this dispute and that was exactly what happened and I personally think that that's a pretty good way of doing things I don't know if you're working. Yeah I agree and also I think what you said just now is very interesting when you said you know it's we'd let the parents decide where is there it's the state it's the NHS and that was also a big thing in the American media coverage is the idea of the state being able to decide kind of got conflated with the idea of a national health service and it was in the middle of them having big their own big debates about what their health service should look like and what their kind of insurance plan should change like and so it got conflated into this like nanny state NHS which is just terrible and just pulls out life to put machines of children whenever they feel like it which probably isn't totally represented. Absolutely so yeah that's the autonomy that's the debate should the parents decide should the doctors decide where is the middle ground there again we're just raising the issues we're not trying to be experts you know you can have a read the links in the description and you know form your own opinions. Point number two is going to be about balancing these ideas idea of beneficence doing good with non-maleficence not doing harm and that was the thing that again clashed in this in the Charlie guard case so the proponents of the experiment of the experimental therapy said something on the lines of look we know this therapy is experimental but the alternative is to just let Charlie die and surely even if there is a very very tiny chance of of him you know improving because of this treatment surely we should take that whereas you know if we don't try to take it we're just condemning him condemning him to death so they were kind of viewing sort of you know the preservation of life as being above almost almost anything else that even a even the slimmer's chance of recovery is surely better than no chance of recovery at all. Which is a very understandable position when you're in such a horrible situation I think but the problem with it is there actually is a harm in taking and taking almost any treatment you know when you take paracetal mass or something you know that you're balancing up risk and harm and particularly in a treatment like this that involved flying a very sick baby all the way over to the US and putting him through an experimental treatment there there is a real risk harm benefit so it's not quite as simple as this was his one shot and why not take it if it's less something. A view of the side of the debate is from people who were against the treatment and in favor of withdrawing Charlie's life support was that every day that you know this was dragging on was another day that Charlie was suffering but just you know unable to express it and I'm going to read out a bit from from the statement that great woman street hospital put out after the case and it resolved they said at the first hearing in Charlie's case in March 2017 great woman street's position was that every day that passed was a day that was not in his best interests that remains its viewer his welfare even now this was in July Charlie shows physical responses to stresses that some of those treating him interpret his pain and when two international experts assessed him last week they believed that they elicited a pain response if Charlie has had a relationship with the world around him since his best interests were determined it has been one of suffering and this idea that Charlie was continuing to suffer for every day is is probably what made this such a such a difficult situation to deal with because when when Dr. Hirano brought forth his new evidence that resulted in Charlie's parents naturally wanting a retrial and the judge you know being fully open to listening to this new evidence that you know it dragged this on and potentially dragged on Charlie suffering and then later when it went when they found out that actually Dr. Hirano hadn't even examined that Charlie hadn't even read the judge's statements about him hadn't even looked at the you know contemporary news medical notes and was still offering this hope to the parents despite you know every day being potentially causing Charlie to suffer that was one of the things that made this really really hard. It's really I find Gosh's full estate man which may be your link in underneath is really emotive and one of the things about this case which became quite difficult was the personal staff who were involved in caring for Charlie was a really unprecedented amount of media attention and personal attention and a real abuse and that was very sad because I think a lot of them were also very emotionally invested with them and that's what really comes across in the statement that actually of course this was difficult for the parents in a way that we can't imagine but actually there were also a lot of staff that were genuinely very very invested in caring for him care for many children and really excellently and provide good positive care for the children and really excellently and I do think that was something that was there kind of throughout the whole thing. Yeah absolutely and it's worth stating that Chris and Connie, Charlie's parents fully condemned all of the abuse that the staff were receiving they didn't endorse any of it that didn't condone any of it but you know when when social media gets involved when when when traditional media gets involved suddenly people start protesting it's not throwing at death threats just just the world we live in like us. Yeah just but came in very poorly with the people. Okay so we talked about autonomy beneficent and normal efforts and let's now talk about our fourth pillar of medical ethics which is justice and justice is all about an allocation of resources you know should should the NHS necessarily fund experimental treatments things like that and actually Charlie's parents started a fundraising campaign and managed to raise 1.3 million pounds to fly Charlie to America to undergo this experimental treatment but really the debate here was never really about allocation of resources like great on the street did agree that actually you know if if they thought the treatment wasn't Charlie's best interest they would have provided it regardless of the cost. And I think that's something that we often forget in this country that NHS already do provide extraordinarily expensive treatments if they're not offered in this country they'll fly you to across the world to receive them that's proof of various things that's under the NHS if you have it's anything so I can say if you have something that we can't deal with here they do that is not just because of the cost and indeed when cost was taken out of it because the parents were wanting to fund this privately obviously the debate was very much still raising on. Yeah but even despite that you know American media outlets still reported that oh you look at the NHS this is what happens when you have a taxpayer funded system they won't fund this life saving treatment for this poor child and turned it into this big political debate with you know people like Ted Cruz and Donald Trump tweeting about it loads of media outlets including the Wall Street Journal actually which is normally quite you know measured in their you know in their journalism treating this as a this is a problem with it with the taxpayer system so again more links in the in the description by just something to raise this was part of the problem created by the whole media hypes around in the case okay so we've done autonomy benefits and normal efforts and justice let's now move beyond it our four traditional principles of medical ethics and talk about another issue that was raised in this case and that is this idea of doing experimental treatment especially on children who can't consent. Experimentation is really important in medicine we wouldn't have basically any of the dreamers that we currently do if we haven't at some point tried them out when they were quite experimental and it's very difficult on which patients it's reasonable to try those out they're known with children with adults it's very difficult right you have a seriously ill patient and you have a treatment that we know works but maybe we'd kind of like to work better and we have a treatment which might work better but we honestly don't know because it hasn't been tried in humans before and which would you choose it's very hard and all of those issues become amplified in the case of children who can't really themselves make the decision about whether to be part of that trial or about whether they should be receiving treatment or not and that's one of the kind of difficulties used by this case. I'm kind of wonderful concerned who told me about the ideas of children on chemotherapy and she said she honestly thought she remembers having fights with she was like then they were just our junior doctor or something she remembers having fights with her concern saying this is unbelievable and he may not be doing this because kids with leukemia in there would just kind of kill them and yeah as you see like chemotherapy do horrible things and indeed we now know that the regimes that they were giving them weren't that helpful in my cases but if that hadn't happened for a whole 10 years then no kids with leukemia would now be survive it it's really hard and much even but I'm camera it's too sad I don't know getting it. I mean if you're okay with it I think that's a really nice kind of insult but it's horrible isn't it you just imagine being being like the red jungle when you're just basically poisoning children yeah yeah again one of the issues raised with experimenting experimental treatments especially in kids who can't consent so yeah it's difficult but again you can form your own opinions on that only we're going to end our admittedly quite heavy discussion about medical ethics with with the audio of youth in Asia and we've gone all the youth in Asia video on the channel link in the description below so many videos but essentially this is not youth in Asia um despite a lot of media outlets news articles opinion pieces saying that this was a case of youth in Asia of you know physician assisted suicide where the state was youth inizing Charlie God that wasn't the case at all youth in Asia is where you are doing something with the intent to kill someone and in Charlie's case the intent was never to kill it was purely that the treatments that were being offered i.e. the experimental treatment and his mechanical ventilation those treatments were not in his best interests it's not that continuing to live was not in his best interests it's that those specific treatments weren't in his best interests and despite what what some commentator said you know live support mechanical ventilation artificial feeding all of this these are medical interventions and in the UK and I think quite properly we don't do medical interventions unless we know unless we strongly believe this is going to be a benefit to them so this this debate shouldn't really be about youth in Asia at all it should be about you know was it right to withdraw the medical treatment and yes I personally believe it was right to withdraw the medical treatment the judges believe that the hospital doctors are quite honest to believe that because the treatment was not in Charlie's best interests okay just one thing to add we've just facted fact check the synoboke uh Tony Hoops Tony Hoops very short introduction to medical ethics indeed that's this one um and yeah so what we were told in our lectures is that you know we should avoid avoid the use of the term passive-euthanasia because by by a lot of people's definitions youthanasia means you're intending for the patient die um and that's unhelpful because in the UK we draw the distinction between intending for the person to die and foreseeing their death as a side effect of withdrawing treatment but um as we found it from this book and from just doing a quick google uh some people do use the phrase passive-euthanasia um in the sense that you know we we are with the drawing life-sustaining treatment and they would use that as a black a term and it is quite with them like medical ethics tradition to have that phrase with an immense cream I do think it's nice if we could avoid using it but um just so you know yeah so yeah when we say that this was explicitly not-euthanasia we're saying youthanasia in this very strict definition of you need to be intending for them to die as the main effect of withdrawing a treatment whereas you know the way a lot of medical ethics books and commentators use passive-euthanasia it's that even if that's not your main intent it was still called a passive-euthanasia yeah okay I suppose the last little bit I was gonna say um was about how I think this case isn't really isolated and it's a bit flawed to think of it in an isolated way I think it's actually about a lot of big issues that are coming up at the moment quite regularly so one of those is about kind of individualism and people you know everyone's got to google now and they both go to the other well right when something wrong with you and trust me at medical school you do not learn about all the things that could go wrong with you um you want to google it and see what's available and see what should happen and feel that you have like a right to to know that input and to get as close to as possible and from that we've come into a culture where people are for instance raising a lot of money to travel across the world to have kinds of treatments that aren't necessarily proven by evidence to work and um and there have been other campaigns of people wanting their children to have certain things and this kind of this idea of a last hope um the other thing is about mistrust of the mainstream which I think was a huge issue but they give you the time that Charlie was alive actually with um Donald Trump coming into power and um there is issues around people saying and also with Brexit I remember it was a big thing with various people in the campaign saying oh it doesn't matter if experts say this or statistics say that like it's not about that it's about what we can see without allies and what we deserve as people to have and I do think that sadly those factors came together to create a really sad situation for this family because they felt that even the world experts who probably did have more of a fairer comprehensive understanding of the case and the options on the table and I do think that they have more of an understanding like I think if anything going through medical schools quite humbling in that sense like I think my understanding of a lot of things in medicine is pretty limited and and I think that is always worth looking to your seniors for that and I think that the fact that they had to understand it was almost held against them like then they couldn't possibly see that the best thing for him was going to be a chance that he was able to have so there's a lot of things coming together and for that reason I think we will see more and more of these cases and we are seeing more and more of these cases of people who are in some ways then I the best supportive care they could have by kind of hopes and hopes of something else hopes of the mainstream being more expert being on. Okay so that concludes this probably quite long video about the Charlie Guard case we've mentioned briefly about the facts of the case but pointed to lots of resources where you can read more about it we talked a little bit about the legal side of it and explained that everything focused around this idea of what was in Charlie's best interests and because that was disputed by the doctors and the parents then the courts were brought into to your arbitrary the dispute we talked about five of the medical ethical issues that this case raised namely autonomy beneficial to Maleficent you know the mismatch between those justice allocation resources research ethics especially on kids and finally whether this was you thin easier in our opinion it wasn't and finally we've entered with a little bit of a discussion about wider societal implications of the Charlie Guard case so thank you very much for watching if you like the video please give your thumbs up hope you found it useful and thanks for watching yeah we're going to end with a statement which is like the last bit of just a long Britain statement that great almost reached the total released as this this whole thing was wrapping up so I think would you like to read that yeah so all of of course you start to go with Charlie and his mother or father the last bit of which is each of them peace in their hearts at the end of the day and it's day to come thank you for watching I'll see you next time bye thanks for watching
