# Oxbridge Medicine Interview - Q&A
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4LN1eqJcTaU
Interview Crash Course Online - https://courses.aliabdaal.com/interview-crash-course-online. 

This video tackles 9 questions that you sent in about the Oxford / Cambridge medicine interview. Timestamps to everything below, so feel free to click through to get the most out of it, or alternatively, watch the whole video for a solid 22 minutes of me talking about the Oxford/Cambridge medicine interview. Enjoy xx

Question 2, 3 and 8 are relevant to all medicine interviews and MMIs, not just Oxbridge. The rest of the questions are quite Oxbridge-specific, but loads more videos coming soon about non-Oxbridge interview prep :

TIMESTAMPS:

1. Should I learn all my A2 Biology and Chemistry? 00:45
2. In how much detail do you need to know stuff in your personal statement? 02:46
3. What counts as 'recent news'? 04:43
4. What if they ask about a topic you haven't done yet? 06:27
5. Do Oxbridge consider 'Mental Health' to be scientific? 08:03
6. What else can I do to prepare for the Oxbridge medicine interview? 09:48
7. What's the catch? Surely everyone knows 'how to think'? 13:24
8. How do we structure answers to current affairs questions? 16:25
9. What medical/current affairs topics will Oxbridge ask about? 20:28

COURSES THAT ME AND MY FRIENDS RUN:

6med Interview Crash Course - https://6med.co.uk/interview-crash-course
6med MMI Crash Course - https://6med.co.uk/mmi-crash-course

--
If you've got any questions, please comment down below and I'll do my best to get back to you asap.

WHO AM I:

I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/friendzone).

💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/friendzone
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking 

📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal 

🎬 My online course on video editing - https://skl.sh/32TpEvm
🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
**Keywords:** cambridge university, cambridge university medicine, cambridge medicine, oxford medicine, oxbridge medicine, applying to cambridge, cambridge uni medicine, cambridge med school, cambridge medical school, cambridge medical student, oxford university, oxford university medicine, oxbridge medicine interview, cambridge medicine interview, oxford medicine interview, 
**Date:** 2017-11-21

## Transcript
 Hey guys, welcome back to the channel. If you're new here, my name is Ali. I'm a final year medical student at Cambridge University. And in this video, I'm going to be answering specific questions that you guys have sent over the last few days about the Oxford and Cambridge Medicine interviews. There's a video on the channel already about experiences of the Cambridge interview, where eight students talked about their experiences. And another one called 15 tips for your Oxford Medicine interview, which, as the title suggests, has 15 tips for the Oxford Medicine interview. But in this video, I'm just going to be answering specific questions that you guys have sent in. And if you look in the description below, you'll see each of the questions along with timestamps. So if you have a quick glance for that list and see if there's anything that you'd like, particularly to be answered, then you can click on the appropriate timestamp. Otherwise, you can just watch this video all the way through. And hopefully, you'll hear some useful generic advice for the Oxford Medicine interview. So let's start with question one. Here we go. Right, question number one. Should I learn all of my A2 bio-inchem? I've heard conflicting advice for this, and so I'm not really sure. Okay, should you learn all of your A2 biology and chemistry? This is a fairly common question, because Cambridge, they give you the supplementary question error, so you can tell them what subjects you've done, what you haven't done, Oxford, they don't really. And everyone says the Oxford interview is quite science-y, which it is, which sort of implies that you need to know all of your A level syllabus. I think the answer to that question is no, you don't need to know all of your A2 biology and chemistry, but you should be pretty good at all of the stuff you've done up until this point. It's normally when you have the interview, it's about November December time, which means you're a few months into your 13. And this means you'll have done maybe one or two topics, then biology and chemistry of A2, but you won't have done the rest of them. And they're not expecting you to have done the rest of them, so please don't think that in preparation for your Oxford medicine interview, you need to go and look ahead and find everything in A2 chemistry and biology that you haven't yet done, and you need to brush up on it, because you really don't, you just need to be pretty good at stuff you've already covered. If they do ask you something that you know, you will cover an A2, but you haven't done yet, then just kind of make a claim to them in the interview, maybe you can be like, oh, if they've asked you about the kidneys, you can say, oh, well, we haven't quite covered the kidneys yet, but if I were to have a guess, I would say, Dodd, Dodd, Dodd. So you don't actually have to know much, it's not really a test of knowledge, as you'll see in the 15 tips videos, it's more a test of how you can think on the day. And if you know a lot about a topic, it kind of defeats the purpose, because like, let's say you're an expert on lungs, because your EP cure, whatever, it's called was in lungs and you know, your dad is a lung respiratory physician, and you just know everything about lungs. If they ask you about lungs, it's just a bit unfairness, it's just a bit pointless. So if they find that you already know a lot about lungs, they will ask you about the kidneys instead, because what they want to find out is how you can think, and how you can kind of be taught a topic that you don't already know. So in answer to the question, should you revise your A to biology and chemistry? You should revise your biology and chemistry of the stuff you've done up until this point, but don't feel like you have to go above and beyond in the subjects that you haven't yet covered. I hope that makes sense. Okay, question number two, how much detail do you need to know about stuff in your personal statement? I know it sounds really stupid, but for example, if I mentioned dialysis of diabetes, how much depth do I need to know about these conditions? Right, again, fairly common question. If you mentioned something on your personal statement, then you need to know a bit more about it than the average person would be expected. So if you did mention dialysis on your personal statement, be prepared for the question of what is dialysis, how does it work? Be prepared to explain stuff about, you know, semi-permule membrane, or as most is, whatever, however dialysis does work. I'm not even sure how dialysis works. But if you mentioned any of your personal statement, you should probably read up a little bit, we could period it's pretty all right, in terms of how dialysis works, why do people use dialysis? What are the different types of dialysis? There's like peritenial dialysis, there's like arterial venous dialysis, you know, this kind of stuff. Basically, questions that a quick scheme of Wikipedia will be able to tell you the answer of, okay, what about if you've mentioned dialabetes in your personal statement, you should be willing to answer questions like what is dialabetes, how does it work? What are the different types of dialabetes? Does type one type do there's, well, what is it? Diabetes, at less than dialabetes, dialabetes is the elderly. There's like a few different ones, and you should be vaguely familiar with what they are. You should know how we manage dialabetes. You should know what some of the challenges are with treating diabetes, some people describe diabetes as the curse of the modern world, and you should vaguely be aware that drug companies are trying to develop lots of drugs for diabetes, because it tends to be rich people in rich countries that get diabetes, rather than necessarily poor people who wouldn't be able to afford the drugs. So, you know, things about dialabetes, just general stuff like that. You don't need to know the exact kind of pathophysiology of how diabetes works. Well, like the exact molecular mechanisms by which, you know, incident effects, tolerance in kinase receptors, and how that causes a change in a conformational structure, and that how that activates cyclic AMP and how that sort of, you know, just further stuff down the line. You don't need to know any of that stuff, because that's what you learn in medical school, but you do need to know the basics if you mention it in your personal statement. So, yeah, general rule of thumb. If you mentioned something in your personal statement, read the Wikipedia article about that topic, and make sure you can vaguely talk about it if asked. Cool. Question number three says, what constitutes has recent news? For example, this Charlie Guard, account is recent ethical news, and does the flu jab plaster account is recent scientific news. So, the reason for asking this question is because everyone could do that interviews is concerned that there are going to be last questions about current affairs. Last year, when the junior doctor contract was a big thing, that was the thing that everyone was concerned about that, you know, being trying to be brushed up on the junior doctor contract. This year, you know, Charlie Guard is fairly recent still. So, you know, it's feasible that they might ask you about the Charlie Guard case and about what kind of ethical issues it raises in 2015, and that was when the Montgomery ruling happened and that changed everything with regards to patient consent. So, the Montgomery ruling was really popular that year for, you know, questions that they might ask in a current affairs e-thing. I think a general rule of thumb is that any kind of big thing that happened this year, I eat in the last 12 months before your interview, constitutes as recent news that they might ask you about. However, if there is something big like the Montgomery case when it comes to things like consent, even though it happened in 2015, it's still useful to know about it. If that makes sense. So, focus your efforts on kind of being aware of medical stuff that happened in the news in the last year. But, you know, if it's big, like the junior doctor contract, that was a year or two ago, but it's still quite big, it's still quite sore. If it's a big, like, Montgomery case, then you wanna brush up on those things. If you don't know what the Montgomery case is, don't worry, I've got a video of that coming up at some point, but if you have an interview coming up soon, it's probably useful to, and a Wikipedia Montgomery 2015, and see what the deal was with that. So, yeah, a recent news, 12 months. To be honest, at Cambridge and Oxford, they tend not to really ask you about recent current affairs, but you're applying to medicine, so you should probably know about what's been happening in the news recently, but yeah, 12 months is kind of the rule of thumb that I would follow. Okay, question number four, what should you do if you have a complete mind blank, or they start talking about a topic you've never heard of, but should have covered slash number four. For example, I haven't learned about kidneys and GCSE or levels, it's the last topic we do in A2. Okay, so this kind of goes back to question number one, what do you do if it's a topic that you don't know anything about? I think the first thing to do is make it clear to them, and a kind of a nice way that, oh, we haven't quite covered the kidneys yet, but I'll be happy to try and tackle this question anyway, if that's all right. And then they would see like, yeah, I'll go ahead, or they would say, oh my apologies, I thought you've done the kidneys, why don't we talk about the lung instead? Something like that. So don't feel as if, if you get something that you're completely mind blanked on, don't think that you have to kind of bluff your way through it, because that's not the name of the game. Especially with Oxford and Cambridge interviews, they really want you to feel as if you're in a teaching session with them. So, if you were in a teaching session with them, and they asked you, tell me about, you know, phase one of the Krebs cycle, and you didn't know about phase one of the Krebs cycle, you would say, oh, I'm sorry, I haven't quite gone over my notes on that. I'd be happy to answer any questions and try and give it a go, but otherwise, they'd be happy to teach it to you. So, yeah, don't worry if there's something that you haven't heard of before, just make a clear to them that we haven't quite done this yet, but I'd be happy to have a go, and then have a go. What you shouldn't do is say, is like, get really fast to be like, oh crap, I haven't done anything about the kidneys, and then, sort of either come out with it, oh, it's unfair for you to ask me about the kidneys, because I didn't mention it in my supplementary questionnaire, or, you know, just kind of being confrontational in that sense, obviously, that's a bad thing to do, you know? If they ask you about the kidneys and you haven't done the kidneys yet, just tell them we haven't done the kidneys, but I'll be happy to give this question a go, and that would be absolutely fine. Okay, question number five, does mental health stuff count as scientific? I know it seems a weird question to ask is just that I've constantly been told that Oxford and Cambridge don't consider psychiatry as scientific. So I'm not quite sure where that comes from, and what the purpose behind the question is, mental health is definitely scientific. Maybe 20 years ago, when the rest of the medical profession thought psychiatry was a bit like, maybe then an Oxford interview wouldn't have would've kind of looked it down upon you for mentioning something psychiatry related or something, you know, depression or anxiety or schizophrenia related when you talked about, you know, science. But these days, that's not the case at all. You can, if they do ask you about something in your personal statement, if you have mentioned schizophrenia in your personal statement, you should be prepared for the scientific questions about schizophrenia. If you have mentioned depression or anxiety or any kind of mental health topic, there is a big scientific basis behind that psychiatry is a medical specialty. Please don't think that psychiatry does not count as scientific enough or does not count as medically enough because it really does. And if it doesn't, if you get any kind of whiff in your interview that they're discriminating against, because you've mentioned something mental health related, then bring it up afterwards. I don't do it in the interview, but there's like an appeals process, there's like a complaints process, mental health is like a super, super important thing. Mental health at Oxford and Cambridge is particularly in the limelight because of the higher rates of mental health, the higher rates of people trying to commit suicide and stuff like that. All of these kind of really high-achieving institutions. So it's something that the limelight is always on. And most colleges, like most of the colleges, I know anyway, are really good at trying to deal with mental health. People I know who've had issues with mental health have found a lot of support from their colleges for the most part. So I don't think you have anything to worry about, please don't get flustered in your interview, because you have this worry that mental health and Oxford are fundamentally incompatible because it's just not true. Question number six, other than revise AS and learn everything on your personal statement, is there any other ways to just preparing? I've seen your YouTube videos, and so don't worry if you think that's all. Okay, so yeah, revise AS, watch my other YouTube videos about interview tips and about preparing for Oxford interviews. And really, I think the best way is just do mock Oxford G interviews with your friends, like get your friends a list of questions, you can find someone the internet probably. Of questions they might ask you and ask them to kind of challenge you scientifically, if you can. Like there's no such thing as the perfect Oxford G interview question. So don't feel as if you have to get like a really legit, first primary source in terms of what questions they might ask. But it's pretty much anything that would stretch you scientifically. So if you've got a friend who's doing economics and you haven't done economics, ask them if they can kind of quiz you about an aspect of economics and then teach you the topic. And see how you respond to that. Or if they can ask you about a common problem in economics and see if you can get to the solution, that might be one way of doing it. But really, in terms of preparation, that's the thing with Oxford and Cambridge interviews that because it's so much based on what you come out with on the day rather than what you know before. Then there's, it is genuinely quite hard to sort of actively prepare for. If by preparing you mean trying to do that one thing that'll make you guaranteed to get an offer or do that one thing that's like a silver bullet, because it just doesn't work like that. All you have to do is just kind of be vaguely confident with the topics that you've already done. Be vaguely familiar, actually be quite familiar with the stuff on your personal statement. And then as they give you more and more information, as they teach you a topic, you just want to respond to it as you naturally would. The objective of the Oxford interview and the objective of a video like this isn't to help you trick your way into Oxford or Cambridge. It's to like, it's just to make sure that there's no kind of information disparity between people who are coached for it and people who aren't like, if you've gone to each and a Westminster or like another school that has high proportion of students going to Oxford and Cambridge, they will tell you all of this stuff about the Oxford interviews. And nothing I say in this video is going to be anything new. But if you're from a school that doesn't have that many students applying to Oxford at Cambridge, then I hope this will be useful. Point of this video isn't that I give you a magic bullet to get into Oxford at Cambridge because it just doesn't exist. And if, and like the whole point of the interview, is for them to work out with this person benefit from our style of teaching, would this person thrive in this environment. And if they honestly think that you wouldn't, then there's nothing really I can say in this video or that you can do preparation-wise that would help you. Because there are some people that just aren't really compatible with it and that's what they're trying to find in the interview process. So, I know with Oxford into music, like the whole, the whole kind of, the whole kind of aura of mysteries surrounding Oxford and Cambridge is very much the Oxford and Cambridge of the best everything else is inferior. That's kind of what the media says. And when, at least when I was applying, I kind of bought into this. I was like, you know, I'm gonna reach for Cambridge because Cambridge is the best and anything less than Cambridge is second best. And therefore, I would have felt kind of personally inferior how do I not go into Cambridge. And I think that's quite an unhealthy way of looking at it. It's more that it's a different style of teaching. And the point of the interview is to see whether you would thrive with that style of teaching. So, again, you know, I can say this all day, but I know you guys are still gonna be really nervous about the Oxford interview because it is a super nerve-racking thing. But yeah, it will be fine. There's not really that much you can do in advance to kind of really properly prepare you for it. But generally, knowing stuff in your personal statement, knowing your sciences and kind of doing a few more interviews with someone is probably the best way forward. A question number seven, I think I can't remember of kind of lost count. Is there a catch? I don't know why, but everyone keeps telling me that it's about how you think and how teachable you're, but surely there's more to it than that. I'm pretty sure everyone applying to Oxford Bridge knows how to think and all. Okay, is there a catch? No, there is no catch. It really is about how you think and how you respond to the interview. And you would think that everyone applying to Oxford Bridge knows how to think. And possibly, like, and possibly the phrase knowing how to think is a bad way of putting it. Because again, that implies that if you don't do well than an Oxford Bridge interview, then you don't know how to think. But that's not how they see it at all. It's more like, are you able to sort of from first principles reason out a topic? Even if you don't fully know the topic. And some people have the skill and some people don't. If you don't have the skill, you can develop it over time. But that's like the thing that they're testing. Like, can you take a topic that you know about? And can you kind of take it further and further and further until the point that you don't know about it anymore? And then if they teach it to you, how well would you respond to that? How teachable are you in their specific style of teaching? So, no, there's no real catch. If you know a lot of science and you can reason things out from first principles, then you'll do well in Oxford Interview. But again, it's not even about that because with medicine, they're not just looking for a scientist. They're also looking for someone who's, can come across as quite pleasant, maybe, quite like, it's all this subjective stuff around it. Like, if you were the interviewer and you were interviewing someone to be taught by you, you won't necessarily just be looking for the people who are sort of scientifically proper on it. You'd be looking for the people that you think, oh, this is quite a pleasant person. I can imagine myself teaching them and enjoying it. So, that as an element of subjectivity and an element of sort of being personable and being sort of just being a nice person to the whole Oxford Interview thing, because it is all about kind of the personal contact that you have with the interviewer. If it wasn't, it would just, they would just give you a test or set you an essay and not bother interviewing a tool. But the reason for the interview is so that you can get this kind of one-to-one relationship going with the interviewer and they can assess, you know, is this the kind of person I would want to teach in a year's time when they come, when they come to Cambridge, when they come to my college. So, the question was, is there a catch? Is it just about how teachable you are and how well you can think? And it pretty much is, I wouldn't think about it as how well you can think. I would just think about it, you know, can you think in this particular style? And can you respond to it appropriately on the day? And can you be kind of like, personable and friendly and nice enough that they were thinking, what, this is the person I would enjoy teaching? And that's really all the risk to it. And I know that probably doesn't really help much because that's quite a lot to think about. But really, the way to go about our experience of yours is to approach them as a general conversation that you're having with the interviewers, don't think of it as them interrogating you about a subject. Because if you think of it like that, you're naturally going to kind of withdraw into yourself, whereas if you think of it as a conversation, you know, you're having a chat with some people who might want to teach you next year. And, you know, it's just a friendly chat. And then I think that's like a much better way of thinking of it and kind of helps you with doing well in the Oxford interview. Okay, question number nine. How do we structure answers to current affairs stuff like seven day NHS and Charlie God? Oh, heaks, strikes again. So how do we structure answers? The thing we're structuring answers is that it really depends on what the question is. So I can't really answer something that says, how do I structure an answer about the seven day NHS? Because I don't know what the question is. Is the question, is the seven end is seven day NHS a good idea? Or is the question, how would you go about setting up a seven day NHS? Or about Charlie God? Is the question, tell me about the Charlie God case? Or is the question, what ethical implications does it have? Or is the question, if you were the judge, what would you do? Whatever the question is about these topics, the completely changes what answer you're going to give. But in general, if you want to structure for answers, the one that I use is the standard that you learn in English and history, so point evidence and link. So point, for example, I had an interview earlier today and let's say they asked me, why do you want to do an academic foundation program? I would say my point is, I want an academic foundation program because I think it would be really good for my future career. I'm interested in medical education and I think an AFP in education would kind of springboard my future career in that sense. So kind of point kind of expand of it upon it a bit. And then sort of point number two, that I said, be also, I really like the fact that we do a PGCE, the postgraduate certificate of medical education alongside. And I think that learning the education theory would help me improve as a teacher. So I've been teaching a lot of courses and things for the last five years and I've recently begun teaching medical students as well. But the AFP would really help because of this evidence based approach to teaching. So I think that would elevate my own status and my own abilities as a teacher. And finally, I think that doing an AFP would let me do some kind of project within medical education. So I've got a few ideas and I'm happy to talk to you about. But I think that's one of the main reasons I'm applying for this AFP because of the fact that I can do a project alongside. I'll have a supervisor. I'll have a department and education institution behind me, which would help make it more official and more kind of acceptedable to do as a project. So yeah, that's why I want to apply for AFP. Number one, because I think it would be great for my career. Number two, because it'll help me improve my teaching and number three, because I like the idea of being able to do a project. So that's pretty much the answer I would have given to this question. And it's sort of point evidence. And then at the end, I've kind of drawn it all together. Some people say that, if you're asked about something about your communication skills, you would, blah, blah communication skills. And in the end, you would link it back to being a doctor. You would say, and this is important because a doctor should have good communication skills. I don't agree with that personally. I think a good structure is, I think there's no need to do an explicit link back to medicine. I think that's a very kind of amateur way of doing it. And if they see it happening in an unnatural way, that instantly screams of this person has read an interview book that they're over-prepared, they've memorized answers, that's not good. Instead, what I would say is, whenever you're structuring an answer to any kind of question, you want to end with a good summary of what you've just said. So my answer about why I want to do an academic foundation program, I had three points, and at the end, I said, so yeah, that's why I want to do an AFP. Number one, because, what do I say? So yeah, that's why I want to do an AFP. Number one, because it'll be good for my future career. Number two, because it'll help my own teaching style to develop. And number three, because I'll be able to do a project. And end it on that confident note. I mistake a lot of people make when structuring answers to any questions, or even a non-expertant to be even non-expertant, is that they're kind of waffle on a bit, and then they kind of Peter out towards the end, so you might say something like, so yeah, I'll be able to do a project and end, yeah. And I'm kind of stirring them a bit and wait for the next question, because you have answered the question, you've given them points one, two, and three, but it's like an essay, you won't leave an essay without a conclusion. So I think with all of these questions, if there is a direct answer to the question that they're asking, you want to restate that direct answer at the end, in a kind of like a confident way. So yeah, the question initially was, how do you structure answers to current affairs question, like the seven day NHS, like Charlie God, my answer is, it depends what the question is, make sure you answer the question, make sure you end, again, with answering the question, because the worst thing you can do in interview is not answer the question. Final question, question number nine, 10, current, or where we are. What are the most common medical topics or exposure like to ask about state of the current NHS, et cetera? Honestly, from my experience, and from the experience most of my friends, we didn't really get any general current affairs he stuff in our Oxbridge interviews. That's not to say they'll never ask it. That's not to say that no college asks about it, but like, you know, in Cambridge there are 31 colleges and Oxford there are like 30 colleges. Each of them has their own slightly different interview process. So I can never say to you that yeah, they'll never ask you about current affairs. What I can say is that I was spoken to about 10, 15 and my friends, none of them were asked about current affairs. I wasn't asked about current affairs. I won't worry too much about current affairs, but as I said in the answer to question number three, whatever it was, if you do, it is quite useful to have a knowledge of current affairs that are happening in the UK, in the NHS, in, you know, global health stuff in the last 12 months because that's considered fairly current and that is fair game for them to ask you questions on. So yeah, that pretty much wraps up this video. Hopefully I've answered the use 10 questions about the Oxbridge interviews in a reasonably legit way. So yeah, all the best really hope you smash the scene these interviews, they are quite hard. And everyone walks out of them thinking that they haven't done very well. So if you're in that position, what you walk out of it thinking you haven't done very well, don't worry, because pretty much everyone is in that same boat, very few people walk out confidently. And if they do walk out confidently, it's probably because they miss something or because they've got a very easy interview. But yeah, don't worry about it. If you have any more questions at all, just leave a comment down below in this video and I'll answer you within like a few hours. If you'd like to suggest any more videos that we could be doing any more questions, just like send them to me via YouTube or Snapchat DM or Instagram DM or whatever. And every time I get one, I kind of make a list of it and sort of put it in my to do list of videos to make. But yeah, I really hope you enjoyed the video. Good luck with your interviews. If you liked the video, please give it a thumbs up. If you haven't subscribed to the channel, please consider doing so more videos coming out about more general interview stuff and vlogs about life as a medical student. And finally, have a lovely day. And I will see you next time. Bye.
