# How to answer Medical Ethics interview questions
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4QtYOmblLOY
Interview Crash Course Online - https://courses.aliabdaal.com/interview-crash-course-online. 

This video covers the basics (and some advanced stuff) about how to answer medical ethics scenarios. We're deliberately giving you more than you 'need to know', because hopefully if you're watching this video, you want to stand out in your medicine interviews rather than scraping by :) 

We discuss a medical ethics scenario that I got in my Imperial interview, using the 4 principles approach. We then expand on those a bit, giving you some tidbits that you can throw into your medical ethics answers to get brownie points with your interviewers. Finally, we end with a discussion of where the 4 principles of ethics actually come from, briefly explaining the meaning of virtue ethics, deontology and utilitarianism.

Enjoy xx

Timestamps:

00:00 - My Introduction
01:52 - Charlotte and Molly introducing themselves
02:34 - The scenario we'll be tackling
03:32 - The 4 principles of medical ethics
05:24 - Applying the 4 principles to this case
07:46 - More about JUSTICE, the key issue in this case
09:48 - More about NON-MALEFICENCE
11:11 - QALYs and how they relate to justice
13:44 - Key tip - think about practicalities, not just abstract ethics
15:23 - Interim summary
15:45 - Where do the 4 principles come from?
19:58 - Virtue ethics, deontology and utilitarianism
24:04 - Summary and closing remarks

Links:

QALYs - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Quality-adjusted_life_year

6med:

6med is a company that my friends and I have been running since 2013. We've taught courses on interviews, BMAT and UKCAT to ~5,000 students with glowing reviews. As we graduate from medical school and become real doctors, we didn't want our course material to go to waste, so we're making YouTube videos on everything we know and releasing them over time.

If you'd like to check out the courses, or our online BMAT/UKCAT question banks, check out https://6med.co.uk.
Interview Crash Course Online - https://courses.aliabdaal.com/interview-crash-course-online. 
6med Interview Crash Course - https://6med.co.uk/interview-crash-course
6med MMI Crash Course - https://6med.co.uk/mmi-crash-course

Who am I:

I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking 

📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal 

🎬 My online course on video editing - https://skl.sh/32TpEvm
🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
**Keywords:** medical ethics, medicine ethics, medicine interview ethics, ethics, medicine interview questions, medicine interview, medicine interview preparation, how to prepare for medicine interviews, medical school interviews, interview prep, medicine interview prep, med school interview, med school interviews, medical school interview, medical school interview prep, tips for medicine interview, medicine interview tips, interview tips, medicine tips, 
**Date:** 2017-12-14

## Transcript
 Hey guys, welcome back to the channel. If you're new here, my name is Ali. I'm a final year medical student at Cambridge University. And this is a new mini-series where we're going to be talking about medical ethics and how to answer medical ethical scenarios that you might get in your medicine interviews. We're going to be going a little bit beyond what you need to know for your medicine interviews. But to be honest, every single person applying for medicine and getting a medicine interview is just going to be reading off the four principles of medical ethics. So if we want to stand out in our interviews, ideally we want to be giving a little bit more than just the four principles. Uh, so that's what this series is aimed at. Having said that, this video is all about the four principles of medical ethics, which is the structure that me and all of my friends, and literally everyone would recommend for how to answer a medical ethical scenario. Two things. Firstly, if you look in the video description below, you'll find timestamps to every single thing that's mentioned in this video. So if you already know what the four principles are, and you don't want to be told again, you can just skip that and move on to the next section where we apply them to a real life scenario. Secondly, this video and the rest of the videos in the series are going to be featuring two of my very good friends, Charlotte and Molly. They're both amazing interviews, they're both amazing at talking to patients, and they also have this medical ethics stuff as kind of a specialist subject, because they did it as one of their papers in their third year. So they're both very kind of a great to sit in front of the camera and discuss some of these ethical scenarios, these ethical issues with you. So hopefully you can learn from that, and yeah, very grateful to them for taking part. So let's get the show on the road. Firstly, I'm going to let Charlotte and Molly introduce themselves, and then we're going to introduce a medical ethical interview, the questionee kind of scenario, which is actually exactly what I got in my imperial interview. So hopefully they don't use it anymore, because I'll have just given the game away. But to be honest, it's a fairly standard scenario, and it's exactly the sort of thing that a lot of medical schools use in their interviews. So we'll be introducing the scenario, and then we'll be explaining how you might go about answering it. And as I said, every single thing is down below timestamps. So if you want to skip some of the video, don't feel like you have to watch it all in one go, or like, all at the same time, or whatever. Charlotte and Molly are going to introduce themselves coming up. I'm Charlotte, I'm a final year medic at a manual college. And I'm Molly, I'm another final year at a manual college too. So both of us, for our third year, for our part two, it came rich. We did history and philosophy of science, so we did papers in ethics and law. So it's a bit of an interest of us, let's go. Yeah, and we've also next week, we've got our final exams, and part of those exams is about ethics and law, so it's good provision for us too to have a discussion and to think through some of these topics with you. Okay, so that's introduction sorted. Now we're going to introduce the scenario, which as I said, is the one that I got asked in my imperial interview, and quite closely mirrors the sort of ethical scenarios that other medical schools might give you in your interview. So have a listen and see what you can come up with. So we want you to imagine that you're in an interview now, and your interviews give you this scenario. So you're a doctor, you're a surgeon in the hospital, and a lady comes to you, and she has a BMI of 45, which is put so in the morbidly obese category. And you have to decide whether you're going to offer bariatric surgery, so weight loss surgery. And the interview says to you, can you talk me through the ethical implications and the ethical issues in this case? What would you, what would you do, what would you say to your interviews? Right, so that's the scenario that we're going to be dealing with in this video. I'd recommend you pausing the video and think about how you might answer it, because now we've got Charlotte and Molly discussing how they would approach it. Firstly, they're going to introduce the four principles of medical ethics, and then they're going to apply the four principles to this scenario. And that's a structure that we would also suggest you use when answering these sort of ethical questions. One of the ways that you can always, if you're struggling in an ethical situation, when you get one of those questions, is take a moment, and one of the principles that all of ethics is sort of founded on in medicine, is the four principles. So there's beneficence, which is generally a doctor should be trying to help patients. There's no maleficence, so wanting to make sure that doctors are not doing any harm to someone. There's justice, so making sure that we allocate treatments fairly, and then autonomy, that patients are people in their own right, and they should be allowed to make their own decisions. So that's a really good way of starting to go about any ethical scenario like this. Okay, so that was the four principles of medical ethics, that's autonomy, beneficence, non-maleficence, and justice. And like I said at the start of the video, literally every single person applying to medicine, getting an interview will know these four principles off by heart, and will be reeling them off. So it's pretty much bare minimum knowledge for medicine interviews, but this video is just an introduction. So now Charlotte is going to be talking about how she might apply these four principles to the question. And that's really what distinguishes candidates, because everyone is going to know the four principles, and everyone is going to know they have to apply them to the question. So really, it's all about what you can say while applying them, showing the interviewer's A, a little bit of personality, you know, talking them engaging kind of fashion, make sure you smile occasionally, that sort of thing. And secondly, the kind of stuff you say, even though everyone will be saying roughly the same thing, if you can say it in a nice way, or you can give, give some examples that you can show a real insight into medicine, then that's what's going to set you apart from the crowd. But yeah, here's Charlotte talking about how she might apply these four principles to the ethical scenario at hand. Here we go. What we, what we'd say, how we approach it is to take each of those principles in turn, and try and address it with the case at hand. So in this case, if we, if we think firstly about benefits, so doing good, a lady who's got such a high BMI is a significant risk of lots of health problems, things like heart attacks and strokes, diabetes, and so in order to do good, offering her this surgery is going to improve her health and improve long-term outcomes. So we will be doing good by offering her this surgery. In terms of doing no harm, it's kind of the same. We don't want this lady to develop nasty complications of being overweight, so again, things like stroke diabetes, hypertension. And so we want to minimise the risk that she's going to be exposed to. If we then think about autonomy, if we presume that this lady is over 18, she's got the mental capacity to decide, then she's got a right to decide for herself, what treatment she wants, and if she wants to have that intervention, we as doctors need to really respect that and to take that into account when we're making a clinical decision. And the justice thing is all about how we allocate our resources. So bariatric surgery is expensive. It takes experience surgeons and nurses and theatre staff. There's the time the person will have to be admitted in hospital, and all of the nursing care that goes with that. And there's also the opportunity, kind of, what else could we do with that money that we're going to use for this procedure? We could do other surgeries, other interventions. We could offer other people drugs. And so it's about how we decide what's the best use of our resources because the NHS is, it's got finite resources. We're not able to give everyone everything. And so in this scenario, we take each one in turn and discuss that three. So I think justice is probably the one that stands out most to me. And so we'd have to consider if it's going to take X amount of money to give this lady her bariatric surgery. How else could we use that? And how many other people might that benefit? So if we said it was going to cost £20,000, for example. If we had that pot of money, we could start a smoking session service that would impact 200 people. Should we allocate the resources differently because of the number of people who'd benefit? And the NHS is founded on that principle of that we should discriminate only on the basis of clinical need. And that can be really tricky in situations like this because we have a patient that in front of us who has a healthcare need. She needs to lose weight in order to not have really negative outcomes. But we also have a huge number of other people who need interventions. It's about how we can discuss that with an interviewer and show that we appreciate the complexities of allocating healthcare resources. Right, so that was Charlotte talking about how she might apply the four principles to this ethical scenario. And she also made that really good point about opportunity cost. I think opportunity cost is always something you can mention when talking about the justice component of the four principles. Because opportunity cost is one of those things. It's like, what else could we be doing with this money instead of just what you're being asked? So if your scenario asks you to choose between two different patients for a transplant or something like that, still consider opportunity cost. Think about what if we didn't give the transplant to any of them? What could we use that money for instead? I think that's quite a nice little argument. We get extra marks for it when mentioning it in our ethics and law papers. And I think if you were to mention it in your interviews as part of justice, that would score you some good brownie points with your interviewers. Now we're going to hear from Molly who's going to be expanding on this point just a little bit here we go. The only other things I might think about in this scenario on the basis of those four principles again. Definitely beneficence. We've got to balance how much good we could do to this lady. So if we give her the surgery, could we be avoiding all of these future complications? The one thing that I think stands out to me is that actually a normal effort since it's also the fact that we could cause harm by giving her the surgery. And so as a doctor, one of the main things you have to realise is that every treatment you give has side effects or has complications or has risks. And that's something you're really going to have to grapple with as a doctor in the future. And you have to decide whether that beneficence outweighs the normal efforts. And so I think that's an important thing to draw in this scenario because you've got to make sure that when discussing things with the patient and when deciding what's in their best interest, you take into account the harm you could cause by doing any treatment and not just the harm that will happen if you don't give them the treatment. Okay, so that was an interesting point to make about non-moleficence. Anytime we do an operation to someone, we are inherently causing harm to them. And that's again something useful to mention because if you can appreciate that, actually surgery is complicated and has complications and potentially causes harm, that's another kind of brownie point for our insight into medicine that they're looking for in your interviews. Now we're going to hear Charlotte talking about another sort of semi advanced topic, which is quality, quality adjusted life years and that's another thing you can bring into the justice thing. Because that's the measure by which most things are allocated in the UK at least. Here with Charlotte talking about qualities. I think all of this, it can feel like it's quite nebulous, it's quite qualitative, you know, it's all about kind of how people are feeling and it can be difficult to quantify in numbers and figures and the attempt that we make in the NHS to try and navigate what is a minefield is to use these things called quality adjusted life years, so qualities. And what we do, for every intervention, for every drug we have, for every treatment we're going to offer, we think about how many years of life they are going to add on to a person, so how much longer we'd expect that person to live if they are given the intervention. And then we wait that based on how good the quality of that time will be. So it's on a scale of 0 to 1, so one would be a year in perfect health and we wait the year and we think about things like, are they free from pain, are they free from psychological distress, how well can they go about performing their activities of daily life, things like getting up, getting washed, getting dressed. And so every intervention that we have will be given this rating. And that, in some part, goes to help us decide what, where should we put our resources. And the National Institute of Clinical Excellence has some recommendations for us, and nice, suggests that if one quality adjusted life year costs less than about 30,000 pounds, it's probably cost effective, and probably offer that on the NHS. Anything more than that, and things become a little bit more tricky. So, interventions like giving someone a cholesterol tablet are really cheap per quality. It's really excellent value for money, whereas treatments like very specific immunotherapies for very rare types of cancer, they're really expensive per quality. And so we have to balance our resources and quality's are a way of helping to think about justice and resource allocation. Okay, so that's our brief discussion about quality. You can look it up, I've got link in the description to the Wikipedia article if you want to read more about it. Now, Molly is going to make a really good point, and that's about thinking practically what you might do if you were a doctor, actually faced with that ethical scenario. And again, I think this is a good one to listen to carefully because if you, if you can mention this in your interview, that again will also score you lots of brownie points because so few candidates are going to be thinking practically about this scenario. They're going to be thinking in an abstract way, they're going to be applying the four principles, but if you can say that actually if I were a doctor in this circumstance, what I would do is blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, then again, that's more brownie points. That's more kind of big ticks in the little sheep that they're going to mark you away then you're into these probably. So here's Molly talking about that. I think also when you're faced with one of these questions, it's worth not just thinking about these broad ethical issues, but also thinking practically about how you would have to go about it as a doctor. Because it's all very well saying I think about beneficence, non-moleficence, autonomy and justice and go through all of them. But actually at some point you have to say, in reality, what I'm going to have to do is sit down with this patient and speak with her about what the pros and cons, what the risks are, what the benefits of the surgery could be, and it's going to be her autonomy in the end. Unless you really think you could be causing serious harm and you really don't want to recommend this surgery. If it is that risk benefit decision, then ultimately that will end up lying in the patient's hands with your guidance, making sure that you inform her of both the risks and benefits and let her then decide what she thinks is worth while for her. Okay, so that's the end of this first section of the video. We've talked about an introduction to the four principles of medical ethics, autonomy, beneficence, non-moleficence, justice and Charlotte and Molly have talked about how they might apply these to the ethical scenario, and you've also heard a little bit about qualities, a little bit about opportunity cost, and a little bit about practically speaking, what a doctor would do in the circumstances, all of which are things that are going to score you brownie points with your interviewers. We could end the video here, but I don't like the idea of just kind of saying to you guys that just apply the four principles and you'll be fine. Because I think it's important to know where the four principles come from, and when I was applying to medicine, and I was changing some of my friends about this, and we didn't really know where they came from, we just kind of thought, oh, medical ethics, yeah, four principles are done, but as we were going through our clinical ethics and law course, we realized that actually these four principles came about for a very good reason, and I think understanding where they come from is kind of useful, because it just gives you a little bit more understanding, and more of an overview of where they slot into this whole medical ethics debate. Basically, what we're trying to work out is what is the right thing to do under morally uncertain circumstances. If you have got a patient, and if you do have to decide between two transplans, if you do have to decide whether to give this surgery to this patient or to that patient, if you have to decide whether to operate without consent, if you have to decide. So, how do we work out what to do in a given situation? We could do what the Philosophers back in the day used to do, and follow particular schools of thought. So some of the main ones might be down toology, virtue ethics, utilitarianism, that sort of thing. And these were all like frameworks that were invented by various different philosophers, and they gave us a nice framework for making moral decisions. How to weigh up one decision from another and work out which one is the morally right thing to do. Now, back in the day, these frameworks, what doctors used to use to work out to work out what to do in an ethical dilemma. So, if they were deciding between two patients to do a treatment on, they might call upon utilitarianism, they might use virtue ethics to decide whether to operate without consent, something like that. The problem was that firstly, these various frameworks they're all well and good, but either quite conflicting in that, you know, each of them makes different decisions. And kind of in medicine, you want a more standardized framework, so medical professionals, everywhere can use the same framework, ideally. So firstly, they were quite conflicting in that they said different things. And secondly, they were quite generalised, like they were more about how to make decisions in life generally, and they were supposed to specifically to medicine. So, what happened was that these two books, I think there were books, uh, beach room and children, they put together these treaties about medical ethics, and they came up with these four principles, autonomy, the inefficiency, and justice. And what they said was that these four principles are a distillation of all of the other schools of thought. Um, so taking the bits that are common to each of these schools of thought, and applying them specifically to a medical sphere. And these four principles have been criticised, but to be honest, they're still a pretty good method for answering ethical scenarios. And I think it's useful to know that they come from a distillation of these other schools of thought, like some of you guys might have heard of you totalitarianism, or consequentialism, or Aristotle, or whatever. but, you know, just think of them as a distillation of all of these various ethical principles. So, what's going to happen now is that Molly and Charlotte are going to briefly explain the three main schools of thought, very briefly, a virtue ethics down toology and utilitarianism. I think it's really useful to know about these schools of thought, because firstly, it helps you understand where the four principles comes from, which is good for increasing understanding generally. But secondly, knowing about these schools of thought helps you kind of get off the fence. Like, if you're torn between one scenario and another scenario in an ethical question, then it's all well and good, just kind of reading off the four principles and kind of explaining the arguments. But what if they press you for an answer? Um, what if they say, so which patient would you give the drug to? And it's not enough to just kind of be on the fence. So that's what happened in my period interview. They asked me to make a decision, yes or no, and I called upon utilitarianism. well, I think a utilitarian approach would work for this, and that would favor dot dot dot. And this is what we do in quite a lot of our medical medical ethics and law, exam papers as well. You get extra marks for coming to a decision based on one of these frameworks. So I think if you know about them, it's not required knowledge, really the only bare minimum is just applying the four principles of medical ethics. But I think if you do know about these schools of thought, and it just expands your ability to give a better answer in ethical scenarios. So yeah, that's me done. Let's now hear from Charlotte and Molly, who'll be explaining these three schools of thought, and I will say some final words at the end. So there's various different schools of thought about how what is morally bright and what's morally wrong. And it's useful to just give you an overview of some of those things. So we'll just do the real basics of a few schools of thought. And so the first one is the School of Virtue Ethics. So this was sort of pioneered by Aristotle in his day. And he talked about the first stop law. And this was pioneered by Aristotle in his day. And he talked about the fact that you should think about not what you do, but what you are. And that if you are doing what you think a virtuous person would do, then you're doing the right thing. So as you can see, this can be quite a such circular argument in the end, because you might think that a virtuous person is someone who endorses slavery or someone who endorses harming other people for what they perceive to be the right way of doing things. So it can let itself down depending on what you think a virtuous person is. So another way of saying it, of thinking about it is, the deal of mine. Okay, here we go, this is it. The ontological. Do you actually have to say this word? Isn't there another way of saying it? The ontology, I can say that word. The ontological categorical character. So another school of thought is that of the ontology. And in this one, our headline is Immanuel Kant. He thought that actually acts in themselves, or either morally right or morally wrong. So you can, no matter what the outcome of an act, some things are always going to be wrong. So he would say that killing another person is always wrong, no matter how many people you might save, no matter what the consequences are of that action. And another thing that he says is that a law, if you can apply it universally, so if you can say that everyone in the world, if they acted in that way, it would be better. Then that's fine. But if you couldn't apply that action to the whole world, so for instance, he talks about breaking promises. If you couldn't say that breaking promises would be universally, the right thing to do, then you shouldn't do it. So in the last big kind of school of thought, to cover is consequentialism, which does what it says on the tin. It thinks of consequences of actions. And utilitarianism is the most important type of consequentialism that we need to address. So there were these guys in the 18th and 19th century, Bentham, Sidrick, Stuart Mill, and they said that the fundamental level, happiness is good, suffering is bad. And so the right thing to do is the action that will cause the greatest happiness for the greatest number of people. The overarching decision should be a cost benefit analysis. So think about the pros and the cons of the action, and if the pros outweigh the cons, then that's okay. So that's the school of consequentialism, utilitarianism, maximising happiness for the greatest number of people. It's useful to have that grounding, I think, of knowing where all of these school of thoughts have come from, and the various different moral values that you might decide to base answers on, and to base your thoughts on. But actually, in practical terms, it's really helpful from a medical point of view to think more about what Bosch is at Beachum. Is it Beachum? Is it Beachum? From a practical point of view, it's actually more useful, medically, to think about what Beachum and children when they distill all of these down into the four principles that we've talked about earlier, and how you can apply them to medical practice. Okay, so that brings us to the end of the video. That was Charlotte and Molly discussing these three schools of thought, and those are the ones that were distilled down into the four principles of medical ethics, which is how we recommend you should answer medical, ethical scenarios. So what have we discussed? We've talked about the four principles. We've given you an introduction to what they mean. We've applied them to this specific medical scenario about, do we give gastric bypass surgery to this fat person? We've talked a little bit about opportunity cost. We've talked a little bit about qualities, and we've also talked about practically speaking what a doctor might do if faced with an ethical scenario. I think those are things that might actually give you brownie points when you're doing your interviews. Finally, we ended up with a discussion about these three schools of thought, just to kind of expand our minds a little bit. So thank you very much for watching. This was just an introduction, but we've got loads more videos coming out over the next few weeks about other parts of medical ethics. And yeah, I'll leave it there. Please like, comment, subscribe, and I'll leave you with Charlotte and Molly, who'll be saying some closing remarks and thanking you and saying goodbye. So here with Charlotte and Molly, I'll see you in the next video. So that's the general framework that we would advise you, you kind of use in your ethical scenario questions. Think about the four principles. Think about autonomy and justice and benefits and non-molificance. And structure your rights around that. But there are of course some other more specific topics that you might get asked about things like termination of pregnancy, youth in Asia, consent, confidentiality. They all have their own issues, specific issues to them. And we're going to talk through some of those views in other videos. We'll go through in some more detail more than you need to know. But we think that if you have a good idea of these things that it's not only really useful for your interviews, but also going into clinical practice, you need to understand what's happened in the past, what laws have been made, what doctors have previously done, and how that's informed, how we practice today. So thanks very much for watching. We hope that's been useful to talk about how to go about answering an ethical question and we look forward to seeing you in the next few videos. Bye! Bye!
