# How I Manage my Time as a Doctor + YouTuber - 9 Time Management Tips
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5Nin1OtjOlU
Start protecting your Internet privacy and get 3 months free: https://expressvpn.com/aliabdaal

Hey friends, in this video we're deep-diving into time management. I talk through 3 principles, 3 tactics and 3 tools that help me juggle various things throughout the day. Enjoy xx

TIMESTAMPS
00:41 - Owning your Time
01:13 - The Pareto Principle
03:16 - Parkinson’s Law
04:00 - The 2-Minute Rule
04:50 - Batching
05:54 - My rule for watching TV
07:45 - Alfred
09:18 - Forest
10:22 - 10 Fast Fingers

LINKS
1. Getting Things Done - The Art of Stress-Free Productivity - https://geni.us/gtdbook
2. The 4-Hour Work Week - https://geni.us/cucm

--------

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
😃  How to be Happier - Stoicism Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/stoicism

TOOLS OF THE TRADE:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk
📚  How I remember what I read - Readwise - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali
What I Use For Analytics - https://go.aliabdaal.com/tubebuddy
🌐 My website platform (Ghost) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost

OTHER RECOMMENDED COURSES
📔 Effortless Output with Roam Research - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/roam
📓 Building a Second Brain - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/basb

🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** time management, time management tips, time management strategies, time management for students, time management skills, medical school, productivity tips, productivity hacks, how to manage time, how to stop procrastinating, time management techniques, time management tips for college students, productivity tips 2019, time management motivation, how to be productive, how to be more productive, ali abdaal, thomas frank, doctor mike, ali, notion, desk setup, 
**Date:** 2019-07-26

## Transcript
 Hey guys, welcome back to the channel. In this video, I'm going to be sharing some tips for time management. Now, this is a question that people have been asking me about for the last several years. They see that I'm a full-time doctor. If you didn't know, I've got this YouTube channel out on my own business. I like to sing songs and play guitar and I like to give them the impression that I've got a vibrant social life as well. And people often email me or Instagram DM me or whatever asking How do you manage your time? How are you able to do so much stuff? How are you so cool? So in this video, I'm going to be attempting to address these queries by talking about some principles, some tactics, and some tools that I've personally found helpful to allow me to do all this extra stuff with my time. And speaking of time, this video is kindly sponsored by ExpressVPN, the fastest virtual private network provider in the world, and I'll talk a little bit more about them at the end of the video. So the most important thing that really changed the game for me in terms of time management was was recognizing that my time was fully and 100% in my control. Like back in the day, I used to be tempted to use the phrase I don't have time when talking about like going to the gym. I kind of realized over time that actually I am fully in control of my own time. And at any given moment, I am doing what I most want to be doing. It's never the case that I don't have time to go to the gym. It's always the case that going to the gym is currently not a priority in my life. So yeah, subtle mindset shift, and that's principle number one for time management that I've personally found really helpful in my life. Principal number two is something called the Pareto Principle or the 8020 rule you might have come across. The general idea is that for most things in life actually, about 80% of the results come from about 20% of the inputs. So I think Marie Kondo, the whole minimalist, tidy living, minimalist home, all that stuff has this thing that you know, only 20% of your possessions are bringing you 80% of value. And actually this applies to so many other things like, especially when it comes to effective studying, often when it comes to exams that we take at school and university, 80% of the marks are going to be coming from 20% of the content. Like if you really understand that 20% of content, you can figure out how to get the 80% of marks. And sort of by extension, I realized that this applies to learning new skills as well. I taught myself how to play the guitar and the piano a few years ago, you've by following YouTube tutorials and using just in guitar and all that stuff. At the start, I thought that learning piano and guitar would be hard, but it's really not like if you're like, if you want to get to a reasonable standard and guitar, if you want to be able to play the guitar while singing along, all you have to do is basically learn four chords. And those four chords let you play the vast majority of pop songs in the world and you can just move the capo up and down to change the, you know, change the key. And that kind of changes the game because anyone can learn four chords in the guitar, you just need to buy a guitar for about 30 pounds from a second hand shop like I did one day, teach yourself the chords using just in guitar, practice for about two weeks or a month. And suddenly you're at the level where you could literally stand on stage, play these chords and sing whatever song you want. Prior to learning guitar, I kind of had in my head, this is like a really hard thing, but when I started to learn it, I kept this 80, 20 principle in mind. I kept saying to myself, okay, no, this is actually easier than it seems. I'm going to focus on the 20% of of things of chords that's actually going to result in 80% of the songs that I can play. So I think this applies all the way across the board with things like piano, digital, artistry, graphic design, coding, photography, video editing, YouTube. All of the things that I've taught myself over the years, from the outside looking at it seems like, oh my god, how how do you do all this stuff? But actually, when you really get down to it and try and teach yourself this stuff, you realise that it's not as hard as it initially appears and you can focus on the 20% to get the 80%. But yeah, that's principle number two. And principle number three is something called Parkinson's Law and Parkinson's Law states that work expands to fill the time that we allocate to it. And we've all probably had this feeling where when we've got a deadline coming up the next day or the day after, you know, we get so much more work done, whereas if we've got, you know, an assignment that's in for two months from now, we're just going to procrastinate and put it off until like the week before or the night before. I think Parkinson's Law applies to almost everything in life as well. Like you can always be a bit more efficient by giving yourself less time to do something and more time almost never in my experience leads to a better result. So this is kind of the case of getting over the idea of perfectionism and just churning stuff out and recognizing that if you give yourself a short amount of time to do it, then, you know, things just work out. Okay, so those were three broad overarching principles for time management. Let's now talk about some tactics of time management and tactics are kind of drilling down a bit more into rules that we can follow stuff like that. The first one is the two minute rule and I came across this in a really good book called Getting Things Done, the art of stress free productivity by a chap called David Allen. This is like the world's most famous book about productivity and in it he introduces the two minute rule, which is the idea is that if you have a task that is going to take you less than two minutes, you should just do it now rather than put it off. Every day I come across tasks that I know will take me less than two minutes and for the most part, I try and get them done there and then so that they're not kind of in my mind or on my to do list or languishing, like, you know, there's a mug behind the camera over there. It'll take me less than two minutes just to pick it up after I film this video and stick it in the sink and now we'll just make my work space a little bit more need to. So yeah, two minute rule applies to everything. If somebody's going to take less than two minutes, just do it now. The second tactic is called batching and I first came across this in Tim Ferriss as an amazing book the four hour work week, which is the single book that's most changed my life and that is a book all about kind of productivity and efficiency and maximizing time management and stuff. So if you're interested in this sort of topic, you should definitely read the four hour work week if you haven't already. But in the book, he talks about this idea of batching. It's pretty intuitive. It's like, let's say, you know, throughout the week, you get lots of emails that you have to reply to. It makes sense to do that all at the same time rather than taking five minutes out sort of here and there every hour of the day to reply to emails. And I find that batching all these similar tasks together really helps because I'm not then context switching. It's not like I'm working on a video and suddenly I'm replying to an email. It's that I'm working on a video and then when I've got when I make the time, I'm going to reply to the 16 emails that I have to reply to equally the same thing applies for filming videos. Part of the reason why I'm able to put out at least one video a week is because I sit down and batch film them. So today I'm going to be filming like six videos and then I'll edit them over the course of the week or send them off to my editor because I now have an editor now, which is I'm finally the third tactic is my personal rule for watching TV, which is that I'm not allowed to watch TV if I'm watching TV on my own and actually in the last two years, I think the only TV I've watched on my own like sitting on my own is one episode of Game of Thrones because no one came around to watch it with me that day. One episode of Chernobyl because I was interested because everyone was talking about it and I watched a season of you on Netflix when I was on a flight. I think that's allowed when you're on an airplane. But for the last like three, four years in my life while I was at university, I'm I made the rule for myself that I'm just not allowed to watch TV if I'm on my own. TV is fine as like in my opinion, as a social activity. But I found that if I was just sitting there watching TV on my own, I'd just end up wasting so much time and thinking back for the last four or five years, I'm really glad that I spent that time doing other things instead like making my websites as for making my business or just hanging out with friends or making this YouTube channel. I don't feel that I've missed out by not having seen the office or by not having watched Breaking Bad for a second time or by not having watched friends for a third time. I don't lose anything by not watching TV on my own, but I gain a lot of spare time and there's all these stats like the average American spends three hours a day watching TV, all this sort of stuff. And I find that with a lot of my friends and you know this is there's no judgment to them like if this is what they want to do that's absolutely fine. But I find that with a lot of people the default activity when you get home from school or when you get home from work is to put on Netflix and watch something. And if that's intentionally what you want to be doing of what you're aiming for and what makes you happy then by all means that's absolutely fine. All I'm saying is that for me I don't lose anything in my life by not watching Netflix. I don't even have a Netflix account, but I gain a hell of a lot of time and I think personally my life is much more fulfilled and interesting because I've used that time to do other things rather than watch TV. So yeah that's my real-for-watching TV. Let me know what you think in the comments. Usually there's a quite controversial one and I mention it to friends. People always like, oh what's wrong with relaxing and stuff? I'm not saying there's anything wrong with relaxing. I'm not saying you have to hustle all the time. I am saying is that you know if you're going to ask me what my tips are for time management and how I'm able to do so much stuff but I think a big part of that reason is I just don't spend any time watching TV. And so having talked about three principles and three tactics and I want to talk about three tools that I find helpful in terms of time management. The first and most important one is an app for the Mac called Alfred. And I think there are equivalent apps of Windows if you're one of those people that sadly uses Windows. And Alfred is incredible because it basically lets you do anything on your Mac just like using the keyboard. So for example if I want to open Safari I never ever drag my mouse over to the dock click on Safari because that's a waste of three seconds of my life. Instead I press command spacebar, type in SAF which is right next to each other on the keyboard, press enter and I've got Safari open in about half a millisecond. It's all these little actions like this. Like let's say I want to open a file. Normally I'd be clicking on sort of finder google drive third year SA's section A human memory and finding my file that way. This takes about 10 seconds or 15 or 20 seconds each time I want to do it whereas with Alfred you can just do a file search. So you can do command spacebar, you can press another space and that lets you search for files. You just type in the file name and immediately opens. Initially I a few years ago I was following some programmers and watching screencasts and stuff and they were absolutely raving about Alfred and how amazing it is. And at the time I was thinking ah come on man you're just saving 10 seconds each time. But then I started using it and I realized oh my god the amount of time I've saved in my life by shaving off these 10 seconds pretty much every interaction that I have with computer is absolutely game changing. So if you are the sort of person who is still currently using your mouse to navigate your keyboard your computer you are wasting using like Alfred or spotlight search or I think on Windows you just press the Windows logo key thing and then you just start typing and stuff just works. Keyboard shortcuts are so much quicker to navigate a computer with than using the mouse so that is 2 number one. 2 number 2 is an app called forest which is a Pomodoro timer. The Pomodoro method you might have come across it is the idea that we should work for 25 minutes and then have a 5 minute break and then work 25 minutes have a 5 minute break and I'll use to use this when I was studying for exams to kind of motivate myself to kind of focus work for 25 minutes and then I'll have a break for 5 minutes of my friends and there's a really good app called forest that lets you do this so it's an iOS app I'm pretty sure it's on Android as well and the idea is that when you want to start your timer you press the button and then the timer starts to count down and it's as if you're planting a tree and in that 25 minutes at the end of it you have plotted a tree and the tree starts to grow but if you go off the app I if you use your phone to you know look at a notification or to answer a message or something then the tree dies so it it's kind of nice and that it's a Pomodoro timer but it also forces you not to be distracted by all the crap that's going on on your phone so I found that quite helpful I don't really use the Pomodoro method anymore these days but if I were studying for exams and now I'm preparing for my postgraduate medical exams I think I'm going to be using it because it just makes it a bit more of a game to study so yeah forest is tool number 2 and tool number 3 is actually a website called 10 fast fingers I started kind of using this website about once a month since about the age of 13 I remember we were in an ICT lesson or IT or computing or whatever you call it we remember one of those lessons and one of my friends discovered this and we started having these typing typing speed competitions against one another and I remember when I was 13 my typing speed at the time was about 80 words per minute, 80 I saw that and I was like in the top sort of 20% or something and I was like okay I need to improve my typing speed by virtue of the fact that I just spent all my life in front of computer but also that occasionally I do this typing test and see where I am I've managed to increase my typing speed from 80 words per minute to you know these days like consistently get about 140 130 words per minute on this on this website that's almost a doubling of typing speed and because a lot of the stuff that I do involves going being on a computer like coding or writing or blogging or even planning videos having a typing speed that's twice as fast it's actually quite helpful and it's again one of those things that saves seconds off every interaction that you have with computer but when you do that and apply that over a 10 year period you end up saving a lot of time that you can then use for other things so I'd recommend giving you a go have a go at 10 fast triggers.com see what your typing speed is and then see if you can work to kind of improve it because that's another one of those little tools that saves off second of each time that I found useful for time management and speaking of tools I just want to end by giving a massive shout out to express a VPN for sponsoring this video. Express VPN is the world's fastest virtual private network service provider and we're just a few clicks you can protect your privacy online and they've got apps for Windows Mac, iOS, Android, Linux anything you can think of so I personally use Express VPN whenever I'm on public Wi-Fi so I just press the little button my Mac and connect to a virtual private network which is completely secure. Public Wi-Fi apparently I read several years ago or away for hackers to get access to some of your data so if you have social logins that I care about or if you're going to be sharing your credit card details online and shopping online and stuff it's probably worth connecting to that Wi-Fi and then going via VPN so that all of the data that you're sending and receiving is secure. The other really cool thing about Express VPN is that if you're feeling like okay you can unlock like content that's restricted in your country. For example if you were with friends like I was talking about in the video and you wanted to watch an episode on Netflix or Hulu or something that wasn't available in your country you can use Express VPN to log in as if you were in the United States for example and then you can watch that TV show with your friends obviously because you're not going to watch it alone because that would be a waste of time. And if that all sounds cool then if you sign up today you can actually get three months free with a one year package and this actually comes out to be less than seven dollars a month and that I think is a price worth paying if you want to protect your privacy online and they even have a 30 day money back guarantee so you literally have nothing to lose. To take advantage of this offer please visit expressvpn.com forward slash early adult to learn more. So thanks Express VPN for sponsoring this episode of time management and thank you very much for watching if you like this video please give it a thumbs up. If you liked this kind of video and this kind of topic you might like to subscribe to my email newsletter and this is like an email that I send every week that has a few kind of paragraphs that I've thought about about like productivity or time management like this sort of stuff and in that email I also share some links to interesting articles or podcasts of videos that I've discovered that week along with like a Kindle highlight of the week so like I share one of my highlights from a random book that people seem to seem to enjoy. At the moment it's got about 9000 subscribers in the mailing list so if you'd like to join these 9000 people and get a weekly email from me and have a look at the god put the link in the video description as well so you can check that out if you like. But yeah thank you very much for watching and I'll see you in the next video. Bye bye.
