# 21 Life Lessons I've Learned
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6Dvkq5yAvcA
To improve your thinking and learn new skills, visit https://brilliant.org/ali and sign up for free. The first 200 people will get 20% off the annual Premium subscription :)

In this video I'll be going over 21 life lessons and tips that stuck with me after 2021.

00:00 Intro
00:10 Die with Zero Book
01:26 Stay Scrappy from Sahil's Minimalist Entrepreneur 
02:50 Steven Bartlett's Quitting Framework
04:04 The Gap and the Gain 
04:51 The 37% Rule
06:31 Forget the Noun, Do the Verb
07:39 Optimise for the life you want to lead day-to-day
09:00 Delegation is hard but changes the game
10:05 Everyone has some level of career risk
11:36 Time = 112 chips
13:13 Embracing the suck
14:49 If you're worried about your belly, stop ordering takeaway everyday
14:53 Infinite games over finite games
15:59 Separation of tasks
17:20 Be yourself when dating
19:15 Make sure you always have a kindle with you
19:58 Learning languages through audiobooks is fun & easy
21:15 What MrWhoseTheBoss Taught Me
22:52 Loving myself for who I am instead of what I do
24:20 Questioning assumptions and recognising how you feel about things
25:55 Embrace Life Long Learning!

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

PART-TIME YOUTUBER ACADEMY:
🍿 My 6-week live online course - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ptya_aliabdaal
CREATORPRENEUR
💰 My flag-ship course for scaling up your creative side-hustle - https://creatorpreneur.academy/course


YOUTUBE FOR BEGINNERS COURSE
📸 This is for anyone who'd like to start a YouTube channel. You'll learn everything you need to get started as a YouTuber including how to script, shoot, and edit your first video - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/YouTube-for-Beginners



MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
✍️ The best summaries of books (Shortform) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
📚  How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
Deep Dive Podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/
The podcast that delves into the minds of entrepreneurs, creators and other inspiring people to uncover the philosophies, strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. You can find it by searching “Deep Dive with Ali Abdaal” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc).
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali

🎙 Deep Dive podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/
The podcast that delves into the minds of entrepreneurs, creators and other inspiring people to uncover the philosophies, strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. You can find it by searching “Deep Dive” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮  Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I’m Ali, a YouTuber, podcaster, soon-to-be author and ex-Doctor working in London, UK. I make videos that explore the strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. I also have a weekly podcast called Deep Dive (https://www.youtube.com/channel/UChfo46ZNOV-vtehDc25A1Ug), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).


GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, 2020 life lessons, top 10 life lessons, life lessons stories, life lessons for success, top life lessons i've learned, life lessons i've learned, productivity tips, productivity life lessons, life lessons, time management, motivational video, day in the life, time management tips, be more productive, how to be happier, life lessons for happiness, how to be happier and more positive, be happier, 2021 life lessons, life lessons 2021, 
**Date:** 2022-01-04

## Transcript
 Hey friends, welcome back to the channel. Today, we are going to go over 21 life lessons that I learned in 2021, lessons I'm taking forward into the new year of South America for tea, and I'm just going to go out to the first lesson is from a book that I recently read called Die with Zero. And this is a book by the guy called Bill Perkins, guessing all you can from your money and your life. Basically, his whole argument in the book is that if you die with anything more than zero dollars in the back account, then you have done something wrong. Broadly, it's like, you know, the advice that we generally get from these gurus and people like me and stuff is, hey, save your money, save your money for a rainy day, you know, work hard, and then you'll be able to enjoy the fruits of your labor in the future. But the thing that Bill talks about in the book is that a lot of us take that way too far, and even when you've gone to the point where you've made enough money or you've got enough, you still are in that like saving mindset of like, oh, I can never run out of money, I need to make this work. And his main point is that given that kind of the whole point of life is to have meaningful experiences with the people that we love, that perhaps has feel more fulfilled, we should kind of get better at spending money. And this is a lesson I've taken from the book, because I think I'm also very much in the accumulation part of my life where I'm like, oh, I need to make more and more and more and I haven't even more savings anymore. This is not kind of made me realize that actually the thing, the things that matter in life, I'm more about the experiences, more about the relationships, more about having experiences with with our loved ones. And I should be more okay with spending money on those things rather than feeling like, oh, I need to, you just save, save all the little penny. So yeah, interesting lesson I'm taking forward to the next year. All right, lesson number two is all about staying scrappy. And that is from a book that I recently read called The Minimalist. Oh, shit. The minimalist entrepreneur by Sahil Lavinia, Lavinia, Lavinia, who's the founder of a web site called Gumroad, that helps creators get paid on the internet. So I'm reading this for the moment. And one of the lessons I've really taken away from it is the power of staying scrappy. Well, what does this mean? This means that like when I first started this business, this YouTube channel, most things that I've done on the internet, I had a very strong bias towards action. Like, I would do stuff. I would have an idea for something and then I would just make it happen. But I think over time, as my team has grown, and as I've sort of tasted to take this thing more seriously, it feels like every time I make a video or every time I release a course or or like do anything online, it feels like the bar for like quality is just higher than it used to be. And that's good in a way because it means that the video is probably high quality. But it's also bad in a way because I'm now kind of getting sucked into this thing of perfectionism and trying to make something perfect before I launch it. But what he still talks about in the book is that really the way you create something good is by launching it and then iterating over time rather than by going into your cave and kind of having the perfect masterpiece. So I'm trying to take this advice on board when it comes to writing my book as well. It really helps when it comes to writing first drafts because when you're trying to write a book and you're in like perfectionism mode, it's really hard to actually write to get anything written down on the page. So what I'm trying to do is I'm just trying to convince myself that I just need to write 500 crappy words at the crappy first draft of chapter two of the book and then I actually do it on a stage crappy kind of follow the advice of the minimalist All right, let's say number three is all about the quitting framework and I first came across this in Stephen Botlitz book, Happy Sexy Millionaire, really good book, listen to a audiobook, it's fantastic would recommend. Basically talks about how quitting is not for losers, quitting is in fact for winners and knowing when to quit something is actually a very useful lifestyle. So here's the framework. Question number one is are you thinking of quitting? If the answer is yes, the next question is why are you thinking about quitting? And now we've got two options at this point either, it's really hard or it sucks. Now if it's really hard, the next question is is the challenge worth the potential reward? And if it is then we continue and if it's not, we just quit. What if we want to quit because the thing is sucks? The next question is do you believe you can make it not suck? Yes or no? If not, then you just quit. But if you think you can make it not suck, the next question is is the effort required to make it not suck worth the potential reward? And again, if so, you continue and if not, then you quit. Now this is sort of the way I was thinking when I initially decided that I was going to take the USM elite American medical exam and go to America to practice as a doctor and offer it a little while, I kind of realised that it kind of sucked and it was quite hard and the potential payoffs further down the line to me at the time were not really worth it. And so I didn't have the quitting framework of a month because I read this after that, but like this was a pretty good distillation of what my thought process for deciding whether to continue things or quit things has been throughout my life. And now I have this very clear framework to make decisions about quitting in the future. All right, this is number four is the concept of the gap and of the game, which is from this book, the gap and the game by Dan Sullivan and Ben Hardy, Ben Hardy, like an internet fan of mine interviewed in podcast. And the idea behind this kind of model of motivation is that if we want to motivate ourselves and be successful and happy and confident and thriving and stuff, we should measure the gain by a how far have we come and keeping that in mind rather than the gap by what's the gap between our current state and our ideal state. And I think it's a part of everything in life, like if you compare yourself against your ideal outcome, at least for me, it often feels like de-motivating and like non-inspiring, whereas if I think that, oh, I've actually come this far, you know, my body's actually better and I've got a big of biceps, the shoulders are a bit better, like it's good and close to you talking about things like that for them, but I don't dwell on that comparison between men's, I have for them, and I just feel it's a feel happier and I feel more motivated to get more in. All right, let's number five come from this book, how to not die alone, which I have a video on linked over there, but it's called the 37% ball. And the idea behind 37% rule is that it's a way of solving the explore versus explore to problem. What is that? Basically, like let's say you're dating and you're kind of you want to date a certain number of people before you decide who to marry, because the more you date, the more of a kind of sample size you have and the more you kind of know what you want, but you don't want to leave it too long, because if you keep on dating like first dates until you're like 60, you're probably not going to get married. So at some point you have to make the decision to exploit Ie to commit to one person rather than just kind of going on various different first dates. There's a place to job prospects as well, you know, it applies to, you know, trying out different career options until you figure out what's the thing that you want. It's all ultimately a problem of how much do you explore versus how much do you then decide to exploit? And the idea behind the 37% rule is that mathematically, if you model this, it's called the secretary problem, which I'll do another video about some other time, the answer is 37%. So for the first 37% of instances, you should just, you should continue to explore. Let's say in the dating context, up until the age of about 26, if you want to date from 18 to 26, you should explore Ie not really commit to anyone and just sort of treat dating as a fairly casual thing to get to know what you want, but then beyond that point, once you're beyond that 37% mark, at that point, the next person you meet that you vibe with that you think is cool, that you'd be happy with, you should commit to that person rather than thinking that there's someone better around the corner. And this is like the mathematical equation to this particular problem, but I find it helpful not just in the world dating, but also in the world of anything else in life, like, you know, how should I niche down my YouTube channel? How should I do it? How should I think about different things for doing in the business? How should I think about what I actually want to do in my life? That is 1% rule is one way of looking at it. All right, let's say number 7 comes from this book called Keep Going, that I've been playing on, and it's basically to forget the noun and do the verb. I was rereading this two days ago, after I released my video talking about how I'm leaving medicine for good, and I was having a bit of an identity crisis thinking that, like, if I'm not identifying myself as a doctor, then what am I? Am I just a youtuber, and I could want to be a writer, and I'm like a pod, like, what is the label that I can label myself with? And I saw this chapter, which was, forget the noun, do the verb, by saying, don't worry about the noun, who cares? Who cares about labeling yourself as a doctor or a creator or entrepreneur as a writer? It doesn't matter what you are, what matters is what you do. So, you know, instead of I am a writer, I am someone who writes, instead of I am a youtuber, I'm someone who makes videos, and so I am a doctor, I'm someone who practices medicine. By thinking about our identity, less in terms of these, like, one of the labels that miss out a lot of nuance, and more in terms of, hey, I'm a human being, I mean, that's the, that's the noun, but the things that I do is this, this, this, this and that, and therefore, theoretically, we shouldn't need one of these, like, labels or these nouns, like, doctor or a youtuber or a podcast or a writer, entrepreneur, to describe ourselves, because, you know, we are made up of multitudes, and we should embrace that rather than kind of confining ourselves to a particular label. Nice number eight, it's that I found it really helpful to fairly regularly ask myself the question of, what do I actually want from life? I don't think it's that way, because, like, for the past, like, 26 years of my existence, I haven't really stopped to ask myself, what do I actually want from life? I've just sort of been feel like I've been going on this treadmill, the sounds to a wheel, it's like, oh, get the grade school to get to unique, get the grades that you need to become a doctor, continue to become a doctor, and then it's like, after a while you get to this point where you're like, oh, hello, I can kind of do what I want, but I don't really know what that is, and I find that whenever I sit down and genuinely ask myself that question, often I will journal and, like, type out my responses to this on Apple Notes or something like that, but it really helped me help to give me clarity on what is currently going on my life, and if I feel that, I don't know, like a few weeks ago, I was just on two minisume calls and, like, like, we're getting too busy, and I stopped to ask myself, what do I actually want? And then I realized that, oh, the reason I'm not finding this rate is because ABC, and then I changed that, and now I'm much happier because I actually took the time to ask myself what do I want, and so this is now something that I'm going to start doing on a somewhat regular basis that wherever I feel a little bit out of alignment with myself, sounds better to me. Whenever I feel that, I just love myself, okay, but I actually want, and what's currently happening, and what is the difference between what I want, and what's currently happening, and is there anything I can do about that to fix this situation? And usually, in most cases, I find that at least me at hand, so that's something I'm going to keep an asking myself next year. The lesson number nine is that delegation of stuff is really hard, but it genuinely is game changing. So, this doesn't necessarily apply just to, if you have a business, like, you know, we've got a team of 17, but 18 people now, on this team doing the business, doing this YouTube stuff, and initially, it was a big challenge to delegate things into give control to other people, but now that I've done it, and I've been doing it for a while, it is genuinely feels like such an absolute blessing to not have to do all these things myself. Whereas, in the first two years of the YouTube channel, and then, kind of, quite a lot beyond that, I felt like I was soldering a bunch of the responsibility myself. And even though ultimately, the other book ends with me, and it's still my YouTube channel, my business at the end of the day, it feels so great to have people who are helping them up with it. I think even outside of the business setting, you know, delegating laundry, or getting a cleaner, like these little things here and there have really added an enormous amount to my quality of life. Only was it, oh well, I can't afford it, I can't afford it there. That's fine, but if you're making any amount of money, you know what your hourly rate is, and you can, absolutely delegate stuff, which is cheaper than that hourly rate, whether it's, you know, to your own team, or your friends, or interns, or cleaners, or whatever you want, I think it's like a really useful thing to explore, and I kind of wish I'd explored it sooner in my life. All right, that's the number 10 is to recognise that everyone has some level of career risk. All right, me, my, so, since leaving medicine, and since kind of doubting, grappling with the decision to leave medicine, I've been thinking a lot about the idea of career risk, like, isn't it really risky being a YouTuber, having like an online business, and what if YouTube dies, what if, like, people stop liking my content anymore, what if the creator ecosystem, whatever, whatever, whatever, and I'm really worried about this. Now, chatting to one of my mentors is going to Charles, and he was saying that to be honest, like, everyone has some level of career risk. Even if you're, like, in a normal job, like, unless you're literally in a job for life, which those sorts of things don't really exist these days, maybe outside of medicine, those things don't really exist these days, and so, you know, even if you were in a normal worker working in a normal job, you still have some level of career risk. You're just concerned that what if my manager fires me, what if my boss doesn't like me, what if my industry dies, what if COVID happens, and, like, 50% of the workforce gets laid off? There's always some level of risk. And when you're honest, but now when you've got your own business, those risks are not the sort of risks that are, like, what if my manager doesn't like me and I get fired, they're a bit more, like, existential risk. What if my business doesn't exist a year or two from now? You're saying that everyone has these levels of risk, and you just got it embraced it and be okay with it, and recognize that the kinds of risks you're opening yourself up to, are in some ways actually better than the risks that you would have being a doctor or being an employee, for example, but they are kind of different in other ways. And that was just, like, a really nice framing that they made me realize that, you know, there's always going to be negative to every business, there's always going to be some level of anxiety and stress and thinking about the future, but the more we can recognize that this is actually a normal part of life, that is, we have to dwell on it and worry about it, which is what I was prone to doing earlier this year. Less than 11, it is also from Stephen's book. This one, happy sexy millionaire, and it's all about it's in like, like, chapter 18 or something out of 20. And it's about how we think about time. And he says that, let's imagine that we've got 24 hours in a day, which we do in seven days in a week, but let's say we're sleeping for eight hours. That means we have 16 waking hours every day, time seven, and that is 112 hours a week. And the way he says that he thinks about time, which is a really nice way about it. It's like you're going to a casino, and you're playing chips. And every time you go to a casino, you have 112 chips to play with. And every hour, you have to allocate that chip to something. You can't save it up. It's always going to get used, so you have to play that chip on something. And the way we allocate our time, the way we allocate our 112 hours each week, we should think of it as out of thinking chips like, okay, given that I'm optimizing for a happy healthy fulfilled meaningful life, where should I place this chip of my hour? Should I spend that chip watching the documentary Netflix, or listening to drivers' lessons for the umpteenth time by Libera Riga? Should I spend that chip going to the gym? Should I spend that chip calling my grandma and calling my mom and saying hi to my family, papa's lunch? Should I spend it? I don't know, cooking food rather than getting take away. We have all these decisions that we're making every day about how we spend our chips. And I think thinking about it in this way helps make me think about time in a more concrete way. Because we think about time, it's such an abstract thing. It's like we always kind of act as if we've got unlimited time. But really thinking about every week, I have 112 chips. I need to play, and I can deploy again certain things. I need to figure out and be a little bit more intentional about that. That's been a really helpful way for me to think a little bit harder and being more intentional about the decisions that I'm making all my time. Listen to what 12 is a lesson that I learned through writing my book, which is to embrace the suck. And the only thing I hear is that, like, anytime for me, when I struggle with procrastination, I realize that the answer is to just lower the bar. The only reason I struggle with procrastination and, like, especially when it comes to writing my book or making a video is in terms of, like, the perfectionism associated with it. I really want this thing to be good. And I know it's not going to be good. Therefore, oh, I might as well just take Twitter or a browser Instagram for another three hours. But I find that on days when I lower the bar. Like, when I genuinely tell myself or write in my to do this, that I just need to write 500 crappy words for the crappy first of all after, you know, talk to two or whatever, having the word crappy in their twice helps me recognize that actually the stakes aren't very high for this. I just need to do the work. And the lower the bar is to lower that bar for quality that I've just kind of self-imposed on myself, the more likely I am to actually do the work. And to be honest, when you're writing the book, like, everyone says the first draft is supposed to be crap. Anyway, and then the good stuff comes in once you're editing it. And I think as well with a bunch of our students in my part on YouTube or academy, the reason they struggle to start YouTube channels is because they sit down to make a video and they get paralyzed by perfectionism because they think the video has to be good. And so I think the less, the more we can lower the bar, the more we can embrace the suck, the more we can like just accept that our stuff is going to be really, really, really bad in the first place, the more likely we are to actually do it. And ironically, the more of it we actually do, the more likely we are to get better at it over time. So there's a nice like distillation of this, which is get going and then get good. And the problem is that a lot of us try to get good from the outset and not realise that actually this is not the way that there's not the way to actually get anything done. Lesson I'm 13 is that if you're worried about your belly expanding, then stop ordering takeaway every day. That's the 14 is all about choosing infinite games over finite games. As I'm asking myself that question of like, what do I want with my life? I'm kind of phrasing in the sense of what are the infinite games I want to play? What is the stuff I want to do for the sake of doing it rather than because it's going to lead to a particular outcome? So if I'm actually the infinite games I want to play, it's like, you know, I don't want to stop reading and writing and teaching. That's something I just kind of want to do forever. I don't ever want to stop hanging out with my friends, it's something I want to do forever. I don't want to stop kind of playing board game once a week. These are all like infinite games where I recognize that this is actually the thing I want to do in my life given that we only have one life and we've got to figure out how to use these over 12 chips at time every week. Whereas I find out game is more like something like, oh I want to apply to this thing so that I can do this thing so that I can do this thing or I want to do YouTube for two years so that I can make a certain amount of money. I kind of stop thinking in terms of those like if I do X then I will achieve Y kind of more extrinsic drivers of stuff and starting to think much more about what do I actually want to do actually for it's own sake. Where is my intrinsic motivation? I find it useful to think about that in terms of infinite games versus finite games. All right, lesson 15 is something that I have revisited from this book that I've encouraged to be disliked, which is all about the separation of tasks. In the book, basically the vibe is that all problems in life are interpersonal relationship problems and all interpersonal relationship problems are a result of a failure of separation of tasks. And basically what this means is that there are things that are my task and things that are your task or other people's tasks. My task is my own thoughts and my own actions. What other people think about me is not my task. It's this like they are the ones who are responsible for what they think about me. What other person is doing whether or not the person cut me off in the middle of the road. He's ruled that person's tasks and I found I've kind of revisited this lesson because I find that anytime I feel annoyed or stressed or anything like that and I feel like, oh, you know, this person is a person being a bit mean to me. I don't really deserve this kind of treatment or this kind of stuff. I just remember, I found remind myself that no, that's thinking times a separation of tasks. That it's my task to have good intentions, it's my task to confirm my own thoughts and it's my task to act in a way that I think is good. And what other person perceives about that thing is their problem and there's really nothing I can do about it. And so the more I find I kind of lean into that and controlling the things that I can control. This is a, you know, concept from stoicism as well. The more I find that I don't let external events affect my tranquility as it were. So yeah, separation of tasks life lesson number 15. This number 16 is to be yourself when dating in the past. I would kind of subscribe to the notion that you shouldn't be yourself. You should choose yourself. You should choose the person you want to be because the person who you are by default is just a default. It's an accident of both plus genetics, plus circumstances plus the personality that I happen to have developed as I was growing up. And I think there is some merit in that thing. Like if my default self is a lazy, sloppy place, what a walk-off or a, you know, I shouldn't be like, hey, I just want to be myself and someone should love me for who I am. Like there is a level in which I can take control of my own life and do my own stuff and, you know, try and become the sort of person that a dramatic partner would be interested in. But I think there is a point in which that goes too far. And to an extent, dating is like a game in that kind of trying to portray ourselves in the best life to this person. But what I realized through a bunch of dating experiences earlier this year is that actually the more I lean into being myself, the more happy I am on these dates and the more happy I am with this person at the end of the day, whether we have ended up together or not. Because if we haven't ended up together and I've been being myself, that's like a great thing. It's just meant we've saved time. Whereas in sort of previous dating experiences in the past, where I felt like I wasn't myself, I was putting on some kind of act to be a bit more like alpha male or a bit more whatever. And then like if we ended up together, I kind of felt like it was a bit of a lie and I kind of sold this story which wasn't true. And if we didn't end up together, I was thought, but I felt like I was playing a role. So now we're dating experiences and relationships with relationships and stuff. I'm trying to embrace just genuinely being my authentic self. And recognizing that, okay, I'm no longer at the level where I'm a lazy stop playing what I walk off all day. I actually don't need to worry too much more about like self improvement. Obviously, you know, we're all working progress. You know, there was stuff to improve on, but I don't need to worry so much about it. And I think holding that thought that I can be myself while at the same time trying to improve myself, just recognizing that there is some kind of tension there, but being okay with that tension, that's something that I've really become aware of this year. Last number 17 is to make sure you always have a Kindle with you. Now, when I was moving house, a few months ago, I actually lost my Kindle in transit. And I didn't order one for about two weeks. My sleep quality really suffered because I just have it as part of my routine that one I'm lying in bed. I was read my Kindle until I fall asleep. And I didn't have that for two weeks. And it was just so grim. It was like, what do I do? I'm just lying awake in bed doing absolutely nothing wasting so much time. I could be reading a book right now. And even falling to sleep quicker. So now I've decided, you know, we've got a bunch of these to review because there's a bunch of new Kindles that are out. So reviews are going to come out soon. But I now, if we have two Kindles, I have one in my bag at all times. And I have one of my bedside table all times. So even if I'm at someone else's house or I'm at home with my mum, I was at least have a Kindle with me, so then I can fall asleep better at night. All right, lesson number 18 is that learning languages through audiobooks are actually really cool. So back in the day, like 2014, I went to Japan for this like medical research project. And before going to Japan for about two months, before sleeping, I was listening to the Japanese like audio program, like how to know Japanese by Michel Thomas or something like that. And my Japanese actually got to a reasonable, like, I was able to get around standard. In the space of about two months, fairly passively, because I was just doing it for 20 minutes, each night before going to bed. And recently I decided I was going to learn Mandarin. And so I downloaded, I think a name is John Noobo, sort of like, here's audiobook. And I realized that there there exists audiobooks that hook you learn languages through audiobooks. So now some days, if I'm like driving in the car and I've got a long drive ahead of me, I will listen to this audiobook for like an hour. And it's really good because they're like, give you exercises and stuff, and it asks you to pause the book and then like actually figure out like that for like, walks down to you Beijing and then standing, then you get like the native Mandarin speakers, kind of like a girl at the guy saying, again, you can practice the accent. And it's been a really fun and interesting way to try and learn this language. Whereas before I thought of learning language, it's just such a path like you've got to put in devoted attention and effort to it. You probably do to get to a decent standard. But I find that doing it through the audiobook is helping me, kind of learn it almost passively, because I can do it while driving or what other gym as long as anyone's around to hear me speak out loud. That's the number 19 is something that I learned from a podcast interview with the chap called Aaron Mani who runs the YouTube channel Mr. Who's the boss. Now I want to play a little clip from this where he talks about how much time he puts into scripting his videos. How much time do you spend on scripting? That's that's most of what I do. Okay, so like for a stand let's say for a kind of Google Pixel versus iPhone 13 Pro camera comparison, 22 minute long video. So that would, is it 22 minute? Yeah. Yeah, that was your toilet break. That was my toilet break. Yeah. I'm watching that double speed obviously. Oh, yeah. Um, I think that was probably three and a half days of scripting. Three and a half days. Yeah. I've like, I were talking eight hours days. No, I was talking like 14 hours days. We're talking like, 42 hours spent on scripting a single video ages and ages. And the thing of this reminded me of is a thing that pen and tele the magician, sometimes saying, which is that often magic is where you put more time into something than any reasonable person would do. And I think similarly with Aaron's videos, like his channels are like 10 million subscribers, he's grown up in the same way, he's such an inspirational YouTuber. And every time I watch his videos, I think, oh my god, the quality in these is absolutely insane. And it's just he puts, you know, 40 to 60 to 100 hours and scripting each one. And it makes sense. Like, of course, you know, that's what it takes to succeed at that level. And I thought, you know, when I spent three hours scripting a video, that's a lot of effort going into a video. But now I see that there is like so much more that I could be doing to make the videos better. It was really inspiring hearing it because I was like, oh my god, I actually have so much more to go. So so much more of a distance decline. And given that it's all about the journey rather than the destination, let's enjoy the process of getting, getting hopefully to Aaron's level one day. My first number 20 is weirdly, I think it's not a bit hippie. But like being okay with loving myself for who I am rather than what I do. This is something that my old house makes seem used to kind of tell to me because like, I think I kind of have an issue in that when it comes to, for example, friendships, I always kind of feel that I love my friends with who they are rather than what they do. And I couldn't really tell us what they do because I love them for who they are. But I don't apply that same to myself and I feel like other people kind of value me for what I do rather than who I am. And I kind of felt that like, I didn't really have intrinsic worth in this weird way. And it took sheen kind of like lots of months of sort of pointing this out and sort of slowly changing my mind and this to me for me to realise that actually, maybe I am like worthy of, I don't know, love and affection and friendship and stuff from people by virtue of just existing rather than because I do specific things. This is a bit of a weird one. I still like, it kind of sounds a bit weird to explain, sounds a bit rude, so apologies on that front, actually no. But I don't like, does that make sense? Please do leave a comment if you can if you can vibe with this. But I still don't think I've fully embraced it, but I've kind of recognized this as being a problem that I have now. And so when I find myself kind of like internally beating myself up for not living up to a certain standard or wherever, I kind of remind myself, no, I am worthy of love and ration, attention, respect, et cetera, et cetera, maybe not ration. By virtue of just being who I am, rather than the things I do. All right, this is 21. It's all about questioning assumptions. Now, and this again comes to, I think, just general self-awareness, which is something that I've been working on this year. A few months ago, I find myself feeling a little bit, a little bit weird about this YouTube channel. I felt like the content that was coming out wasn't particularly good. It wasn't really happy with it. You know, it took me many weeks to actually sit down and think about this. And when I did, I asked myself, okay, what are the assumptions I'm currently making that are leading to this feeling or this feeling that I have to put out two videos a week, for example. And I realized those assumptions were just kind of flawed, and I had been operating with the same set of assumptions for like four and a half years, and I hadn't really questioned them. And so since then, again, any time I found myself being out of alignment with myself and I've aligned with like feeling as if, I don't know, a bit stressed, a bit like not really sure what's going on. I tried to ask myself, okay, what are the assumptions behind this thing that's going on in my head? And other assumptions even true, and often I found that those assumptions were actually not true, and maybe they're just an old story that I was telling myself that I've still continued to operate on. Like one of the assumptions that I had for ages was that people will stop following my channel if I'm no longer a doctor. I just sort of assumed that to be true, and I didn't even question it. And it was only recently when I really started to think about the decision to lead medicine, and I thought, huh, maybe it's not true that people would just immediately unsubscribe from my channel if I'm not a doctor. And I noticed in the story a few friends about, yeah, obviously, like your content is not medical anymore, like your case, like who cared if you were a doctor. And I was like, damn, I just genuinely hadn't really thought that way. Yeah, I think this is something I'm taking forward to next year, just being more aware of what the assumptions are behind the decisions that I'm making, and recognizing, I'm just, and taking the time to ask others assumptions actually true. And finally, lesson number 22, bit of a bonus one for you, is to embrace lifelong learning, you know, as I'm always a fan of reading a bunch of books, I always have two books going on. I want to bullet any given moment, I read a bunch of stuff on actual physical books and Kindle and things, but I'm other area in which I find really helpful, that I've actually been doing for two years at this point. It's taking online courses over a brilliant, more very kindly sponsoring see it. If you haven't heard, brilliant is a fantastic platform with educational courses in maths, science and computer science, and the courses are genuinely sick because they explained stuff from a first principle perspective. For example, a few months ago, I was on a big bad one trying to figure out how to help Bitcoin work, so I can make a video about it, so I could choose to invest in Bitcoin, and I've actually now put large amounts of money in Bitcoin and made a bunch of money over this last year. But the reason I felt comfortable doing that was because I understood the fundamentals of cryptocurrencies and exactly how they worked. And the reason I was able to do that is by doing the cryptocurrency course on Brilliant, where they kind of talk about how would you build an ideal digital currency from the ground up, what are the principles behind it, what is the maths and the cryptography behind it, and I had no background in like advanced of the maths or like cryptography or anything like that, but the way that Brilliant did the course made it make so much sense, and now I understand how crypto works and I can explain it to people at parties and look super cool. They've also got amazingly interactive courses based on first principles, I'd like introduction to algorithms, introduction to computer science, how to code with Python, so if you're interested in any of this kind of stuff, and if you want to level up your thinking skills, or if you want to learn to code in languages like Python or understand the word of crypto, more than head over to Brilliant.org for what's actually on the first 200 people to get that link, we'll get 20% off the annual premium subscription, so thank you very much, Brilliant for sponsoring this video, and thank you so much for watching, I really hope you got value from this video. If you like this video, you might want to check out this video over here, which is actually on my deep dive podcast channel, and that is your roundup of all of the life lessons I learned from this season's podcast sketch, so check out this video over here, and though I thank you so much for watching, do hit subscribe button if you aren't already, and I'll see you in the next video, bye.
