# Why I'm Never Tired
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7m0p8EFy3Pw
To improve your thinking and learning skills, visit https://brilliant.org/ali and sign up for free. The first 200 people will get 20% off the annual Premium subscription :)

In this video I'll be going over 6 tips that have drastically improved my sleep quality and have contributed to more restful nights. 

🍿WATCH NEXT:
How Much Sleep Do You Need: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=G7c7FJ4Knko&t=16s
10 Tips for Better Sleep: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Oq4c-_iAzQo
The Science of the Body Clock: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LBPYDEJ6qHc&t=1283s

00:00 Intro
00:17 Keep a Kindle on the nightstand
01:04 Get a physical alarm clock
01:45 No caffeine after 2 PM
02:28 Get blackout curtains
03:00 Optimal sleeping temperature
03:43 The pilot's strategy for falling asleep

💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://go.aliabdaal.com/subscribe-sundaysnippets

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - 
 https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
🎬 YouTube for Beginners - Everything You Need To Know To Start  - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/YouTube-for-Beginners

MY CREATOR COURSES
🎬 Check out my free 7 day email course on how to become a part-time YouTuber: https://aliabdaal.com/part-time-youtuber-crash-course/
🏆 Creatorpreneur - My flagship course for scaling up your creative side-hustle → https://creatorpreneur.academy/course
🗣 Camera Confidence - My self-paced course on how to improve your creativity, career, or communication skills → https://cameraconfidence.aliabdaal.com/

MY FAVOURITE GEAR
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) -https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

🎙 Check out my weekly podcast, Deep Dive - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/ - It's also available on all podcast platforms, including Spotify, Apple Podcasts etc.

MY FAVOURITE TOOLS
🚀 VidIQ - How I optimise my YouTube videos - https://go.aliabdaal.com/vidiq
✍️ Shortform - The BEST summaries of books - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
📚  Readwise - How I remember what I read - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise
🎵  Epidemic Sound - Where I get my music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound

MY KEY LINKS
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com/
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I’m Ali, a YouTuber, podcaster, soon-to-be author and ex-Doctor working in London, UK. I make videos that explore the strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. I also have a weekly podcast called Deep Dive (https://www.youtube.com/channel/UChfo46ZNOV-vtehDc25A1Ug), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://go.aliabdaal.com/subscribe-sundaysnippets).

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, why i'm never tired, tips for sleeping, how to sleep better, tips for falling asleep, how to fall asleep, not feel tired, wake up early, sleep soundly, how to improve sleep quality, how to improve sleep, bedtime habits, how to sleep better at night, how to improve sleep schedule, how to not be tired, tips for falling asleep fast, how to fall asleep fast, tips for sleep, sleep tips, 
**Date:** 2021-06-09

## Transcript
 All right, so people always ask me, Ali, how do you have so much energy, how do you get so much done, how do you never seem to get tired of it all? Guys, in this video, I'm going to be revealing the secrets behind this, and those are six tips on how I'm never tired, and they're all around how I sleep more productively, let's get into it. Tip number one is to use a Kindle on the bedside table. So back in the day, when my sleep used to be absolutely terrible and I used to be tired all the time, I used to take my phone into bed with me, so while I was in bed, I'd be having the bright light in my face, so I'd be scrolling through Instagram and Twitter and Tinder very occasionally, this is absolutely terrible, and this is probably the most game-changing thing that I did for my sleep. I now have the phone across the room from me on my chest of drawers, wirelessly charging, and the only thing on my bedside table is my Kindle, and I've got the Kindle Oasis, which has a warm kind of light in it, not sure if that makes any difference at all, but I read before bed, and I read for about 20 minutes to half an hour, and then I kind of fail my eyes closing, and then I fall asleep very quickly, and since I started doing this, and since I stopped having this blue light shining in my face from my phone, I rarely feel tired in the morning, so this is a huge, huge, huge tip that I think really help you guys. Tip number two is to get a physical alarm clock, this is again a game-changer, I set the alarm on my physical alarm clock, I actively decide what time I'm going to wake up, and then when the alarm wakes up in the morning, it forces me to get out of bed to turn it off because it's just such an unpleasant sound. Whereas I found that with my phone, when I used to have the alarm on my phone, even if the phone was across the room for me, it was way too easy for me to just be like, hey Siri, alarm off or hey Siri shut up, and when you have a physical alarm clock, in a way, I found that it makes me more mindful about my sleeping, because now I can tactily and physically set what time I want to wake up, I can see on the clock face how many hours of sleep I'm getting, and this is contributed to my sleep and productively slash not being tired. Tip number three is no caffeine after 2pm, again, I picked up this tip from Matthew Walker's book, why we sleep, talked about caffeine, I was a load of research into caffeine for a video about it's coffee good for you, basically caffeine stays in the bloodstream for absolutely ages, and however we might think that we are immune to the effects of caffeine or whatever, we're not like it does operate on our neurotransmitters in the brain in various different ways, and basically stops us from sleeping, or if we do fall asleep, it stops us from sleeping well. And so I have a lot of coffee before like 2 or 3pm, and a lot of tea as well, but then after 2 or 3pm, I decide I'm only going to have a deep caffeinated stuff, so I've got a box of d-caf tea, and occasionally we also get d-caf diet coke from the shops to have with takeaway in the evening, just so I minimise my caffeine intake in the afternoon. Tip number four is to use black-out curtains, now these ones that I've got in my room are not particularly black-out, but they do block out most of the light, and I found that like this is again, one of the most bang for buck changes that you can do to massively increase the quality of your sleep, and looking at the evidence, there's a load of evidence that says the darker your room is, the better your sleep is going to be overall, and this is why I find like when I'm in a hotel that has really really good black-out curtains, I sleep incredibly well, and has been on my to-do list for such a long time to get proper black-out curtains in my room, and just haven't got around to it, because I'm a bit of an idiot, but I'm going to do that straight after recording this video. Tip number five, again, is from research cited in Matthew Walker's book while we sleep, and which is that the optimum temperature for most of us to sleep in is around 19 degrees Celsius, this is quite cold, it's quite, it's a lot colder than like room temperature, which tends to be around 23 to 25 degrees. When we're sleeping, part of what's happening is that our cold body temperature is falling, and so if we're in a room that's kind of cool and we're snuggled up nicely in the blanket, I find that that massively increases the quality of my own sleep, and so practically the things I do to get to that point are I have this fancy-ass Dyson fan on the bedroom, which circulates wind air around the room, and I also have my windows wide open, which helps, especially in the winter, and it's just like really creates a very cold atmosphere in my room, which makes my sleeping a lot easier and a lot better, and then I'm not just like struggling because it's too hot into humid. Tip number six is an amazing strategy that I discovered on the internet for how to fall asleep in under two minutes, and the idea is as follows. Apparently this is a tactic that pilots use to fall asleep anyway, because aeroplane pilots, airline pilots, need to be able to sleep at will wherever they want, so that they can, because their schedules are all a bit weird. But I've started using this trick when I do want to get to bed, and it works like 90% of the time. It doesn't work 10% of the time, but that's fine. Here's your line bed, and then you start off by like closing your eyes, and really trying your best to relax every single muscle in your face as possible. And that often means that the mouth will kind of pop open like this, and the eyes will be very close, and it's all about relaxing all of the facial muscles. And then once the face is fully relaxed, at that point we're then going to relax the legs, and so I imagine my legs kind of sinking into the bed, and like fully fully relaxing and feeling like kind of lead weights. And at that point, if I haven't fallen asleep by that, which usually happens, I usually like 50% of the time, I just fall asleep by then, and I don't know what happens next. At that point, I kind of adjust the position on my arm slightly, and I try to relax my arms, like very deep down into the bed, relax the fingers when I get the elbows, relax the shoulders, and then if I still haven't fallen asleep, and again, you know, then, this is in 70% of cases, I will have fallen asleep within a minute, as I'm just doing this thing. Then for the final kind of one minute, once everything is relaxed, I'm then doing a thing where I just focus on breathing in and out, and I'm trying to do that meditationy type thing, being mindful and only focusing on the breath, and if I have a thought, then I just let the thought go, and I just focus on the breath. And I find that this sounds really weird to explain, and when I first read this, I think I wrote on lifehacker.com or something like that. I was like, oh, there's no way this is going to work. And then I tried it, and now anytime I need to fall asleep, I usually do this thing, and 90% of the time it works, if it doesn't work, after like a minute or two of trying to do this meditative thing, I'm like, all right, cool, that's fine, and then I read for a bit more, and then I try the thing again, and it basically got a 100% success rate. So before I discover this technique, I used to think, I used to kind of lie in bed for ages thinking, okay, I need to get to sleep. But now that I do this thing, it happens like really, really quickly, so 100% recommend giving it a shot. All this stuff around sleep is really important, because obviously sleep is one of the vital functions for a human body. I help us make a body health here, but it also helps to make the mind healthier, because learning is the thing that happens when we sleep, like our brain is consolidating all the neural connections between information, and if you're interested in using your sleep to improve your learning, you might also be interested in using something else to improve your learning, such as brilliant who are very kindly sponsoring this video. Now, if you haven't heard, but now, brilliant is a fantastic platform with online courses in maths, science and computer science. It's really good, because they teach you everything from first principles, and they teach you in a way that's much more interesting than the way we get taught in school. It's not that tactic, it's not like just memorizing a bunch of facts, it's solving problems and building things from the ground up. My personal favorites are the courses on computer science, they've got a fantastic introduction to algorithm, they've got a great course on learning Python, and they've recently added a new one, all about crypto currencies, and how cryptography works, and currently my crypto portfolio is doing very well, I think it's up 25%, probably not going to attribute that to understanding crypto, but understanding the fundamentals and the maths and science behind cryptocurrencies has made me much more confident with putting more and more of my money, investing in crypto. If, like me, you're interested in lifelong learning, and improving your mental faculties and all that fun stuff, then head over to Brilliant.org forward slash early, and the first 200 people to use that link will get 20% off the annual premium subscription. So thanks Brilliant for sponsoring this video, and if you want to see how my sleep fits into my morning routine, the following morning, then check out this video over here, which is my insanely productive morning routine. Thank you so much for watching, and I'll see you in the next video. Bye-bye. If you want to try some of this, we should feed this to shame. I ended up having, I ended up piloting like 18 plus spoons of coffee. You know, that's like, stirring first. This is good. Oh. Ew. I'm going to try it. I'm going to try and bring some. Oh, God. It's so bad. Oh, my days. May it try some. You've got to try some. Little happens when you try and freaking get a solid hook for a video, and you put like 20 spoons of coffee. Oh. Would you raise my salary if I drink it? I'd raise my salary if I drink it. I'd raise my salary if I drink it. I need to go for the spoon. I'm really tempted. I could do it. I need water, but I could do it. I'll raise the tower anyway. Let's do it. What's wrong with you? I'm going to sleep tonight. You're going to get out of the car. I don't know if you're going to die. Thanks. It's enough floating in it as well. Maybe I shouldn't do it. It's not my pattern.
