# How I Built a Million Dollar Business in Medical School - 10 Tips for Entrepreneurs
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=80rugVXQzes
👩💻 To learn how to code, along with lots of other courses, visit https://brilliant.org/ali and sign up for free. 
The first 200 people will get 20% off the annual Premium subscription :) 

In this video, I talk through 10 tips that I picked up while building and running a business through medical school. My company 6med (https://6med.co.uk) does around £150,000 in annual revenue and was built by me and my friends while we were medical students at Cambridge University. We talk about the importance of not waiting for permission, standing on the shoulders of giants, learning to code and design, working with friends, starting small, doing things that don't scale, expecting and learning from failure, starting with why, but above all, just starting. Enjoy! 

TIMESTAMPS
00:32 - The Story
01:45 - Don’t wait for permission
02:30 - Stand on the shoulders of giants
03:46 - Learn to code
05:41 - Learn design basics
07:51 - Do it with friends
08:55 - Start small
10:08 - Do things that don’t scale
11:49 - Expect, and learn from, failure
13:26 - Ask yourself why
15:03 - Just start  

HELPFUL LINKS FOR ENTREPRENEURS

Brilliant (computer science courses + others) - https://brilliant.org/Ali

My video - 3 books that changed my life - https://youtu.be/hv1gOEY3cs4 (all 3 are entrepreneur / business-themed) 

Book - The 4-Hour Work Week (Tim Ferriss) - https://tim.blog/tim-ferriss-books
Book - Anything You Want: 40 lessons for a new kind of entrepreneur (Derek Sivers) - https://sivers.org/a
Book - Show your Work (Austin Kleon) - https://austinkleon.com/show-your-work/
Podcast - The Tim Ferriss Show - https://tim.blog/podcast/
Podcast - Indie Hackers - https://www.indiehackers.com/podcast
Podcast - Y Combinator - https://blog.ycombinator.com/category/podcast/
Podcast - Seth Godin's Startup School - https://seths.blog/podcasts/
Blog - Paul Graham - http://paulgraham.com/articles.html

--------

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
😃  How to be Happier - Stoicism Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/stoicism

TOOLS OF THE TRADE:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk
📚  How I remember what I read - Readwise - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali
What I Use For Analytics - https://go.aliabdaal.com/tubebuddy
🌐 My website platform (Ghost) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost

OTHER RECOMMENDED COURSES
📔 Effortless Output with Roam Research - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/roam
📓 Building a Second Brain - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/basb

🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** ali abdaal, ali abdal, ali, medical school, med school, entrepreneurship, business, how to make money, making money, making money online, startups, how to code, learn to code, 
**Date:** 2019-10-09

## Transcript
 Hey guys, welcome back to the channel. If you knew here my name is Ali, I'm a junior doctor working in Cambridge and in this video I want to share 10 top tips for entrepreneurs. So this is stuff that I picked up over the last six years of running a business called six met while I was a medical student at Cambridge University. That business has made about 800,000 pounds of top-line revenue over the last six years and if you convert that into dollars it becomes a million dollars. Anyway, in this video I'll start off by briefly sharing the story of how my friends and I started this company and how it grew and then I'll go over 10 top tips for students or anyone else interested in starting your own business becoming an entrepreneur, making money online all of that good jazz. So I'll keep this part of the video brief because there's not really a story-time video. Basically in our second year of medical school, me and some friends decided it would be cool to run a course for one of the medical school admissions tests called the B-MAT. We'd been on a few courses ourselves run by big corporations. We thought there were a bit crap and they were charging lots of money so we thought we could do a better job and charge less money and also we could give out free places to students from low-income backgrounds. And when we started we thought it would just be like a small-scale thing. We thought we'd just kind of run a course at our local mosque. But then quite early on I had the idea that because I'd been making websites and stuff since like the age of 12. Why don't we just make a website for this and try and market it nationally and then we'll get people up and down the country to join our courses rather than just people in our local town. And so from that we made the course material we made the website. We ran five sold out courses that year to about 120 students and then we were like, oh my god, this is amazing. So the following year we expanded into the UCAT course and then we made a course for medical school interviews and then those did really, really well. Then we decided to make a question bank for the BMAT and for the UCAT and those did really well. And so every year this company kept on growing. We kept in getting more students. We expanded our locations. We taught a course in Singapore. We taught a course in Hong Kong. We taught a course in the Netherlands. And it turned into this like surprisingly big thing. But now let's talk about the value of this video which is 10 top tips for entrepreneurs. So tip number one is don't wait for permission. And often when we're starting something or when we're thinking of starting a business or a YouTube channel or a blog or anything like that, we all have in our minds this issue of, I'm just not qualified like, why would anyone care what I have to say? And in a way we're kind of waiting for someone to give us permission, waiting for like an official degree to say we're qualified or a certificate from someone to say that we're allowed to do this thing. But like over the last six, seven years of running this company, I've realised that my friends have realised that there are so few domains in which you actually need to be qualified before you can create some kind of product. Like obviously, you know, if you're a doctor, you need to be qualified before you can start treating patients. But in most realms of business, you can pretty much just start doing it whenever you want. And if you're providing a good service and people are happy to pay you money for it and leaving good reviews, that's all the qualification you really need. Secondly, I think it's really important when doing this whole business startup entrepreneur making money online thing to stand on the shoulders of the giants that have come before us. Entrepreneurship in business isn't really a new thing anymore. Like it's it's a very well-trodden path that people have been doing for decades if not centuries. I know that in the last few decades we've got loads and loads of books, podcasts, websites, articles, interviews with people who have set up their own businesses. And those people have done a really good job of sharing all the things they know. So specific resources that you'll find helpful. Tim Ferriss has booked the 4-hour workweek, absolutely incredible resource of just thinking about entrepreneurship. There's a website called Indie Hackers that has interviews with founders of successful internet businesses. They've got about a hundred podcast episodes so far. Each of those are amazing. They're all incredibly inspiring and you can learn a lot from these people. There's a guy called Paul Graham, he's a partner at Y Combinator. That's like the Ivy League of startup accelerators in America. He's written a ton of essays on his website about how to get startup ideas, how to start your own startup. Seth Gordon has a podcast called startup school. Y Combinator has a podcast and also has a startup school series of videos. There's so much stuff out there for us to learn about entrepreneurship and business that it's kind of like trying to be a doctor without understanding anatomy and physiology. Like you know it's kind of the basics you probably should understand the basic literature. And then you know you can go off and do what you want. But there's so much stuff out there that we should definitely be standing on the shoulders of giants before where kind of taking the plunge into entrepreneurship. Thirdly if you're thinking of starting a business it's incredibly useful to at least know the basics of how to code. And this is for two main reasons. So firstly knowing how to code opens your mind up to potential business ideas. Like it's common startup advice that the best way to come up with startup or business ideas is not to sit down with your friends and brainstorm startup ideas. But it's to identify problems that you have in your life day to day that you might be able to solve by creating a business or creating product. And if you know how to code you kind of know the realms of possibility like you know what can be done. And so if let's say you're a doctor or any working in health care and you discover some inefficiency or you know you're a student and you discover something that everyone's doing that could be done better. Just the fact that you know how to code means that you'll be discovering these possibilities a lot more than someone who doesn't. And secondly knowing how to code is really helpful because then when you have an idea let's say you're Mark Zuckerberg and you have the idea for Facebook or you're me and you have the idea for the running these courses you can then just turn it into a business by yourself without needing to rely on bringing someone else in who knows how to code. So for example with six men if I didn't know how to make a website our course would have had 12 people at the local mosque and southen on seeing that would have been the end of it. But just this ability to like to create a website is what allowed it to become a national and then they to international business just like knowing how to code is so so helpful and if you're interested in learning how to code there is a fantastic computer science fundamentals course over at brilliant.org. It takes you through the basic principles of algorithms, computers and programs and it guides you through interesting and fun little problems along the way to help solidify your understanding of these core concepts and after you've gone through that you can go through their programming with Python course a Python is the world's most popular programming language and you can do pretty much anything with Python from building a simple website all the way through to writing machine learning algorithms. If you're into this whole entrepreneurship thing and you're interested in learning how to code and highly recommend you head over to brilliant.org forward slash alley and the first 200 people to visit that link will get 20% of a premium subscription. So yeah huge thank you to brilliant for sponsoring this video and let's move on to the next point. Fourthly and on a related note it's also really useful to kind of develop a taste for design and develop a taste for what looks pretty and how to make stuff look pretty. And this ability to make stuff look pretty is an absolute superpower in the world that we live in today. Just taking the example of six med the business you know a bit a big part of why it was successful initially even though we were competing against the big names in the market was just because our website looked pretty in look legit I've been doing web design for ages and you had to make a pretty looking website and at the time in like 2012 2013 it wasn't as easy for just anyone to make a website with square space or wigs or whatever and like in my life personally it's not just six med the business that's benefited from my design background it's pretty much everything of everything else I've ever done. So for example within medicine I've given presentations at conferences and I've won those you know I've won prizes for those and the feedback has been oh you're you're post a presentation looked really good I've attended these like medical hackathons wait like programming competitions where you build something and pitch it to judges and like three of them that I attended we ended up winning first prize and I think a big part of that was because our PowerPoint presentation just looked pretty that everyone else is I even got invited to join the board of this like international plastic surgery charity that does reconstructive surgery missions abroad and that was because they had a website I offered my services that I was like hey I can make your website look a bit prettier and they were like sure come on board and that gave me access to this network of amazing plastic surgeons that I wouldn't otherwise had contact with and then also this YouTube channel like you know the thumbnails have a similar design I think they look kind of pretty I think the production value of these videos is quite reasonable that ability to add production value to everything that you do is an amazing superpower that benefits everything you do in life not just in business and so yeah if you're if you're sold on that and you want to teach yourself the basics of design I'd recommend installing a browser extension called Mozzley and what that does is that it replaces your new tab you know on Chrome or Safari with like web design inspiration or some interesting typography or graphic design examples used to be a source of procrastination for me to just browse web design inspiration and then as I discover things I'd bookmark them and then over time as you become exposed to good design you develop a taste for it and so when you're then making your own stuff making your own website or making your own posters or even just you know generating a flyer for some event that you're running at your local Moscow church or whatever then you just have the ability to make it look pretty and just that ability to make it look pretty adds adds so much point number five I think it's really helpful to work with friends so there's that classic state of saying in startups or whatever that if you want to go fast you should go alone but if you want to go far you should go together and I think that's really important but also especially if you're a student it's just actually even if you're not a student it's just so much more fun when you're building a business like doing stuff with your friends it's just like an amazing experience like I kind of like connect to going camping like you know you're building your tent and you're like building a fire and all that stuff it's just more enjoyable when you're doing with friends people that you like you've got people helping out with it and yeah you might have to sacrifice a little bit of equity early on but you know at the start people are going to be sacrificing their time they're going to want equity that's absolutely fine given that the whole point and running a business and the whole point of doing anything is really just because we think it's going to make us happier why not make ourselves happier by getting friends involved from day one and that was a thing that I did with six med and really glad I did early on about half of the medics in my college ended up teaching courses for us and we had a team of like 20 25 people all of whom me and the founding people with friends with and I just made like for a really fun environment and although there were challenges and stuff along the way just working with friends makes the whole experience of running a business that much more enjoyable point number six is that you should start off really really small and this is a really important point because whenever we're coming up with ideas for businesses or thinking of starting something it's far too easy to get into this mindset where we keep on adding features are always be amazing if our app had this are be cool to add that and then the feature list keeps on growing and eventually we just never end up getting anything out the door because we're too concerned about trying to add new features trying to make the thing better and in the start of world there's this idea of an MVP minimal viable product which is sort of the smallest version of your product or your app or whatever that you can feasibly get in front of people so you start off really small you build this tiny version you get it out in front of people and then over time using user feedback and stuff you then iterate on the design and you just add more and more features over time and improve the product in small ways and this doesn't even apply just for businesses it also applies to starting any kind of creative endeavor like you know the artist who wants to start off by making their first piece the Mona Lisa isn't going to get anywhere but you know you have your sketchbook you do these little drawings equally for YouTube channels if I had someone like you know a Peter McKinnon video or a matte developer video as my sort of I need to get this good before I release a video I would never have ended up releasing anything at all and the thing that I told myself really early on was that my first 50 or 100 videos are just going to be absolutely terrible anyway so I might as well just kind of get over that and then I can hopefully work towards making good videos point number 7 is do things that don't scale and I think this advice originated from a chap called Paul Graham who is one of the partners at white combination that I mentioned earlier and I'll link the essay in which he talks about this where he gives loads of really good examples but the main idea is that you want to do things that don't scale i.e. at the start you want to be putting an extra effort to make your customers happy to recruit new customers all that stuff famous example the guys who founded Airbnb initially in their first 30 day period where you know it was a bit sort of touching go no one really knew what was going to happen they physically went door to door in New York to all the Airbnb listings and they offered to take professional photos for those listings for free and that's a sort of thing that you know obviously they just can't do anymore because they're not million of people using Airbnb but at the start it was that physical effort that was needed to be put in by the founders in order to make you know the snowball start to roll equally there's a company called woofoo that's doing very well for their first few years they sent handwritten physical thank you cards to each of their customers and it's it's it's hard to imagine a company doing that in this day and age but if you're starting a startup and you can put in the extra physical effort of delighting your customers and recruiting additional customers initially then you're well on your way to success and I read about all the stories so when we started six med what I did was for the first couple of years whenever we'd get a new order in I would email them personally and say hey look you know thanks for signing up to our course this is a bit about who I am this is our team we've got loads of expertise amongst us if you have any question at all about the medicine application process about your aid levels about studying about anything just reply to this email and we'll get back to you and we had lots of customers being like oh wow I didn't realise you guys were you know so like personable that general vibe do things that don't scale as Paul Graham says put in the effort to delight your customers your students whatever early on and hopefully that'll lead to rewards further down the line and plus you know ideally we'd continue to have this attitude of delighting your customers as our business is growing alright point number eight expect failure because chances are your start up as your career is going to fail but you know the stats like 80% of them do 80% of the ones that do succeed are not around in five ten years time essentially chances are very very very unlikely that your thing will go well and in fact I had five failed businesses that I'd try to start up while I was in secondary school or high school if you're American five failed businesses me and my friend James each year would come out with a new plan to make money and it would fail every single time and it was the sixth one that was this idea for the BMAT crash course and that was eventually the thing that blossoming into sixth med and that you know made a massive difference to my life but the point I want to make is that each time you fail it's actually you know it's that classically she failure is just a learning opportunity had I not gone through those five failures beforehand you know if I'd given up after the first one I wouldn't have known how to code in PHP I wouldn't have known how to make websites I wouldn't have known what goes into accepting payments online any of this sort of stuff it was going through those failures that ultimately led to the success and the nice thing about starting a business as well is that you don't really have any startup capital and any startup cost these days especially if you're starting an internet business you know for a few dollars you can get a website domain get web hosting and start accepting credit card payments online literally immediately so in a weekend and by spending maybe ten twenty dollars you've got this whole setup and you can build your online business based on that so your costs are essentially zero and the potential upside is absolutely massive again that of reference to indie hackers that website I mentioned earlier they've got loads of interviews on their podcast of people like you and me who have set up websites or apps or whatever from their bedrooms for practically zero money who are then making tens of thousands of dollars a month further down the line if you treat it as a learning opportunity don't be too put out if you're things fails because it's not really a failure it's you know you've learned stuff and then that will set you up for success further down the line point number nine and this is something that I tried to tell myself a lot is that we should always ask ourselves why we're really doing it so you know it's it's easy enough to get caught up in the hyper bit once you start a business and it's growing it's it's all very exciting but then like for me it was about twenty six twenty fifteen twenty sixteen around the point where our revenue started to sort of stagnate decline a little bit and then more competitors came into the market and then I was kind of thinking oh damn you know I have to put in all this work but I'm not really enjoying running this business anymore and then I came across a fantastic book by an amazing chap called Derek Sivers that book is called anything you want forty lessons for a new kind of entrepreneur and I featured that in one of my videos three books that changed my life because this book really did change my life and in this book he he talks about it's it's very short it takes about twenty minutes to read but he talks about lessons for entrepreneurs kind of like this video but just much better he's talking about lessons for entrepreneurs that that he gained from selling up a company called CD Baby and then selling it eventually for twenty two million dollars and there's a quote in it which is probably my favorite quote of all time and that's a quote that I remind myself of whenever I'm feeling town or whenever I'm you know two focused on the numbers never forget why you're really doing what you're doing are you helping people are they happy are you happy are you profitable isn't that enough and this is just like an absolutely amazing philosophy that you know the only reason we run businesses because we think it's gonna make us happy and it'll help people so if we're happy running it and we're helping people and we're profitable like we're not losing money then why does it matter what the numbers are why does it matter what a growth rate or is why does it matter what our retained earnings is percentage of growth or whatever all the stuff it doesn't matter you know as long as we're enjoying it as long as we're having fun as long as we're helping people and I think that's a really important thing to remind ourselves and especially you know even with things like YouTube any time I start to get too focused on the numbers like oh that video only got twenty thousand views I was hoping it would get seventy thousand views like it it's just such a pointless game to play this is still fine I'm having a good time hopefully helping out people and that's all that's really needed and finally point number ten is just start if you're interested in entrepreneurship if you've gone through this really long video so far on your at this point you probably don't really need any more information you don't need more knowledge before you start something even if you don't know how to code just like get an idea and start working on it and then you can learn the stuff you need to know as you go along people like connect to you know the analogy of you know like going to the gym like people don't get ripped by reading about going to the gym or reading about workouts they get ripped by you know putting in consistent effort and turning up and eating healthy over a very long period of time is the same in anything in life it's the same in startups entrepreneurs business so much so that it's become such a cliche that you get these entrepreneurs who read everything and consume all the all the product and all the information about entrepreneurship and yet never actually start something so yeah it's good to stand on the shoulders of giants it's good to listen to Tim Ferriss and read his book and listen to indie hackers and watch all the white combination stuff but don't think that that's a substitute for actually doing your own thing because when you start that is when you really start to learn and then you can apply all the lessons you're learning from the stuff as you're going along so those were my ten top tips for budding entrepreneurs if you found that useful I'll put loads of links in the video description to podcast interviews articles books etc that I've personally found helpful but the point I want to make ultimately is that you should just start like if you're thinking of starting a business and you've gotten to this point in the video just go for it I promise you it'll be an incredible experience and it will change your life so thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video bye bye
