# Stress, Regrets and Inspirations - Q&A with Kharma Medic
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8B_O04IdW9M
Check out the second part on Kharma's channel: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCeoU2maQX8JiQ9DTuhOVz5g

00:00 Intro
00:55 How do you manage your to-do list?
02:25 Time management between being a med student and a YouTuber
04:17 What inspired you to make YouTube videos?
07:28 What do you feel when you watch each other's videos?
10:13 Any regrets from medical school? 
13:24 Stress management tips
15:15 How to ask questions that get responses
19:04 Collab with Anas Nuur Ali
19:13 Why are you interested in doing residency in the US?

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
📚  How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali
What I Use For Analytics - https://go.aliabdaal.com/tubebuddy
🌐  My website platform (Ghost) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost
🎤  My podcast hosting platform (Transistor) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/transistor

OTHER RECOMMENDED COURSES
📔 Effortless Output with Roam Research - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/roam
📓 Building a Second Brain - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/basb

🎙 MY WEEKLY PODCAST - https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCdXpN-Z7LyTgc3OLo_Zw2Pg
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app. And we post clips + full episodes on the YouTube channel, so please subscribe to that!  

BE MY FRIEND:
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮  Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, kharmamedic, q&a, doctor Q&A, med school Q&A, doctors answering questions, medical questions, time management tips, productivity tips, ali abdaal vlog, how to be productive, medical school, time management, time management tips for college students, time management strategies, time management skills, be more productive, how to get more done, kharma medic, karma medic, karmamedic, kharmamedic interview, 
**Date:** 2020-12-17

## Transcript
 Hey friends, welcome back to the channel. If you're new here at my name is L.A. I'm a doctor based in the UK and today I am joined by the lovely karma medic. Hello. Hi guys, can you introduce yourself to the two people in the audience who don't know here So everyone my name is Nasser I'm now a fourth year medical student studying at King's College London and I also have a YouTube channel on the side Where I spend most of my free time making videos about my experience in medical school trying to give everyone an Incent to what life is like a mathematical student. Yeah, and you have lots and lots and lots of subscribers We just passed a 500,000 which is amazing. I'm gonna say you have a several dozen of them We've been fighting for everyone. Yeah, oh well, it's five This is a Q&A video so as usual a lot of questions are gonna be in timestamps in the video descriptions I feel free to skip around if you feel like it but not Serenite I'm gonna be answering all the questions that you lot set in by Instagram so by the way follow us both on Instagram because we get Content about day in the life and all that kind of stuff if you're into that sort of thing should we dive into it? Let's do it. So I've got a good question here from moolark zy coeronica. Yeah, she sounds podish. I hope I'm saying this Right, she says hi guys. How do you manage your to do list? Do you put all the tasks in your paper journals or calendars? This is a good time for a cheeky screen share. Okay, so for much of the lists I use the app things which is fantastic. So I essentially have a list of all of the projects that I'm working on and I mark the most projects and things Putting a second brain dedicated quantum machine notion much fast infinity quantum blah blah all of this cool stuff And I have my team members who are also working on different projects just so I can keep track of these Who's working on what and then I have these different areas that are set up so for example I have a list of my friends birthday I have like my bucket list which is items on my bucket list Super organized. Essentially what I'll do is that I'll put neat put things into my inbox and then Very points throughout the day or at least once a day. I'll process my inbox and convert stuff into projects And I will put stuff in my today list if it's things I have to do on a given day. What about you? So I keep three to do lists one for life one for medical school and one for a YouTube and Throughout the day any time I think of pretty much anything I'll immediately write it down in one of those to do this because otherwise I'll forget and it'll never get done And then I'll hate myself for not having written it down to begin with and I check through those three to do lists as periodically as I can Definitely before I've gone to sleep so I can plan if I need to do anything tomorrow But yeah, splitting it up into three different ones is much better for me than just having a long long list of many different intertwined things Not why I can split up my work as well. So it's so I'm going to go a question here from Jody Orange and they ask time management tips to achieve between being a medical student and being a youtuber So whenever I get asked this question of how do you keep up your YouTube channel and also be a full time medical student or anything else What I always say is that my YouTube channel is something that I've considered a non-negotiable in my life So it's something that is going to happen no matter what and so Even if I'm gonna have delayed sleep if I'm gonna have Less social events although it doesn't normally happen because I've got everything done on time But even if other aspects of my life need to get pushed away a little bit in order for my video to go live every week That's gonna happen because I've told myself that's gonna happen and I don't want to let myself down And so similarly for exercise or other activities if I tell myself it's non-negotiable then I make sure it gets done And I encourage people to do that as well if there's something they really care about Because you can fit it in you just need to organize your time in such a way that it does yeah, but it's like my viewpoint on it Yeah, absolutely it's the same for me like if you make an priority it will happen because I think What we're doing at any moment is what we most want to be doing in that moment and if it's actually a priority for you You'll find a way to make it happen and yeah, I completely agree with this point about it like it's it's not even an option There's it's not a choice. It's not like a I could publish a video if I feel like it It's a I have to publish a video every Thursday Yeah, yeah, or whatever times like something that you said a while ago resonated with me, which was like I don't I don't decide what I feel like doing I decide what I need to do right now and I completely agree with that I don't have this idea of oh, I don't feel like doing something if it's on my to do list and it needs to get done Then I'm just gonna go to my desk and do it and I don't even consider the fact that oh, I'd actually rather take an app or watch a video You just it just has to happen Yeah, also I've got a video called eight types of time management link in the video description You've got a video about time management coming coming up. I was school to still check last about productivity and a second one on the way Link in the video description boom Okay next we have a question from Gavin Vassandani who says what inspired you to make YouTube videos I'm curious about this So when I first got accepted to medical school and was after I had done an undergraduate degree in Toronto After I'd already been rejected by four medical schools in 2013 when I first applied and so I felt like during this four-year Timespan I had learned so much about the application process and what it takes or what is what are people are looking for to get into medical school So I decided let me share this information So I made a Reddit ask me anything and I said hey I go on to med school ask me anything nobody replied I did the same thing on the student room forum Nobody replied so they're okay fine. I'll take all this content and I'll put it into a video And so that's what I did and my goal was to help 10 people get accepted to medical school and when I help 10 people That was gonna be it. I was gonna Stop doing YouTube videos, but then obviously evolved into a lot more and I really really enjoyed it So I've kept on going That's so noble and altruistic and stuff Okay, I'm a bit suspicious There's there's a nice quote from For that's often attributed to JP Morgan that's just talked about in the book of the elephant in the brain Which is that a man always has two reasons for doing something a good reason and the real reason Okay, and so if you were to ask me why why or what like one inspired me to start YouTube? The honest answer would have to be that I saw a business opportunity I saw a way to promote courses that I was running. I saw a way to make money online I knew that YouTubers were making it big and I love the idea of being famous So that ultimately I could I don't know do more interesting things Because the bigger your audience and the more of an audience you have the more I just unlocks various opportunities in your life And so for me very much started out as an entirely selfish Motivated by money type of thing I mean I think more often to like a sort of always the quite nice to help people I think that's completely fair enough and the fact that you already had these businesses that would benefit a lot from having an audience to promote too That makes perfect sense and I don't think there's anything wrong with starting a YouTube channel with the intention of making money or growing your business But at the time I honestly just did it because I enjoyed making videos So like I've been editing videos for a long time before that Okay, but I like my vacations like playing basketball or any Silly stupid thing here are there. So I enjoyed the editing process and I enjoyed making videos and that's how it's going down That's inspiring stuff If you want the lottery would you still make videos? It's a very good question I think probably but I don't add a lesser frequency. Yeah, thanks Love the only sponsored video. I wouldn't bother with any course You wouldn't need anything. Yeah, you wouldn't need any of that stuff. None of the stressful aspect That video makes you just kind of do the things that you enjoy a bit You'd be noticed to make a video about this thing that I've been thinking about yeah, like you'd still vlog You'd still like read the comments and interactions Yeah, it is genuinely quite fun I think that that's quite a telling question like I in in general if like it's it's a question I like to ask people who are in real jobs. You know, I hate if you want the lottery We just still do your job for fun Most people would say oh no definitely not but I think for YouTube is often the answer is yeah I probably would you worried you just wouldn't necessarily stick to such a strict schedule? Yeah, like now you do two to three videos a week I can barely keep up with one But that's something that I stick to whereas I wouldn't necessarily put that much pressure on my software So altruistic selfish. I think that's the the message from this question. It's not that black and white Okay, okay All right, let's be able to question from RMLTGR24035. Thank you because what do you feel when you watch each other's videos on YouTube? Okay, so when I first started making YouTube videos I obviously looked at other people's YouTube videos in the medical school productivity space and now the update was I think the biggest crater at the time then and it's one of the biggest craters If not the biggest now, so I've been watching these videos ever since I started making videos and I get a lot of Tips for productivity and workflow from you like notion was introduced to me by you I used to listen to things at 1.5 times speed, but after you also did it I was like okay I need to do it on everything Like justified it for me to do it on YouTube videos as well So yeah, I definitely get a lot of like actual practical life tips from you and you are one of the very few channels that I subscribed to on both my personal YouTube account and my YouTube channel or YouTube account. Oh, that makes sense. Oh, so yeah I really enjoyed videos. Oh, thank you. That's actually great. That's very kind of you When I watch your videos hopefully you like my videos too. Yeah I do and I'm often surprised by how much I like them because I think I suppose in my head like any any time I watch anyone's YouTube videos. I'm usually not watching it for the content Okay, I'm usually watching it for the meta around it like a for example. You did like a really good work I like an incredibly good one and I was like damn This is so good and I I felt like that was a better vlog than one that I've ever put together and so I wasn't watching I was watching that I was thinking right. I need to up my game because from my position it's like you started a year You're a year after after I did yeah, and you're growing faster than I did at the time okay, and so for me I'm like damn I've got to stay at the top of the game here because there is like a real feeling that I don't know like a new kid on the block was just coming that I just kind of have this anxiety that oh, you know Then I'll I'll be surpassed like whatever the hell that means and then I'm going to broke in homeless and it's just a A line of reasoning that doesn't make sure that I don't make any sense at all But I think that often is what inspires me about watching Quote smaller YouTubers that okay, what can I learn from this to make my own videos better? So like your vlog was a great example. I also love watching your US Emily video because I'm preparing for it and in that context like obviously Your moral approach and it's actually genuinely helpful. Okay, and I know that I need to take take to a consistent and discipline Study routine. Yes a rigid solid still, but now I get a lot of inspiration and tips from your videos That's a man. Thanks really cool. Thank you for the ongoing motivation Yeah, I just want to add to what you said that Definitely like on my YouTube channel YouTube account. Yeah, and I subscribe to all these channels You could learn so much from other people's like editing techniques even how they talk what footage They include when they don't the framing of the camera everything So I definitely find value in that and sort of take seeing what I can add to my own videos to make them better as well Okay, next we have a question from James Bavara. Thank you James. He says are there any regrets you guys have throughout medical school Do you want to tackle this one first? Yeah, I'd say that for me The only regrets I have through medical school are for times where I have accidentally or on purpose been mean to someone in some way Like there have been a few instances where I've like accidentally Kind of said something that I didn't realize would kind of have repercussions further down the line or just just been Accidently insensitive and like a couple of occasions where I sort of knew that I was being a bit mean But just sort of kind of lint into it a bit and every single time without fail I have always regretted it and that is literally the only strand of regret I have about my life ever apart from the fact that I didn't take more notes when reading books when I was Younger that's not a big regret that I have I think my biggest regret is in in first year I was so obsessed with making sure that I wrote notes on every single aspect of every single lecture that I came across And I ended up spending so much time in my first year sitting in the library taking these notes when I could have been doing a million other things I could have started this YouTube channel whole year early Could have been socializing more hanging out more, etc And sort of looking back. I know I didn't need to put in that much time and effort Or I could have done something in a more efficient way. So yeah, that's something I would definitely change going back How do you feel about taking notes in general? We've had a few lessons about that's been waiting for this to come up between us. I think taking notes the total way to talk I know you do. I know you do and in theory I understand where you are. I still do it. I still take it. Oh, you still do it. Okay, like for you. I'm at least I'm going through Python. I'm writing if you think it's down screenshot saying but I'm putting it underneath the question Yes, so that I'm always forcing myself to act and recall what I do stuff. So that's something I've taken from you And I'm trying to do more and more is do active recall and I'm using the little on notion toggles in order to do that Yeah, and if you read the first couple pages of the F-A book It says taking notes is the worst way to learn and senior video on evidence based I think on why is it the worst way to learn? Yeah, and I understand I can see why it's the worst way to learn But somehow I feel like it's the best way for me to get that information just like write it down and see it and read it Okay, and so that's why I'm still stuck in this mode of taking notes. I get anxiety from doing Ankey Yeah, you know, for example, there's no context in there for you It's really nothing. It's very big. It's very yeah, one fact at a time. So I appreciate the note. They're not taking Even though I know there's better ways to do it. Yeah, if I do as I think I think for me like For the U.S. Emily stuff. I was I've been looking into Ankey and every time I do an Ankey session I think I know exactly what the content of the flashcard it card is like I could tell you When it's phrased in that context what microscopic polyendritis does but if you asked me So in real life what is microscopic polyendritis? You just don't know. I'm like I have no way of integrating those 18 flashcards on it to form a coherent picture Yeah, which is why I got these kinds of physical notebooks that I was showing you earlier To draw like spider diagrams and concept maps because I also find that when I have something for example all of hematology If I can get into one page then it's position on the page and it's color and the stuff around is exactly Allow me to okay, okay, I am sad where Mental cell lymphoma fits into the bigger picture exactly that if you can fit everything into one field of vision One field of view it helps so much connecting the different parts and it's easy to remember location Location and color is like so underrated in in note taking. Yeah, so yeah, I have a lot of work That's sick All right, so I've got a question here from soft underscore underscore study and she's asking or he's asking what are your Strap? I was probabilistic. That's not very well They they are asking. There we go. What are your stress management tips? So I think for me By far the biggest thing I do to release stress is exercise exercise is the best thing I can possibly do Clears my head makes me have a mental reset and just generally makes me feel better when I sit back down to go studying And I wouldn't change that for anything else. What does stress mean? I thought I thought it was stress Good question. Yeah, and the general sense of the word stress. I feel like I don't really feel that stress Generally but sometimes there's so many things going on that you feel overwhelmed and you kind of need like a reset And sort of cleaning your head going for a run going to the gym or just doing something else helps move on from that You know, so sort of like a feeling of oh well feeling of overwhelmed yeah, okay For me okay, yeah, I guess that sometimes have that I think my thing is I just listen to lots of fiction audiobooks And so when I was commuting to work and for an hour each way I'd have like two hours of listening to fiction audiobooks in the car And so when I get home I wouldn't need any downtime or relaxation time because I've had that two hours in the day in the car Listening to a fantasy audiobook and then I could just kind of You know do the hustle thing for example last night. I once I was feeling stressed Yeah Stress is an interesting word. What does stress is an interesting word? What do people mean when this is stress? Let's know the comments Yeah, what would it like so if you like when when we get stressed? Yeah, we just write down what we need to do on a to do this to eliminate that stress Yeah, and then we're going to do it and the stress is gotten but I feel like maybe people who deal with stress in a more emotional way than a practical way Sort of how my why on a trail of thought that yeah, maybe You know, okay All right Next we have a question which isn't really a question, but it's a big thing during a lot of these and that you and I get a lot of emails Instagram DMs, tweets, page messages, whatever From people looking to ask to ask for advice. Yeah, and There are certain types of questions that are formal like you together response than others and I just wanted to I wonder what your thoughts are on this like how about how do you? Yeah because because obviously We we both want to reply to everyone but there's physically not enough hours in the day to reply to everyone Yeah, yeah, so how do you prioritize your pleasure? Yeah up until about 200,000 subscribers. I was Replying to every single comment and every email that I got and then it go to the point where I realized I was answering Sort of the same questions over and over again. Yeah, and a lot of those questions have been answered already in previous videos of mine Or someone else who's more knowledgeable than me on the topic like I lay out dollar anyone else on YouTube, right? So Generally questions for me that I'm more likely to respond to are very specific and And they're about they're not something that's vague that can be put into Google, right? So if I was even email where there's a question that could just it's easily be answered by Surging man to Google, then I'm very unlikely to respond to it. Every now and again, I'll get a question About a specific situation somebody's in where they're looking for advice and I'll respond to that on my email Especially if I'm sitting on my desk already with my email. Okay. Yeah, what about you? Yeah, I think I think this is about like I get way too many emails from people who For some reason think that it's more efficient. I'll ask me something like What are the great requirements to get into Cambridge for medicine? You could literally find that on the website and I have not been in the system for like 10 years now like You know, what am I supposed to know about it and I get why people are asking I get that it's probably a thing of Well, I've you know that people talk about parrosocial relationship So I feel like I know this person. I feel like they would respond to my question Right when you get like if you try and put yourself in them in the shoes of the other person Where they're getting like 200 emails a day from people asking questions and you actually want to respond You've got to figure out a way of phrasing your question and I think it's more likely to respond one thing that always that I was Find helps is that structuring it in a very specific fashion, but also kind of Making it obvious what the question is because often and I'm sure you get this as well It ends up being like sort of three paragraphs stream a consciousness at the end there. It says Yeah, I'm not I'm not even really sure what I'm asking. I just want to know your thoughts on it And so I'd look at that and be like this three paragraphs here I'm on the toilet. I've got two more seconds to finish my wee I'm don't even have fun to read all this that I don't respond to it Whereas the people who give three paragraphs and You know at the top they say kind of the question should I take biology or should I take chemistry here Is the context here is what I think I should do here is what I think you would say given your Given what I know of your content in your videos. Yeah, here is what I think the answer is tell me what you think like that is That's the that's the the buzzer. I'm going to respond. Yeah, and like I think about it like if I'm even if I'm emailing a consultant on my hospital I'm very Sissinked and I'm very strict with what it is that I want to say to them the subject is very clear It's like one single Title then comes this is a whole email and then it's like hello This is exactly what I need best regards. Thank you and those are the emails that I feel like I'm more likely to get to respond still like Sissinked straight to the point and Yeah, exactly what you need yeah, and there is also a good blog post. I think on Tim Ferriss's blog Where he told it's called like how to email busy people and he's got like a good template. He's got some good guidance on how to do it And 98% of people who email me don't follow that template and you probably should because I mean if you want to respond That's how you get a response from someone who gets lots of emails As 12 that's 20 to the sounds for saying that yeah, it really does sound like coming from like such a privilege Yeah, it sounds it sounds really bad, but you know at the point when I was responding to all of my emails It would take genuinely like two hours of bidding like and you know that's a lot of time to dedicate to responding to different questions And now you're getting 250% more than that. Yeah It's really difficult to respond to them. So sorry guys, you know, we'd love to reply but you got to make it easy We're doing a best. We're doing a best doing a best When are you two doing a collab with an arson who are all you were waiting? Oh, he was supposed to come over today But he had to work instead so Jokes and you mate Next time next question from I'm Sarah I HP why are you both interested in doing residency in the USA? Question mark American flag emoji and scared face doing residents in the USA I've made it long half in our video about this which we're doing some more but essentially my view is that and I'll just be a bit more of an adventure I think if I do residents you'll do training in the UK I will sort of Intrinsically be limiting the amount of people I can come into contact with the new people I can mate the Adventure that I have because I've been in the UK. I've been in Cambridge for the last eight years like Training in the UK is not particularly going to be much of a challenge Whereas I feel like Moving across the world to different countries where I don't really know many people Just be a bit of an adventure really and I've it's probably not something I would regret yeah Yeah, I doubt you'll regret that if you were to do it and you can always come back So for me, I've sort of grown up in multiple different countries to our my life And something that really scares me is the idea of being trapped somewhere that I don't want to be And so for me riding the US on the step one is a way to keep my doors open for the future So if I decide I want to go to the states in the future I will be already on that path if I decide I want to go to Canada to practice medicine in the future I will be on that path and similarly if I'd like to stay in the UK That's what I'm working towards while I'm here So I want to have these doors open should I change my mind in the future? All right, so that's the end of this first half of the Q&A We've got the second half over on Carromedics channel that will be linked over here. Thanks for watching and we'll see you there. Bye
