# General Surgery - A Day in the Life - Junior Doctor Vlog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8lhSb5libHY
In this video, I ramble at length about a day in the life on my general surgery placement. Enjoy xx

💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking 

📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

📝My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://paperlike.com/ali
🎶 Where I get my music from (amazing for YouTubers) - http://share.epidemicsound.com/ali

🎬 My online course on video editing - https://skl.sh/32TpEvm
🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal

Who am I:

I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

My most popular videos:

- How I take notes on my iPad Pro in medical school - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=waR3xBDHMqw
- How to study for exams - Evidence based revision tips - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ukLnPbIffxE
- How I ranked 1st at Cambridge University - The Essay Memorisation Framework - https://youtu.be/-46Vyiwat_Y
- My productivity desk setup - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rApxWtDIRAM



If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭
**Keywords:** day in the life of a surgeon, medical school, surgeon on call, life of a surgeon, doctor on call, ali abdaal, day in the life of a doctor, doctor vlog, junior doctor, junior doctor vlog, uk doctor, nhs doctor, general surgery, medical student, 
**Date:** 2019-08-02

## Transcript
 Hey guys, welcome back to the channel. If you're new here, my name is Ali. I'm a junior doctor working in Cambridge and in this video I'm going to be talking you through a day in the life on my general surgery placement, which is what I'm currently doing. These events happened on a random Friday a couple of weeks ago where I was thinking it would be really nice to and a vlog this day because this is like what a normal day is like, but obviously hospitals are weird about you filming on site because of confidentiality and consent issues and all that stuff. So instead I just wrote down a list of everything that I did that day and I'm just going to talk you through it and try and paint a picture of what it's like being a first year junior doctor on a general surgery placement. So I'm with the upper GI gastron intestinal team and I'll just start by telling you a little bit about what the specialty does and then we'll go on to kind of a day in the life. So the upper GI team covers the upper gastron intestinal system. So everything from the suffagus down to the stomach, the deuteridium, and the small intestine is covered by us, whereas the large intestine, the colon and the rectum is covered by the colorectal team. So some of the problems we deal with are esophageal and gastric cancers for which we can do esophagectomies and gastrectomies. Obviously, as a junior doctor, I don't physically do those operations. Those are done by the consultants and by the registrars who are actually training in general surgery. What we as the junior doctors, as the foundation doctors tend to do, is that we manage the medical problems of the patients who are under the surgical team. So for example, if a patient needs fluids prescribed or if a patient randomly becomes unwell, we are the ones who are kind of the first responders to that scene, because usually the consultants and the registrars are in theatre doing the operations. Other things we deal with, we sometimes get small bowel obstruction, occasionally we do appendicitis and appendectomies. We deal with the gallbladder, so if someone's got a gallstones, we might take out the gallbladder. So those are the problems that are dealt with by the general surgery team or upper GI. Now, in terms of the structure of the day, like in most medical and surgical specialties, we start off with a ward round. The semi-annoying thing about being on surgery is that these ward rounds start at half past seven in the morning. This means I have to get up at half past six, which you can't get used to after a while, and actually today I have a day off, but I got up at half past six naturally anyway, because the whole body clock thing. Anyway, so we're getting to work half past seven, we print off the patient lists, because even though we have an entirely electronic system, it's still useful to have a printed off list, where you can just sit around a table and go through what needs to be done for each patient. So usually for the first 20 minutes or half an hour, we get together with the consultants, the registrars, the rest of the team, and we figure out what we need to do for each patient. So we might go down the list and be like, oh, Mr Smith, he's a day 12 post, it's off a check to me. You know, as in he had his esophagus removed 12 days ago, he's now doing well, and we're hoping to get him home tomorrow, and then some people someone writes home tomorrow. He might be like, oh, Mrs. Mrs. What's a face has a small bowel obstruction, and let's give us some gastrographin, which is like an oral contrast agent that helps the bowels move a little bit more, and then we'll do an x-ray six hours after that to see if the bowel obstruction has resolved. So after about half an hour of running through the patients and blitting through what's wrong with them, we then split up, and usually one of the juniors goes with one of the consultants, and we see half the patients, and then the other juniors goes with the other consultants, he's the other half of the patients. And then when we see the patient, it's about getting their notes up on the system. It's quite handy, because I've got the iPad with me, so I can just log into our computer system there and then, and we can therefore save time. I don't have to wait to grab one of those, you know, computer on wheels and log into the system and wait for it to load and all that stuff. So that's quite handy on the iPad, and when we're seeing the patients, we're doing things like checking their vital signs, so, you know, overnight did they spike a temperature, did the hot rate go dangerously low anything like that. We're looking at their blood tests, most patients that we're looking after have blood tests on a fairly regular basis, often daily, so we look at their bloods and make sure there's nothing disasterously wrong with them. And we're talking to the patient, asking them how the feeling, if they've got any pain, that sort of stuff, and we're trying to move them along their journey and try and discharge them in a safe fashion. So often when we see patients, we would then generate some jobs. So, for example, if a patient was complaining of continuing abdominal pain and the consultant would examine them and think, okay, I'm not happy with this. They might say, okay, let's get a CT scan for this patient, because we're querying, I don't know, appendicitis or something. And then I would write down on the iPad, my iPad, CT scan for the patient, and I'd also put it in the patient notes electronically, but it's useful to have these two copies because you don't want to then have to log into every single patient's notes to get a list of your jobs. So you put the jobs list on the patient's notes, but then you also have your own separate list on the side, which I use the upper good notes for these days. Anyway, so we do the ward round, we walk around the hospital and this usually takes an hour or two. We've seen every patient at this point, we've looked at all the bloods, we've made sure they're fine, and we have generated this random list of jobs. It's not random, it is a very reasonable list of jobs that we have to do to try and safely discharge everyone. So that's pretty standard so far, but the thing that I really like about the surgery placement is that it's a lot more, there's a lot more stuff to do than there was on my previous medicine placements. I feel like I'm constantly having to juggle things and to triage what's really important versus what's not that important, and therefore prioritizing like to do this. So it's all well I'm going to have this list of jobs, but the problem is it's not really a problem, it's a good thing to do is that we carry a bleep, and that bleep goes off a lot of times throughout the day. When stuff happens that we weren't expecting, so for example, a nurse might call us because the patient's become unwell, we might be called by the pharmacy or by the pharmacist because there's an error in one of our discharge summaries, or you know, list of drugs that the patient has to take, all these sorts of things can happen. So we as the bleep holders, as the junior doctors holding the bleep, have to be prepared for anything that happens when the bleep goes off. So here is a list of things that I had to do on that particular day, and so the ward round finished around 11am. On that day we had 33 patients, that's a bit more on the high side, we can usually manage very nicely with about 20, 25. But 10 of them were going home that day. So therefore me and the other junior doctor Joe, we had to do 10 discharge letters and 10 what's called TTOs, which means to take out which means prescribing a list of medications that the patient needs to go home with. Now this is sometimes simple. Let's say you have a 25-year-old person who has come in because of appendicitis, they had their appendix removed another going home. It's not that hard writing the discharge letter. The discharge letter is where you tell the GP, look how the doctor missed a term, whatever Jones came into hospital on the 8th of May 2019 with appendicitis, we didn't appendix to me, he recovered well, there's no routine follow-up required. That's like a three-line discharge letter and apparently GP is appreciated when you're brief about that sort of stuff. And a 25-year-old is unlikely to be on any regular medications, so you don't really have to do anything for their drugs list. But what if they're like 85 years old or actually more realistically, what are their 65 and they've got gastrocancer and they've had their stomach removed? And they've been put on a load of new painkillers for it and they've been started on a load of low molecular weight, Heparin injections to reduce the risk of a blood clot forming in the 28 days postoperative period, and also they've come in with a ton of medications and you have to change some of them. At that point it becomes a bit of a chore and something you actually have to think about to do the discharge letter and to do the drugs list. So the discharge letter is where you explain to the GP what happened in hospital and if there were any complications and how we dealt with those complications. So often, you know, if we have patients who are there for two or three weeks, it will take 20 minutes to half an hour to actually figure out, going through the notes, what was wrong with them and to turn it into a decent discharge letter that a GP would be happy with. And then you have to look at all the drugs and see like, okay, you know, do I want to send them home with coding or morphine or metasinol or what sort of painkillers do I want to send them home with? How many days of, you know, hyperin injections should I prescribe them based on when they had the operation and what sort of operation they had? There's quite a lot to think about. Some patients might be on a drug called a war friend for something called atrial fibrillation, which is an irregular heartbeat. War friend and things to blood, but sometimes we stop the war friend before they're surgery. And so we have to think about how we change the dose to restart them on the war friend. All of these various things have to be done. So on this random Friday, we had 10 different discharges to do about half of them were fairly simple, but the other half were kind of complex. And so me and Joe split the workload between us and try to bash through them as efficiently as we could, while obviously, you know, being safe about it because discharge letters are important and the drugs that people take home are also very important. And a big source of potential errors can happen due to mistakes on this on this drug chart that people take home with them anyway. So while we're doing these discharges, we've got a few other routine jobs to do. So for example, we had three ultrasound scans to organize. We like to do ultrasound for people with curly cystitis or people with bitterly colleagues. So essentially, gallstones in the gallbladder that are causing pain. And we like to do an ultrasound to look at the neck of the gallbladder to see if there's any stones in there. Then anyway, we had these three ultrasound scans to organize and organising an ultrasound scan. You would think it's easy because normally for something like a CT scan, you just phone up the radiologist and you explain the hey look. I've got the patient. This is what we think the diagnosis is. Can we do a CT scan, please? And more often than that, they'll be like, yeah, sure, that sounds reasonable, go for it. Especially because we're on a surgical ward and therefore, most of the things we're looking for are surgical problems that can be picked up on a CT scan. But when it comes to ultrasound scans, because there's not that many slots for ultrasound, you have to walk literally about three quarters of a mile all the way to the ultrasound department. Have to wait to speak to a radiologist who might be in the middle of scanning patients because they always have ultrasound to be doing. And sort of try and convince them to prioritise your ultrasound scans based on everything else in there, in there to do a list. So you have to really be prepared, you've got a really, you have to really have a story and you have to understand how urgent each specific question is. And the radiologist is usually very nice and very reasonable and kind of have a chat with them and they're very experienced doctors, far more experienced than I am. And so they ask questions and I'm like, oh, that's a good question. I should probably know the answer to that. And then we try and go on the computer system and work it out. The final thing to do, but it just takes a lot of time for one of us to physically walk all the way across the hospital to speak to a radiologist and try and book these ultrasound scans to happen at the right time. The other routine job that we had to do was we had to refer one of the patients to gynecology, because we thought they might have an abdominal problem, but actually the CT showed some kind of ovarian cyst. And we didn't think that ovarian cyst would be a big deal, but it's a sort of problem that you want to at least call gynecology about and say, hey, look, this patient has got abdominal pain. We couldn't find anything on the CT, but they have incidentally and enlarged over on the left hand side. Would you like us to do anything about it? Would you like to come and see the patient? So that had to be done. And then we also had a patient who had come into hospital with some kind of abdominal problem. We weren't sure what it was. We thought it was probably bowel obstruction and then maybe it had even perforated. A perforated bowel is a really, really, really bad thing. You have all of the bowel contents leaking into your abdomen. And you know, if that's not dealt with, it's going to cause you to get an infection and die. So that is a surgical emergency. They get rushed to theatre immediately and the abdomen gets cleared out of all the crap that's gone from the bowel into the abdomen and then they get sewn back up. But if someone is very old and very frail and are unlikely to survive emergency surgery, then becomes a point of saying, okay, I guess we have to manage this conservatively and keep them comfortable. And so we had a patient who we suspected had a bowel perforation, but there was no way that this patient was going to survive surgery. And so it became a case of referring to the positive care team and asking them for their opinion and explaining to the patient in like a nice way that we're very sorry, but there's nothing really we can do. I didn't have to have that conversation. Thankfully, I don't think I would have done well with it. The consultant was there, so he had that conversation with the patient. But we as the junior doctors then had to speak to the pilot of care team, the cardiology team, and see if there was anything else that we could do to make this patient's final few days a bit more comfortable. So that was another routine thing. And then while we're organizing these 10 discharge letters, these three ultrasound scans and this refer to positive care team, we're getting a lot more bleeps from nurses across the hospital who are looking after our patients. So for example, one thing is that when we discharge patients on control drugs like morphine and oxycodone, we have to print off a form on the system and physically sign it because control drugs have a lot more regulation behind their use. And that's fine. I can appreciate why it happens, but it's a little bit annoying when you're sitting in an office that's on one side of the hospital trying to do your discharge letters. And then you get caught about the patient that you've done the discharge for, that's literally a mile away or not a mile away. More like a kilometer away on the other side of the hospital because you have to print off their control drug form and then that involves a key being like right. This piece of paper is delaying this patient's discharge. I've just got to go, I've got to sign this form physically and I've got to give it to the pharmacy. So then we do that. There was another patient as well who I got bleeped about while I was on the way to do one of these controlled drugs form and it was a nurse saying, Oh, we've got a patient who we're trying to discharge home, but there are Jehovah's Witness, which means they're not going to consent to any kind of blood transfusion and they also don't want to be resuscitated. So they've got a DNA R, do not attempt to resuscitation in place. They've got it in place in the hospital and in the community and that's all well and good. But actually in order to get the patient home, they have to go in an ambulance because they don't have their own transport. And the ambulance crew won't take them unless they physically have a Jehovah's Witness kind of ambulance, do not resuscitate form signed because otherwise what if the patient goes to cardiac arrest in the ambulance? Like they're not legally allowed to not do anything to them unless they have a physically signed form that explains that their Jehovah's Witness and they don't want resuscitation. So then after doing the controlled drug form, I went across to the other kind of middle way in the hospital to try and figure out how to sign one of these forms. Because they've never done one of these before, but the nurses were nice about it, they explained how to do it for the other right details. Sign the form, gave it to the patient, ambulance crew came pick them up, tick them home. While this was happening, I got a few more bleeps. So one of them was about a patient who died on a ward a few days prior and any time a patient dies, they have to have a death certificate done. And this death certificate explains why they died, you know, like the causes of death. And if there was anything end, if you don't know what the cause of death is, or if there are certain other conditions that are met, then they have to be referred to her Majesty's coroner. And the coroner is like a service, I think it's run by lawyers and they are employed by the state to make sure that when people die, that we know why they died and that we know that there was no foul play that could have led to their death. So unfortunately for this patient, because they died within 24 hours of being in hospital, you know, they were going to die anyway, they had a life-threatening problem that we couldn't cure with surgery. So as they died within 24 hours, this is a sort of problem that has to be referred to the coroner by default. And so we need to do a death certificate for this patient, but then we also have to phone up the coroner's office and say, hey, look, this is the situation. And then they asked a lot of other questions about exactly why the patient came into hospital who saw them blah blah. And ultimately said, yeah, that sounds fine, feel free to issue the death certificate. So it's just one of those things that we have to do, and again, we can appreciate why it has to be done. But when you're in the middle of doing all these, all these other things, it just adds to the list of, oh, this is a bit of admin that I have to do because it's a legal requirement to phone up the coroner for patients that have died within 24 hours of admission. Okay, cool, I'll do that. So at this point, these jobs are starting to pile up. And we're slowly getting through the list and it's nice because there's two of us, and we're kind of showing the workload. But at one PM, it was a Friday, so we had our mandatory teaching, every Friday, from 1 till 2, all the F1 junior doctors get together. And we have a teaching session, and that's a requirement for our kind of educational portfolio thing. So we had to go to that, which means we couldn't do any jobs on the ward for that hour. About about 2 PM immediately after there was a patient who was becoming quite unwell. And once we had assessed the patient, we decided that we wanted to do a Venus blood gas. And a Venus blood gas is a very quick and easy way of doing a blood test to see if there's anything seriously wrong with the patients. So we can look at something called lactate, which is a marker of anaerobic respiration. That's high, that's a sign of an unwell patient. And we can look at their electrolytes like sodium and potassium to see if those are deranged. And we can look at their hemoglobin, which is basically the amount of blood cells they've got in their body to see if they've got a bleed from anywhere. So we wanted to do a VBG of Venus blood gas. And normally nurses can do Venus blood gases, which means it frees up our time as doctors to do the other stuff we have to do. Unfortunately, on this particular ward, there were no nurses that were available and trained to do a VBG. And so after seeing the patient and assessing the patient, we did one of the VBG's ourselves. We went across the hospital to the VBG machine, put in the code, put in your password, It's sort of inject the blood into the machine and it gives you a printout of the results. And then that's quite helpful. And then because we noticed that there was a drop in the patient's hemoglobin. And we thought they might need a blood transfusion to disinvolve, burning up our consultant. Who was on call and saying, hey, this patient's hemoglobin is dropped down to 74. We don't think there are any signs of bleeding based on the examination based on the history. And they had a CT scan yesterday that showed no signs of bleeding. But do you think we should do a transfusion anyway? Because it was like, yeah, okay, let's transfuse two units. But then whenever you do a blood transfusion, you have to take another blood sample from the patient to, you know, check the blood type and the antibodies against it because you don't want to have a blood transfusion reaction. And again, no nurses were available to actually take that blood, which they normally do. And so we had to go back to the patient, be sorry. We have to do another blood test because we're going to do transfusions. So we took another blood sample. Blood transfusion samples are called a group in screens. And those are kind of weird as well because there's all sorts of regulations around them. Because a blood transfusion reaction is a very, very, very terrible thing that can kill people. And so there's all sorts of checks in place at the doctor level. And at the laboratory level to make sure that the right patients blood gets transfused into the right patient. But that involves kind of labeling a thing out by labeling a format by hand. You can't just print out a label and slap it on there. You have to fill everything out by hand, explain why you're requesting it. Then request it on the system. And then physically take the blood sample down to the lab, which is another sort of five minute walk. And say, hey, can you process this urgently? We need to do a blood transfusion. So all these various things. And the interesting thing about this is that very little of the day-to-day stuff of being a doctor actually requires an extensive amount of knowledge from medical school. Like, I often speak to students who are very worried that, oh, I'm not top of my ear. Or, you know, I'm just about scraping through my exams. Or, I'm not doing that well. Does that mean I'm going to be a bad doctor? And no, not necessarily. A lot of it is about, like, the vast majority of it is about being organised and being efficient and being quick at doing stuff. Very little of it is based on having a knowledge of medical school topics. It's obviously important to be able to recognize emergencies and to deal with emergencies there and then and to be able to ask for help. Like, no one really cares whether you've memorized the, you know, the crep cycle or if you know every little detail of some hematological tendency that you're never going to come across. What matters is that you've got the basics down and that you know when to ask for help and that you're organised and that you have decent communication skills when you're talking to families and to relatives and stuff like that. So that was something that kind of surprised me about being a doctor. Like, almost anyone can do it. It's not that hard being a doctor. And this whole culture of medical school admissions is very much based on that, oh, you have to be absolutely amazing to get into medical school because you need the amazing grades because it's so, so hard. But it's not that hard, it's very, very doable. The content is interesting. And yeah, to be a good doctor, you don't have to know everything in the textbook. And I think we can become too fixated on knowing everything in the textbook and too fixated on competing against other people in our year to try and get that top prize. And really, you know, being a doctor is about being able to have it to do list. Being able to take things off appropriately. Being able to take blood in an efficient fashion when you have to. Being able to walk quickly across the hospital. Being able to phone up a specialty and say, hey, what's going on. And very occasionally to be able to deal with an unwell patient. But even then you're dealing with an unwell patient. You're following your standard ABCDE approach. You're doing a systematic thing. You're not needing to recall knowledge. Like, it's, it's, it's going to be a bad thing. If you're in the middle of an emergency and a resuscitation scenario. And you're having to remember the dose of adrenaline that you get to someone. Because the system and like the crash trolley is designed in a way that you don't have to remember this. It will physically tell you and give you a syringe that is already made out to the right dose of adrenaline. So you don't need to worry about memorizing those things. Like, adrenaline is probably a bad example. It is very useful to know exactly what the dose of adrenaline is. Just in case there are circumstances where that you haven't got an ideal scenario going on. But for things like memorizing other kind of drug doses, memorizing mechanisms of action, memorizing interactions. In a way, in this day and age, when everything about every drug is accessible on your smartphone, you don't need to memorize a lot of stuff. You don't need to know it off the top of your head. And in fact, having the, having the confidence slash arrogance that you just know things of the top of your head is one of the ways that people sometimes make mistakes. Because, you know, you think you know the dose of a drug, but you might have got a number wrong. Like, how long does it take to just look it up on your phone? It takes about five seconds. There's the official BNF, the British National Formularity app. You can just look at every hospital has their own guidelines about different drugs as well. So, being a doctor is not really about the stuff you know it's about being organized, being systematic, following the structures, following the guidelines and being able to ask for help when you were necessary. So, overall, this was a really fun day. I had a great time. And the nice thing about my general surgery placement is that it never feels as if it's dragging. Like, there's always enough stuff to do that by the end of the day I look at my watch and I'm like, Oh my God, I can't believe the whole day's past. And that's like a really nice place to be in. And it's got, okay, occasionally there are days where the work feels a bit overwhelming, but then we've always got senior support if we need it. And, you know, if there's too much stuff to do and not enough time to do it, then, you know, it's just about triaging appropriately and saying, okay, that can wait till tomorrow, that can wait till tomorrow. That's not urgent, we'll do that later, and prioritizing the urgent thing. So, that is a day in the life on the general surgery placement. I hope that was semi-pastly useful to people who are in medical school, maybe thinking of applying to medicine, or maybe just interested in what happens as a junior doctor on a surgery placement. Yeah, thank you very much for watching. If you liked the video, please give it a thumbs up. If you haven't subscribed to the channel, then please consider doing so. Have a lovely day, and I will see you in the next video. Goodbye.
