# My Favourite Productivity Book
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8NBhJy_GopM
To see the full interview with John about Make Time on Nebula, sign up to CuriosityStream - https://curiositystream.com/ali and use the code ALI at checkout to get free access to Nebula.

In this episode of book club we're talking about Make Time by Jake Knapp and John Zeratsky. We look at the factors making life busier, the 4 part framework proposed in the book as well as some of the tactics that they suggest we can use to help us make time for what matters in our lives. Enjoy!

Timestamps:
01:10 Why is life so busy?
02:56 The Four Part Framework
03:50 Step 1 - Highlight
05:20 Step 2 - Laser
08:28 Step 3 - Energise
10:45 Step 4 - Reflect

📚Make Time by Jake Knapp and John Zeratsky - https://geni.us/vzDlPbD

📕Book Club Episode 1 - What Makes People Successful? 
📚The Unfair Advantage by Ash Ali and Hasan Kubba -  https://geni.us/e83Ll

📘Book Club Episode 2 - Tiny Changes Remarkable Results https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YT7tQzmGRLA
📚Atomic Habits by James Clear - https://geni.us/atomichabitsbook

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
😃  How to be Happier - Stoicism Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/stoicism

MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️ My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝 My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
📚 How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵 Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
🌐 My website platform (Ghost) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost
🎤 My podcast hosting platform (Transistor) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/transistor

OTHER RECOMMENDED COURSES
📔 Effortless Output with Roam Research - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/roam
📓 Building a Second Brain - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/basb

🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, make time, Make Time, Jake Knapp, John Zeratsky, habits, habit, productivity, Productivity, daily highlight, schedule, focus, how to be more productive, life advice, life changing advice, Book Club, book club, 2020, productivity 2020, how to focus on what matters, how to make time, 
**Date:** 2020-06-23

## Transcript
 In the modern world, we've all got an endless list of stuff that we could be doing. The more we get done, the more we have to do. If we want to make time for the most important stuff, the stuff that actually matters, we can't just do it by spinning our gears faster and faster. Instead, we need a more holistic approach to our daily routines, priorities, and lives. Hey friends, welcome back to the channel into the third episode of Book Club, the series where I summarized the key insights and ideas from some of my favorite books. And today, we're talking about make time by Jake Knapp and John Zarappsky how to focus on what matters every day. Jake and John both used to work at Google, they spent their careers designing products like Gmail, YouTube, and Google Hangouts, so they've got a unique insight into why these services are so compelling and how to prevent them from taking over our lives. Make time is a sort of productivity book, but it presents this four-part framework for how we can focus on the things that matter most to us. And on top of that, between these four bits of the framework, we've got 87 different tactics in the book. And kind of one of the main premises is that it's not a very kind of prescriptive productivity book. It's more a case of recognizing that there's no one size fits all the approach to productivity. And so the point is that you have a look through, you understand the framework, and then you sort of pick and choose the tactics that work for you. But before we get to the framework and the tactics, let's start with an important question, and that is, why is life so busy? So there's two main things that contribute to this, but the main ones are the busy bandwagon and infinity pools. The busy bandwagon is the idea that being busy is somehow a badge of honor. We all, and I'm definitely guilty of this as well, we try and squeeze productivity into every minute of the day. And at least for me, even if I'm taking a break, I feel a little bit guilty that I'm not doing something quite useful with that time. In a way, it's this constant fear that if I slow down, I'm going to fall behind. And even when we have so much to be grateful for, like at least for me, there is still this fear that it's all going to come crashing down, unless I keep going at a hundred miles per hour. Then we've got infinity pools. So infinity pools are the apps and services, websites, whatever, anything in our life that has sort of an infinite supply of content that is always refreshing. There's always more water in the pool. You can jump back in at any time, but you actually call it a kryptonite, disfaction kryptonite in the book. You know, we have this thing that just as a kryptonite renders superman powerless, you know, this whatever app it is and whatever service it is, it sort of makes us powerless to resist. The busy bandwagon defaults to endless tasks, the infinity pools defaults to endless destruction. Okay, so we've identified the problems, the busy bandwagon and the infinity pools, but the issue is that without a proper framework for dealing with this, we tend to rely on willpower. Our kind of philosophy with that stuff is that because those become habitual actions, they're not things where you're actively deciding to go and spend time on that service or that app, but you're doing it out of habit that you can't rely on willpower to contract that force, and there's actually a ton of research on this, so this is not an original observation, but what is habits versus willpower, like the habits are going to win. So what we need is a system that we can build a productive habits around, and that is where the full part framework comes in. Make time is based on a simple structure of four steps repeated every day. Highlight, laser, energize, and reflect. When we started to write about this stuff, we wanted it to be not a single recipe, step one, step two, step three, but more like a cookbook, and so we wanted to have a lot of different recipes that you could use, depending on what worked for you, what clicked for you. Imagine you get a cookbook, and there's a bunch of different stuff. Nobody gets a cookbook, and they're like, all right, page one, first recipe, time to make it, you know, nobody does that, you kind of flip through, you find things that look good to you, and so that's the way the book is structured, and then we kind of put this framework around it, and we said like, we don't care which tactics you use, we don't care if you use a tactic center in the book or other stuff, but we think that if you kind of think about those tactics, those specific things that you're doing, think if those follow or kind of fit into this four step framework, you're going to be successful. The first step is deciding what we want to actually make time for, and that involves figuring out what is our daily highlight. The highlight of hypothesis is that if you set a single intention of the start of each day, we predict you'll be more satisfied, joyful, and effective. The idea of the daily highlight is that each day will choose a single activity that will prioritize and protect in our calendar. The highlight can kind of be anything, it can be finishing off a piece of work, or you know, doing a workout, or even just going for a walk. It's not the only thing that we're going to be doing, but it's the thing that we want to definitely make time for that day. As Jake and John say in the book, focusing on a daily highlight stops the tug of war between infinity pool distractions and the demands of the busy bandwagon. It reveals a third path, being intentional and focused about how you spend your time. Since reading this book a few months ago, every single day I now set for myself a daily highlight, and that's the thing that I have to get done. And even though I've got a load of other things on my to do this, I just always make sure that that is the one thing that I do. The next step is how do we pick our highlight each day, and it can literally be whatever you want, but John and Jake say that if you're struggling to pick a daily highlight, you can think of it in one of three ways urgency, satisfaction, and joy. The point is, as long as we set a focus for the day, that allows us to kind of make time for it. And in the book, they've got seven different tactics for how to figure out what our daily highlight is, and then they've got a lot of different methods for actually making the time for that highlight. The one that I use is that each morning, whether I'm doing my daily check-in on notion, or if I'm writing it down on a piece of paper, I would just write a little h, and that will be my highlight of the day. And then when I'm planning my day out, in my head, I will kind of plan out okay, I want to do my daily highlight between two and four PM today. So now that we've picked our daily highlight, step number two in the four part framework is laser. And the laser hypothesis is that if you create barriers around the busy bandwagon and infinity pools, we predict that you'll focus your attention like a laser beam. And this is all about defense. So if the first step is offense, you know, what do I want to make time for? Laser is defense. So it's how do I manage my attention? How do I avoid getting sucked into all the other stuff that's going on in the world so that I can stay focused on that thing that matters? And this is where our background as tech designers really, I think, comes in handy, because we can share sort of this behind the scenes approach of like, okay, this is why this stuff is distracting. Our philosophy there is to really kind of understand those mechanisms so that you can cut them off. You can like break those habit loops so that you don't have to like, you know, cleanse your fists and like use willpower to like resist checking stuff. It's just not there for you. And here's another nice quote from the book. They say that when distraction is hard to access, you don't have to worry about willpower. You can channel your energy into making time instead of wasting it. So at the point is, because we know we're going to get distracted by devices, you know, the instant gratification of these infinity pools, we need to ramp up the friction so that it physically makes it harder to use the things. The book actually has 44 different tactics that we can pick and choose from to manage all of the various distractions in our lives and to really laser down. Obviously that's way too many for a YouTube video, but there were a few that were new to me when I read it a few months ago and that have actually started using in my life. So we've got 23 skipped the morning check in, 30, watch out for time creators, 32 turn distractions into tools, 39, reset expectations, 50, explode your highlight and 60, go all in. If you want to find out more about those than firstly, cover copy the book. It's a very good book. But secondly, John and I discussed quite a lot of these in depth during our like two hour long conversation. If you want to check it out, the whole two hour uncut interview is available on Nebula and what we started doing recently as well is that with all of the deep divers that I'm doing, we're kind of cutting them up into bite size chunks for a new bite size series on Nebula. If some reason you haven't heard Nebula is an independent streaming platform that me and a bunch of other creative friends are helping to build. It's not like a competitor to YouTube, but it's a place where we can put random content like a two hour interview or like you know 10 bits of bite size or kind of really niche videos where I talk about my productivity workflows. To get access to Nebula, the best ways to sign up to curiosity stream who are very kindly sponsoring this video, curiosity stream is the world's leading documentary streaming platform with thousands of documentaries covering health, finance, nature, history, geography, basically anything you can think of. And the best news is that if you sign up to curiosity stream, which is $3 a month, $20 a year, you get free access to Nebula. So you get access to all of my deep dive series, the uncut interviews, also everything in the bite size series, which are the bite size versions, you also get access to my workflow series, which at the moment has 15 videos where I deep dive into some of my favorite productivity apps. So if that sounds good and you want access to thousands of documentaries, along with my exclusive content, along with exclusive content from people like Tom Scott, Thomas Frank, Wendover Productions and Legal Eagle, then head over to curiositystream.com for what's slash alley and use the coupon code alley at checkout. That will give you an email that gives you a Nebula login details and this is literally the single best deal in streaming. Anyway, going back to the book, the third part of the process is energize. And the energize hypothesis is that if you live a little more like a prehistoric human, we predict your enhanced your mental and physical energy. The third step is a bit different and it's about energy. And so it's kind of based on the idea that like when we're reading about or thinking about you know how we're spending our time or focused on, we tend to focus on our brains, you know, it's all about the decisions that we're making and those types of things. But but we've all felt we all kind of experienced this struggle that if your body's not well, your brain doesn't work, you know, you don't get enough sleep, you drank too much, you whatever it might be. Like you know that feeling is there, but our culture does not encourage us to think about our bodies and brains as being one system. So that's why that's why step three energize is there. And it's all about really simple ways that you can take care of yourself so that you have energy for that stuff that you that you really care about. Like this stuff is really important. And I know I don't pay as much attention to it as I should. Like for me, I love finding and discovering a new productivity app that will change my workflow and make a video about it and all but actually, if I just focused on sleeping on time, eating well and drinking lots of water and exercising, that would probably do more to boost my productivity than discovering a room research or notion or whatever fancy new app is popular this week. And I've actually learned quite a few things about food, sleep, exercise and caffeine from reading make time. Tactics 70 in the list, for example, is pretty cool. Before reading that, I'd wake up in the morning and the first thing I do would be to drink a cup of coffee to kind of wake myself up. But what they say here is that our bodies like natural cortisol wakes us up about an hour after we first wake up and so we should then let the caffeine kick in at that point because that keeps us awake for longer and it also means we're not interfering with our own bodies cortisol mechanisms. And tactic 84 for example is fake the sunset and that's this idea that our bodies are designed to go to sleep when we see the sun setting so when all the light gets warm. But the problem is that with all our devices and stuff we've got this like blue light glaring at us at all times and so after reading that what I started to do is I switched the Phillips Unite Bobbs and the whole house to have a very warm glow and I've got these like blue light blocking glasses that I add to my actual glasses a few hours before bed and that makes everything go yellow which means I'm kind of blocking the blue light and in theory that should increase the quality of my sleep or something like that as ridiculous as they look. And finally all three of these steps would be kind of pointless if we didn't then reflect on what we're doing to see if it actually makes a difference to our day. For the step might actually be the most important because it's one that I think is oftentimes missing and it's reflect and it's all about kind of looking back every day and taking notes on what worked for you and so this is where it kind of this do it yourself sort of adjust and adapt part of the the philosophy comes in. This is kind of the mechanism for going through all those 87 recipes and finding the ones that work is this idea of this daily reflection. So step four is all about reflecting on our day and at the end of the book they've got this sample template that we can use to base our own daily reflection off of and so my daily reflection that I do at the end of each day on notion I've built a notion template using input from make time and also from my friend Valentin who did a deep dive with more of Nebula about that if you want to check it out and also from a fantastic book called Storyworthy by Matthew Dix and I don't want to do a book club episode on at some point in the future. At the end of our deep dive interview I also join if you had any parting advice for the people watching. The most important thing that I want people to take away from from this interview and from all the work that I do is that you need to find a way to establish your own system. You need to kind of get in the routine and the habit of experimenting and trying things and and sort of believe that your time and your attention and your energy are yours to design and to experiment with and you need to do that because you know you can't just you can't just do what somebody else says to do you can't just like read a book and follow the steps in your life will be perfect. You've got to kind of take ownership of that. Make your time your own experiment with it and figure out what works for you. This whole productivity stuff isn't about reading a book or watching a video and then that's it. We should all be in control of our own time and if we're not then we need to understand a framework, experiment with different techniques and ultimately make time our own. Thank you for watching.
