# The Best Productivity Apps for Students
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=94emc6eqllE
🎬 Check out my FREE 36-video online class on how to study for exams - https://skl.sh/2UOx68x 

In this video, I'm joined by Francesco from the YouTube channel Keep Productive. We discuss 6 categories of apps that we used (and still use) for productivity and studying. Enjoy xx

How I use Notion (on Francesco's channel) - https://youtu.be/VOJPtvCfvxk

TIMESTAMPS

00:34 - Flashcards - Anki, Quizlet
02:06 - Note-taking - Evernote, OneNote, Notion
04:37 - Handwritten note-taking - Notability 
07:02 - To-do lists - Todoist, Google Sheets
09:12 - Pomodoro Timers - Forest
10:52 - Journalling - Day One, physical journal 
12:51 - Closing remarks 

WATCH THESE OTHER STUDY-THEMED VIDEOS TOO
1. My most popular video introducing Active Recall - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ukLnPbIffxE
2. My 2nd most popular video about Spaced Repetition - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z-zNHHpXoMM
3. How to learn new content - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fBXnxlLR0PY
4. The Retrospective Revision Timetable - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=b7o09a7t4RA
5. A playlist of my study tips videos - https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL7BImOT2srcGCCjBBwNvU5zaB9F30lWye

--------

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
😃  How to be Happier - Stoicism Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/stoicism

TOOLS OF THE TRADE:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk
📚  How I remember what I read - Readwise - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali
What I Use For Analytics - https://go.aliabdaal.com/tubebuddy
🌐 My website platform (Ghost) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost

OTHER RECOMMENDED COURSES
📔 Effortless Output with Roam Research - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/roam
📓 Building a Second Brain - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/basb

🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** productivity apps, study tips, keep productive, francesco dalessio, keep productive notion, notion app, college apps, best apps, school apps, best productivity apps, apps for school, apps for students, apps for studying, apps i use for school, how to learn, how to be productive, college hacks, ali abdaal, ali abdaal apps, 
**Date:** 2019-05-18

## Transcript
 Hey guys, welcome back to the channel. If you're new here, my name is Ali, I'm a junior doctor working in Cambridge and today I'm joined by the lovely Francesco. Hello, Francesco has a YouTube channel called Keep Productive. Keep Productive is mainly about productivity apps. So we review tons of software to help you make the best decision whether you're a student or professional. And in this video, we're going to be talking about six different categories of productivity apps for students. So we're going to be talking about flash cards, note taking, handwritten note taking, planning out and timetables and stuff, put Madora with timers and journals. Yeah, I think that's what we're talking about. You know that, yes, I've got one take, that was only one take. Okay, so let's start with flash cards software and the main one that I used to use in my time as a medical student was Ankey. Have you come across Ankey before? Yeah, it's quite a reliable one. Quite a rather one. Yeah, that's it. And people like Tim Ferris wholeheartedly endorse the use of Ankey for things like learning languages. Another one you could use is Quizlets. They both have the pros and cons. I think ultimately both Ankey and Quizlet do pretty much exactly the same thing. I think Ankey is probably a bit better for, you know, being able to input stuff very quickly because you can type really far as you can use keyboard shortcuts or as Quizlet has a bit of a nicer interface. And one nice thing about Quizlet is that it's very easy to get other people's decks. And for example, with in with in medicine, people will have made tons of decks for things like Anatemy, Physiology, Biochemistry. Ankey is a bit harder. You have to like download an Ankey deck package. But it's again, they pretty much did the same thing. So once you've done a question, you know, you see a flash card, you recall the contents of that flash card because obviously active, recalled the best way to learn. And then you can mark it as, you know, you want to see the card again or you're, or it's good. And it's just this, the space repetition algorithm for Ankey. And it also Quizlet is really good because it takes into account how difficult you find something. And then let's you advance from there. I think with Quizlet as well, the feature that I particularly love is like you're mentioning the sort of templates people pre-create them just saves you a load of work. And you can pretty much go in and just copy. And then when you build that sort of comfortable experience, and you can actually go and create your own ones, which is perfect. Yeah, so that's flash cards software, flash cards software, pretty fantastic for all students in general. Let's move on to the next category. So the next category is note taking. So I used a really popular resource for students when I was in university. If I didn't necessarily have all the focus I needed to in the lecture, I'd just hit the audio recording button. And I found that really useful. You can also like, on this one, I was importing like diagrams, pictures, power points, and PDFs as well, that the, the teacher was sending over. And then I just had them all consolidated in one place. And I also used note book titles to organize like, for example, like this one, ECN was apparently economics. Oh, okay. We're trying probably didn't listen in. But it allowed me just to take notes and also when I wanted to come back to notebooks for later, I could quite easily do that. So I used Microsoft one of those when I was at university. And I pretty much used it to scan in all of my handwritten notes. And then so for example of here, this was a supervision we had on genital urinary slash mail pathology about different testicular tumors and renal cell carcinoma and all this stuff. So this was a supervision that our one of our seniors Christopher Sing gave. And I've scanned it on my notes. And what I can do if this will sink is I can then elaborate on these using the fact that one note has an infinite horizontal canvas. I can make extra notes. I can screenshot bits from the internet, from different textbooks, shove them into my notes. And then I have this big document that it's got my handwritten notes that I've taken in the lecture because that's what kept me awake. And then I can expand on it if I feel like it. To be honest, I don't really use one note anymore because I recently discovered notion. And notion is an ad that you're an absolute expert on. I'm a bit obsessed with it. If you search notion on YouTube, every video that you find is pretty much from your channel. So I started watching your videos about notion and realized, okay, I think this will revolutionise things for students. And now the way I use notion, so for example, this is MRCP, the membership for the Royal College of Physicians. And I've got all my subjects and what I do is I categorize everything within a subject into these toggle lists. So for example, I find it really useful to just fully break apart a whole subject, just into a series of various different toggles. And that forces me to systematize it in my own, in my own head. But also let me do things like add active recoil questions before all my notes. But I'll talk much more about that and we'll do a full deep dive into notion on the video on your channel. Yes, which will be coming out hopefully at the same time as this. So we'll put a link in the video description and you can check that out to see it in much, much, much more detail if you're into that sort of thing. Okay, so our next category of apps is handwritten note taking apps. And I've made a whole video about how I use noteability on my iPad Pro to take notes in medical school. And I still use that to this day. I use noteability to plan out all my videos, but also if I ever need to take notes, if I'm in a talk or in a lecture, it pretty much keeps me awake. I don't know about you. It's very easy to tell. Yeah, it makes it a lot more fun as well because you can combine colors and highlights. So yeah, it's perfect. And while taking notes as a method for studying, the evidence shows that it's not very good. And I'll link to a video done I'm talking about the evidence. I still think I still quite like taking notes in lectures because purely for the reason that it keeps me awake. And it means that if I do want to sort of look up things in a later day, I can just note them down and then look them up later and turn them into flashcards, turn them into questions, that sort of thing. So this is for example a look at my oski notes. So I would pretty much take things from various different places and I'd expand on them. So for example, Oxford System was closed stroke classification. I screenshot of this from from a lecture slide. This is a PDF from oskistop.com, which I have highlighted and expanded on. And I've just created this kind of master document where I've used so many resources, kind of taken photos of my physical notes, taken taken photos from courses that I've been to. So that I just create this master document. But I'm not doing it because taking the notes is useful. I'm doing it because it kept me awake in the lecture and it gives me the single source of truth. Almost that I can then build my questions on. And I'll put a link to my oski google spreadsheet where I had all these in question format. So I actually hear, for example, you can see, so I've got this, you know, courses of what are we talking about Parkinsonism. So I've written my, I've written for myself courses, management, MX and N-stage, N-stage features of Parkinson's to these. So when I look at these notes, I'm not just reading through them. I'm asking myself all these questions and thinking, okay, do I actually know what the causes of Parkinsonism are? Do I actually know what the management is? That's sort of stuff. But yeah, no debilities of one that I use for all my handwritten notes to this day. And even for like planning out videos, you know, a video about motivation, video about, you know, productivity, this is where I would plan all this stuff. So let's just find really nice to write with the apple pencil. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I was just saying, I probably want to get one just for the sake of having that. It's really nice. Yeah, super, super legit. So for the fourth category, we're going to talk about to do list applications. One of my personal favourites is to do it. I use this one as my daily task manager, so I tend to just plan ahead on what sort of task I've got going coming on. So like, today's like organised goals, tomorrow's like get some documentary edited and an exact trend and small stuff. And you can organise in terms of projects. So I have two main simple ones. But if you were a student, you could have, for example, like one per module you're working on. You also got labels as well. So if you wanted to create like a duration on it, so you want to set like 20 minutes per task or for example, you want to associate it to like editing or writing or studying, then you can do that all in one. So I've tried using so many different to do list applications over the years. I think the one that I sort of used as a student was one to list and then I switched over to things a few months ago. But actually now, I don't really have a to do this manager. And actually the one I used most often as a student to manage my time was actually Google Sheets. And I used my retrospective revision time table for that, which I've done a video on, which will be linked up there somewhere. Essentially, I would after revising a topic, after active recalling stuff in that topic, I would write down the date. So for example, here I did the respiratory examination, the second of April. And then again, the 13th April, and then again on the Friday before the exam. And if I was feeling, if I was feeling pro, I would color code these based on how good I was at the subject at the time. So I found this is being a good kind of hybrid for actually having stuff to do. But so that each day I could decide what I wanted to do based on what I was weakest at. And the question I'd be asking myself every day is what topic if it came up in the exam tomorrow would I be least happy about? And I would just kind of target my revision based on that. Because I tried doing to do lists and other stuff like that, and I found that I was just a not sticking to them and be like not really planning for stuff that happened along the way. Like, you know, might be going out and went out with friends or people might come over for board games. And it just kind of ended up it changes your whole schedule. So yeah, I used Google Sheets for that. But you know, I think there are so many people swear by to do this application. So you should probably try some of those out if you feel like it. All right. So next on the list is abs for Pomodoro timers and Pomodoro. I think it's a Italian for tomato. It is. Yeah. Yeah. And a tomato timer is just like the this method whereby you work for 25 minutes or or something. And then you have a rest for five minutes. And then you repeat the process. And the main idea is that after four Pomodoro's then you take a longer half an hour break, for example. So when we were studying together, me and all my friends would get together in the Emmanuel College library. And we'd all do Pomms together. We said a little WhatsApp group called Pomsock, like Pomodoro Society. That's still running to this day actually. I'd five years later. Which is really good. And we used to do this thing where we'd start a 25 minute timer. Hello. We'd start a 25 minute timer. We'd do a tap on the table, which means that the timer is starting. And then when the time will end, we would do another tap. And then everyone would kind of relax. And then we'd kind of whisper chat for about five minutes or do our own thing. And then we go double tap, which means that the time is going to start again. And there's just a really nice way to make studying into these bite-sized chunks, especially when doing it with friends. It was quite yeah. It was a good decent amount of banter when you're like, you know, all pumping together doing different things. Yeah, I like that as well because like, the good thing is you're planning breaks at the same time. So you're not going to interrupt each other's flow when it's in studying. And 25 minutes is not a long period of time. So that's quite nice. And in five minutes is the perfect break time. And in terms of what forest actually does, what it does is that you plant a tree and then the tree grows. But if you go off the app on your phone, then the tree dies. So it's a way of forcing yourself to not go on your phone while studying. And I found that to be quite helpful. Yeah, definitely. So the next kind of green would be diving into journaling. Allie uses day one, which is a really strong journal application. Maybe we'll dive into it. Yeah, so day one is just really good. It's very, very easy to input stuff into it. And I've got three different journals. I've got like a journal journal for, you know, that kind of daily journal, but I don't do it every day. I probably should do it every day. And it's really nice to look back through some of my older journals from when I was a student. And I, you know, talk about some of the angst that I was feeling in the third year. And all this sort of stuff that I like back on to think, wow, I can't believe I would like that. But you know, it's quite entertaining to read through. And I also have a journal for nice comments. So whenever I get a nice comment on Instagram, or YouTube or something, I screenshot it and just share it to this journal. And if I'm feeling sad or anything, I just kind of browse through the nice comments folder. So that's how I use day one for journaling. But you use actually a physical. It's quite nice, actually. It's I reaffirming that, you know, you, yeah, it's nice like awesome stuff. Yeah, I use a physical journal. This is a confident, barren fake. And I've been using these for like maybe two or three years now. So I have like four or five of these at home now full. And I can go back like you did and just like see what I was thinking. The reason why I like like a physical journal is because sometimes the handwriting tells a bit of a story and like how you were, how you're feeling. And that's quite nice. So I look a bit crazy in this. But I tend to do it like every two to three days and it's mainly just how I feel and how I approach life. And that's quite a lot of evidence behind journaling as a thing and how even writing down a few things that you're grateful for thanks for for each day. It does more to boost your personal happiness than for example doubling your salary. And we all work so hard to make money and yet, you know, it's simple things like just, you know, being thankful for stuff in life. But it's supposedly according to the evidence at least helps up sound 100%. So that was a look at six different categories of productivity, sort of apps that we would recommend for students. We've got two more videos on your channel. One of them is going to be a deep dive into how I use notion as like a note-taking method for exam preparation. And another one is going to be about general productivity tips for students where we're going to be having a discussion. We're going to probe you, probe your brain. So hopefully that's what you're doing. That sounds weird. So hopefully that'll be good. We'll put links in the description below. And please do check out Francesco's channel hit the subscribe button. Yeah. So if you like the video, please give it a thumbs up. If you haven't subscribed to this channel or to Francesco's channel, then please consider doing so. By the way, both of us have a podcast. You can find mine at notoverthinking.com. And mine at TulsayUs. podcast. TulsayUs. TulsayUs. TulsayUs. TulsayUs. Nice. We have to get you on. All right. Thanks for watching. And we'll see you in the next video. Bye guys. Bye. Great. Yeah, I was awesome. Have a lovely day. And oh, by the way, both of us have a podcast. Yeah, have you got a podcast? Yeah, yeah, yeah. So in 321, I'm going to press the Enter key. And this is going to be a sink point. Three, two, one. Cool. It's a future alley. The delby for future alley. And I'll be so happy that I've done that. Okay. Shall we go for it? Yeah, let's go for it.
