# Study with Me - Hustle & Chill
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9otYs7w7DBY
To improve your thinking and learning skills, visit https://brilliant.org/ali and sign up for free. The first 200 people will get 20% off the annual Premium subscription :)

Hey friends, in today's video we're going to be studying for USMLE and trying to be as productive as possible while hanging out with friends.

Check out my Anki class here: https://www.skillshare.com/classes/Learn-Anything-With-Flashcards-The-Ultimate-Guide-To-Anki/1530220171/projects?via=user-profile

MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️ My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝 My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
📚 How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵 Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
🌐 My website platform (Ghost) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost
🎤 My podcast hosting platform (Transistor) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/transistor

OTHER RECOMMENDED COURSES
📔 Effortless Output with Roam Research - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/roam
📓 Building a Second Brain - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/basb

🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, study with me, vascular pathology, hypertension, notion for studying, study with me notion, study with me ali abdaal, ali abdaal study with me, how to revise, ali abdaal vlog, junior doctor, medical school, how to study, study tips, revision tips, how to be productive, study motivation, ali abdaal day in the life, studying, ali, how to study effectively, study tips for exams, exam revision, how to revise for exams, study hacks, studytube, 
**Date:** 2020-08-11

## Transcript
 Hey friends, welcome back to the channel and to get another study with me video in which I'll be preparing for the U.S. MLE Step 1 because I'm vaguely considering moving to America for my medical residency. The day starts at 830 when I wake up, negotiate myself out of bed, have a quick shower and make my morning cup of coffee. Then I spend some time tidying up the living room before sitting down at 10am for a Zoom call with an animations company that I might be interested in working with. We have a bit of banter and talk business and then at 1040 I get ready for my study session by warming up some breakfast food and setting up my twitch live study with me stream. At 1051 I start streaming myself studying which a makes it more fun and b encourages me to actually work and not just waste time. Generally everyone should try this. It's super easy. Anyway here I'm going through the incredible pathology resource pathoma with a PDF of their textbook open on one side of the screen and the videos and my notion notes on the other side. As I'm watching the videos at double speed of course I'm writing out questions that I'll test myself on later. This is active recall in action. The most efficient study technique of all time has shown by decades of research. I'm writing out questions for myself and then using the toggle feature on notion to hide the answers. For some of the answers I'm typing them out, but for others I'm just screen shopping bits from the video or from the textbook to save myself time. This chapter is vascular pathology and so I start by going over the large, medium and small vessel vascularities before moving on to hypertension. After 35 minutes of this I find myself losing concentration and so I take a 20 minute break to chat to viewers and answer questions from the live chat. By the way if you're not already please follow me on twitch I'm going to be streaming a lot of studying and productivity stuff on there and maybe doubling in the occasional video game too if I can talk myself into taking a break occasionally. From 1150 to 1230 I finish off the vascular pathology chapter on Pathoma, going over the sections on arterioscarosis, dissections and aneurysms and vascular tumours. Once that's done I need a break so I make some coffee and show off the chemics to the stream viewers to increase my street cred. With the freshly brewed cup of coffee in my hand I think about doing some more active recall and then decide to screw it and instead apply for twitch partnership, annoyingly a few days later they've rejected my application because apparently I'm not famous enough on YouTube to justify being made a twitch partner. This is very sad. Oh well I'm totally over it now. Once I've sent the application off I do some active recall of some of the previous chapters in Pathoma. I start from the bottom of chapter one and work my way back. I quite like starting from the back of stuff and working in reverse because otherwise it's way too tempting to just know the first few pages really well and neglect the stuff that comes later. What I'm doing here is delayed active recall and testing myself on stuff that I did a few weeks ago to take advantage of the space repetition effect to combat the forgetting curve in memory. As I go through my notes and test myself on the material I'm color coding stuff that I've forgotten in red. If there's stuff that I haven't understanding gap in I'll google it and read up on the thing on Wikipedia probably and then color code it in red so that next time if I want to save time I'll just test myself on the stuff that I got wrong the previous time. As you can see there's a lot of red here because I'm a total waste man but no actually forgetting stuff and getting stuff wrong is a necessary and important part of learning so if you're a student and you're watching this please don't ever think you're a dumbass if you get stuff wrong. Getting stuff wrong and correcting it is literally how we learn there is nothing to be ashamed of at least that's what I tell myself to make myself feel better. After doing the session of delayed active recall on old material I do 45 minutes of immediate active recall. I testing myself on the vascular pathology stuff that I did that morning just to reactivate any bits of knowledge slipped away in the past two hours. At 2pm my friend Asad arrives and because he's also preparing for the U.S. Emily we have a cheeky group study session. We start by attempting to go through some of the past paper questions from the ambos question bank and for an hour we bash through these questions and get less than 10% of them right. Damn this exam is really quite hard. At 315 we've both had enough of being absolutely destroyed by this exam and so we set up some pre-made anchidics, quick the settings a bit to get to the level that we want and bash through various cards. We start out sitting at the desk together and after a while we move over to the sofa controlling anky with the wireless keyboard by the way I've got a skill thread class on how to use anky from beginning to end that you can check out link in the video description. Anyway at 430pm after an hour of casually working through the flashcards we decide we've had enough and so we go outside to play. For 20 minutes we dabble around on a saved skateboard and then at 5pm I lie on the sofa like a total waste man. For around 30 minutes I just sit there scrolling through Twitter and hating myself but then at 530 I remember that I'm actually a productivity guru and I'm going to get kicked off YouTube if I keep this up. So at 530 I decide to do something ultra productive and continue an online course on Brilliant who are very kindly sponsoring this video. Brilliant is a fantastic app that has interactive online courses for maths, science and computer science subject and I find that whenever I'm in a productivity slump like right now doing a few lessons are working through the daily challenges on Brilliant really fives up my mind and gives me a second wind of activation energy for work. I'm working my way through their computer science series these days trying to build a more legit understanding of the field. I quite like working through the courses because they have a lot of interactive elements and challenges along the way which helps exercise my mind in a nice guided fashion. If you also think that learning is quite fun and you want to join me in taking some of these courses on Brilliant head over to Brilliant.org slash Ali and the first 200 people to visit that link will get 20% of the annual premium subscription. Anyway at 6pm a saved gets back to the house with some crisps and chocolate and we collectively decide that we've had enough of studying for one day so we decide to write the rest of the day off. Alright guys I'm having a bit of a problem right now because I'm feeling super unproductive and can't be bothered to do anything useful. I feel like my eyes are closing and I'm thinking enough sleep overnight and question is what do we do now? I could power through and try and actually do some work but they I'm going to take advantage of the right of principle just something that I came up with a few months ago. The idea is that if you're feeling like you're in an unproductive slump like I'm right now and you just to write the rest of the day off and then you can kind of do fun stuff so yeah today is officially a right off if you've done enough work in the morning by the way please follow me on twitch if you want to see more of my streams I'll be doing the daily from like August. So now my place and place and place and place and place and place and place and place and place me outside to do something other than work so let's do it. We jam out on the guitar for a bit and then I set up a two player board game called Lord of the Rings the confrontation that I saved plays with me for the first time. One side or the good guys and they have to get Frodo to Mount Doom but the other side are the baddies and they have to kill Frodo to win the game. We end up playing this for just over an hour and then spend the next few hours watching clips from random Korean dramas on YouTube and eating takeaway as a nice chill end to the reasonably productive day of studying. Thank you so much for watching.
