# Recommended Tech for Students 🎧📱
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9VXC9fWQ_aI
Try Dashlane Premium free for 30 days here: https://www.dashlane.com/abdaal
The first 200 people to purchase get 10% off with coupon code ABDAAL

In this video, I talk through 5 products that added a lot of value to my life as a student, and which I would recommend to others. Enjoy xx

Links:
1. Sony A6000 - http://geni.us/sonyA6000aa 
2. My favourite lens for the a6000 - Sigma 30mm f1.4 - https://geni.us/sigma30mmf14
3. Kindle Paperwhite - https://geni.us/kindlePaperwhiteNew
4. Energie Remote Control Sockets - https://geni.us/energie
5. Bose QC35 - https://geni.us/qc35aa
6. UE Roll - https://geni.us/UERollaa
7. My Spotify Study with Me Playlist - http://bit.ly/AliStudyWithMe

--------

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
😃  How to be Happier - Stoicism Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/stoicism

TOOLS OF THE TRADE:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk
📚  How I remember what I read - Readwise - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali
What I Use For Analytics - https://go.aliabdaal.com/tubebuddy
🌐 My website platform (Ghost) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost

OTHER RECOMMENDED COURSES
📔 Effortless Output with Roam Research - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/roam
📓 Building a Second Brain - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/basb

🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** back to school, top tech, back to school tech, school supplies, karl conrad, best tech, back school, student tech, college tech, best affordable tech 2019, back to school haul, cool tech, back to school shopping, best tech for students 2019, best tech for college students, best tech for students, ali abdaal, tech essentials, 
**Date:** 2019-03-26

## Transcript
 This video is kindly sponsored by Dashlane. Keep your digital life secure and never forget a password ever again. Hey guys, welcome back to the channel. If you're new here, my name is Ali. I'm a junior doctor working in Cambridge and in this video I want to talk through five pieces of tech that added an enormous amount of value to my own life when I was a student and are therefore pieces of tech that I would recommend to everyone else. Okay, before we get started, I'm going to skip over two things immediately. Firstly, everyone needs a phone, a phone is essential. I'm not going to talk about that. But secondly, everyone also needs a laptop and the whole debate between whether you can really replace your laptop with an iPad or an iPad Pro is not something I want to go into here. I've done videos about it. I think personally a laptop is pretty much an essential purchase for students. You can sort of just about get by with an iPad Pro but you'll have to make a lot of sacrifices along the way and the software of the iPad Pro is not quite there yet to replace a laptop. Feel free to get a surface if you want best of both worlds. But yeah, a phone essential laptop slash tablet essential. That's not too interesting. Let's talk about the interesting stuff. So let's get started with the first thing on this list and that is a mirrorless camera mirrorless instead of DSLR because they're small and compact and you can take them literally wherever you go. This is the one that I'd recommend for everyone. This is the Sony A6000. It's a few years old but you can get it for less than $300 at this point and a decent lens for it will cost you about $200 to $300 as well. I'll put some links in the description below if you want to check some of those out. But essentially this $500, $600 setup has been the single most valuable purchase I've ever made in my life for two reasons. Firstly, it allowed me to create this YouTube channel and create pretty high quality videos right at the back if I do say it's on myself. But secondly and far more importantly, it's created a ton of memories from my time in med school. Memories that I look back on and think like every time I do that, I think I'm so glad I had this camera to capture those photos in stunningly sharp detail with like amazing bokeh but blood background. Just infinitely nicer than crappy iPhone photos and you had the iPhone 10S mic as a pretty good camera and stuff. But it's just not as nice as having like a legit camera to capture those moments that you're never really going to get back. For that reason alone, I think a camera is the single most valuable purchase that any student in fact any one period can make because if you can afford it, slash if you can ask for it as a present, the memories will create will be absolutely priceless and you're going to look back on them for the rest of your life really and think wow, I'm really glad I've got these photos in really good quality. So yeah, that's the camera. It's a bit of an expensive recommendation I know but personally I think it's absolutely worth every single penny that you spend on a camera and the earlier you get it in your student life, the more happy you will be in the long term that you did it. Secondly, let's talk about the second most valuable purchase I've ever made in my life and that is an Amazon Kindle. I just absolutely love this thing and I'd actually recommend it to everyone anywhere in the world not just students for three main reasons. Firstly, a Kindle massively reduces the friction to reading a book. Now we all probably know that reading a book is going to be better for us in a long run and better for a person development and all that stuff rather than scrolling through Instagram and Facebook. The problem is it's very easy because we always have our phones on us. It's very easy to get the phone out when we're on the toilet or just before bed or when we're commuting and just start scrolling through stuff. Having a Kindle means that it's equally easy to just whack the Kindle out of our bags or to have it on a bedside table so we can just read a book rather than scroll through our phones. And this has a huge number of knock on effects for the rest of our life. So firstly, it improves our sleep hygiene which is really good as a student because it means you're not wasting all that time with that light staring even the face from your phone and scrolling through stuff. Instead, you're reading a book until you get tired. This is what I do and what I've been doing for the last few years. I just read at night when I'm in bed until I get tired and then I just fall asleep. And because of this, I managed to get at least half an hour of reading in every single day and over the last six years of my university life that has added to being able to read a ton of books that have added a load of value to my life. So reducing friction for reading is point number one. Point number two is that a Kindle reduces the friction to getting a new book like every time I hear a book recommendation on a podcast or through a friend. It literally takes me three seconds to go on my phone or to go on my Kindle if it's connected to Wi-Fi and just buy that book from the Amazon store. I don't even look at the price of Kindle books for these days because the possible return on investment is just so ridiculously high. I made a video a few weeks ago talking about three non-fiction books that changed my life. I read all of those in Kindle maybe they cost me under about £5 each and those have had a very very large effect on my life. That's easily worth the price of hundreds of books. And finally, if you're into reading non-fiction then the highlighting feature of the Kindle is incredible. Anytime I come across a passage that particularly resonates with me I just highlight it and over the last 10 plus years since I've used a Kindle I've got about 1500 highlights from all the various books that I've read and there's a really good website called Readwise where every day they email you five of your Kindle highlights. So it's a good way of not a space repetition. It's a good way of coming across these ideas that once resonated with you. I want to say huge thank you to Dashlane for sponsoring this video. Dashlane is a password manager and you should probably have a password manager whether you're a student or not because we all have hundreds of accounts for various different online services and now that most of our lives are on the internet we really don't want to be using the same password for everything. So Dashlane is a password manager. There are a few others but Dashlane is the one I use for three reasons. Firstly, it can store everything and generate new passwords for you that are automatically generated and it can store them in their secure database so you can log into everything which is just a single master password. Secondly, it's quite good because it can automatically log you into websites so like you don't even see the login page sometimes it just logs you in which is a nice time saving tip and thirdly it stores all your credit card details as well which is also me if you're buying lots of stuff online from Amazon or wherever like I do you don't have to remember your card details. So yeah Dashlane is also if you want to give it a try you can go on the link in the video description which is Dashlane.com for with the flash of dull and if you do want to upgrade to the paid subscription model you can get a 10% discount by using that link as well. Point number three is lamps and lamps I think are the single biggest thing that are at the most warmth to a room just in general but specifically to university rooms that are often quite spotten in their decor and given that at university you're going to have people hanging out in your room hopefully because you're going to be a social person because that's a good thing to do at university. You kind of want your room to be a nice welcoming friendly environment and having those big spotten lights from the top that the you know rooms come with is generally not good. So that's why for the last six years of my life at university I've had at least four lamps in my room and pretty much never ever turned on the big lights. I wish I could show you some examples. There's one there. There's one there. There's one across the room over there. There's one over there. I've got three in my bedroom in this flat and actually one thing that I'd recommend is a little smart plug set like this. So I bought these about three years ago. They're about 20 pounds or 20 dollars an Amazon for a set of four and the idea is that you can just plug your lamp into this thing and then this becomes like a smart lamp automatically so you can turn the lamps on and off individually with the remote or just before you go to bed or if you're leaving the room or whatever you just have this by your bedside table and you can turn all of them off in one go which is pretty awesome. Actually I've still got one connected of that. So that just went off. Well yeah this is a very cheap way to get like a smart lamp room set up without having to spend hundreds of pounds on Phillips U light bulbs or anything fancy like that. But yeah lamps at a load of warmth this makes you better at socializing because it means people will come to your room more because it's got a nice vibe to it and having this for an extra 20 quid just makes life easier and saves you time every time you have to turn off the lights. Fourthly I would recommend a decent pair of preferably noise cancelling headphones and the reason I recommend these is because if you listen to music while working like I do I only listen to instrumentals because lyrics get in the way of working memory far more. The evidence sort says that you probably shouldn't listen to music while studying but it's just much more fun doing it and I've got a Spotify playlist called Study with Me where I have all my instrumentals from films and TV show sound tracks and piano pieces and stuff that you can check out. Anyway so when I'm working I put my headphones on I get in the zone and then I have like the Lord of the Ring soundtrack playing in the background and I think just having a pair of headphones too that that you put on when you're in the work zone is something that's really useful. So even to this day I carry these with me pretty much at all times or my AirPods depending on how I'm feeling and if I'm in a coffee shop or in a library or like even in public transport and I want to get some work done I just put the headphones on the noise cancelling is amazing on these these are the Bose QC 35s these are a bit expensive but you can get pretty cheap ones as well. I just put the headphones on and then I'm in work mode and I think that is quite a valuable thing to be able to instantly jump into while you're a student but also just in life in general. And the final thing on the list that I'd recommend everyone get is a Bluetooth speaker of some sort. This is the UE role I got it for about 60 pounds about four years ago and it went everywhere with me when I was a medical student and these days sits in my bathroom a few many reasons why I think this is good. Firstly again if you're at university you want to be socializing and stuff and watching TV shows together or watching movies together with people is a great way of socializing so whenever we'd have Game of Thrones nights we would either be crowded around a laptop during our placements or we'd be connected to my monitor in my room or to a friends projector but we'd always connect to this particular speaker even when you've got 10 people crowding around the laptop. It just magnifies the experience a lot more when you have really decent loud sound and you can get that through a portable Bluetooth speaker that you can take anywhere especially if you're a medical student and you go and play some instant stuff and one of these serves a dual purpose as well because if you don't have an actual set of speakers which I'd recommend if you spend a lot of time on your desk but if you don't then you can use this as the speaker in your room when you're just chilling or doing anything or if you're working you can have your epic instrumental study with me bang up playlist going through the Bluetooth speaker while you're in the zone you can be doing some work so yeah that's why I'd recommend Bluetooth speaker it will add a social value because it gives you decent sound quality when you're having a movie nights with your friends so those were the five pieces of tech that I think everyone should get whether you're a student or not but especially if you're a student thank you very much for watching I hope you found this video useful if you liked the video please could give it a thumbs up if you want to see a bit more behind the scenes about how I make these videos then you might like to follow me on Instagram or post stories and stuff from my life in the hospitals my brother and I have actually recently started a new podcast as well it's called Not Over Thinking and you can find it at notoverthinking.com so far we've released one episode but maybe two by the time you watch this video so if you want to hear us talking about random stuff and answering people's questions and things you might like to check that out but yeah thank you very much for watching and I'll see you in the next video goodbye
