# The Easy Way to Achieve Your Goals
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_D_C2-2FZ5w
Get free access to my Workflow and Deep Dive series on Nebula, along with a load of other exclusive content, bundled with CuriosityStream - https://curiositystream.com/ali and use the code ALI at checkout!

In this episode of Book Club I'll be going over the lessons I've learned from Ray Dalio's Principles and how to apply them towards reaching our goals. 

📚 Get the book here: https://geni.us/VR0m

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

PART-TIME YOUTUBER ACADEMY:
🍿 My 6-week live online course - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ptya_aliabdaal
CREATORPRENEUR
💰 My flag-ship course for scaling up your creative side-hustle - https://creatorpreneur.academy/course


YOUTUBE FOR BEGINNERS COURSE
📸 This is for anyone who'd like to start a YouTube channel. You'll learn everything you need to get started as a YouTuber including how to script, shoot, and edit your first video - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/YouTube-for-Beginners



MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
✍️ The best summaries of books (Shortform) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
📚  How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
Deep Dive Podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/
The podcast that delves into the minds of entrepreneurs, creators and other inspiring people to uncover the philosophies, strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. You can find it by searching “Deep Dive with Ali Abdaal” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc).
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali

🎙 Deep Dive podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/
The podcast that delves into the minds of entrepreneurs, creators and other inspiring people to uncover the philosophies, strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. You can find it by searching “Deep Dive” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮  Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I’m Ali, a YouTuber, podcaster, soon-to-be author and ex-Doctor working in London, UK. I make videos that explore the strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, goal setting, how to achieve your goals, how to set goals, personal growth, self help, self development, personal development, achieve your goals, how to achieve your most ambitious goals, self improvement, motivational video, self development books, how to set goals and actually achieve them, how to set goals for your business, personal development motivation, how to achieve your goals motivation, ray dalio principles, 
**Date:** 2021-09-15

## Transcript
 We've all got goals, things that we want to get done. Maybe it's getting into that university, starting our own business, or even finding a life partner. But for many of us, we don't really have a process or a system for achieving those goals, and so we never really get there. At least that's what famous billionaire and hedge fund manager Ray Dahlio says in his book Principles, which is what we're talking about in this episode of Buck Club, the series where we distill and discuss highlights from some of the world's most insightful non-fiction books. So if that sort of thing sounds up your street and you're new to the channel and do consider subscribing. Anyway, in this video we're talking about Ray Dahlio's five-step framework for getting anything that you want out of life. Let's go for it. So firstly to know where we're heading, we need to set clear and audacious goals. Ray says that when setting goals, we're often limited by our mindset. We tend to avoid going after certain goals because we feel that they're in some way unattainable, and instead we stay well within our comfort zone to pursue goals we know we can achieve. I know I do this quite a lot, like if I'm deciding what goals to go for, then subconsciously I will ask myself, is this realistic and that will limit the kind of audacity with which I'll set my own goals. It's probably quite bad and I'm trying to take our boys Ray advice about this, which is to completely separate the is-this realistic element from the setting goals in the first place. In fact, this is exactly the same for process that Tony Robbins famously used to set goals early in his career. He writes that, I set aside all my limiting beliefs and sat down on the beach with my journal. I wrote continuously for three hours brainstorming every possibility of what I could ever imagine doing, being, having, creating, experiencing, or contributing. The timeline I gave myself for achieving these goals was any time from tomorrow to the next 20 years. I never stopped to think whether I could actually achieve these goals or not. He writes about this in his book Awake on the Giant within. I'm actually going a holiday tomorrow and so I'm literally going to spend three hours on the holiday with a notebook to do this Tony Robbins goal setting exercise. I'm going to share the list with my email list so you can subscribe to my email newsletter if you're not already linked below and then you'll know when I when I release that. That list, if it's something you're interested in. Okay so at this point we've got a list of audacious goals and now we need to figure out what problems we might get into along the way. As Ray Daniel says, most problems are potential improvements screaming at you, but unfortunately, many of us are afraid to highlight our weaknesses because of ego barriers. We find having weaknesses painful because society has taught us that having weaknesses is bad. So the key here is that we want to be totally open with ourselves when setting goals and admitting exactly what our weaknesses are rather than letting our ego hide them from us. For example, if my goal is to write a best selling book, I need to ask myself what problems might I face along the way and I need to own up to my weakness, the fact that I'm actually not that good at writing and so that is a skill that I need to admit to myself and then actively work on improving. Moving on to step three, now that we've got the goals and we've identified some of the problems we need to diagnose their root cause. In the book, Ray Daniel highlights this point but saying that you will be much more effective if you focus on diagnosis and design rather than jumping onto solutions. Like often our problems aren't actually as obvious as they might first seem and so we need to really dig down to what is the root cause of the problem and if we want to stop the symptoms, we have to ultimately cure the disease rather than just bandating over the symptoms. Similarly, in the goal setting thing, if we want to really solve the problems, we really need to dig down and diagnose the root cause and one of the best ways of doing this is the five wise technique and the idea is that we need to ask ourselves why, at least five times so that we can reach a deeper level of understanding. So if hypothetically our goal was to become a gym shock athlete and we can use the five wise technique to figure out why we're not yet a gym shock athlete. Firstly, I'll ask myself why am I not a gym shock athlete and the answer would be, well, I'm just not hinting enough. So why am I not hinting enough? Well, because I don't work out consistently. Why don't I work out consistently? Because I don't circulate to my calendar and when I do, I sometimes don't feel like doing it so I don't do it. Why is that the case? Because I've made it optional for myself. Why? Because I feel there's always something more urgent to do than go to the gym and clearly I don't value the goal of becoming a gym shock athlete enough and it's extrinsic motivation rather than intrinsic motivation which is when I feel an internal drive to do it. So using this process of five wise, we figured out that the problem for me not becoming a gym shock athlete is that I'm just not consistent enough and the reason I'm not consistent enough is because I don't have the intrinsic motivation to actually become a hench and to become a gym shock athlete at the end of the day. Now obviously we can apply this to any situation at all and once we figure out exactly what the problems are then we can go to step four which is to design solutions. Let's hear directly from a tweet by Ray Dalio here. Here are its replay the story of where you've been or what you've done that led you to where you are now and then visualize what you and others must do in the future so that you will reach your goals hashtag principle of the day. This is such a great principle. I love it because it acknowledges where we've come from and what systems and designs in our life led us to this current place where we haven't achieved that goal or done that thing that we want to do and then moving forward we can visualize a future in which we have changed those things so that we can then achieve the goal if that makes sense. So if my goal were to look like Zach Efron then I can look at the past and figure out why it is that I've been struggling with consistency and eating right and I know it's because I haven't got the gym's scheduled to my calendar and I know it's because I eat takeaway like two to three times a day but now that I've identified that I can design a new schedule I can design a new system that makes the achieving of that goal almost inevitable and so I can literally schedule in three to four gym workout sessions into my calendar I can get myself a personal trainer for some accountability I can pre-pay for all these personal trainer sessions in advance so that if on the day I'm tempted to miss a workout then A I'm going to be letting someone down because they'll be waiting for me and B I'll have already paid for it so I'll feel the pinch of wasting money and all of these are things that stack the deck in my favor of hopefully actually making working out a consistent habit on my journey to starting to look like Zach Efron and this is great because it is a systems-based solution to the people problem that I personally have of my own personal laziness and lack of motivation. In fact as Ray Dalia says designing proceeds doing the design will give you your to do list and finally step five once we figure out what we need to do then we just actually have to execute and do the thing. Again to quote Ray Dalia he says that people who are good at this stage can reliably execute a plan. They tend to be self-disciplined and proactive rather than reactive to the blizzard of daily tasks that can divert them from execution. They are results oriented. They love to push themselves over the finish line to achieve the goal. To be honest for me because I'm kind of lazy I don't really like the idea of having to push myself in white knuckle and discipline and grip my teeth and all that kind of stuff. I don't like the idea of suffering to get to my goals and so the thing that I always try and do is I recognise that ultimately I'm really lazy and I'm a massive waste man and therefore I will figure out ways to make whatever I have to do more fun so that I'm more likely to do it or I add in like these accountability things like getting a personal trainer and prepaying for things in advance. This is actually something I talk about in depth with my friend and fellow youtuber Elizabeth Phillips in a bonus companion video. It's a 21 minute long video where we break down the idea of toxic productivity hustle guru culture type stuff and we discuss a healthier approach to productivity that makes achieving our goals more about having fun than it is about like you know discipline and grit and all that fun stuff. My friends friends are surprised that I'm considered a productivity guru as opposed to like of course that is considered a productivity guru. Oh interesting, really. I think we're a bit of a work logic. You have no work ethic but that's just different. What's the difference? I think you do work all day. Okay. You're just very into that attitude. Yeah. You're really bad at it. This video is available exclusively on Nebula which is the independent streaming platform that's built by me and a bunch of other creator friends. And the idea of Nebula is that it's not really a competitive to YouTube. It's just an extra place where we can put content like this 21 minute long discussion with Elizabeth without having to worry about the YouTube algorithm which is something we have to really worry about when we're making videos on YouTube. On Nebula we've also got early ad free access to all of our videos and I've got a bunch of other exclusive content like my workflow playlist where I take you behind the scenes of my favorite productivity apps and exactly how I use them and we've also got my deep dive snippet series which is like bite-sized snippets of wisdom from people like really cool people that I've been interviewing over the last two years. Now the best way to get access to Nebula is to sign up to curiosity stream who are very kindly sponsoring this video. Curiosity stream is the world's leading documentary streaming subscription platform and they've got thousands of really high quality, high budget documentaries that you can choose from. There's a series on there that I really like called prescription nutrition which is all about the evidence based and of the science of nutrition and all the fuel that a body needs on this quest to hopefully become a gym shock athlete or to look like Zac Efron. And the best thing about curiosity stream is that they love supporting independent creators and so there's a really cool bundle with Nebula whereby if you sign up to curiosity stream which is less than $15 a year you get free access to Nebula bundled with that. And so for less than $15 a year you get access to all these incredible documentaries and you also get access to all of my exclusive stuff, Elizabeth Thomas Frank, Tom Scots, all of our other creative friends, all of that exclusive stuff which is on Nebula as well. If that's on the pure street and you want to check it out then head over to curiositystream.com for more slash alay or hit the link in the video description and when you sign up you'll get your Nebula details email to you and you can browse the content to your hearts because that hearts content hearts desire something like that. If you're interested in the idea of goal setting and you want to find out more about exactly what system I used to set my goals with like a notion template or I asked a specific questions to myself to make it more likely that I'll achieve my goals to check out this video over here which lots of people seem to have gotten some use out of. Thank you so much for watching. Have a great day and I'll see you in the next video. Bye bye.
