# I Tried Making a Viral Video - Day in the Life VLOG
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_jSbuDftmcc
To improve your thinking and learning skills with active recall, visit https://brilliant.org/ali and sign up for free. The first 200 people will get 20% off the annual Premium subscription :)

💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking

Check out The Bunker Discord server: https://discord.gg/GZE6Neq
Smartledore's Makeup video that I narrated - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-Z0KH7V1j6o
 
📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal

Who am I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, study with me, study, studying, school, university, how to revise, motivational video, cambridge university, student, studytube, study hacks, junior doctor, doctor on call, productive day, day in the life, filming b-roll, tech blog, tech review, how much money i make, filming viral video, how to film videos for youtube, day in the life of a youtuber, how youtubers spend their time, doctor day in the life, 
**Date:** 2020-05-12

## Transcript
 Hey friends, welcome back to the day in the life vlog. If you're new here, my name is Ali, I'm a doctor working in Cambridge, and today I'm on a mission to film a video that I'm really hoping might have some viral potential. The problem is that I'm an unproductive slob, and so my life is a constant struggle to do useful things rather than sit around wasting time. The day starts at 7.30 a.m. when I wake up to the most infuriating sound in the world. For the next 20 minutes, I proceed to Lionbed, generally wasting time on YouTube, and replying to some of your comments. And then once I've finally got myself out of bed, I head to the bathroom to shave my scraggly look down beard and have a shower. Afterwards, I make the terrible mistake of lying back on my bed in my towel with my phone, and so I waste another half an hour doing God knows what, before finally getting up at 8.30 to do something useful. The morning starts with me making coffee with the chemics for the first time ever. Obviously, once I'm done, I have to swirl the pot, and then a bit more. Ah, this is actually such a pretty good first time using the chemics. I didn't even have a proper pour of it. I also had to use this thing, but the water was still coming out in like block, block, block rather than the nice pour of a method. I didn't really follow any instructions. I just did what Matt the irrelevant looks like he does in his videos, and it's not too bad at all. So thank you all for the tips on the previous video. Very kind. Then with my cheeky cup of coffee, I sit on the sofa and waste some more time. This time watching David Dobrik's Instagram story a few times on repeat. For some reason. From 9 a.m., I wrap up my MacBook Air to return to Apple because I've decided to use my 12.9 inch iPad Pro as my main driver. With my 2018-15 inch MacBook Pro as my heavy lifting machine. And then from 10 past 9 to 945, I have another bout of procrastination. Well, I watch one of Tim Ferris's new YouTube videos. I pick up a tip there, apparently from Tony Robbins, that before you write out your strategy for the day, you want to get yourself into a state of high arousal sound speed weird. But I think to myself, why not? Let's give it a go. So to get myself psychologically aroused, I first browse my Instagram Explore page for another 20 minutes, if you know you know. And then spend 5 minutes busting out some pull-ups, dips, and horizontal row thingies on the workout frame thing on the balcony. Then once that's done, I sit down for my morning dump. I start by writing down one thing to focus on, one thing to be grateful for, and one thing to let go of. Then I do my daily morning pages routine, where I dump three pages of anything that's on my mind. And then I write a to-do list for what I want to get done today. At 10 o'clock, I discover a new discord server that some fans have made called the bunker that I join in a chat for a bit. There'll be a link in the video description if you fancy joining it too. Then I chat to the a team on Slack. That's the the name I give to my squad about upcoming videos. And with turnout a few more videos for my workload series on Nebula, talking about Evernote, Notion, Rome, Drafts, and various other note-taking apps I use for various different things. At 11 a.m., I decided to tackle my highlight of the day, which is to film this video about how much money I make in a week. So I grab my MacBook, realise the screen's absolutely filthy because I never clean it. Clean it with some Dettel spray, and then the doorbell rings for an Amazon parcel, which ends up being a new microphone for the vlog set up. From 11 15, I make a start and adding up all the revenue from various different sources for the video. And while doing that, I think really hard about how to pitch this video in a way in which I hopefully don't come across like a complete twat. To plan out the structure of the video as usual, I'm using Notion, which I used to track all my long-term projects and write video scripts. I continue in this vein until 1pm with a brief break to bust out some leg raises, and then I order some take away from Deliveru before continuing with the video planning. At 125, food arrives, and I spend the next 45 minutes watching two episodes of YuGiosexal. This is waste-manory of the highest order, although in fairness, at least I'm multitasking and watching while eating food. If I was just watching a TV show on my own with nothing else going on, I would have to resign from study tube and delete my YouTube channel. I get up to watch the dishes at 2pm and then lie on the sofa, continuing to work on the script for the next two hours, stopping only to switch venues to the dining table to plug the MacBook in. Damn, these videos really do take a lot longer to plan than I originally thought. By 4pm, I finished gathering the data for the video, so I'd take a quick toilet break to do a poo, and while I'm there, I decide to be super productive by doing an online course on Brilliant who are kindly sponsoring this video. Brilliant is a fantastic platform for online courses and maths, science and computer science, and I'm working my way through this series on computer science fundamentals and how neural networks work. To try and understand this whole machine learning stuff a little bit more, and to figure out how I might be able to apply it to the medical stuff that I'm doing these days. The courses are fun and interactive and really make you think in a good way, and if you're interested in learning how to code, which is something I'd recommend for everyone. They've got an amazing beginners and intermediate course on Python, the world's most popular programming language. To get started, sign up for a free account at Brilliant.org forward slash Ali, and the first 200 people to use that link in the video description can get 20% of the annual premium subscription. Anyway, I leave the throne room at 435 with slightly dead legs, and decide that I need a coffee before I can start filming the video. I make it again using the chemics and pour over technique with my kettle, which works reasonably well, and of course, give it a cheeky swirl. I then get to setting up the camera angles, which takes absolutely ages, and then film 46 minutes of video from two camera angles and the external microphone for the video. I was sort of hoping it would be under 20 minutes, so I'll try and do some editing magic to hopefully make it shorter. This takes us to 655pm, which is perfect timing because I've got a zoom call with some of my friends at 7, but before hanging out with the lads, I decide that my arms need to look a little bit more swollen, so I bust out another very quick workout from 7pm. I chat on the zoom, catching up with my brother, who I host a weekly podcast with, then can the video description, and our friends Sam, Zane, Nade, and Sahel. The five of us were all in different colleges at Cambridge University, and then we became friends through the Cambridge University Pakistan Society. Eight years after we first met, we're still great friends, and so we had some classic Lada Banta and generally good vibes. At 8pm, food arrives, so I say goodbye to the lads, and while I'm eating, I have a call with my new assistant. Yes, that's right. I've hired a personal assistant or executive assistant as they call them in the US. She actually emailed me after I joked on an Instagram live about wanting to hire an assistant, and she seemed cool, so she got hired on the spot. The call ends at 920, at which time I one day if I should film another series of videos today, but then I think screw it, because we're pretty far ahead in terms of the sponsored video schedule. So to begin the process of winding down for the night, I first switch the Philips Hue lights to a warm glow. Then as the final official job of the day, I record a voiceover for my friend Subbers, YouTube channel called Smartle Door. She's doing a makeup video, but I'm doing the voiceover for it, so hopefully that'll be entertaining. I'll put a link in the video description if you want to check it out. That's all done by 945pm when I decide that I'm going to wind down for the night. So I do a quick wee, and clean up the ridiculous amount of mess in the living room. Then I chuck the footage from today's video onto my Samsung T5 external hard drive to upload to Google Drive overnight. Then I bused open my lucky term 1917 notebook to check off the stuff I've done today. As usual, I actually over promised to myself and under-delivered. I actually intended to film a channel trailer at what's on my MacBook video and five videos from my workflow series on Nebula, but I ended up doing none of that and only filming the money video all day. Oh well, it was quite a long and involved video to make, and during the day I also had a one-hour catchup call with lads, another hour call with my assistant, various slack messages with the rest of my team, and sorted out of video schedule for the next few weeks. So overall it's been a reasonably productive day. At this point it's 10 past 10 at night, and I've got to be up for work at half past six. So as usual, I brush my teeth, cleanse, and moisturise my face, and read on my Kindle for a bit before calling it a night. Here's a playlist of more day in the life and logs if you'd like to check them out. Thank you for watching, have a lovely evening, and I'll see you hopefully in the next video. Good night.
