# How I Remember Everything I Read
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AjoxkxM_I5g
👉 Sign up for Notion here: http://bit.ly/alibooknotes
📝 My Notion Book Notes Template: https://www.notion.so/notion/Ali-s-Book-Notes-11994df9047f4b589d5cfa7b961fcfa5

And if you want the best book summaries, sign up to Shortform - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform

Hey friends, in this video I'll be going over my entire system of taking smart book notes for the purpose of remembering and applying everything we read. 

🍿WATCH NEXT:
How I Read 100 Books a Year: 8 Tips: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8tKuviI68Ss&t=65s
15 Books to Read This Year: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=w47z_wz6XBA&t=2s
My Favourite Tech For Reading: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pL3lCNCffgg&t=20s
Atomic Habits Book Summary: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YT7tQzmGRLA&t=76s

📕 How to Take Smart Notes: https://geni.us/02K8yk8
📚  How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 

Creators mentioned in the video:
https://sive.rs/
https://www.nateliason.com/notes @Nat Eliason 

💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://go.aliabdaal.com/subscribe-sundaysnippets

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - 
 https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
🎬 YouTube for Beginners - Everything You Need To Know To Start  - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/YouTube-for-Beginners

MY CREATOR COURSES
🎬 Check out my free 7 day email course on how to become a part-time YouTuber: https://aliabdaal.com/part-time-youtuber-crash-course/
🏆 Creatorpreneur - My flagship course for scaling up your creative side-hustle → https://creatorpreneur.academy/course
🗣 Camera Confidence - My self-paced course on how to improve your creativity, career, or communication skills → https://cameraconfidence.aliabdaal.com/

MY FAVOURITE GEAR
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) -https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

🎙 Check out my weekly podcast, Deep Dive - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/ - It's also available on all podcast platforms, including Spotify, Apple Podcasts etc.

MY FAVOURITE TOOLS
🚀 VidIQ - How I optimise my YouTube videos - https://go.aliabdaal.com/vidiq
✍️ Shortform - The BEST summaries of books - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
📚  Readwise - How I remember what I read - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise
🎵  Epidemic Sound - Where I get my music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound

MY KEY LINKS
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com/
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I’m Ali, a YouTuber, podcaster, soon-to-be author and ex-Doctor working in London, UK. I make videos that explore the strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. I also have a weekly podcast called Deep Dive (https://www.youtube.com/channel/UChfo46ZNOV-vtehDc25A1Ug), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://go.aliabdaal.com/subscribe-sundaysnippets).

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, how to take notes, how to take book notes, how to remember what you read, how to take efficient notes, taking notes with notion, ali abdaal vlog, note taking, how i take notes, how to take notes from a textbook, note taking techniques, effective note taking, note taking methods, efficient note taking, notion for note taking, notion tutorial, notion setup, notion templates, how to use notion, notion tutorials, note taking tips, notion app, 
**Date:** 2020-10-08

## Transcript
 In this video, I'm going to take you through the 7 levels along the journey of trying to remember everything that we read. Hey friends, welcome back to the channel. If you knew here, my name is Ali. I'm a doctor based in the UK and on this channel, we explore the strategies and tools that help us live healthier, happier, more productive lives. And if you're anything like me and you're interested in personal development, life-long learning, becoming a better thing current, all that stuff, you'll know that reading is a very important part of this. But if you're anything like me, you read a lot of books, but you've probably forgotten the vast majority of the stuff that you read. Probably haven't applied it to your life in the way that you'd have liked a few months ago. I realized that this was a big issue for me and so I've been actively working to try and remedy it. And so in this video, I'm going to share what I think are the 7 levels along this path trying to remember more of the stuff that we read and apply to our lives. We start off our reading careers at level one, the muggle. This is basically where we read stuff, but we're just reading it. We're not highlighting it. We're not taking any notes. We're not really engaging with the material beyond just passively reading it. And when we're muggles and trying to learn about an e-topic like entrepreneurship or whatever, we'll end up just reading loads and loads and loads. And sort of hoping we're going to passively absorb stuff by diffusion, by osmosis, whatever. But we're not like actively using any brain power to engage with it. This is fine if we're reading fiction, but for nonfiction and when I read nonfiction, I kind of want to get some insights from it. I want to learn stuff. I may dumbass and therefore I just forget everything that I read and therefore this isn't good for me. And it's probably not just me because there is a phenomenon in memory research called the forgetting curve. We just show that over time our memory for everything decays unless we find a way to engage with it or consolidate our memory of the thing. At some point, we might realise that our muggle existence is pretty unfulfilling. And so we'll come across level two of the journey, which is the squid. And when you become a squid at level two, you're now reading stuff, but you're highlighting or underlining the things that particularly resonate with you. This is easy enough to do if you read on a Kindle or you can use one of these old school things. I don't even know what to call them anymore because we even use it to stuff. What I was doing since I first got a Kindle in around 2008, 2009, all the way through to 2018 when I discovered that actually there were more levels along this path. And this is fine because highlighting stuff is kind of nice and it's kind of fun to use one of these old fashioned antique devices. But the problem with highlighting stuff is a we actually don't remember the stuff that we highlight and there is a mountain of evidence that shows that highlighting or underlining does nothing to actually improve our memory of the stuff. And we also run into the issues that we've got all these highlights, but there are sort of hidden away inside a book or inside a Kindle, and we don't really have a reason to go through that. So that was me from 2008 all the way through to 2018, those were the dark days. But then in September 2018, I reached level three, which we're calling Hufflepuff. And level three, Hufflepuff is when you have a systematic system for reviewing your highlights. So in September 2018, I discovered this amazing service called Readwise, link in the video description. What Readwise does is that it automatically connects to your Kindle account, and it pulls in all of the highlights you've ever highlighted from all the books that you've read. And what they do is that every day, they send you an email with five random highlights. So I started using Readwise in September 2018, and I've been getting this email every day. And for the first few months, I was religiously reading this email, and I found, oh well, this thing that I highlighted five years ago is now very relevant to me today. And the Readwise email has surfaced it for me, which was really awesome. Over the last two years, I've kind of become less and less religious about reading my five daily things in the Readwise email. I still get it, I still open it from time to time, but it's a bit too passive for my liking. And that is when we get to level four. And we're calling level four, Ravenclaw, because I couldn't think of anything else, and I deeply apologize for playing into the stereotype. I didn't mean it, I've worked trust me. But level four is what I talked about in my video about the magical inside logging framework, which will be linked to somewhere up here. And basically, this is a system whereby you automatically pull in your highlights into a central note taking out. And so we can see here I've got my Readwise database, which has all the books and it shows all the highlights I've made in each one. So I can look in the books, and we can see I've got 126 highlights from tools of titans, all of which are going to be in here. And it also links very nicely to the location, and it opens it up in the Kindle web app. If that's what I want to look at, we also have articles over here, so this is taking all of my highlights from InstaPaper. And we even have tweets, so these are tweets that I've saved to Readwise that are automatically coming into notion. And we have podcasts that this is podcast, air quotes that I've taken through the app, air.io. Again, a lot more details about the system in my magical inside logging framework video, which will be linked up there. And so this is level four. This is where we've got a tool that automatically pulls in our highlights. And because I use notion for absolutely everything in my life pretty much, it's all very convenient when it's sitting there. But level four is still a little bit problematic, because this is still very passive. All we're doing at this point is we're bringing in highlights, and we're hoping that our future selves will add some point revisit the highlights, just because we want to. And again, I've been doing this for a few months now, but I found that inevitably other things were coming up. And I was not finding the time or making the time to actively review the highlights of the stuff that I'd read in notion. And this is where we start to get into the fun territory, because now we have level five, which is Dumbledore's Army. And when you're at level five, or a member of the DA, you engage with books by taking quick notes on the stuff that you've read. Now, I'm going to show you how I do this in notion. So I've got this book known today to base that has all the books that I read fiction and nonfiction. And for each of these categories, fiction and nonfiction, I've created templates that are used for my very quick book reviews. And so if I've just read a nonfiction book, I will put a nonfiction book template here, so it asked me to give the title of the book. I can select a genre, so let's say productivity philosophy and magic, why not? And I can say the day that I finished it, let's say that was today. And basically what this notion template does is that it creates these categories for me. So firstly, the book in three sentences, impressions, how I discovered it, who should read it, how the book changed me and my top three quotes from the book. So this is actually very quick, and this level level five is what I regret not doing with everything that I've ever read. Because if you can just summarize the book in three sentences, that's like a really fantastic way of actually engaging with the content. And as someone like Richard Feynman would say, it's a way of actively ensuring that you actually understand the concepts in the book. And so here are some notes that I took on show your work by Austin Play on the book in three sentences. Show your thoughts and your process and your work online for free. You don't need to be an expert to show your work beginners can easily help other beginners and three by sharing your work online. You'll attract an audience of people who care about the same stuff as you do and this can change your life. So that that was kind of my three sentence summary of the book. Then I've got impressions where I just sort of write subjectively what I thought about the book. I have who should read it. Occasionally I have how I discovered the book if I remember how I discovered it. And here are some notes on how the book changed me and my top three quotes. Now the point of this system is that it does take a small amount of time to actually think about. But it's not a large amount of time and like I really wish that if I've done this for every book that I've ever read, I know I'll be, I'd like today, I'd be infinitely more knowledgeable about all this stuff than I am. Just because I just never considered engaging with the stuff. So level five is I think a good sweet spot between the amount of effort it takes to do this. I eat it doesn't take that much effort. But I think it also gives you a lot of value when you can start summarizing books in three sentences. And if we're doing it for fiction, this is what the template looks like for that. So we've got a section about what it's about, how I discovered it, general thoughts and who would like it. So again, all of these templates are linked in the video description so you can check it out. And if for some reason you don't yet have a notion account, you should follow the link in the video description and get it for free. Notion is an absolutely amazing app that I've been using since early 2019 and I can swear to say that it's probably changed my life. I organized my entire life around it. I organized my whole business. I used to take notes at medical school and to prepare for a member for my medical exams. I used to track my workouts. I used to write book reviews. I used to script all my videos and to work with my team. It's just got so many different use cases. And I've got tons of videos about notion that I'll be linked in the playlist over there. And best of all, it is completely free. You only pay if you're going for one of the team plans or if you need like additional bonus features. But most people can use notion completely free of charge, basically for as long as you want. So hit the link in the video description if you haven't got a notion account for whatever reason. And if you do, there'll be a link to my kind of book notes templatey thingy so you can duplicate that into your own notion workspace. And then you can start taking notes from books which will kind of get you to level 5. But yeah, thanks notion for sponsoring this video. Let's now move on to level 6. Now this is where we start to get really interesting because level 6 is the order of the Phoenix. And the only difference between level 5 and level 6 is that in level 6 you're still doing all of this stuff. You're still writing kind of book in 3 sentences and impressions how it changed your life. But we also have a section for a summary and notes on the book itself. So what I'm trying to do with all of the books that have particularly resonated with me over the years books that I would break five stars or books that I think have changed my life. What I'm doing is I'm going through them again and I'm writing literature notes. I'm sort of creating my own mini summary of the book. But I'm focusing on the points that I've particularly resonated with me or points that I found particularly interesting or insightful or surprising. And I think this is just a really great way of engaging with the book. But it does take absolutely ages. So for example the other day it was one o'clock in the morning and I was in bed and I couldn't sleep. So I got out my iPad Pro. I switched everything for dog mode and I had Kindle on one side of the screen and notion on the other side of the screen. And I was taking literature notes from the emith revisited, which is a book about how to build a small successful business. That I first read I think in July 2019 and that book completely blew my mind. And so I was revisiting it and relearning some of the lessons from it. And as I was as I was doing that I was taking my literature notes. I was sort of summarizing bits in my own notes. And although it took absolutely ages and I still haven't finished it, I'm still only halfway through the book. It's actually giving me a lot of new insights because it's so rare to find a book that's genuinely sort of actually life-changing. And so when you do like, or now when I do, I'm going to make a point that I'm going to write my own summary of this book so that I can really consolidate the points for me. There's a few things to keep in mind about this. So firstly, there's a very good book called How to Take Smart Notes by Sunky Orans. And I've actually done my own summary of this. Yeah, here's a summary that I've done using the total feature in notion where I've basically written like a whole lot of stuff and even drawn my own diagrams and tables and things about oh my goodness. There's quite a lot of stuff here. How many words is this? There's summary plus some of the highlights. It's 6,851 words. So I've spent a very long time taking book taking notes from this method book called How to Take Smart Notes. But this is really good. And this book talks about the Zettel Castan method of note taking, which is kind of what inspired this video. And sort of one level of this is as you're reading stuff, you're taking literature notes. But the idea of literature notes, like the summaries that we're making for ourselves, is that we want to avoid copying and pasting quotes from the book. We want to actively try and rephrase things in our own words, just to make sure that we understand the concepts. And the other benefit of taking your own book notes is that if you are interested in sharing your work online, you can actually publish your book notes. The first person I saw do this was Derek Sivers, who I've been following since 2016, and who featured in a deep dive on this channel. Very kind of him. And he's basically been taking these detailed notes on every book that he's read. And he's got like hundreds of these on his website at siver.rs. Again, that'll be linked in the video description. And also, my new friend in that list, who again was featured on deep dive, has this amazing website. His blog generates six figures a year for him in revenue, maybe even more than that. And a big part of his most popular posts are his summaries notes and reviews from books that he's read. So this is kind of the level where I want to get to where, you know, in the future on my website, I'll be adult.com forward slash book notes. You'll find all of the summaries of books. And I think this is just like an incredible resource. And if anyone's considering starting a personal blog or a website or a YouTube channel. Taking notes from books is such a big value ad because a lot of people don't have time to read or think they don't have time to read. And there are also so many good books out there that if you can act as the curator, something, you know, someone like Nat or Derek or what I'm trying to do. If you can curate the best books, you know, anti-fragile by the Bynasete, I'll let for example. He's got his notes in here. He's got a podcast episode about this. This is such good content. And this is sort of stuff that really kind of helps you build your own brand. As a sharer, as an educator. And it's just a pretty fun thing to do. So this is where I'm kind of aiming with level six. But then we come to level seven, which is done with door himself. And this is where we're really going full ham on these, settle custom method of note taking. This is sort of where I'm hoping to go eventually. I've only really done it for a handful of books. But every time I've done it, I found the exercise to be quite useful. And the idea behind this is that once we've taken our literature notes about the book, what we're going to do is we're going to turn them into permanent notes, as in these little custom method, or an evergreen notes as anti-mattershack, who's this also kind of note taking guru on the internet. That is sort of the vibe. I prefer the phrase evergreen notes because I think it sounds a bit better. And so, for example, I have got this database on note again on notion of evergreen notes. And the idea behind evergreen notes is that there notes on topics that you find interesting, or that particularly resonate with you. But they are atomic notes in the wrong right. Like the note is self-contained. And very heavily linked to the other notes you've got in your system. And the slipbox, again, Sunky Owens talks about this in how to take smart notes. This is, I think the Zettel custom translates to slipbox. It was like a method that this German called Lumen used to use back in the day. And he churned out like loads and loads and loads of manuscripts and publications and books because he had the systematic way of taking notes from the stuff that he read. And so, for example, what I've got is I've got these different sections. Life, happiness, meaning work, reading, luck, improvement, relationships, marriage. I think people decision making money, lifestyle, writing, et cetera, et cetera. So, like all of these are topics that I'm interested in. And as I read stuff in books, articles, podcasts, tweets, whatever. What I'm trying to do slowly, very slowly over time is turn these into evergreen notes. And then having like this index for evergreen notes. So, for example, you know, the four important things in life, what's in this one. This is money, love relationships, mental health, well being happiness and physical health. And I found this from a episode of the Samantha Ryan podcast that involves on. And so, I turned it into an evergreen note. I linked to the source. And notion now has backlinks and so, for example, if I want, I can see what links to this page. So, the idea money leads to happiness links to this page. So, that is related to the note. And we can see using the backlinks, how this all kind of relates together. This system, this kind of level seven Zettel cast in the slipbox, evergreen notes, double door, not taking whatever you want to call this system. This is a little bit niche. And I'm not entirely sold on the power of it yet. I can see from reading how to take smart notes and from reading the work of other people on the internet who've done this sort of thing. People say it's really useful. I like me personally, I'm very slowly starting to head in this direction. But I don't think I've given it enough time or stuck with it for long enough to actually be able to comment on whether it's actually helped me. It is kind of nice in a way because it helps you consolidate your thinking on all sorts of different subjects. Especially if you have a lot of interest, it can be kind of hard to keep track of all the stuff that you've read. But this is one layer of abstraction above the things that you read, figuring out a way to consolidate the insight from that, for example. So, coming full circle, if I were to give advice to my previous self, I would say that it's really, really useful to be at least at level five of the system. It is very, very easy to get to level five. Basically, you get to level four by following the magical insight logging framework linked up here. And then, for level five, all you have to do is you can use my notion template if you want, but you don't have to. All you have to do is just write a summary of the book in three sentences, three because it forces you to be concise and it doesn't take very long. And just write a few words about what you thought about the book. You know, this is the stuff that we used to do when we were in primary school, but teachers would say, write a book review of this book that you read. Again, like, if I could give a single piece of advice to myself when I was like 12, I would say, let Ali make. You need to just write summaries in three sentences of all the books that you've read and just write your thoughts on them because in ten years time, in twenty years time, you're going to be so incredibly grateful that you've got this treasure trove of knowledge inside a system other than your brain, because you're a dumbass, and you're going to forget everything that you read otherwise. If you like this idea and you haven't yet seen the video about the magical insight logging framework with this, which is this automatic way of capturing highlights from books articles, podcasts and tweets, then click the video over here that will be the video about the magical insight logging framework. Thank you so much for watching. Do check out my notion template in the video description, and hopefully I'll see you in the next video. Bye-bye.
