# CORONAVIRUS (COVID-19) - The Basics
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AS1m0lmtDQI
In this video I'm going over a few basics of the Coronavirus as I see them. All this information is based on research done up to March 6, 2020.

00:30 What is Coronavirus?
01:16 Why is it a big deal?
04:47 What are my chances of getting it?
06:13 What are my chances of surviving?
09:10 How do people survive it?
10:55 Is there a cure?
12:34 Is there a reason to panic?
16:39 Should I get a face mask?

💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking 
📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

My Spotify profile - https://open.spotify.com/user/1111404728?si=7QYptBTLREWbU1OCHHxrBw

🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal

Who am I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 


If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭
**Keywords:** coronavirus, covid-19, covid19, what is coronavirus, coronavirus basics, coronavirus outbreak, news, coronavirus update, coronavirus symptoms, coronavirus pandemic, center for disease control, coronavirus prevention, coronavirus latest news, novel coronavirus, coronavirus explained, virus protection, corona virus, how to avoid coronavirus, coronavirus treatment, is there a cure for coronavirus, do face masks work, avoid coronavirus, coronavirus spread, coronavirus transmission, 
**Date:** 2020-03-07

## Transcript
 Okay, I've got to be honest. I've sort of been ignoring this whole coronavirus thing over the past few months. I knew that it was something to do with Wuhan in China. I knew that it was affecting loads of people worldwide and then someone changed his name to COVID-19 and now we're told that we shouldn't go to China. We shouldn't go to Italy and to all these people's stockpiling, these canned foods or something like that. But last week I finally decided that, especially being a doctor, I should probably educate myself about what's actually going on. And so this video is a video to my former self who didn't know what was going on about coronavirus and we're trying to answer the question of, like, what the head is going on. Okay, so there's two questions there. Firstly, what is coronavirus and secondly, why is it a big deal? So, coronavirus is just a family of viruses and this coronavirus that everyone is talking about, they a specific type of coronavirus that's actually called SARS-CoV-2 coronavirus, which stands for severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus too, but unsurprisingly, everyone is just calling it coronavirus. And the disease that it causes is called unsurprisingly coronavirus disease 2019. And that is shortened to COVID-19 because that just sounds a lot more cool. More interestingly, it's a respiratory virus that we think originated in bats. And we think that the first few cases were in Wuhan, which is a city in China. But since January 2020, it's spread all over the world and it's now become a big deal with a big bee and a big bee. That sounds weird. All right, so why is it such a big deal? Well, it's a big deal because of three main reasons, so firstly, it's affecting lots of people. Secondly, it's killing quite a lot of people, and thirdly, it's the worst outbreak of its kind that we've seen in living memory. As of the 6th of March 2020, when this video is being filmed, there are over 100,000, so actually 181,587 confirmed cases of which around 80,000 are in mainland China, as we can see from this really cool website set up by Johns Hopkins University. So it's affecting loads of people, as we can see here, but it's also killing other people. So in total, so far, 3,460 people are confirmed to have died from the disease, of which 2,931 are in the Hubei province in mainland China. But let's be honest, realistically, if this was just a disease that was affecting China, the rest of the world probably wouldn't care too much. But actually, it is affecting the rest of the world, which is probably why everyone starts to care about it. So we can see actually that we've got 6,600 cases in South Korea, 4,700 in Iran, 4,600 in Italy. We've got 163 confirmed cases in the UK as of today. And let's keep in mind that these are just confirmed cases. If the estimates suggest that around 80% of people with the virus will just get very mild symptoms. So those people might not even go and get themselves tested for the condition. These 101,000 people are just the confirmed cases people who have tested positive for the disease. But these numbers, you know, 100,000 infected 3,000 dead, they don't really mean a lot in isolation. And so let's compare this epidemic of COVID-19 with similar epidemics that we've had in the past. If you're a boomer like me, you might remember back to 2003 when the SARS epidemic was, you know, big in the news. And that was actually caused by coronavirus as well. And over about an 8 month period, that infected about 8,000 people and it killed about 800 people. So it had a 10% mortality of theirabouts. Then in 2012, there was another coronavirus epidemic caused by the M.E.R.S. the Middle Eastern respiratory syndrome, pronounced murs. I think it's very pronounced it. But that affected 2,500 people and actually killed 861. So that's a 35% mortality. Now in comparison, COVID-19 has it already affected 100,000 people again confirmed cases cases that we know of. There's probably many more hundreds of thousands. If not even millions, who we don't know have the disease, they're carrying the virus without having been tested for it. But thankfully, it's mortality rate is pretty low. So only 3,500 people comparatively have died compared to 100,000. That's 3.5%. And a 3.5% mortality is a lot lower than a 10% mortality for SARS, or a 35% mortality for murs. But there's another problem and that is this other graph. And again, this is from the NBC News website, nicely done guys. And here we can see that, you know, it's just the vicious spread of COVID-19 compared to these other diseases is just absolutely staggering. So for example, we've hit 100,000 people with COVID-19 in 53 days, whereas it took size about 8 months to infect 800 people. And in fact, it took murs a whole year to infect the first 200 people. So clearly, COVID-19 is spreading so much faster than these other previous epidemics. But with all that said, it's definitely worth keeping in mind that the bog standard influenza of the flu infects about 40 million people a year and kills around 400,000 people a year worldwide. That's an absolutely staggering number of people to die from just the normal flu. And we just don't even batonize it over that amount of death caused by the influenza virus. So that's kind of why this whole coronavirus thing is a big deal. It's a big deal because it's spread really fast and it kills a lot of people. And even though 3.5% is fairly low compared to 10% or 35% like SARS in 3.5% of a few million people is still a lot of people. And that's why this is such a big deal. Okay, cool. So I get why this is a big deal. But realistically, one of my chances of actually getting the coronavirus. Well, it kind of depends on where you are. So the virus we think travels in heavy droplets in air. And so you can't quite catch it just from breathing the same air as someone else who got it. But for example, if they were to cough on a surface and you have that droplet on a surface and you touch it with your hand, the virus particle gets transferred onto your hand. And then when you suck your thumb or scratch your nose or something, the virus gets transferred to your face and then goes into your lungs and then that's bad. And because this is how it's transmitted, in order to get the virus, you actually have to come into reasonably close proximity with someone else who's got the virus. And therefore, if you're in the UK, we've only got 163 confirmed cases in the UK. And out of a population of 66 million, that is a very, very, very tiny proportion of people. With the caveat, of course, these are just the confirmed cases. There's probably more than that roaming around who just don't know the carrying the virus because either they've got non-existence symptoms or symptoms very mild and they think it's just a cold. So that's in the UK, but actually your chances are a lot higher if you've traveled to a country or if you live in a country where there are more people who have the disease or where the health system isn't quite equipped to deal with the disease. So for example, from the NHS website is if you've recently been to China or Cambodia, Hong Kong, Iran, Italy, Japan, Laos, Macalum, Malaysia, Myanmar, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan, Tenerife. But specifically, only the H10 Costa are dehyped, palace hotel in Tenerife, Thailand and Vietnam. If you've traveled to those countries recently, then your chances of getting the disease are higher because you're more likely to have come into proximity with someone else who's carrying the disease. I get that. My chances of catching coronavirus are pretty low, unless I happen to have traveled recently or live in a country where people have already got the disease. But let's say for the sake of argument that I do catch coronavirus, what's it going to do to me firstly? And secondly, what are the chances that I'm going to survive? Okay, so firstly, we probably shouldn't call it coronavirus. We should probably call it COVID-19 just for the sake of being technically correct and apidantic about it. Secondly, to answer your question about symptoms, it's very similar to other sorts of respiratory viruses. So things like the common cold and the flu that we've talked about. So the sort of symptoms you might get, you might get fever, cough, shortness of breath, maybe some muscle aches and pains. But the good news is that in about 80% of those cases, the symptoms are going to be very mild. Are you not really effective long too much? But the World Health Organization estimates that for 1 in 6 people, so about 15% of the cases, that can actually cause potentially severe breathing difficulties and that would be bad. And on that note, therefore, your chances of surviving COVID-19 depend on whether it affects your lungs and it also depends on how young you are and how few medical problems you have. So we've got this overall figure, this 101,587 confirmed cases with the 3,500 deaths and that leads us to an overall figure of 3.5% mortality. But because those are only the cases that we know so far, we know that there's probably more people roaming around with the virus. And therefore, we are underestimating the amount of people who are carrying the virus. Therefore, clever people like Professor Chris Whitty, who is the chief medical officer of England, he says that actually the overall mortality is probably 1% if not less than 1% rather than the 3.5% number that's being bandied about. And in terms of your own chances of dying from the disease, as morbid as it sounds, let's have a look at this graph again from the NBC News website, well done guys. And this is comparing COVID-19 with SARS and MERS as usual. And as you can see from the graph, your chances of dying increase significantly as you get older. So people over 80 years old are particularly vulnerable. But even then there are some estimates that actually 90% of over 80 year olds would probably survive the virus, although 10% of 80 year olds are dying from the virus is still a pretty big number. And we also know that if you do have conditions like heart disease, respiratory disease, diabetes, immune deficiency, stuff like that, then your chances of getting severely unwell or even dying from the virus are probably higher, possibly even a lot higher than someone else who's young, fit and healthy. And finally, it's also worth mentioning that your chances of surviving COVID-19 depend a lot on what country you're in and how good their health care system is. So for example, in the UK, which is a mostly developed country, with a pretty good national health service, a fantastic national health service, ready at the NHS, if, for example, me or my mom or my grandma were to catch COVID-19, there's all these systems in place and the health care system is probably set up well enough to be able to cope with it. And therefore, we would most likely survive. I have not been speaking too soon on that front. But for example, if me, my mom and my grandma were living in Pakistan or rural Pakistan and we didn't have any money to access the health care system there, then we would probably have a much higher chance of dying because the health care system that we have access to just isn't equipped to deal with this sort of stuff. Okay, so fine. I get that. My chances of catching the disease are pretty low, and even if I do catch it because I'm young, fit, healthy, blah, blah. The chances are I'm probably going to survive it. I'll just get sort of minus sort of symptoms. But like, how do people survive it? Do we have a cure? Do we have a vaccine? Like, what's going on? Okay, so well, there's actually three questions there. There's firstly, how do we survive it? Secondly, is there a cure? And thirdly, is there a vaccine? And we're going to tackle each of those in turn, isn't that fun? Firstly, how do you survive it? Well, like most people who have survived the virus, you know, usually they've got the mild symptoms of it, or if you're one of these 55,863 people that have been confirmed recovered from the virus so far. The way you fight it off is that your body's immune system does the fighting for you. So for most of us, our bodies immune system is pretty good at dealing with any kind of infectious pathogens or foreign bodies of bad things and the lungs and the body. And it does a pretty good job of fighting it off, but it just take a bit of time. People estimated would take about two weeks. The problem is that because this virus affects the lungs, and especially if you're elderly and you've got other medical problems, it can interrupt your breathing and make it so difficult to breathe that you could potentially become really unwell or even die because of the breathing difficulty before your body has a chance to fight off the virus. But the good news is that even in that circumstance, if the virus is in your lungs and causing breathing difficulties, we can offer supportive treatment in hospital. So the most legit version of this is that you would be helped with with a mechanical ventilator or assisted ventilation in intensive care. And the idea is that if our lungs are suffering and are not really working properly, we can get this machine and this team of doctors and nurses around us to help us breathe. And that gives our body enough time to fight off the infection naturally before the shoulders of breath can kill us. The issue is of course that if you live in a place where you don't have this sort of intensive care units and that sort of support is a lot harder to support your breathing because we don't really have many non fancy ways of doing that. And so therefore your chances of dying from the disease are much higher. Okay cool. So you're saying that we bring people into intensive care and we just kind of support their breathing until their body finds a disease. But surely we've got some kind of medications, some kind of drug that we can give them right. Well not really, we don't really have a cure yet. We do have a lot of other drugs that we know work against other viruses. And there's all these big trials happening around the world. So in China, they're trying thousands of people on various anti-viral drugs that we already know work against some viruses and places like the US and other countries are now just starting out their own trials as well. There's a few drugs that we think might have some promise. So there's a drug called a Colletra, which is a combination of two anti-HIV drugs, and HIV is a virus. And we have medications that are pretty good against HIV. So we're hoping maybe some of those can work against the coronavirus. And we've got a drug called Remdesivir, which they tried on Ebola patients in 2013 and 2016 West Africa. We're hoping that that might have some efficacy against the coronavirus. And some Chinese doctors are hopeful that there's a drug called Chloroquine, which is an anti-malarial agent. And they're hoping that because that helps you in malaria may be a help us against COVID-19 of coronavirus. And that would be really good news for low-income countries because Chloroquine is a very cheap drug. And therefore it can be given to low-income countries without cost being a problem. Right. So at this point, I get what coronavirus is. I get why it's a big deal and you said it's a big deal because it infects lots of people. It kills lots of people and it's pretty bad. And I get that my own chances of catching Chloroquine of virus are pretty low because I'm in the UK and I haven't been in contact with people who've got it. And even if I did catch it, I understand that my own chance is pretty good because I'm young fit healthier. I have no post-medical history. And I'm in a system where this is kind of set up for it. But you're saying there's no cure and there's no vaccine. Is that right so far? Yes, that is absolutely spot on. So then why is everyone worrying? Like, is there a reason to panic? Well, no, there's no reason to panic. But like, even if your house was burning down, that would not be a reason to panic. Panic thing never solves anything. And there's actually this really good phrase that's been going around social media recently, which is hashtag alert, not anxious. Our EU should stay alert. But we shouldn't be too anxious about what's going on. But to be honest, I can see why people are worried. Especially if you're in one of these countries where there's been a lot of confirmed cases. Especially if you're in one of these countries where the healthcare system isn't quite designed to cope with a potential outbreak of something like the coronavirus. Especially if you or your loved ones are elderly or you've got medical problems like pre-existing medical issues. I can completely understand why this would be a source of anxiety. But if it's any consolation, we should remember that there are all these other diseases that kill so many more people that we just don't really care about. So, for example, as I said earlier, the normal influenza, in fact, 14 million people a year, it kills 400,000 people a year and no one is panicking about the flu. There's also diseases like malaria and TB that are still killing millions of people every year. And again, no one is really panicking too much about those. So panicking is not the way forward alert, not anxious. And it's worth remembering that also 80% of people who get this virus, they get very mild symptoms and recover without any problems. And it's also worth remembering that the whole world is now fighting this thing. So, you know, putting all of our collective brains together, hopefully we can come up with something to help figure out what's going on and help get humanity through this potential crisis. And of course, in the meantime, there is a lot that we can do to protect ourselves against getting the disease and also if we do have the virus to prevent, kind of, spreading it to others. So firstly, we can do simple things like washing our hands. So, for example, if we cough or sneeze or I don't know, lick our thumb, we can wash our hands. Just stop the risk of any viruses kind of getting onto our hands. And for example, when we get into work or we arrive home, we can wash our hands again. You know, just washing our hands a bit more regularly that we normally do does help reduce the transmission of the heavy droplets that contain the virus in them. And also, there's that classic advice for people to say that don't like touch your face, like avoid touching your face, which is good advice in general because you don't want to kind of get you over the fragile skin on your face destroyed by the stuff on your hands. But the idea is that because you're more likely to get the virus droplets on your hands and therefore, if you touch your face, then that's got a chance to get into your lungs. So they say avoid doing that. Realistically, I find it very hard to avoid touching my face. I touch my face all the time to you know, because it's my last scratch my nose or pick my nose or something, my thumb or whatever, too much information. But yeah, even though I'm thinking about this, I do find it quite hard to just not touch my face. So I'm kind of going via the hand washing route to try and minimize the risk of myself catching coronavirus, especially when I'm at work in the hospital. And perhaps more importantly, if you think that you might have COVID-19, you've got symptoms of a cold-slash flu, a fever, sort of some breath cough, muscle eggs, that sort of thing. And you've been in contact with someone who's confirmed to have the disease, then there is a chance that you might have it, and you should follow your own country's advice on what to do in that situation. In the UK, for example, it's great because we've got the NHS and National Health Services, one-one-one coronavirus helpline, which is a telephone service that you ring up and you say, hey, I reckon I've got coronavirus and they ask you questions and they tell you exactly and actually now outside basically every hospital, they've got these COVID-19 coronavirus pod type things, which is where you go in and you can get swabbed and then they can test this one results to see if you've actually got coronavirus. But the idea is that you go to these things separately so that you're not walking into a hospital, those got all these other sick people in it. Instead, you are being tested in isolation so that if you do end up having the disease, you can self-isolate and self-isolate means that you don't go to work, you don't go to school, you don't go to public places for about two weeks and they think so far, I estimate say that that is a reasonable amount of time to self-isolate for, or if you end up having the disease and it's affecting your breathing, then you come into hospital it into a specialist infectious diseases wards that have the whole kind of airflow and quarantine systems and all that stuff set up so that we can support your breathing while your body fights the infection. But that's what happens in the UK, I don't really know what happens in other countries, but I'm sure that if you think you might have coronavirus in your country, just google it for your country and I'm sure you'll find something on some legit website that gives you some legit advice about what to do in that circumstance. Okay, cool, should I get a face mask? Everyone seems to be going on about this whole face mask thing, but the answer is no, you should be wearing a face mask for a few reasons, so firstly, the World Health Organization has said that there is a global shortage of face masks, so, you know, that's one. Secondly, we want to save face masks for use in hospitals and healthcare settings where there's actually evidence that face masks work, whereas there's absolutely no evidence that face masks work for protecting you if you're just a member of the general public out and about your business. And thirdly, like the whole people wearing a face mask thing, it's just really like all it does, it doesn't have any medical benefit, but all it does is just spread panic and anxiety amongst people, but remember guys, we want to be alert, not anxious, hashtag alert, not anxious. Okay, cool, so that was the basics and I want to stand the baby what's going on, but I mean, there's so much media stuff around, there must be more to the story than that, right? Yeah, you're right, we've covered just the basics in this video, but actually, in some ways, this is an absolute amazing time in history because we've got this really interesting virus going around at a time where we are more connected, like, as, like, you know, the human race than we've ever been before. Like, there's all this drama about China and how the first few cases started in China and how that happened and then there's some talk that maybe the government was trying to cover stuff up, but there's all this stuff about how China actually combating the crisis really well and building up hospitals and kind of building hospital in a record 10 days and that sort of stuff. And there's a lot of interesting stuff about the social and economic impacts of the virus, so already we've seen global stock markets take a bit of a dive, sort of, in response to the crisis. And we've seen major events canceled, we've seen flights to whole countries just stopped because of the epidemic and there's all this media stuff going on. So we've got the China side of it, which seems to be a battle between the citizens on the ground, struggling to get information out via social media to the rest of the world and the Chinese government trying to censor that and really clamp down on the censorship, which is all very interesting. And this, the traditional media narrative, which is kind of talking about this 24-7 on the news to the point where some people are saying that the mass panic about the potential pandemic is probably more damaging than the potential pandemic itself. And of course on the side we've got this whole like medical side of it, so try to understand how the virus works and then the race that we all these different countries have to try and discover a cure, try and find a vaccine for it. It's all very interesting. While this is all cool from like an academic historical medical social economic perspective, I think it is really important to remember always that this is a real disease that is affecting real people all around the world, whether we can see them or not. The situation is constantly evolving and short, things could become a lot more serious than they are now. But we should remember that regardless of what goes on, it's always better to be alert, not anxious. There is stuff that we can do to help reduce its bread, like washing our hands very well and avoiding touching our face and also recognizing what the side of the symptoms of the disease are and the fact that we would need to come into contact with someone to actually catch it and following the appropriate procedures if we think we might have the disease. So yeah, that was a basic overview of COVID-19 and how it works and what this whole coronavirus stuff is all about. I hope you found that useful. If you have any comments, queries, suggestions, anything like that, please do leave them in the comments down below. I want to say that all this information is as far as I know, accurate as of the 6th of March 2020 in the evening, UK time. And I've done my best to try and research it based on various official resources like the NHS website, gobb.uk, the CDC website, the WHO website and the New England Journal of Medicine all these original like research papers on it. But I've done my best to hopefully try and condense what the information is that we've got so far and I'll hopefully be posting more updates as the situation involves. So thank you so much for watching. Remember to stay alert, not anxious and I will see you hopefully in the next video. Thanks for watching. Bye bye. you
