# 28 Life Lessons from 28 Years in 28 Minutes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AtfoKoiIW-s
The first 1,000 people to use the link will get a 1 month free trial of Skillshare: https://skl.sh/aliabdaal07221

Hey friends, I've just turned 28 years old so I thought it'd be fun to do a roundup of lessons from over my 28 years. Feel free to share yours in the comments 😜

00:00 Intro
00:11 Setting intentional defaults
02:14 Lowering the bar
03:25 Embracing mediocrity in certain areas
04:52 Living with a background music track
06:12 Consistency and quantity generally leads to quality
07:18 Quantity and consistency lead to creativity
08:08 Sending physical thank you notes feels good
08:34 Planning and doing are two different modes of operating
09:42 Choosing to be satisfied
10:52 Move towards things that energise rather than drain
12:10 Fantasy fiction books are amazing
12:41 Use a face towel
13:31 Skincare compounds over time
15:27 Try to wake up at the same time every day
16:21 Don’t keep your phone on the bedside table
17:07 Don’t press the “try harder” button
18:21 Monetising your passions can be fun
19:37 Monetizing your passions can also not be fun
21:06 It’s ok to leave a party without saying goodbye
21:10 Musings on retirement
21:58 Try and enjoy each day on its own merit
22:48 Everyone is friendly but you have to go first
23:41 Successful people under-invest in relationships
25:39 Morning exercise is great
25:44 Rejection is way better than regret
25:50 Read the bad reviews
26:55 Use trains for travel
27:15 Journey before destination

MENTIONED IN THE VIDEO: 
✍️ My friend Neel Nanda's blog: https://www.neelnanda.io/
🧙‍♂️ Check out the 'Mistborn' series by Brandon Sanderson: https://geni.us/UHxW5
⏱ More on my plan to retire young: https://aliabdaal.com/my-plan-to-retire-young/
⏳ Clayton Christensens book 'How Will You Measure Your Life': https://geni.us/gzIl
⚡️ The Stormlight Archive Series by Brandon Sanderson https://geni.us/NkPr
🧴Dr Usama Sted - Dermatologist - @usamasyed 

Submit your video ideas and if we pick your video, we'll send you $100 -  https://aliabdaal.typeform.com/video-ideas

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

PART-TIME YOUTUBER ACADEMY:
🍿 My 6-week live online course - https://academy.aliabdaal.com

CREATORPRENEUR
💰 My flag-ship course for scaling up your creative side-hustle - https://go.aliabdaal.com/creatorpreneur

YOUTUBE FOR BEGINNERS COURSE
📸 This is for anyone who'd like to start a YouTube channel. You'll learn everything you need to get started as a YouTuber including how to script, shoot, and edit your first video - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/YouTube-for-Beginners

MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
✍️ The best summaries of books (Shortform) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
📚  How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound

🎙 Deep Dive podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/
The podcast that delves into the minds of entrepreneurs, creators and other inspiring people to uncover the philosophies, strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. You can find it by searching “Deep Dive” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/friendzone/
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
💙  The Friendzone Discord - https://discord.gg/Dh2kGavffd
🎮  Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, 
**Date:** 2022-07-26

## Transcript
 Hey friends welcome back to the channel so I have just turned 28 years old and so I thought I would do the roundup of 28 lessons from 28 years. It's gonna be a bit rambly but hey let's just go for it and we'll start with lesson number one which is the idea of setting intentional defaults. A lot of our behavior tends to be governed by defaults like the things that we've all wrote always done or you know habits some people might say. I don't find that though the phrasing of habits to be particularly helpful because habits feel like a thing that you have to build up and it's like feels like work to be able to have it whereas I love the idea of setting a default. And one default in particular that I've been thinking about recently is when I have a spare hour of time in the evening. What is the thing that I default to? And usually that thing is something to do with work. These days I'm writing a book so I'll often make try and make progress on the book or maybe try and think about writing a YouTube video or speaking to someone on the team on Slack. But I was reading an article by a classed Clayton Christianson in the Harvard business review called How Will You Measure Your Life. Which basically talked about how if I were to spend that one hour of extra time each day instead working on either my health or relationships, then and that was the intentional default. Then how different would my life be? Like an extra hour of progress on my book or making a freaking YouTube video for this channel isn't really going to have a big impact at all. Like I don't struggle to get work done. I already spent 8 to 10 to 12 hours of the day quick working. But an extra hour of the day spent trying to reconnect with friends or do something intentional with relationships. That has a big impact. And I've been testing this out over the last couple of weeks where in that one hour slot I will go through my WhatsApp and reply to Android messages or you know the other day I organized a little birthday kind of celebration and had a few friends come over for brunch. And all of that I managed to organize in the space of about 20 minutes. Whereas before I didn't, if I hadn't been thinking intentionally about like what is the default action here, what progress can I make on the relationships and friendships front? I'm probably one of done that because I would not ask birthday and I'm really care about birthdays. It's all good. But it was great and I'm really glad I did that. And so, you know, as I'm sitting here reflecting on this I'm thinking it's a Saturday. I've got some time after this. I should actually instead of thinking I'll make some more progress on my book because I've already done 4,000 of yesterday. Instead just thinking of what let's spend half an hour to think about how I can reconnect with a friend who I haven't spoken to in a while. So intentional defaults. Secondly, I want to talk about the idea of lowering the bar. This is quite nice, quite nice place. Uh yeah, the idea of lowering the bar. And I find that this has been one of my main strategies for dealing with procrastination in that if I'm struggling with procrastination of any sort, usually it's because my standard are too high and usually because I am trying to be too much of a perfectionist. And one of the phrases I like from writers is there is no such thing as writer's block. There is only like perfectionism or something like that. I think something that Seth Gauden says which I find quite helpful is like if you think you have writers block and you can't do the thing then show me all of the bad writing that you've done. And usually chances are you haven't done any bad writing because your standards have been so high your perfectionism has been so high that you just haven't created the thing. And the context of making a usual video like this one in the context of starting a podcast or a business or making progress with an essay or an assignment or anything. If we're finding ourselves unable to start, I find that for me at least telling myself just lower the bar, embrace mediocrity, like just try and embrace that this thing is going to suck and that's okay because once you get started then it's way easier to continue going, you know, Newton's first law, the law of inertia and object at rest continues to stay at rest. But an object in motion tends to continue to stay in motion. And so I find that lowering the bar helps me at least get started being in motion. Alright, number three somewhat related and that's the idea of embracing mediocrity in certain things in our life. I already like this idea from Oliver Bergman's fantastic book 4,000 weeks which we've got a video about linked over there and the podcast interview that I did with him is sick. That'll be linked down below for the deep dive podcast. By the way, did you know, I actually have a podcast to interview people. It's cool linked out below. Anyway, his whole idea is that like, you know, when we in the world of productivity and stuff we think that like if I just had the right tools and systems and processes and discipline, I would be able to do all of the things. But he's all spealing the book which I completely agree with. It's that like, time is finite. Like we're going to die at some point. There physically are not enough hours in the day to do all of the really important things that we want to do. And therefore we just have to embrace mediocrity in certain parts of our life. So for me, I have embraced mediocrity in the sense that like I like workwise, I know I'm not going to take my website seriously. Like probably could. I know I also know I'm not really going to take Tiktok seriously. I probably could. I also know I'm not going to be overly active on linkedin. Like that's like easy things in the workfront. Those are the things that I choose to be mediocre at. But in my personal life, again, sort of, I have sort of dozens and dozens and dozens of unread messages on WhatsApp. And I have just embraced mediocrity in that I'm, I'm, I just suck it, replying to those. We, in my intentional default time, I might get ran to it at some point and be like two months later I'll reply to a friend being like, hey, let's arrange to meet up because I like meeting up rather than text messages. But I've just embraced mediocrity in that side of my life and I'm not trying to, I'm not beating myself up because I suck it, replying to text messages or anything like that. I think that's, that was a really nice thing that I got from, from all of a bookmen's, all of a bookmen's book. Next on the life lessons list, we have the idea that studying or working or just living life with a background music track is actually pretty fun and makes life a lot more high energy. When I was living in Cambridge and I had my kind of Alexa smart speaker systems and stuff set up, anytime I'd wake up and I'd just be roaming around the house. I would always just like, oh, I can kind of do this. Yeah, whenever I'd be roaming around the house, I'd be playing some kind of background music of some kind, like, you know, Alexa would play my like songs on Spotify or play songs by one direction or take that or take it's way up for it, cheer up on or anything. There's something about having music in the background just really, really energized me and I've noticed since moving to London where we've kind of got an Amazon Echo, like the Alexa set up in the living room but I don't have one in the bedroom and it's just like just a little bit more friction because I haven't gotten around to setting up all the things where now I actually don't have that much background music in my life and I'm not sure but like I do find that my energy levels when I'm around the house are lower than the word when I was living in Cambridge and similarly when I go to the studio we have like a big Amazon Echo studio there and sometimes the music is off just by default because it's just off and I find like, huh, why am I, why am I struggling to do this thing or like, you know, write a script for a video or whatever and then I think, oh, there's no music and then I turn the music on and then suddenly it's like there's like an injection of energy into the room. I don't know, I just find that if I, if I, if I'm feeling low on energy, if I'm feeling like I'm struggling with with a thing putting on some kind of music just seems to seem to help. Next we have a very standard life lesson that everyone who is aware of personal development and stuff knows but always needs reminding of including me which is that consistency and quantity generally leads to quality, you know, if you want to get good at painting then just do 100 paintings. If you want to get good at making YouTube videos, make 100 videos and they're going to suck but like you'll get better at making them. I think I made this mistake when I was doubling with songwriting where I would be like really precious about like a single song and just be like, I need to get this perfect, I need to get this good and so for I don't know, I've written maybe 0.5 songs because I haven't embraced this attitude of just like quantity leads to quality and if I want to take something seriously just go to do that. Even when it comes to going to the gym just like, you know, putting in the consistency is in a way way more important than like an individual workout being like particularly good. So generally when it comes to the gym as well, I just tell myself that as long as I've gotten to the gym and lifted at least one thing than that's a win and I will log that in my app, I use the app strong by the way which is great for tracking workouts and not sponsored and as long as I've done at least one thing, that counts. That's the gym and that helps me kind of maintain consistency with the gym a little bit more even though that's still something I very much struggle with. The other thing that quantity and consistency leads to is creativity. So I've got in for example used to make it as an example a couple times. He has had a daily blog like a blog with a bee since like 1995 or something. So for the last like 25 years he has been writing every day and it's something sick about that. Like the more you do the thing in a way the more creativity flows from you and you know this I think Ed Sheeran does this in songwriting and the old game it does this in writing where it's like in order to be creative you have to let all of the crap flow out first kind of like um if you have crap in your plumbing system. If you want the clean water to come in you have to get rid of all the junk first and getting rid of all the junk first requires you just have a lot of ideas. And so I think I've really found this when it comes to doing anything daily, doing anything daily in terms of like content or anything creative. Just I found it makes me way more creative than I would be otherwise. Life lesson number seven changing gears is that sending physical thank you notes feels really good for me and also for the person who I've sent the physical thank you note too. And so I have a little stack of thank you cards with stamps and envelopes and I haven't yet found a post box that's close enough to my house that makes it super low friction but there's something about sending a handwritten note that just feels amazing and with our youtuber academy we send handwritten notes to our students and they freaking love it and it's great um yeah handwritten notes fantastic stuff. Next we have the idea, the life lesson, the philosophy that planning and doing are two different modes of operation. One metaphor I like to use that my brother came up with is the pilot and the plane. At some moments of the day we should be the pilot where we're trying to figure out and we're planning what to do with our day. But then for the rest of the day we should be the plane i.e. we're just executing on the orders of the pilot we're not trying to think about it too hard. It's when at least for me and I found this for my students as well it's like when we try and be the pilot and the plane at the same time in the same sitting. It's actually quite hard to get started like that's where procrastination really strikes. If it's like oh I need to I don't know learn Japanese and it's like okay I'm working my Japanese. Whereas like I haven't planned what that's what that actually looks like. I don't actually know what I'm doing. I don't have clarity on what that objective is. I haven't done the pilot stuff and that means when I sit down to learn Japanese or improve my Mandarin or whatever the thing I'm working on. I don't do anything because I'm like oh hi it's just too much of a faph it's like going to the gym and not having a plan. I don't want to come up with the plan where I want to when I'm at the gym because then I'll just sit on my phone and scroll scroll scroll because it's way too hard. But it's before going to the gym I can come up with a plan and be like all right once I get to the gym here the things I'm going to do. Then when I'm at the gym I can just be the plane and I can theoretically execute on the orders of the pilot. So I find that separating planning and doing has been really helpful for me in terms of beating procrastination and next we have the idea of choosing to be satisfied like a bunch of other like I don't know high-cheering productivity, bro enthusiasts. I tend to get to the end of the day and often feel as if I haven't done enough like I could have done more I could have been more efficient more productive. I could have worked on something what meaningful could have spent less time scrolling through social media. That's just a bit of a weird thought pattern because me feeling dissatisfied with what I've done doesn't actually change what I've done. It doesn't change the reality. It just makes me feel bad and so if instead I can just simply choose to feel satisfied with the progress I've made in a given day and what I've done and I get to the end of the day feeling good and it's like in both both situations the reality is identical it's just that I feel different about the situation and I feel way better when I choose to feel satisfied with what I've done rather than beating myself up that I didn't work hard enough. Some people will say at this point oh but like if you're dissatisfied then you'll be more likely to work the next day and work harder. I'm really not like I feel like every day is a new day and on the days where I feel dissatisfied with my progress that doesn't mean that the following day I'll make loads more progress. If anything it leads to a negative spiral where it's like I didn't do very well today. Oh well you know tomorrow can be a chill day as well and then next I can be a chill day like you can choose to feel satisfied with what you're doing. You don't have to choose to feel dissatisfied with it because it doesn't really change the reality of what you've done. All right next lesson that we have is the idea that when making decisions in our life with what we're doing and we're spending our time who is spending our time with we want to be trying to move towards things that energize us rather than the things that drain us and I found this to be a useful mental model for you know let's say if I am thinking about you know I've been invited to this party weird I know but I have been invited to this party and I'm thinking oh I don't really feel like it but the question I ask myself is okay will going to the party energize me or will it drain my energy. Now depending on the party and depending on my energy levels there are sometimes we're going to the party will in fact energize me and so I'll do the thing but at other times where I know that going to the party will party will actually drain me and therefore I will choose not to go and I found that usually if you know just just that one question will this energize me or will this drain me and if I have the option then going towards the thing that energizes me is always the thing that I appreciate you know if I'm feeling a bit tired and like oh I could go to the gym will going to the gym energize me almost certainly there is no way in how the going to the gym is not going to energize me therefore I will try my best to go similarly filming a video like this it's kind of a bit dark in the house I couldn't really be bothered to film in the house I was like oh maybe I'll film a video maybe not then I thought hang on what if I film the video outside will that energize me I was like yeah that's going to energize me so it's great I'm here filming this video and you know not really caring about the fact that there's birds in the background and like the lighting is changing and stuff because I don't think anyone really cares either way I'm finding it energizing to be up here speaking to a camera as if I've got a friend and it's great all right next live lesson is that fantasy fiction books are absolutely amazing everyone who have recommended the Mistborn series by Brandon Sanderson to has absolutely freaking loved it and has become Brandon Sanderson fanboy for life would highly highly highly recommend Mistborn series is a great place to start a starter by Neil Gaiman if you're looking to get into audiobooks Neil Gaiman narrates that audio book himself as well and he's a sick audio book narrator so that's amazing anything by Brandon Sanderson is just absolutely next level if you're looking to get into fantasy fiction 100% recommend those it's got an audible it's got a normal audible or Kindle or paper bag or whatever you want to read but I tend to listen to fantasy fiction I'm audible and it's amazing next we have the lesson of that you should I learn I learnt this at the age of like 26 or 27 or something I think it was my old housemate sheen that taught that taught me this when you're washing your face you should like wipe your face not with the same towel that you use in the shower because the towel that you use in the shower goes into weird places and you don't want those weird places to go on your face because then you're going to break out in like spots and stuff since you told me this I've been testing it out and I now use face towels or face tissues to wipe my face if I'm wiping my face or if I don't have access to a face towel or face tissues if I'm out and about somewhere I just I will just sort of pat pat dry it with my hand and then not like actually use my bath towel to dry my face and I've actually found my skin's been a lot clearer since then I used to have like way more spots on my nose and stuff when I was when I used the shower towel I sometimes use a shower towel and I'm just like I always regretted the following day because then something always breaks out so yeah thank you sheen for that tip use a face towel rather than a bath towel all right the next life lesson is that skin care is something that definitely compounds over time been chatting a lot to my friend sama who's a dermatologist based in New York I'll put her link to his YouTube channel down below and here I've had a lot of chat about skin care he basically showed me a bunch of evidence that shows that basically the younger start caring about your skin the more legit your skin looks over time as you age and so now I have a proper skin care routine which we're making a video about at some point it'll be linked down below if it's ready by now skin care routine basically sun cream moisturizer and retinoid I like the main things and then cleanser is like an optional extra so there's like the four parts of my skin care routine and I have a moisturizer in sunscreen that's rolled into one so that I only really use two products in the morning basically I cleanse and then I use the sunscreen moisturizer and then the evening I'll use my retinoid I'm a moisturizer and people have been commenting on how nice my skin looks so yeah I mean I've been doing the skin care routines in and for about six months now ish and I feel like it's already making a difference quick thing bonus little life lesson is that to be honest one of the main lessons that I've learned in the last 20 years is a lesson I learned five years ago and that was to start my own YouTube channel now if you've been interested in potentially starting your own YouTube channel the absolute best way to do that is to take my brand new online course which is freely available on Skillshare called YouTube for beginners and thank you so much Skillshare for sponsoring this video. If you haven't heard by now Skillshare is an incredible platform with thousands of online classes taught by teachers from all around the world and all sorts of topics from like YouTube being entrepreneurship lifestyle design interior design tech cooking stoicism productivity loads but the best part about Skillshare is that I have been on Skillshare since 2019 and I've got about 12 classes on Skillshare one of them is my flagship three hour long course YouTube for beginners which is completely free to access so if you're one of the first thousand people to hit the link in the video description then you can check out that course completely for free along with all of my other classes I've got three classes all about productivity which includes some of the life lessons I've learned from previous years when it relates to productivity and is generally being a more efficient person I've got two classes aimed at students for how to study for exams and all of those are really accessible during the one month free trial to Skillshare so do please hit the link in the video description and then you will get free access to those things so thank you so much Skillshare for sponsoring this video and the next life lesson is to try and wake up at the same time every day even if you've had reduced sleep I've been again I've been been doing a bunch of research into the science behind effective sleep listen to a bunch of human lab podcasts about this and there's just like a lot of decent compelling evidence that says that even if it's the weekend try and wake up at the same time like the more you can train your brain and body to sleep at the same time and wake up at the same time and not have lions and stuff the more like the it the body knows about the it doesn't add an adenosine build up and the circadian clock like seems to work properly I found this as well like now I wake up at like 7 a.m. every morning uh really without an alarm or wake up like a few minutes before my alarm which feels really nice because I tend to wake up very rested but on days where I'm like oh I'm I slept at 1 a.m. because that or 2 a.m. because I had friends over etc etc let me have a lion I find that we are Liam less energized on those days than if I had just gotten 5 or 6 hours of sleep and working up at 7 and just gone through the day so I am now trying to establish as much as possible sort of consistent sleep time and wake up time all right let's some 15 is something I've been doing for a while now people I've mentioned this on videos and people who have done this have said that it's changed their life which is not having your phone by your bedside table and instead having the phone on across across the room on the other side and instead just having a Kindle on the nightstand on the bedside table so that at night time when I'm in bed the only thing I can do is either read on my Kindle which has a warm light and not be on my phone or just sleep which is probably even better rather than reading on the Kindle in bed absolutely game changing thing and it also means if I set the alarm on my phone and the phone is across the room it means I'm forced to get out of bed in order to switch my alarm off if I don't use Siri which is bad I wish I didn't know that I could do that sorry if you didn't know that you could do that but just the fact that I have to then walk across the room to switch my phone off makes a big difference to how likely I am to get out of bed at the time where I know I want to get out of bed next we have the idea that if I am struggling to get something done and I find myself wanting to press the try harder button then I avoid this because the try harder button never works the try harder button is bad the try harder button thank you my friend Neil Nanda who has a great blog Neil Nanda.io like Nabalo but the try harder button is basically where you tell yourself that oh I know I need to take my working out more consistently I'm just gonna do it I'm just gonna try harder I'm just gonna be more disciplined I'm just gonna have more great I'm just gonna have more determination and in a way this things never really work because they're broadly unsustainable and it's very easy to sort of convince ourselves that actually we are in fact superman and that magically tomorrow we're just gonna have like this incredible amount of willpower and discipline and stuff to just do the thing but that's basically never gonna happen I think this is called what's it called is it called the superman effect is it called the super effect there's some phenomenon in psychology where we ascribe superpowers to our future self and we think yeah right me right now it doesn't have the energy to do this thing but me tomorrow definitely have the energy to do the thing I'll just try harder tomorrow and that's always the bad option the right answer usually in those circumstances is to figure out how can I tweak the system or the environment to mean that I don't need to try and this thing that I want just happens effortlessly if you want to learn more about habit formation and you haven't read atomic habits check out that video over there which will be a link on my video on my main channel about atomic habits which is a great book about how to build good habits and break bad ones but the next life lesson is that monetizing your passions can actually be really fun for example I used to be a close-up magician back in the day I used to dabble with close-up magic and I spent the first two years of my magic obsession first year basically just practicing in front of a webcam and a mirror and stuff but it was only when I tried to monetize it when I actually went outside of my comfort zone for example book my first restaurant gig which was an absolute disaster or start volunteering at a hospice even though I did that for free that I didn't get paid for it and also started performing in balls and parties at university that was when my magic skills really went up to the next level and also where my own social skills and confidence went up to the next level because now I had to go up to groups of people at a party or a ball and say hey do you want to do you want to see a magic trick and there's something really really scary about that but there's also something exhilarating about it so adding the element of monetizing this hobby of mine made the entire hobby a little bit more fun similarly I was into web design back in the day and I monetized the hell out of my web design hobby made money through making websites and in a way the fact that I was making money through it made the thing itself more fun now crucially I'm not saying you have to monetize all of your hobbies there is there seems to be this anti monetizing movement going on in the world if you don't want to monetize your hobbies that's totally fine you can do you but I have found that generally monetizing hobbies either it helps me make more money and we know that making money is good for financial independence and financial freedom which then gives us the autonomy to do what we want rather than what we have to do and being a slave to our employer necessarily but also it just sort of makes things a little bit more fun but the next lesson is the caveat there which is that actually sometimes and this is where I agree with the anti monetization sentiment sometimes actually monetizing your passions monetizing your hobbies can in fact take some of the fun away from them I spoken to a bunch of youtubers who really enjoyed making youtube videos when they were part-time youtubers when it wasn't their full-time gig but then when they switched to doing it full-time suddenly it becomes a job and when it's the thing that you do for money there's this I was reading this good book called what money can't buy the limitation moral limitations of markets which is all about the idea of when money becomes a motive in stuff it crowds out other more noble intentions like if you could pay for organs to organs to be donated to you that would be a real problem a bunch of examples in that book which is super interesting but I think the way of resolving this conundrum is monetizing stuff is fun but if you're relying on a passion for your income your main reason for doing a thing is the money then it becomes less fun and I find that for me and this you know with this youtube channel for example and that's why starting the second channel has been great because I don't really need to worry so much about monetization and things but even on the main channel the more I worry about the numbers and the more I worry about monetization the less fun it becomes to make youtube videos and I said and I then I wouldn't make a video like this one which is super rambling that's gonna do badly on the views compared to nine passive income ideas or something like that which I know will do well and make loads of money but it's like this is fun I'm having fun doing this video even if it doesn't perform very well and so there's this sort of like balancing act of how much do you want to monetize your passions if you haven't monetized them at all I would suggest that the answer is more than 0% but if you've tried to monetize them 100% you probably know you want to close it back somewhere in the middle as with all things there is a sweet spot there is a middle way next life lesson is that it's totally okay to leave a party without saying goodbye something we're thinking about a lot recently around what does it mean to be retired and you know combining a bunch of stuff that I've read and thought about I feel like retirement is basically three things um Navarrova con would say that retirement is when you are not sacrificing today for the hope of a better tomorrow now if that's happening that it means you're retired and broadly I think there's three ways of doing that uh the first one is when you just make so much money that you can just be retired because you don't have to work anymore the second one is if you spend so little money that the amount you make just makes you passively get by without having to work and the third one is where the work that you're doing you're loving it so much that you would choose to do it even if you want being paid for it and what I'm trying to do is some kind of combination of all three of those modes of operation and if I think if I can try and do work that I really enjoy that I would do even if I didn't get paid for it and also make money and also lower my expenses then that is basically me being retired so the next life lesson is the idea that we should try and enjoy each day on its own merit rather than enjoying each day as a stepping stone to something greater now I used to see this in medical school quite a lot where people would be like medical school is really hard and it's like really dry and boring and stuff but once I become a doctor then life will be fun and they generally find that when they become a doctor life is a lot less fun than life was in medical school my friends doing management consulting and stuff have this as well that you know it sucks right now but you know I'll get that promotion 66 months from now and while that may be true I think there is a way that you can change the mindset to view to act to actually just try and enjoy the journey in the present moment I've been reading a bunch of stuff around like spirituality in the power of now and things like that around how like life is if lived in the present moment it's never lived in the past or in the future the way I try and think is that my aim is to enjoy each day on its own merit not just enjoy each day because all this day was good because it helped me work towards my goals because I know this day was good and as a side effect I also haven't worked towards my goals for that kind of vibe alright next we have the idea of social initiative now this comes from the idea that like broadly everyone is friendly but you have to go first in occasions where I have taken social initiative I have been the one to organize an event or to invite friends over for a board game's night or to make the first move in a romantic kind of whatever there is a level of vulnerability that you have to have to open yourself up to showing social initiative initiative but whenever I've done that I've always felt like oh wow this is amazing like this thing that has just happened has been organized would not have been organized had I not taken the social initiative and so this is a lesson I'm trying to take forward into the next year as well like where can I take more social initiative how can I take social initiative in my kind of intentional default relationship time can I organize a group holiday with a lot can I organize a little road trip with friends can I organize a camping trip haven't really done a camping trip before but that could be fun like where can I show social initiative so that I can ultimately increase the amount of quality relationships that sort of the amount and the depth of quality relationships in my life Relatedly the next life lesson that I think I came across from clay christians and book how a book book and article how you measure life is the fact that most quote successful people tend to chronically underinvest in their relationships in their personal relationships and what he says in the book is like really interesting I think he's like a Harvard business school professor or something like that and he talks about how his class of however many it was NBA graduates they were all like super smart and in like super high flying careers and successful by any traditional metric in that you would use in the world but at there like 30 year reunion loads of them seem to be depressed a bunch of them seem to be like separated from their families and never seen their kids a bunch of them were in prison and no one ever sets out at the start of their careers to end up in prison or end up is trained from their family or end up like divorced or whatever but somehow it happens and what he's why he tries to explore in the book is like what were the key moments the key inflection points at which these smart bright people with promising futures ahead of them started to go towards a path that seemed particularly unhappy or illegal and one of his conclusions is that a lot of that comes from a failure to underinvest in relationships underinvest in social contact and stuff and the thing that he says which I I think is really good and one thing I'm trying to remind myself more of the thing with work is that work leads to very tangible benefits immediately like I know that when I work for an extra hour on whatever I it will help me make more money or it will increase the word count on my book or whatever but putting that same effort into relationships does not have an immediate payoff and in a way his argument is that really you want to treat friendships relationships if you're using the sort of terminology as like depositing into a savings account or an investment account well you don't expect to see the return right now you expect to see the return 20 years from now when you need a friend for something or something like that if you're going to view it in those sort of instrumental terms and there's something about reviewing kind of investing in friendships as akin to the money example of investing in a kind of bank account or a savings account that you know that a cook with that quite vibes with me because it helps me realize that actually investing into this is really good even if I don't see the tangible return right now of the fact that I'm making more money as a result of this decision. All right next life lesson is that I tend to feel way more energized when I've done some kind of exercise usually in the morning and the next one is that the sting of rejection is usually way better than the pain of regret so shoot your shot you've got to shoot the shot. All right next we have a comfortable way came across that someone I was speaking to said that when they're kind of procrastinating they look through Amazon and goodreads and look at the one star reviews of their favorite books and there's something about that that's very therapeutic because hey it helps you see that people don't have taste and be it helps you realize that even the books that you think are absolutely freaking amazing like the best things in the world they also have their haters they also have their one star reviews they also have like people that don't seem to like them anything this is something I'm gonna have to inoculate myself against it as you know I make more and more progress on my book and as it comes against closer to the release date which is still absolutely ages away so it's that like some people are gonna think it's crap and it's not much I can do about it all I can do is just show up with my own authentic truth and try and write something that I would I think is interesting and some people would find useful but I can't be useful to everyone it can't be interesting for everyone so I find this type of reading one star reviews to be really interesting and I've done it a few times it's quite therapeutic it's quite nice loads of people for some reason just leave one star reviews because the book didn't arrive on time and so they blame you know they don't realize the effect it has on the author to leave a one star review on it on Amazon page and they just think that I'm complaining to Amazon but anyway that's a that's a good little technique that I've started applying to my life recently right next life lesson is that where possible I find it's useful to travel on trains because trains are a great place to get worked up because trains are like kind of like like time traveling you get on a train and you're sort of doing the same thing that you would be at home on your desk and so before you know at your location so it's like you've sort of time traveled or like teleported to your location because it's like damn I'm in Edinburgh now and I've just made book progress for the last four hours on this train so trains are sick and then the final life lesson is as always journey before destination just that's a sick line by the way from the Stormlight Archive series by Brennan Sanderson life before death strength before weakness journey before destination it's really all about the journey but there is no journey without the destination but once you've set a destination at that point you can kind of forget about it and just focus on the journey focus on enjoying the present moment but yeah thank you so much for watching have a great day see you around bye
