# Applying to Medicine at Oxford or Cambridge - Questions to ask yourself, open days, stereotypes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AuORG4zFcXw
If you're thinking of applying to Cambridge (or Oxford) for Medicine, you might find this video useful :)

We talk about 5 questions to ask yourself to work out whether you'd enjoy the style of learning at Cambridge, and then talk a bit about concerns people have about the Cambridge 'stereotype' (whatever that means to you).

NB: Oxford and Cambridge are very very similar, so everything in this video also applies to Oxford. The course at Oxford is also very academic, and the stereotypes equally apply (if not more so).

--
If you've got any questions, please comment down below and I'll do my best to get back to you asap.

Chidera's awesome channel - https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCeq4iBads31CT551gDJND5A

Other Cambridge YouTubers to check out - 

https://www.youtube.com/user/ibstarsns
https://www.youtube.com/user/CambridgeUniversity
https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC_5rL_WhCNhOuXst0g9Jrvg
https://www.youtube.com/user/InfamousPillarKid
--

Who am I:

I'm Ali, a final year medical student at Emmanuel College, Cambridge. This vlogging thing seems quite fun so I'll be vlogging life and other things throughout the year. I'll also be featuring some videos of myself and my friends giving medicine application advice on camera :)

Follow me plssss:
- Snapchat: aliabdaal
- Twitter - https://twitter.com/AliAbdaal
- Instagram - https://instagram.com/AliAbdaal
- Website - www.aliabdaal.com
**Keywords:** cambridge university, cambridge university medicine, cambridge medicine, oxford medicine, oxbridge medicine, applying to cambridge, cambridge uni medicine, cambridge med school, cambridge medical school, cambridge medical student, oxford university, oxford university medicine, 
**Date:** 2017-10-01

## Transcript
 Hey guys, welcome back to the channel. If you're new here, my name is Ali. I'm a final year medical student at Cambridge University and this is a series of videos where I've interviewed a lot of my medical student friends and asked them for advice about the medicine application process. Last week we did a video about the personal statements. This week's video is all about applying to Cambridge. So if you're thinking of applying to Cambridge but you're a bit unsure whether the course is going to be for you or about the whole stereotype thing associated with Cambridge. Then hopefully you'll find some of the stuff in this video useful. We'll start by talking about five questions that you should ask yourself if you're thinking of applying to Cambridge. And then we'll go on to talk a little bit about open days and to talk about the stereotype associated with Cambridge and whether that should stop you from applying. We'll start off with Callum Paul, Jake and Mark are interested in talking about these five questions that you should ask yourself to work out whether Cambridge is going to be for you. And I'll see you in just a moment. So the kind of person that finds the science of medicine as well as the people bit of medicine, particularly interesting will do well here. We don't abandon the people bit of medicine. Everybody's going to learn that and you've got to be good at that by the end. But if you are academically interested in medicine per se, then this is a good course for you. As a learner, I like to understand things conceptually. I like to build up my understanding of things from the ground up from first principles and Cambridge teaches in that way. If you are somebody who likewise like to learn things conceptually, like to do build up my understanding rather than wrote memorization, then you should definitely do well apply to Cambridge. So the good thing about Cambridge is that they are sort of, they're unashamed about what it is they set out to do with their medical education. So if you want to be hands-on with patients from the word go, it isn't the right place for you and they make no bones about that. However, if you do like the sciences and you're happy to have a theoretical version that some can start, it could well be viewed. So do you like small group teachings? We have super visions which is usually a doctor or a senior person in the faculty who does super visions with few or four people. And sometimes they can be quite intense. Sometimes they're even one-on-one. So it's that small group teaching and the first few years are pretty heavy on the science and we do have things like writing essays and science practicals. So I think it's more that sort of things that you would have to consider which you would be suitable for. And also the Cambridge terms are quite intense. We have eight weeks of lectures, super visions and you have to fit in a social life and sleep. So you have to be able to cope with those intense eight week terms. It is a lot of work. It is also really fun. It's really fun. It's one of those things where because it's so difficult. You show band together of your friends and push through. And that's what makes it such a good experience, I think, because it is difficult. But you make such good friends because of sort of things you go through together. Alright, so those are the five questions we think you should be asking yourself to work out whether you want to be applying to Cambridge for medicine. Now we're going to turn to Molly who's going to be talking about open days and her own experience of applying. So I think open days if we can get to an open day, I think they're really informative. I wasn't keen on Cambridge actually. I didn't think I would be good enough. I thought it was completely different world of people. And it was only one I was forced by my parents to go to one of the open days. That I realised there were people just like me at this open day as well. And people just like me who were giving people tours who were already students there. And it really gave me hope actually that this was a place that you could go as a sort of normal person. You didn't have to be completely nerd and all of that. So I think open days really helpful. Especially as Cambridge has so many colleges. I think it's really useful to see as many colleges as you can and get an idea of what the system is. And for me what convinced me of my college was actually the admission to tutor talk. So I think attending talks like that is great because you can see the people who will end up teaching you if you come here. And finally, let's turn to a discussion about stereotypes. Now, I know this bit won't apply to everyone because a lot of people aren't really concerned about the stereotypes. I mean, when I was applying, I was worried that people were going to be weird in Cambridge, but that didn't really stop me from applying. But over the last five, six years of helping students with their medicine applications, I have heard quite a lot of times that students are reluctant to apply here. Or apply to Oxford because they are genuinely concerned about the negative stereotypes. They're concerned they won't be able to fit in. They're concerned that everyone's going to be really weird and like really nerdy. You know, all of these kind of things. And the media doesn't really help with this. We get these news articles about Cambridge students burning money in front of homeless people. And we're going to interview questions and all of this stuff kind of creates this image that Oxford and Cambridge are places for other people. Rather than places for normal people like us. So I mean, if you are concerned about about fitting into Cambridge, then I think you might want to watch this next section. If you've already decided to apply already, it doesn't really concern you because you just love the idea of going to Oxford and Cambridge. And feel free to feel free to skip ahead. But we're going to get Chadera, Marcus Chadera and myself talking about the Cambridge stereotype and about fitting in and that general area. I hope you find it useful. I can tell you now that looking around a lot of my lectures, there aren't many people that look like me. But for me, that was more of a motivation. I think Cambridge isn't going to change until more of us apply and more of us get here. So even if you feel like you don't fit the mold, we realize that there is space here for you. Regardless, because the only thing you have to do is be intelligent enough to go there. That's literally the only box you have to check. So even if you feel like you don't fit what the media tells you is the Cambridge stereotype. Whatever. If you're intelligent enough, then you have earned your place here. So just just better that in mind. I don't think that you have to fit a certain mold or change where you get here. That's not true at all. Yeah, I think the Cambridge stereotype is permeate through society. But I don't think there is one. Yeah, I think so we're all very different. Exactly. I think that's the thing that struck me. I initially thought that there was going to be such a stereotype. It was going to be hard to fit in. But really everyone's really down to everyone has their own thing that they do. People do different things. Some people are incredibly sporty and that's so much of their lives. Other people are working. There's so many things that people get involved with here in Cambridge. There isn't really one thing. And if people are worried about fitting in, that's not really an issue. Because so many different people come to Cambridge. And that's shouldn't say the Cambridge serves the stereotype. If you would permeate society, it's everywhere. So people from everywhere sort of come here and you'll find somewhere to fit in. I've spoken to a lot of people over the years who have been thinking of applying for Cambridge. And haven't ultimately, despite my trying to convince them, because they've decided of Cambridge isn't for me. I'm not the type of person for Cambridge. And what I'd say to that is that yes, you are the type of person for Cambridge. If you don't fit the mold of private school, white, male, that kind of thing. If you don't fit that mold, then you are exactly the type of person who should be applying to Cambridge. Because how else will Cambridge's diversity increase? How else will Cambridge become a place for everyone? Unless people like you apply. And actually, there are loads of YouTubers around Imsmo, particularly. I'm doing a really good job of trying to smash this Cambridge stereotype of the white middle class rich male student. So if you're in any of inspiration, I'll put some links in the description. You should definitely check out their channels. They're doing a great job. The Cambridge Communications Department is also doing a great job of trying to show that Cambridge is not this. It's not just this negative stereotype. It's a wonderful place and we need wonderful people like you to apply. Alright, so thank you very much for watching. That brings us to the end of this video. We've talked about the five questions that you should ask yourself if you're unsure of whether you should apply to Cambridge. And then we've talked a little bit about open days and about fitting in and about the whole stereotype situation. In conclusion, I mean, I absolutely love it here. The vast majority of my friends asked me to love it at Cambridge. And I've got a few friends at Oxford as well who quite like it there as well. I'd say that if you're thinking of applying to Cambridge, the only thing that should help you decide what way or another is whether you think the course is going to be right for you. If you're the kind of person that enjoys the academic side of things that would cook well with the intense terms, then yeah, definitely apply Cambridge's fantastic. I personally have had a wonderful time over the last six years. And I mean, this is our final year and I was speaking to a lot of my friends. I'm really, really sad to be leaving. And we can't imagine having gone anywhere else anywhere else for medicine. But ultimately, of course, the decision is down to you. I just hope that after watching this video, hopefully, if even a handful of people decide to actually apply to Cambridge rather than thinking that, you know, it's not for them or that other one fit in, then that would be a very positive outcome. But yeah, thank you very much for watching. If you liked the video, please give it a thumbs up. If you haven't subscribed to the channel, please consider doing so. It got loads more videos coming out over the next few weeks about interviews mostly. And I blog every now and then about life as a medical student, which is something that's quite interesting. But hey, thanks very much for watching. I'll see you next time. Bye.
