# Monthly Favourites #1 - Ali Abdaal
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aWpd9JYyNEs
Welcome to my first 'Monthly Favourites' video. Delighted you're joining us. Here's what we talk about in this episode:

00:46 - My 4 favourite things for January 2018
01:12 - Favourite blog - Journal of Medical Ethics
04:41 - Favourite podcast - Reasons to be Cheerful
06:40 - Favourite book/series - Mistborn by Brandon Sanderson
09:27 - Interesting discovery - Hand-lettering

💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking 

📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal 

LINKS:

1. Journal of Medical Ethics blog

- JME Blog - http://blogs.bmj.com/medical-ethics/
- [The Fall of the Meritocracy — Quadrant Online](https://quadrant.org.au/magazine/2015/09/fall-meritocracy/#_ftn8)
- [Toby Young’s The Fall of the Meritocracy](http://www.petersaunders.org.uk/toby_youngs_the_fall_of_the_meritocracy.html)
- [Toby Young, Eugenics, IQ, and the Poor (part 1) – Journal of Medical Ethics blog](http://blogs.bmj.com/medical-ethics/2018/01/08/toby-young-eugenics-iq-and-the-poor-part-1/)
- [Toby Young, Eugenics, IQ, and the Poor (part 2) – Journal of Medical Ethics blog](http://blogs.bmj.com/medical-ethics/2018/01/08/toby-young-eugenics-iq-and-the-poor-part-2/)

2. Reasons to be Cheerful with Ed Miliband and Geoff Lloyd

- [Reasons to be Cheerful with Ed Miliband and Geoff Lloyd](http://cheerful.libsyn.com)
- [Overcast](https://overcast.fm)

3. Mistborn Trilogy by Brandon Sanderson

- [The Final Empire: Mistborn Book One: 1: Amazon.co.uk: Brandon Sanderson: 9780575089914: Books](http://amzn.to/2nVy8Qq)
- [The Well of Ascension: Mistborn Book Two: 2: Amazon.co.uk: Brandon Sanderson: 8601300345567: Books](http://amzn.to/2HeloMY)
- [The Hero of Ages: Mistborn Book Three: 3/3: Amazon.co.uk: Brandon Sanderson: 9780575089945: Books](http://amzn.to/2G8Or3a)

4. Hand Lettering

- [#handlettering • Instagram photos and videos](https://www.instagram.com/explore/tags/handlettering/?hl=en)

WHO AM I:

I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking 

📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal 

🎬 My online course on video editing - https://skl.sh/32TpEvm
🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
**Keywords:** Cambridge medicine, Cambridge medical student, Cambridge medicine vlog, Cambridge medical student vlog, medical student, medicine vlog, medicine, medical student vlog, Oxbridge, Oxford, Cambridge, cambridge medicine, oxford medicine, monthly favourites, january favourites, monthly favorites, january favorites, mistborn, medical ethics, reasons to be cheerful, ed miliband, hand lettering, brandon sanderson, 
**Date:** 2018-02-14

## Transcript
 Hey guys, welcome back to the channel. If you're new here, my name is Ali. I'm a final year medical student at Cambridge University and this is the first in a new series where each month I'm going to be talking about my favorite things I've discovered that month. So things like books, blog posts, articles, podcasts, products, stuff that I've kind of dug up in my life and I want to share with you guys each month. Hopefully, that's the plan. So today's video is going to be about my favorite things from January 2018. Everything is going to be time-stound to be low so you don't have to watch the whole video. Although, you kind of feel like it. Yeah, let's roll the intro. That's quite an amazing intro, isn't it? I quite liked it. It seemed cool. Lots of pro youtubers use intros and their things. So I thought I'd you know, try and do it in my mind. So in this video, we're going to be talking about four things. Firstly, it's going to be my new favorite blog, which is the journal of medical ethics blog. Secondly, it's going to be a new podcast that I discovered and that's Ed Miliband's podcast called Reasons to Be Cheerful. Thirdly, it's going to be about a book series that I started reading recently and absolutely devoured called the Mistborn series from might have heard of it, maybe not. And finally, I'm going to introduce hand-lettering as a concept and that's something that I've never discovered before, but yeah, let's do those in order. So firstly, I want to talk about a new blog that I discovered and that's the blog of the journal of medical ethics. I discovered this while preparing for the Charlie Guard video, which was on the channel a few weeks ago that you know, seen people seem to like. And the journal of medical ethics is a medical journal that's published by as part of like the British Medical Journal of BMJ, they're kind of conglomerate. And their blog has very, very accessible articles about interesting current affairs, medical ethics topics. And I was spent the last sort of few weeks reading through the backlog of some of them because they're really interesting and because I really like medical ethics as a field. And especially the way the arguments are phrased in the blog, it's very, it's, it's very fair that the writing is really good. This is a guy Ian Brassington, he's absolutely sick. I just love his style of argument. A really interesting sort of duo of articles, I read last week, I think it was, was about Ugenics and I'll link those in the description below. But I found this really interesting. It was a rebuttal to an article that someone else had written where they were talking about the correlation between social economic status and someone's IQ. And there have been a lot of studies that show that IQ correlates with socioeconomic status. So if you have a hierarchy, you tend to be in a higher social class. There are also a couple of studies that have shown that if you're born into a lower socioeconomic class, but you happen to have a high IQ, then that increases your chances of moving up into a higher socioeconomic class as as you grow older, so increases social mobility. So the original article was was arguing that kind of this, this idea of designer babies. If we can sample a number of embryos and we can select, you know, the one that has the highest likelihood of being intelligent or, you know, having a high IQ, they're not really the same things, but again, you know, that's more in the article below. They were saying that if we allow people from a lower socioeconomic class to choose embryos that have higher a higher propensity for IQ or intelligence, then that might be one of the things that tackles social immobility across across the world. If you give this option to poorer people, the article says, then chances are they'll have more intelligent hits, and therefore there's more intelligent kids can rise up out of the low socioeconomic classes and, you know, we improve social mobility as a whole. So this was an article called The Fall of the Meritocracy by a guy called Tobi Young, who I think's been appointed to some position in the government recently. And the two blockposts on the Joan of Medical Ethics blog are arguing against this article. There are going for the idea that, yes, while there might be a correlation between IQ and socioeconomic status, there are probably other confounding factors that, you know, explain this. For example, the presence of parasitic diseases that you're more likely to get in a lower social class, and those can start your cognitive development, which means that you're likely to have a lower IQ as a result of it. And between these two articles, they explore this concept really nicely. I suggest you read the original article as well, because it's interesting, and also the two follow-up articles on the JME blog are linked below. But yeah, that was something I discovered on the JME blog, and I'm going to be following it every week now. On that note, just a quick mention, I'd really recommend using something called feedly. It's like an RSS feed aggregator, kind of old-fashioned, but I use feedly to read all the blogs that I follow these days, because otherwise it's such a pain in the bum to manually visit every blog to check when they've gotten you content available. But if you add it to feedly, then each day you can just browse through the list of articles on your phone or iPad or whatever. And you can see what new articles are out from all the various blogs that you follow. So yeah, we'd recommend that. So that is my favorite new blog that I've discovered this month, and that's a journal of medical ethics blog, and I would really recommend it if you have a vague interest in the field at all. Secondly, I want to talk to you about a new podcast that I discovered called Reasons to Be Cheerful, and it's hosted by politician Ed Miliband, famously, ex-head of Labour Party, and a radio presenter called Jeff Lloyd, and the two of them have a very nice, good banterist dynamic between them that makes for really interesting listening to. I first got introduced to it when my friend Sahel, who's a medical Oxford, invited me along to one of the live screenings of their podcast, and in that episode, they were talking about mental health. So they were interviewing Ruby Wax, who's a comedian, who's written a book about mindfulness and evidence behind that. They also had George Ezra, the famous singer, who I absolutely love on the show, and he was talking about his new album, and also sort of dealing with depression anxiety, that sort of thing. And they also had Professor Sir Simon Wesley, who used to be the president of the Royal College of Psychiatrists. Who incidently, I had dinner with via the Cambridge Medical Society, me and the medsaw president had dinner with him. The three of us had some steak house in Cambridge a few years ago. That was an interesting thing in me again. Anyway, each week in this podcast, they talk about the interesting current affairs. So the one I listened to last week was about prison reform, and what the stats are around that, whether the prison system should be sort of punitive based on punishment, or rehabilitative, or a bit of both, that sort of thing. And they interviewed the guy who runs the prison system of Sweden quite a high up. They interviewed like the Prime Minister of New Zealand. So there's quite a nice bunch of cast that they interviewed for each podcast. And it just makes it interesting listening, especially if you're interested in current affairs at all. I'm not overly interested in current affairs and that I don't bother keeping up to date with the day-to-day news, but I really like it when I can get a good balanced distillation of important points about issues like the health service, prisons, this and the other. So that's something I'm going to be listening to every week. And I'd recommend you give it a go. If you haven't, I'm across the podcast yet. In terms of how you listen to podcasts, you can listen to them on anything. I prefer overcast, which is a really nice app for iOS. I think it's on Android as well. And it's just quite a nice user interface for listening to podcasts each week. So the third thing I want to talk about is a series of books that I discovered towards the end of 2017, and absolutely devoured. And that's the Mistborn series by Brandon Sanderson. You might have heard of it, maybe not. And I go recommend it to this by friend who also recommend it to about telling my other friends who absolutely loved it. And I've been recommending it to everyone ever since. The original trilogy, the Mistborn trilogy is kind of set in sort of ancient times, kind of in a different world. It's a very sort of post-apocalyptic, the whole world is ruled by this guy called the Lord Ruler. And there's the peasant population that ruled down front and there's the nobility who have their sort of political battles within the houses. That's what I think. And the premise of the first book, the final empire, is that it follows the story of a peasant girl who finds out that she is one of the Mistborn. People with special powers, the magic system then in the series is quite interesting. It's like you eat certain metals and then you can metaphorically burn those metals inside your body. And there's a grant in particular powers. Like, let's say you burn Peter. That grants you super strength for a while. Let's say you burn R and a steel. That lets you push or pull metal stuff away from you towards you. And people who are Mistborn have the power to burn all eight metals, so they have all these different powers that they can call upon. So if I was a story of this girl, would Vin, who finds out that she's one of the Mistborn and a guy called Kelsey, who is also a peasant, but is the leader of a crew of thieves that steal from the nobility. And the book is centered around this idea that they're plotting to overthrow the final empire. They want to defeat the Lord Ruler. They want to kill him. They want to give power back to the people that take it away from the nobility. And that's the premise of the first book. And the trilogy is absolutely incredible. As I was reading it, I thought it might knock Harry Potter off the best series of it. I've ever read. On reflection, Harry Potter is still probably up there just because of the whole childhood thing associated with it. And it's got a place at my heart. But the Mistborn trilogy is a very, very, very close second. And if you haven't read it and have some time to read books. Even if you don't, you know, just like 20 minutes a day before bed, you're going to absolutely love it. I think it's amazing. And then there are four more books after that that I kind of set in the future a few hundred years. So you have like guns and things rather than swords. There's also quite good. Not quite as good as the original trilogy, but still really interesting. And next year, there's going to be another installment of that. And that's going to apparently, it ties a lot of things together and Brandon Sanderson is building up this world where eventually stuff is going to start like coming together at some point in the future in a few years time. So I'm going to read all the other books that he's written because apparently the universes often depend of touch one another. And I quite like the idea of that. So yeah, that's probably my favorite book series of 2017 and Star of 2018 would highly recommend the Mistborn series if you haven't read it. Finally, I want to talk about hand lettering. And that is something that I discovered like literally a few weeks ago on Instagram and on YouTube. And there seems to be this whole like whole subculture of people doing hand lettering like really, really well. I'll flash up some images on screen of examples of what I mean. And I find stuff like this really cool. I've come across hand lettering examples in the past and always thought they look quite nice, but never quite realized that there was a whole thing behind it and hand lettering was a thing that people did. And then when you discover something new and you go down the right the whole of the internet, YouTube and stuff and you discover that how this words was to learn this and this is the equipment you need and this is how you get started. So from next week onwards, I'm going to start this like beginner's course in hand lettering just to just for a bit of fun. I'm going to do it on the iPad and I also want to do it in real life. And I think it would be really nice to kind of get into this and maybe for birthday cards or thank you cards or whatever, just like doing custom custom designs and also for Instagram. And I think also it might help my general web design skills because you know, being able to create custom type of graffiti for titles is something that I've thought about for a while, but didn't realise that you actually could do it. So yeah, hand lettering is really cool. And maybe if you've not come across it before, you might like to explore it's price of Instagram pages, I'll link stuff down in the description below. But yeah, that is the fourth of my favorite things for January 2018. So that concludes this video. We talked about the JME blog, the Journal of Medical Ethics blog, we've talked about the reasons to be cheerful podcast hosted by Ed Milliband and Jeff Lloyd. Certainly we mentioned the Mistborn series of books which I would highly recommend and finally I introduced this idea of hand lettering that I've recently come across, but that I want to explore in more detail. So that brings us to the end of the video. I've really hope you enjoyed it. I've never really done this sort of thing before. Apparently it's a thing on YouTube for like beauty vloggers and stuff to post to their favorites from January February and so on. And it seems like a good thing to do because often I consume a lot of content, but don't really think about it a lot. And I think if in the back of my mind I'm thinking, you know, I've got to make a video the end of the month where I talk about my favorite things, it does this make the cut. I think that'll encourage me personally to be a bit more reflective of the stuff that I do read and the podcast I'll listen to and so on. And yeah, I really hope you kind of useful. I hope you might have discovered some new things, you know, links out of everything in the description below. So yeah, thank you very much for watching. If you liked the video, please give it a thumbs up, but also could you let me know in the comments if this is a thing that you think I should continue with or if you think that you know, if you'd like to be shorter or longer or more thing like, you know, I want to find out what what you guys want to watch because otherwise I'm just kind of spouting whatever I want to talk about. And while I think there is some merit in that, it's also nice to know that the stuff that I'm saying and the videos I'm making are actually resonating with people. So if you do like the video, please could you leave comment down below, let me know. And if not, then I would really appreciate any sort of constructive criticism and all that. But yeah, please consider subscribing if you're not already and I'll see you in the next video. Have a lovely day. Bye-bye.
