# i wasted the last 6 months of my life...
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BCWfXWVVsKo
In this video, I open up about my feelings around the struggles associated with writing my book. It's been a pretty significant source of stress in my life recently, and I talk through what that's been like + what strategies have been helping me deal with it. 

Follow along my book journey - https://book.aliabdaal.com

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

PART-TIME YOUTUBER ACADEMY:
🍿 My 6-week live online course - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ptya_aliabdaal
CREATORPRENEUR
💰 My flag-ship course for scaling up your creative side-hustle - https://creatorpreneur.academy/course


YOUTUBE FOR BEGINNERS COURSE
📸 This is for anyone who'd like to start a YouTube channel. You'll learn everything you need to get started as a YouTuber including how to script, shoot, and edit your first video - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/YouTube-for-Beginners



MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
✍️ The best summaries of books (Shortform) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
📚  How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
Deep Dive Podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/
The podcast that delves into the minds of entrepreneurs, creators and other inspiring people to uncover the philosophies, strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. You can find it by searching “Deep Dive with Ali Abdaal” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc).
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali
What I Use For Analytics - https://go.aliabdaal.com/tubebuddy

🎙 My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮  Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, book writing, writing a book, author productivity, writer productivity, the process of book writing, how to write a book, dealing with doubt, book publishers, how does publishing work, book publishing, steps to writing a book, how to write a book and publish it, writing a book for the first time, how to write a book for beginners, how to write a book for publishing, how to start writing a book, writing, writing tips, how to write a book guide, 
**Date:** 2021-02-24

## Transcript
 Hey friends, welcome back to the channel. This is going to be a little bit of a chitchat rambly kind of video where I talk about my feelings, with a cup of camera-mild tea in my hand. And yeah, I want to tell you the story of how the book that I'm writing feels like it's been a total failure so far. And I feel like I've really wasted the last six months of my life. Sort of, to an extent. So the story kind of starts in summer of 2020, when I was approached by an editor from a publishing house in the UK who said, hey, do you want to write a book? Do you want to write a book about productivity? And so here I go talking and so I was like, cool, let's write a book about productivity. And then over the last few months, here I've kind of been working together to craft a book proposal. A book proposal is this document where you sort of lay out exactly what your book is going to be about and what's the concept and what's the theme and where you're supposed to do like an overview of every chapter. And doing a book proposal is hard because you have to act as if you've got the whole book figured out. And I didn't really have much of it figured out. It was sort of a loose idea at this point. But when you're writing a proposal, you sort of have to pretend like you've got everything together. And so my editor and I've been working kind of back and forth for the last few months working on this proposal trying to craft into something good. And at the start of January 2021, at this point we'd fleshed out the idea. We'd got the concept we knew what the book was going to be about, which is kind of a good start. And I thought, okay, you know what? A standard like nonfiction book is about 65,000 to 80,000 words. I fancy myself a pretty fast typist. So I thought, hey, you know what? I can write 2,000 words a day. How hard can it be? And so I announced this on Twitter and I announced it on my email newsletter. I think I mentioned it on Instagram as well. And for the first seven days of the new year, I was writing 2,000 words a day and I was banging through my word count and I was even posting updates on Twitter about, hey, look at me, look at how many words I could write in a day. But seven days into it. No, when I'd written about 14,000 words at that point, I realized that, oh, it's actually quite hard to write 2,000 words a day. Especially if you want those 2,000 words a day to actually mean something. Now, generally when it comes to writing advice, the advice most people would say is that don't worry about quality, just focus on quantity in the beginning. Like your rough first draft is supposed to be really, really crap. It's supposed to be really messy. And as I was typing everything onto the page, I was really thinking every single paragraph, oh my god, this is so terrible. This is really bad. Why would anyone bother reading this? But then every author that I would speak to would say, hey, don't worry. This is all part of the process. Every author thinks that their work is absolutely crap on the first draft. And really good writing isn't about writing. It's about rewriting multiple multiple multiple times. And really all of the magic happens in the edit. And so I had that in my mind. And so I was thinking, you know what, how hard can this be? 2,000 words a day. By mid February, you know, six weeks from the first of Jan to the 14th of Feb, I should be able to have like 84,000 words if I write 2,000 words a day. And as I said for the first week, it was fine. And then I kind of hit a stumbling block where like on day eight of this challenge. The stop was going on. I was a bit busy. I didn't make time for writing. And then I did zero words that day. And then the next day, because I was like, oh well, you know, I kind of failed hitting my word count yesterday. You know what, let's just not bother today. And then I kind of did that thing, which I think a lot of us are prone to do, that I, I like to call failing with abandoned. It's like, you know what, I've wasted one hour watching this TV show Netflix. You know what, I might as well just binge the whole season. Or like, oh, you know, I'm, I'm not going to become a gym shark athlete because of eating one slice of pizza. You know what, screw it, I might as well eat the whole, eat the whole box. So that was basically what I did with this bookwriting thing where I really stalled my progress. Because I felt like I didn't hit that 2000 word word count. And so I decided I needed an intervention. And so I set up these like Zoom co-working study with me right with me type sessions, which I've been running for the last few weeks. And it's it's really cool because each day we have like a hundred and something people, sometimes two or three hundred people attending this Zoom session from all around the world completely free. And we just sort of do work together. So I usually play my Spotify study with me playlist with instrumental songs like bangers from the Lord of the Rings or Harry Potter in the background. And I share my sound with everyone else and we use the Pomodora technique to get loads of work done. And so these sessions have been a really good way of me to me like forcing myself to write because I'm rocking up every day at 10 o'clock in the morning. You know, just having, having a hundred people there on their webcam is just kind of doing their own work. It was like a nice social somewhat social way for me doing my writing during lockdown when I wasn't seeing anyone apart from my housemate. And so over the last few weeks I've been banging away at this book proposal and about two three weeks ago I finally got it to a point where I was like kind of happy with it. I was like, okay, cool. This broadly makes sense. We kind of know what the book's going to be about. It's quite broad. It's sort of a very kind of general per per se type book around productivity around meaningful productivity around the idea of meaning like what makes a life meaningful and that sort of stuff and tying in principles of productivity into that. And this ended up being like a sort of 30,000 word document. It was like 80 pages long. It was like tons and tons and tons of writing and it went back and forth with my editor a few times and he like added loads of bits to it and made it sound really good. And I was always amazed like, you know, I would, I would write stuff which I would think is absolutely terrible and then I'd send it to him and then he would convert it into like what sounded really, really legit. And so we had this sort of back and forth relationship going and yeah, we had this sort of 30,000 word document. Whereas like the the length of a standard nonfiction book and the set is 65 to 80,000 words. So really to write the actual book, it would have just been flashing out each chapter summary into about two or three times what it was. Which at the time two or three weeks ago, I thought, okay, this wouldn't be too hard. But then I decided that, okay, let's send this proposal to some people that I know in America because we're trying to kind of land a book deal in the US. Let's send the proposal to a few editors in America who I know through friends and through kind of internet colleagues to see what they think of it. Basically, everyone that I showed it to in America said that this is not very good. They all said it in slightly different ways. But they've broadly said that this is not very good and this still needs a lot of work. And that was like a real low to me because I was like, this is all this, all the time and effort we put in to make what what we thought was good and we're sending it to American editors because the US market is what we're trying to sell it to and they're saying it's not right. And in fact, here is an excerpt from one of my new friends called David Moldauer who specializes in helping authors with book proposals and he's had loads of experience in the editing and publishing field. This is what he had to say about the book proposal. This is not a proposal that gets me excited. And I looked at your videos and I immediately, I sort of like, this is great. But from the video, I was like, I immediately get it and I'm excited. And then I look to the proposal and I was like, oh, okay, this is a little bit, you know, this isn't going to stand apart content-wise. Oh, interesting. I don't think you've figured out what the book is. No, no, yeah. You could be describing pretty much any business or self-help book ever written from a certain perspective. Yep, what? What's your life about and you're going to do it better? If it, if it does deliver and it becomes the kind of book that people just, that's what the time I have. It's just, yeah, constantly, constantly recommend to each other. Yeah. You're going to be haunted by it for a good or for ill for the rest of your life. Yeah. And whatever that thing is, like Cal Newport, I mean digital minimalism, I think it's okay, but like he's the deep work guy now. Like he's the deep work guy forever. Yeah, probably. Yeah. Like anytime he talks to anything and for Tim forget it, like he will tell you, he's the four hour guy, even though that's not a huge part of what that book was about. So what we want to do is we want to make sure that Ali is the whatever guy that he wants to be and doesn't end up shoe-warned into something that isn't really what you want to be talking about for years. Yep, for years. You have to damn pink says. You have to write the book for two years and then talk about the book for two years. Two years, just talking about it. That's forget afterwards. It's just like you, your thing every talk speech is this book. Yeah. So we just want to figure out what that thing is. And I'm sure it's there somewhere, but there's a kind of a process. I have a process, but you kind of want to get it what the thing is and then everything builds out from that. As opposed to, I'm just going to throw all the spaghetti at the wall and the reader will find the thing that's useful to the reader somewhere in there. Does that make sense? Yes. And so basically what David was saying and I'm very glad that he gave this kind of constructive criticism is that you need to throw out the proposal and kind of start again and rework the concept from the ground up. This was like like that week where I was getting kind of lots and lots of feedback from loads of different people, all of whom were more or less saying that same thing, that you know just in slightly different ways. It was quite like a low point for me and I say, I want to say low with like inverted comments because like broadly my life is still like very privileged and very good and like this is a very much a first world problem that hey, I've been approached by a publisher to write a book and I wanted to be really, really, really good and at the moment it's only kind of good and so people have told me it's not very good and so I need to argue like it's all, it's all very first world problemy. So I am aware of that. I do apologize in advance. Basically everyone's telling me that this book is absolutely terrible and I need to start again. Sort of that was one thing and then alongside that there were a few other kind of weird, I don't say weird. If you are the quirks of the publishing industry going on with things like agents and editors and contracts and this sort of stuff and it was all like piling up and I really felt like I had this huge like weight on my shoulders almost from I don't like the word stress but I guess it did feel like stress like I make it a point basically never ever say that I'm stressed out by anything because I feel like you know all of the stuff about first world problems and this isn't real stress like I know people who are under real stress especially people working on the front lines and the pandemic. That's not me. This is not real stress but even so it was like a feeling of stress that all these things were piling up and then I got this kind of like news that we'd have to throw out the six months of work and start again from scratch. It was kind of weird because like with all this stuff piling up I had this real sense of kind of negativity and resentment in a way towards this book. It was this feeling of like why the hell did I take this on? Why did I say yes to this? How am I even qualified to write a book about about anything that'll learn a book about productivity and I guess this is the danger with the sort of working on something on your own without much like outside feedback where you hype yourself up into thinking that it's good and you're like oh yeah this is some good stuff and then you start thinking that like you're the shit so you're like yeah check me out. I'm rising a book and then you send it to people and they're like oh this is actually pretty crap. It wasn't great for my self esteem at the time and yeah I sort of felt this the stresses of all these different things going on around the book sort of piling up. And then what was nice is that I had a a session with my writing coach. His name is Azul. He's very nice. He was introduced to me by Pat Flynn who you might know from the smart path of income podcast. So Azul and I've been working together for the last few months and he's been helping me come out of my own fear of like self promotion when it comes to writing and all of these other various kind of baggage associated with like writing a book which apparently loads a different authors go through and there was something that Azul said during this call which really like changed the way that I was approaching this. And he just kind of reminded me he was like look Ali you're supposed to be having fun writing this book. It doesn't sound like you're having very much fun right now and I was like damn you're right like just that just that reminder because like my whole mantra throughout life is that you know this thing of journey before destination. This thing that yes goals are like whatever but what's more important than setting and achieving ambitious goals what's more important than that is enjoying the journey and enjoying the process of doing them weirdly if you enjoy the things that you're doing then chances are you'll become more successful at them if success is what you're optimizing for. And so if people ask me things like how you're so productive and all that kind of stuff how do you do so much with your time? The real answer is that it never feels like work because it's just for the most part like really fun and throughout medical school, throughout school, throughout school, throughout medical school, throughout like working as a doctor, throughout doing this YouTube thing and all the businesses on the side. I've always found them really really really fun and the process of writing this book started off being really fun and then I let myself get into this kind of whole where I sort of felt like all these things were planning up. Finding something fun is a lot more about how we approach it than it is about whether the thing itself is actually fun. I know some people who have a lot of fun doing laundry and doing dishes and there are like occasionally moments in my life where I'm doing the dishes are doing the laundry and I'm genuinely enjoying myself and it's usually because the story that I'm telling myself about the thing is slightly different and there's this cool study that they've done where there was this a researcher who interviewed lots of hospital cleaners like hospital janitors who worked in hospitals and asked them about their jobs and some of them kind of treated it as just a job and they were just like yeah it's just a job by cleaning the floors but there were others who were treating it as like an actual calling and they were recognizing that by cleaning the floors and cleaning the hospital they were making life easier for the patients and these guys felt like they had much more meaning at work and they performed better in the job and they had more fun and they were just kind of generally happier and so I think this this idea of having fun while we're doing things is such an important one and I sort of lost sight of that while all of these various bits around the book were piloting up and there's another thing of this reminds me of which is this idea of sincerity versus seriousness and I really like this because the analogy here is that like if we think of life as kind of like a game life is a game and everything within life is a game if we choose that analogy and there's probably two ways of playing the game or like two legit ways of playing the game we can play it seriously or we can play it sincerely seriously is sort of when when you play with someone who takes a game too seriously it's like it's not really fun playing with someone who takes a game too seriously but it is a lot of fun playing with people who play a game sincerely and the difference between the two is that if you're sincere about something you're doing you're best and you're trying to play the game and you're trying to win but you recognize that it's a game and you're not letting the competition or the drive or the seriousness you're not letting that get in the way of your own enjoyment and the enjoyment of other people whereas if you take it very seriously then it's just like oh my god it feels less fun the more serious you take it and this really used to be my spiel with exams as well like exams in school exams in medical school I considered all of them as kind of like a game a game that I was going to try try my best to play and win whatever whatever that meant for me but it was a game that I was never going to take so seriously to the point where it would kind of affect my my emotional well-being and after as all reminded me of this thing that I'm supposed to be having fun in writing the book I also realized that I'd been taking it too seriously like I'd been fixated on the outcome of oh my god A I want this book to be really good and B and this feels shameful to admit but I was really fixated on the outcome that I really want this book to be a New York Times bestseller and it feels so so ridiculous to admit that I allowed because that's such an arbitrary kind of goal to have it's also really really really really really really hard to get a book of the New York Times bestseller list and it's like so much of it is dependent on factors outside of our own control and normally I'm not a fan of setting goals for things that are outside of my control so like with this YouTube channel I've never really been a fan of setting a subscriber goal or a views goal or a revenue goal instead my goal is just I want to produce two videos a week because making two videos a week is something in my control whereas subscribers views revenues all of that stuff is outside of my control but for some reason I kind of changed my usual mode of operation for this book and I was like you know what I really want this to be a New York Times bestseller and I think that fixation on the outcome was another thing that was causing me to line bed at night when I couldn't sleep and I'll be thinking well you know how do we how do we market this book and you know what's it gonna be about and how do we make sure it's good and I was putting so much pressure on this idea of this book being a bestseller that I think I was losing sight of the fact that this whole thing is supposed to be fun and so I'm now kind of going back to the drawing board with kind of the concept of the book it might end up being very similar to what the book proposal kind of says so far this work that we've been doing over the last few months but I suspect it's going to change quite a lot I've been reading a book by Stephen Pressfield called the artist journey and he talks about how through the course of any kind of artistic endeavour like writing a book you get this moment called the all is lost moment like that was very much what it felt like when I got all this feedback from these American people saying that this book sucks more or less it's all it felt like this was the all is lost moment but what Stephen Pressfield says in the artist journey is that after the all is lost moment it's only up from there and you're in hindsight you're really glad that things didn't work out at the start and apparently every like artist goes through this and you know I don't like to consider myself an artist but that does kind of feel like what I'm going through now and so we're going back to the drawing board sort of revisiting the concept of the book and figuring out like what is this thing actually about what's it going to be about I feel like quite optimistic about it now because we're still very early on in the process and I'm really glad I didn't write more of the book or I'm really glad we didn't send it out to publishers to try and get a book deal in America and Canada with the current state of it because the other thing that someone told me is that you're going to be writing this book for two years and then you're going to be promoting it for the next five years and then really this book is going to stay with you for the rest of your life so what's the book that you want to write and I kind of realized that I'd sort of been so tunnel-visioned focused on trying to get all the words onto the page for the original proposal, the original concept that it sort of went away from being a book that I wanted to write into being more of a book that I felt like I was compelled to write it didn't really feel like me as as corny and hippie as that sounds and so moving forward I'm quite excited to basically in a way throughout the work we've done so far for the last six months maybe some of it will be useful maybe not but either way I think all that work was necessary to get to this point where it's like okay now we can start again and now that I've got a better idea of what I'm doing hopefully it'll be easier from here and really just the constant reminder that this whole process is supposed to be fun just what I think of that you know that this this is supposed to be fun like the reason I'm writing the book is ultimately to have fun like I'm not writing the book to make money I'm not writing the book to become famous I'm writing the book to have fun because it feels like it would be fun it feels like an adventure it feels like a challenge it would be an interesting journey to go on and I know that 10 years down the line I would definitely regret not doing it rather than regret doing it I hope and so whenever I I kind of get to a point where I'm like oh that's kind of sucks I remind myself you know what this is supposed to be fun I take this step back I try and detach myself from the outcome I try not to be too fixated on the goal of getting on the New York Times best cell list and I remind myself to be sincere rather than serious about it if you'd like to follow along with my book journey with all the ups and lows along the way and there is a link in the video description to my book email newsletter thing it's called Alice Book Journey basically every few weeks I'll send you an update email and as I write stuff I might send you chapters to have a look at and get some feedback on where I might ask for your stories or your opinions about various concepts that I'm working on so if you're into that hit the link in the video description and if you like this video you might like to check out this video over here which is my New Year's Resolutions for 2021 one of them is writing a book but there are five others which have been working on with varying degrees of success so thank you so much for watching have a great evening and I'll see you in the next video bye
