# This Book Made Me a Happier Person
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Bf4Hs5E9eNg
Start building your ideal daily routine! The first 100 people who click on the link will get 25% OFF Fabulous Premium - http://thefab.co/ali

In this episode of Book Club, we’re talking about “The Courage to be Disliked” by Japanese authors Ichiro Kishimi and Fumitake Koga. In this book, an unhappy guy visits a wise old philosopher in the outskirts of a Japanese suburb and through these conversations, the philosopher ends up helping this young unhappy guy take control of his own life and happiness.

- The Courage To Be Disliked's summary on Shortform: https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
- Buy The Courage To Be Disliked: https://geni.us/Hy6mqL
- BOOK CLUB Playlist: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL7BImOT2srcE-wLIlCcgTCa_jznOZZLwS

Timestamps:
00:00 Intro
02:27 Stop thinking your past determines your present and your future
05:36 We create emotions to suit our present goals
08:58 All problems are interpersonal relationship problems
12:17 Happiness is a feeling of contributing something
14:40 Freedom is having the courage to be disliked

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

PART-TIME YOUTUBER ACADEMY:
🍿 My 6-week live online course - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ptya_aliabdaal

MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
✍️ The best summaries of books (Shortform) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
📚  How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
Deep Dive Podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/
The podcast that delves into the minds of entrepreneurs, creators and other inspiring people to uncover the philosophies, strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. You can find it by searching “Deep Dive with Ali Abdaal” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc).
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali

🎙 Deep Dive podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/
The podcast that delves into the minds of entrepreneurs, creators and other inspiring people to uncover the philosophies, strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. You can find it by searching “Deep Dive” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
💙  The Friendzone Discord - https://discord.gg/Dh2kGavffd
🎮  Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I’m Ali, a YouTuber, podcaster, soon-to-be author and ex-Doctor working in London, UK. I make videos that explore the strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. I also have a weekly podcast called Deep Dive (https://www.youtube.com/channel/UChfo46ZNOV-vtehDc25A1Ug), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).


GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, life changing books, The Courage To Be Disliked, book recommendations, The Courage To Be Disliked Book, ali abdaal books, Book Club, philosophy, philosophy of life, Self Development book, Book summary, Book Summaries, the courage to be disliked summary, the courage to be disliked audiobook, the courage to be disliked review, the courage to be disliked, the courage to be disliked book summary, ali Abdaal book club, 
**Date:** 2022-03-30

## Transcript
 On the outskirts of the thousand-year-old city lived a philosopher who taught that the world was simple and that happiness was within the reach of every man instantly. A young man who was dissatisfied with life went to visit this philosopher to get to the heart of the matter. This youth found the world a chaotic mass of contradictions and in his anxious eyes, any notion of happiness was completely absurd. That is the opening, too, this absolutely incredible book that courage to be disliked, which is one of the books I've most often recommended to people. A book that probably changed the way that I think about happiness and that probably made me genuinely happier. And that's a book that we're talking about in this week's episode of Book Club, the series where we distill and discuss highlights and lessons from some of my favorite books. If you're new here, hi, my name is Alex, nice to meet you. And on this channel, we like to explore the evidence-based strategies and tools that we can use to help along our shared journey of living healthier, happier, more productive lives. And to that end, I do like to do these sort of reviews of books to summarize the lessons I've learned from them. And I think this book fits really nicely into a happiness category. Because I think if you can take away the lessons from the book with a bit of nuance, because they are somewhat controversial and not fully applicable to absolutely everyone all of the time. But with enough nuance, you can take relevant bits from this and can genuinely help you become a happier person. All right, so what is the book about? Basically, the vibe is that there is this young guy who is dissatisfied with life and he goes and visits this philosopher. And the book ends up being a dialogue between the young man and the philosopher. And just on a metal level, this is at somewhat novel and interesting way of doing a non-fiction self-help book. Because a lot of the theories that the philosopher is going to talk about in the book are pretty controversial. And so we, as the reader, we are in the shoes of the youth being like what? You're saying trauma doesn't exist. Screw you, of course it does. What about like children who have like bad upbringing? Of course trauma exists. Then the philosopher is like, well, no, because blah, blah, blah. And so it's really this sort of somewhat confrontational dialogue where the student is like asking the philosopher to retract his theories and the philosopher is being like a zen legend and like explaining the theories about how to be happy at the end of the day. Now the advice that the philosopher is giving in the book on how to be happy is ultimately all based on the theories of the 19th century Austrian psychiatrist Alfred Adler. Now even though I spent a year studying psychology at university, I'd never actually heard of Alfred Adler. I'd heard of Sigmund Freud and Carl Jung, who were his other contemporaries, but Adler was like the third child of that trio that fewer people know about, but his theories are super super interesting. Anyway, this is a book I'd recommend for everyone, but I want to summarize the five key lessons that I took away from the book when I first read it a few years ago and the five lessons that I continue to think about fairly often as it relates to my own life and my own happiness. And my first takeaway from the book is that we should stop thinking that our past determines our present and our future. Now this is somewhat counterintuitive because most of us have bought into the Freudian School of Psychology which says that the way you're childhood and you're upbringing all of that stuff determines to an extent who you are as a person today and therefore if you want to figure out stuff about today you look at your past and then you figure things out and then etc etc. Like for example we would assume that if you were bullied as a child or if your parents divorced when you were younger then you might have a bit more of a pessimistic outlook about marriage because that was the experience that you had when you're a child. But one of the key insights from Adlerian psychology is that we in fact do not need to be defined by our past and he thinks that we should be and in fact we are completely free in the present right now to choose our behavior to choose our emotions to choose our own goals and to not let the past define us. If we use this marriage example again Adler might say that hey not everyone who's parents were divorced has pessimistic views about marriage and so it's not a requirement that if your parents are divorced you now have pessimistic views about marriage there is something else going on which is not as simple as like the Freudian School of Psychology would have to believe and there's a few different funky terms in Adlerian psychology to explain this idea and his main thing is that he wants us to separate our present goals which is teleology from the past causes which is etiology and this separation between teleology and etiology means that Adler makes some pretty strong claims. For example one of the bold claims in Adlerian psychology is that trauma does not exist. I know super controversial. Now I'm going to quote Adler here where he says no experience is in itself a cause of our success or failure. We do not suffer from the shock of our experiences, the so-called trauma but instead we make out of them whatever suits our purposes. We are not determined by our experiences but the meaning we give them is self-determining. And when I first read this and came across this philosophy in the book for the first time I was like the young youth in this being like what? That can't possibly be right. Obviously trauma exists. What about children who suffer child abuse? What about people who have had terrible upbringing? You can't possibly say that trauma doesn't exist and to be honest it is a little bit of a clickbaity thing that the authors of the book and Adler have espoused here. This idea that trauma doesn't exist. It's a good talking point that immediately makes everyone think oh my god this can't possibly be true but I guess if we interpret that charity and the kind of the way I think about it is not that trauma doesn't exist. It's that yes negative experiences happen to a lot of people and of course negative experiences kind of affect the way that we grow up and the way that we relate to people as adults. But his main point seems to be that nothing is determined purely by those experiences. And what Adler says and what the philosophy says in the book is that we are free to choose the meaning that we ascribe to those events. And to quote the wise philosophy who is in fact quoting Adler, no matter what has occurred in your life up to this point it should have no bearing at all on how you live from now on. Now I want to send out a caveat. When it comes to self-help books like this it's not really a case of like taking their insights and teaching at completely face value and thinking this person says trauma doesn't exist therefore they're a decade they're from not going to listen to anything they have to say it's about taking everything that we read in these advice giving you self-help key type books with a bit of a pinch of salt and applying it to our own experience and thinking is this a useful mental model for me to have moving forward. And for me personally I think it's a pretty good mental model that for me and in my life I don't need to let the past determine my actions in the present and in the future and in fact I can change the meaning that I ascribe to events in the past if I really want to do. All right let's number two that I thought was particularly interesting in the book was the idea that our emotions are not controlling us instead we create emotions to suit our present goals and there's a part in the book where the unhappy student the young man describes a situation where he was at a restaurant and the waiter accidentally spilled some coffee on him and then he had this burst of anger because the waiter caused him to be angry by spilling the coffee and therefore of course he had to respond in anger but what the wise philosopher says is that note that's really not what's when you choose to respond and shout at someone it is not the anger that is causing you to shout at someone you're sure you're experiencing the feeling of anger but it's you who's choosing to channel that feeling of anger into the action of shouting at someone being angry does not have to intrinsically lead to you shouting at someone it's not therefore it was an accident etc etc you're doing that because you're choosing to shout at them and you're constructing the emotion of anger and using it as a justification for your action which you chose to do anyway. Again this was super interesting to me because it seems a bit controversial that what really we construct emotions to fit a narrative for the actions that we actually want to do in the moment that doesn't seem right but it does relate to something that the stoics used to teach as well for example fanica one of the original stoicism bros wrote an essay on anger and here's something that he said in that essay he said that the best plan is to reject straight away the first incentives to anger because reason goes for nothing when once passion has been admitted to the mind and has by our own free will been given a certain authority it will for the future do as much as it chooses not only as much as you will allow it and basically sanacca saying that feelings are kind of like choices in most situations there's a gap between the stimulus that happens to us and the creation of a feeling in reaction to that stimulus and we can use that gap to think about whether we really want to choose anger over calm choose fear over courage or choose misery over joy so that was sanacca's take on anger and how it relates to the teachings of Adler and the teachings of the philosopher but this is other really interesting book which we're going to do a video about at some point called how emotions are made the secret life of the brain and that's by the neuroscientist Lisa Feldman Barit and she also says that emotions are not in fact responses to our environment instead emotions are constructed by the brain in a way to help us understand the surrounding environment and this really good episode of the invisibility of podcast where they're interviewing the author of this book about this new theory of emotion the classical theory of emotion being that like something happens and then we respond emotionally to that something whereas the new theory is society of yes we have this primordial essence of four different feelings that we might feel in response to a thing but then all the 100 plus emotions are construct based on societal narratives and societal upbringing and personality and all those things and essentially what we do is we take one of these four stimuli we apply a story to it and that generates the emotion that we are that we're talking about and I think this is really important stuff I link to the book and the podcast if you want to check out these references in more depth but I found it really compelling and it goes counter to the narrative that we sometimes have in society today that feelings are fact that the way we feel about something tells us intrinsically about the thing itself and we should learn from the way we feel about things in response to stuff and I think that's true to an extent yes we can absolutely learn from our feelings and our emotions about things but I guess what Adler is saying and what these neuroscientists are saying about the way emotions are formed is that our emotions are not necessarily a direct kind of factual response to something that happens there is a large amount of interpretation and narrative and storytelling that goes on there as well and so we don't necessarily need to be absolutely wedded to the emotion we have about something we can sometimes and in some cases choose to change the story we tell ourselves and choose to change therefore the emotions that we feel about the thing loads more to talk about that we're definitely going to do a book club talking about how emotions are made so do subscribe if you haven't already but let's now move on to lesson number three from the book which basically says that all problems are interpersonal relationship problems and again this sounds really weird and this is one of the reasons why I like this book so much I don't agree with everything in the book I just think the insights and the teachings from Adlerian psychology that the philosopher in the book talks about it's just it's a lot of food for thought like all problems are interpersonal relationship problems like what the hell is going on there surely there are problems that don't fit into that category and yes again this comes into the idea of taking stuff that you read in self-help nonfiction books with a bit of a pinch of salt obviously there are problems that are not interpersonal relationship problems if you get sick for example that tends not to be allowed into personal relationship problems just a physical problem with the fact that you're sick but I think there is something we can learn from this viewpoint anyway so let's go along with the Adlerian School of Thought for a moment and as the philosopher says in the book if one were alone in the universe and all other people were gone all manner of problems would disappear and again two a certain extent this is true to the extent that it's useful for us to think in this way it's true obviously if you get physical there's not much you can do about that it's not an interpersonal relationship problem but I found after I had this book I was kind of reflecting on the problems in my life and to be honest I've lived a pretty privileged life I have so many privileged and unfair advantages and luck stacked in my favor and so a lot of the problems that I experienced in life are genuinely interpersonal relationship problems like worrying about what someone thinks of me worrying about you know if I also this person out are they going to reject me or they're going to say yes what's the deal with that like a lot of the stuff that goes in my mind is all kind of related to interpersonal relationships so that's interesting but the ghost type further and he says that okay so a all problems are interpersonal relationship problems but secondly all interpersonal relationship problems are a result of one party intruding on the task of another party or having one's own tasks intruded upon by other people and within our appearance ecology the philosophy talks about there is this very clear separation of tasks there are things that are my task and there are things that are your task and anytime I intrude on your task or you intrude on my task we're going to have some kind of interpersonal relationship problem and so the solution to all these interpersonal relationship problems is to just really understand this idea of separation of tasks and just not intrude on other people's tasks for example a lot of the fear that we have about putting ourselves out there you know a concert fear of rejection or worrying about what other people will think of us like what other people will think of us is not our task it is in fact their task and if we try and intrude on that if we try and change what other people think about us that's going to result in problems for us and possibly even problems for them similarly if you're in a relationship and you are the jealous type then you might be concerned you know who is my girlfriend or boyfriend going to meet her work are they going to fall in love with someone else like that's their task it's not yours nothing you can do about it there's no point intruding on that task of someone else similarly if you're a parent you know something I try and tell to my mom is that you know what her kids do with their lives is kind of their task and her being okay with that is not task so like you know separation of tasks or am and again this very much has stoicism vibes where the stoics will talk about the idea of the dichotomy of control there are things that are within my control and there are things that are outside of my control and broadly the only things that I can control are my own actions and to an extent my own thoughts and everything else is something that I just I just can't control there for I shouldn't spend too much time worrying about it if it'll possible obviously all of this is way easier said than done and depending you know it takes years and years and years to change thought patterns if you are not a person who thinks in these sorts of sorts of ways by default and a lot of people benefit from therapy and counseling and CBT and all these other different forms of talking therapy which essentially focus on rewiring or thought patterns so that we then think in more productive ways or ways that don't lead to a negative spiral of doom all right moving on lesson four is a bit of a left turn and that is the idea that happiness is a feeling of contributing to something and I think this will actually probably the main idea to go away from the book and it sort of changed the way that I approach happiness because in the past before reading the book and before coming across adherence psychology I didn't really give much thought to happiness but I sort of you know my my default assumption was that if my life is good then I will be happy and stuff but actually what adherence I call as he says and what the philosophy says is that fundamental happiness true happiness real meaning and happiness and fulfillment is a feeling of contributing to something or someone it's a feeling of being useful to other people and so in a way this means that if we want to actually be happier and have a more meaningful and fulfilled life our goal within into interpersonal relationships should not be what can I get from this person but more like what can I give to this person and this resonated with me so much when I first came across it because I reflected on all of the different like high moments in my life all of the errors in my life where I felt like I was truly alive and I was truly happy and like etc etc and all of those were not areas in which I was experiencing some like hedonistic pleasure or like I'm not having a massage or something it was areas in which I had put in some level of work and I was being useful to other people for example one of the things that brings me the most joy and fulfillment and happiness is teaching teaching in real life teaching on my zoom class is teaching on my part time youtuber academy but that's very much a feeling of contributing to something that's a feeling of being useful to other people often parents as well say that one of the things that bring them the most happiness and fulfillment with regarding the kids is that they are now able to be useful to this other person and even though apparently having kids actually reduces your day to day happiness because they're a bit of a pain and when they're growing up you go spend a lot of time with them etc etc etc etc it's all kind of worth it also parents say or so I'm told and I've read in some of these parenting books it's all kind of worth it because the feeling of contributing to it's it's such a meaningful thing having kids allegedly that that's why so many people do and there's a related way to think about this that my friend T.L. before today who's got a new book coming up building a second break and you just check it out pre order link down in the description and the way T.L. before t describes it is like when you're torn between two options in life pick the option that will just help the most people and or help more people or help people more than than the other option and he calls this the idea of servant hedonism which is you know combining the idea of being a servant are you being a servant to other people and hedonism are you you know pure pleasure and happiness with yourself that recognizes that when we are contributing to other people when we're being useful to others that in fact does make our own selves happier and therefore it's kind of selfish and kind of hedonistic to be contributing to others because we know it's going to make us happier and that's just it that's fantastic and finally lesson number five which relates to the title of the book in fairness a bit of a click by title because the book is really not about the courage to be disliked but lesson number five is ultimate freedom is having the courage to be disliked now it's an intrinsic part of human nature for us to want to be liked by other people but as Adela says this is a recipe for unhappiness when we look for recognition from other people and we only care about how we judge but other people we end up living other people's lives I think it's a really great lesson like the courage to be disliked like there are so many areas in life where we hold ourselves back where we chain ourselves where we're not free we're not free to be happy because we don't have the courage to be disliked we don't want other people to dislik us we don't want other people to judge us you know I know hundreds of people at this point you know through emails and like podcasts and Instagram posts and DMs and everything who want to start youtube channels so want to start businesses who want to put themselves out that want to start a podcast want to start a blog like whatever but they're not doing it because they don't have the courage to be disliked they think that their friends and family are going to dislik them there were dislikes a bit weird like but like you kind of got to make we feel that we're going to be judged by other people therefore we want to do that thing we feel like we're going to be judged by other people you know our friends and family and our parents or whatever won't like us anymore if we quit our jobs and actually follow our passion which is why we end up chaining ourselves to a lot of the things that we end up doing obviously I'm not saying that's the only factor we need to take all the stuff for the pinch of salt we all have things that we have to do if you've got a family to feed if you've got your own bills to pay your mortgage etc etc you just have to do some kind of work there's not much you can do about it but I think there is some truth in the idea that freedom is having the courage to be disliked and for me personally the way it manifests it's just in that idea going back to point number three I think it was of separation of tasks what I do and how I think is my task how other people respond to that and what they think is their task and so I actually found myself becoming a lot happier when I you know when I try to stop caring how my videos perform for example like in the past I used to feel so worried when a video didn't perform well I'd get comments being like oh this video's not good etc etc etc these days lots of ideas don't perform well you know there's this idea of like nothing in nature of blooms all year round it's a bit of a sign wave sometimes videos are good sometimes videos are bad by you know bad good by the metrics of the audience but that stuff is not my task there's nothing I can do about that all I can do is show up talk about this book that I like try and talk about it in a campaigning way try and talk about it in a well structured way where I'm speaking from the heart and authentically telling you what lessons I learned from the book and your response to this video is your task rather than mine and if I think too much about your task in responding to this video on how you think how you feel about it and how you might comment and whether you might hit the like button or smash the subscribe button or whatever the youtuber say it takes the fun away from it it takes the happiness and joy away from being a youtuber and it makes me feel like I'm being a slave to other people which is just not fun now if you vibe with some of these concepts like personal development and self-love and not really caring about what other people think you might like to check out the sponsor of this video which is fabulous fabulous is this absolutely beautifully designed app which sort of acts as your own personal mindfulness coach there's also a bunch of stuff in there about how to actually build good habits and so for example I use fabulous to remind me to take a sweep of water as part of my morning routine and to do it a little bit of stretching as part of my morning routine but within the coaching aspect of the app there's some really good stuff around mindfulness around self-love around compassion around some of the things that touch on the concepts in all areas psychology and so when you log on to the app for the first time a is just absolutely beautiful it's like the best design app I think I have seen in many many years on iOS at least when you log into the app for the first time they ask you to pick what would you like to incorporate into your daily routine so for it's me it's like they're getting about a morning routine but also I do want to incorporate more mindfulness into it and there's a bunch of different categories that you can choose from based on what you want to level up in your own life and it helps you build your own daily routine around that kind of stuff accordingly within the app all of the insights are based on behavioral science so it's all very evidence based which is what we're all about on this channel at least we try to be and the other cool thing about it is that basically let's you go at your own pace I'll be honest I have not been sticking to my drink something in every single morning when it comes to my glass of water or my meditation or anything like that but it's nice like the app is gentle it doesn't make me feel like a failure for having missed out on these things that other habit tracking type apps do so I really like that aspect of it as well if that sounds up your street anyone to check out fabulous then do click the link in the video description and the first 100 people to click on that link will get 25% off the fabulous premium subscription so thank you so much fabulous for sponsoring this video and if you do want to learn more about Adler and Psychology I'd 100% recommend you read the book it's genuinely really good or if you've read it already you can revisit it using the short form summary which is how I put together the content for this video I read this twice so far from a cover to cover and then I read the summary on short form which is actually really good as a way of helping put this video together so you can check it out on there if you want like a video description and if you like this video you might like to check out this playlist which contains my most popular other videos in the book club series so thank you so much for watching do hit subscribe button if you aren't already and I'll see you hopefully in the next video bye bye
