# The Secret To Making The PERFECT Coffee
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bg242QzbfNc
Hey friends, @jameshoffmann stopped by my apartment a few weeks back to help me upgrade my coffee set-up. James was adamant to upgrade me from my standard instant coffee mix to the ultimate coffee machine which will let me get a perfectly brewed cup of coffee every morning. If you want to get the same equipment I have, you'll find all the links below :) 

James Hoffmann's YouTube Channel: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCMb0O2CdPBNi-QqPk5T3gsQ
James Hoffmann on Deep Dive: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gIxEkX_2kt8
James Hoffmann's new book - https://geni.us/9bIi
Follow me on Instagram to be in with a chance of winning my 3,000,000 subscriber giveaway: https://www.instagram.com/aliabdaal/

☕️ The Coffee Set-up:
Fellow Ode Brew Grinder - https://geni.us/BDAF
1 Oz Fine Mist Glass Spray Bottle - https://geni.us/mYCX
Clever Coffee Dripper - https://geni.us/qVeVJW
Acaia UCB-C Rechargeable Scales - https://geni.us/IOhoo
Water Filter - https://geni.us/EXWiJ5

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

PART-TIME YOUTUBER ACADEMY:
🍿 My 6-week live online course - https://academy.aliabdaal.com

CREATORPRENEUR
💰 My flag-ship course for scaling up your creative side-hustle - https://creatorpreneur.academy/course

YOUTUBE FOR BEGINNERS COURSE
📸 This is for anyone who'd like to start a YouTube channel. You'll learn everything you need to get started as a YouTuber including how to script, shoot, and edit your first video - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/YouTube-for-Beginners

MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
✍️ The best summaries of books (Shortform) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
📚  How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound

🎙 Deep Dive podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/
The podcast that delves into the minds of entrepreneurs, creators and other inspiring people to uncover the philosophies, strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. You can find it by searching “Deep Dive” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/friendzone/
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
💙  The Friendzone Discord - https://discord.gg/Dh2kGavffd
🎮  Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I’m Ali, a YouTuber, podcaster, soon-to-be author and ex-Doctor working in London, UK. I make videos that explore the strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. I also have a weekly podcast called Deep Dive (https://www.youtube.com/channel/UChfo46ZNOV-vtehDc25A1Ug), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://email.aliabdaal.com).


GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, james, hoffmann, james hoffmann, hoffman, ali abdaal james hoffmann, coffee, cup of coffee, perfect coffee, how to make the best cup of coffee, does coffee make you more productive?, ali abdaal productivity, ali abdaal coffee, 
**Date:** 2022-06-06

## Transcript
 James Hoffman is one of the world's foremost coffee experts, and when I chatted with him on my podcast deep dive, he was appalled as to why I was still drinking instant coffee. Don't do that, that's really bad. And so he went away, got some equipment together, and this video is all about the most productive way to brew an incredible cup of coffee every morning. Alrighty, here we are. Hello, many months later after I initial breath and you have a box. I'm going to box. I've got a box with fancy stuff in it. A big box of stuff. Alright, I should open it up and I'll show you what. Got, you've got some Nescafe, the fancy Nescafe, the fancy Nescafe, I've heard the scene, I didn't even know they did fancy Nescafe. I didn't, I didn't know either, but I offered you some of this when you came in, and you very kindly opened it very politely refused. We ended up unboxing the old fellow coffee grinder. Whoa! So, my god, look at that. This is your grinder. Super easy to use. You've got a big dial at the front here. Nice. Right, and you're just adjusting by twisting. The smaller the number, the smaller the piece. And then when you want to go coffee in the top, push the on button, grinds into this thing, which is sort of held in place by Magnus. Whoa, delight people. That's delightful. That's a magnet. And that's it. So, it's the fellow old, it's a good little grinder, and I think very good when you sort of change out the buzz for it. The clever coffee dripper. Part two is the exact opposite of this, which is what's called a clever dripper. You've sent me one of those. I sent you a clip. Hey, just a go. Do you use it? I used it all the time during lockdown. Well, we're going to keep using it. Perfect. It was really good. The Asia USB-C rechargeable scales. My god. The world's, I mean, it's you know. My god. Everything has to be USB-C rechargeable. It really does. A misting bottle and a fancy water filter. Because London's water makes bland tasting kind of coffee. Okay, kind of muddy and kind of the sort of thing. And you can't really get my complexity out of it. Yeah. It's not fantastic. Fantastic. Cool. I guess, uh, cue the B-roll montage. Music Next up, James took me through a taste testing process to find the exact type of coffee that I like. There's a bunch of different factors that go into creating the perfect cup of coffee. Who knew? So when we're doing a comparative tasting, the easiest thing to do is pick an attribute. Yep. And it can be a very simple attribute like bitterness. It can be an attribute like acidity. And then just compare A to B. B to C. Just wanted at a time. Is it lower? Is it higher? Do I like it when it gets a little bit higher? Do I like it when it's a little bit lower? So what we're going to do is just, you can use anything. Give me a small cup, you'll look a bit like this. When it's time to taste, spoonful of liquid in. Yep. And then feel free to slurp. I see. Now the first thing, your brain's being like, listen, what is this? Don't worry about anything. Just pick an attribute. Take bitterness and say, is one more bit or less biter than two. So the interesting thing about coffee or anything really is that the hotter it is, the harder it is to taste. Okay. So a single pass of these is like an interesting introduction, but as they begin to cool down a little bit, they'll get easier and easier to taste. So what I want you to do is just taste through a few times. Okay. And then you tell me which one you'll kind of enjoy more than the others. I mean, I know what number is. It's like, it's like musty burnt wood. Right. To me, like it's got like a slightly fungal quality to it that I find not unsettling. So the ones that I can see myself drinking at number one and number five. And then they're quite different in terms of their flavour, but they have some common attributes which I think is interesting. They're like the repeated tasting. They're doing weird things to wait. Yeah, it's a lot. Like it's even five is quite a lot to start with. We've put the first time doing a comparative taste. Not a huge fan of number four. You're slightly weird on the sweet front. It has a bit of a fermented fruit thing. Mm. Okay. Right. So I don't know if you've gotten down the kombucha rabbit hole Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So I've drank once a twice. Right. So that has a kind of fermented fruit quality. A kind of wild fruit. A little bit of strange and and for some people quite unsettling. Right. Because fermented fruit can be a gamble in the natural world. Yeah. Some people desperately love those flavours. Yeah. They love them because they're unusual. It doesn't taste like coffee, right? Like it tastes weird and wonderful and strange. Yeah. And other people are like, I don't think that's right. That's not, yeah. That's not right. It's not kosher. It has number five to you. I like number five. It feels like not overly bitter. And it feels like pretty vanilla. Pretty basic. It's what I would expect. I think one and five is like if I got that black filter coffee at a coffee shop and I'd rank it. I'd be like, oh, this doesn't need to show it. I like this. Uh number five is initially it's coffee from India. Mm. And I, I bought it because I presume that you mentioned the like the coffin of the shoe and stuff and stuff. Yeah. Uh, I suspect they probably serve some really in copies there. Um, that, that, that, that it's low acidity coffee. Like, like that is sort of the opposite of this, right? This is soft sweet. Yeah. It's kind of kind of rich, little heavier. So it's got a little bit of odiness at the bottom of it. Like, it's quite, you know, I mean, it's a bit heavier overall. And then this one here is just designed to be drunk. It's filter coffee. It's like nice friendly filter coffee. Like, that's what it is. That's what it is. That's what it is to do. And you're like, yeah, that's the one that would be nice. It's kind of like filter coffee. Yeah. Yeah, that's what it's called. So, um, yeah, I feel like I'm going to pretty good. I do have what your taste preference is. Perfect. Sold. After we worked out what a perfect cup of coffee tastes like for me, James took me through his brewing technique, which includes having the correct electric coffee grinder instead of brewing pre-ground coffee and water filtration. See, pick some coffee. We know roughly what you like style wise. And so we'll run you through how we would make a clever driffer in the morning as quickly as possible, because we're doing a slightly weird way. Now, you having seen your coffee cups, you're going to make between say 250 and 300 ml of coffee in the morning. Yes. I would recommend 60 grams per liter of water. Okay. The maths would then say you're going to brew say 15 to 18 grams of coffee. Okay. That's that. So, super easy. And we'll do that. Now, on your grinder, this goes from sort of 1 to 10 or 11, I think. Of course, it goes to 11. And, um, one small piece is the more, the finer it will be. And the finer you grind coffee, the more surface area you're going to have and the more flavour you're going to extract. And so, you'd theory would be like, well, take me to one, give me everything. That's what I was thinking about. Yeah. Yeah. The problem is that it's so fine, it's quite hard to separate the grounds from the liquid. Right. Like, it's, it's a very fine silty sludge. So, what you're looking for is fine enough that you get lots of flavour out of it, but you can still functionally brew it and it still tastes nice. And it doesn't ruin your day waiting for it to drip out or delay all that kind of stuff. On this grinder, we can kind of set it up slightly differently. For just you. But here, this is relatively fine. It's going to feel a little bit cost than cast a sugar. And it'll be relatively fine. And that works pretty well. Cool. So, 18 rounds. Now, in terms of obsessing, 18.4. Really, a few within half a gram you have plenty of accuracy. Don't have to freak out about it. There's no point, like, I'm picking and obsessing over that. Okay. We are 18.3 right now. That's acceptable. Okay. That's acceptable, over time. Give me a quick, missed thing. Oh yeah. Sorry, I must have got you them. That's okay. That's enough. And that's all you need. Like, that's just going to prevent any static from building up. Okay. Throw it in the grind. Okay. And then push go. All right. Okay, we go. You're using the grinder. Nice. Now, it'll show itself off. And it'll beep. I would go for a little fan action. That's the sort of the, that's the kind of the Pro Thwack. I've got it. Uh, and there's your grounds. Oh, what I would tend to do is, oh, yes. That's good. While that's grinding, give it this paper a quick rinse or enjoy this. Okay. So essentially, you don't have to do this step if you find yourself skipping it or not boiling with this. Okay. But often with papers, people like to just give them a quick rinse with hot water just from the tap as far as just to rinse out any potential kind of papery flavor that they might have. Yeah. I used to use this. I used to do this back to the day. What's got to use it in there? I moved to London and I left the coffee apparatus in Cambridge. So throw this on your scale. Serve it out. Boyle a kettle. So what we're going to do, this is going to be the weird bit. So we're going to put the water in first. That's weird. Okay. And then we put a coffee in. Yeah. I'm going to stir it. Yeah. Leave it to sleep for a little bit. Yeah. And then we're nearly done. Okay. So 300. 300 mills. Yeah, you've got a bit of leeway as well. Don't freak out if it's not exactly 300. So boiling water in first, health strange. Yeah. How absolutely bizarre. You'd think, but it's actually great. Okay. And then coffee in. Well, give it a stir with the spoon and start your time on it. Just want to make sure all the grounds are just wet basically. Okay. And here, this is a good bit. So when you brew coffee this way, it's called an infusion or an immersion brew. It's pretty hard to get it wrong. Basically, this is why they're so good. French presses are coming to the same for this. If I left this two minutes before continuing, fine. If I get distracted in a little bit three, fine. If I leave ten minutes, even, I'll be a bit cooler than you wanted to. Fine. Like it'll still taste okay. You won't ruin it that way. Whereas things like pourers can be a bit fussy at in terms of timings and getting it right. Wrong and kind of ruining the cup. So in the morning for you, this stuff you can be doing. This breakfast you can be eating. There's whatever you're journaling to happen. You've got a lot of things to get through in the morning routine. So this is a, yeah, it might take four minutes and total. But you're active for like 30 seconds here. You're not active again for a couple of minutes. Quickster and then you're going to put it on top of something. Now you can brew this, straight on top of the cup. So when you put this onto something, a little stopper goes up, lift a little valve, liquid drains out of the bottom. Very easy. We did give a craft in case you want to make coffee for two. Yep. You get about 500 mills in this before it starts to get a little bit scary. Okay. And then you go obviously then split that into two cups and make a coffee for someone. Excellent. That's kind of that. Perfect. So after about two minutes you find what you want to do before you, you can do two things here. You can either give it a stir with the spoon of the candy, or I just give it a little swirl sometimes. So I've not made a mess because nothing bad is going to happen. And then this mug or correct what if you want to do, we can put it on top. Do you want to go straight into the mug? What do you want to do? Well it's probably been two minutes, 30. Well the two minutes was the steep time and after that were there. All right. A little 30 seconds before you drain it, it's good and we've done that already. Yep. So that's it. So I'm going to put the son and then the mug is going to press into the thing. Yep. And then it's going to just drain it out the bottom. Oh, that's so much faster than what I used to do. So the first little liquid always looks a bit pale, it will turn into a normal coffee color in a minute. Okay. And then yeah, this will drain out. Oh, this is going to be so good for the vlog. I remember back in the day when we came bridge and locked down the daily vlogs or the vlogs. I'd always kind of put it the KMXA in show the thing and there's something about this that just looks pretty nice. It is. It's coffee, good coffee, it has a really nice color, it's very delicious, it's good times. All right, and that's it. And when you're done throw away your paper, give the brewer a quick rinse, it's not too much to clean and you're done. That's it. Clean up, it's finished. There's no stress or anything like that. It's good. Well put. Thank you. Bye, who's good. All right. So here we are. Thank you. We have brewed our productive cup of coffee. Who's brewed product too? I was pretty productive. Yeah, I was hoping we could talk a little bit about the finances of this whole setup that we've got going on here. Yeah. Yeah, how much is the stuff? Very good mind. I didn't, I said, no budget. This could have been much worse, like I could have easily put another zero on this. If not, oh yeah, yeah. So coffee can get very cheers. Cheers. Silly. Uh, hmm. The biggest expense is what it should be, which is your coffee grinder. Right, back, the coffee grinder has the biggest, as the coffee itself, the biggest input in terms of the quality of coffee. Better the grinder, swing of the cup, less bitterness, easier it is to make nice coffee. So that is a 300 pound coffee grinder. Hmm, 300 quid, 300 quid. I used to use a 15 pound coffee grinder. Yes, and you can spend 3000 on a coffee grinder if you want to. Really? Yes, I have one. Uh, well, okay. But there's a different kind of, it's not like a flex, there's just like a, I have a sickness, and that's okay. The 300 pounds is sort of serious coffee grinder. And I think you would want a bird grinder. So it's got cutting this to you want to motorize ideally. And those start at about a hundred pounds. But they get better. And this is a 300 pounds, if you've got a definite job in quality that I think is good value for money still. And this point, right? And once you hit about 500 pounds, then you're really into diminishing returns, right? Like you can spend a couple hundred pounds more and get a bit more control around espresso, but you're not making espresso, so that will that out. But above 500, you're into really diminishing returns. Okay. So you're, for filter coffee, you're really a long way to really, really good. By the way, quick thing, we've nearly hit three million subscribers on this YouTube channel, which is freaking insane. And so to commemorate that milestone, we're going to be doing a massive giveaway, and all the details for that are going to be on my Instagram page. So that would be linked in the video description if you want to follow me on Instagram, that will give you all the details closer to the time. Yeah, back to the video. The next big expense was a bit of a funny one, which is the set of scales. Now those are really expensive, because they're really well made, but they're smart scales. So there's an absupporting max count of stuff. So there was a bit aggressive, but they're nice and white. And you, you know, I do like what things I do. I'm going to grab them and we can compare them against my 15 pounds. Oh, yeah. So we have these scales, solder, something or other probably like 999. I used to have those. And then we have this bad boy. Right. So this is what I'm going to call a kaya. It's the pearl, and there are 170 pounds. 170 pounds. That's too much money, but if you want the best there is with the most functionality, most features from a sort of a good company building good products. This is that. It's a good support for it. If you want to get into the smart stuff, it's really good. USBC, we're charging actually really matters to me in a way. Yeah, it's like really helpful, because this one you have to change them. Who's got access to like these tiny little coin batteries? Oh, they're the worst. Yeah, they're the worst. Where do you even get them from? I mean other than the two pockets, but like where would you get them? Outside, and then one is to go outside. Yeah. So yeah, they're lovely, they're very beautiful, but they're a lot of money. So I don't think you need to spend this much money, but I want to feature proof you. I don't mean this is the last set you should ever need to buy. If you want to cook with them, great for that. Only accurate. I was saying they're good all round scales. But if you don't spend the money, then you could make great coffee with a set of cheat scales too. It's not an essential to spend a ton of money. This will just let you do stuff. If you want to learn more about pourovers, techniques, it's cool. I'll wrap it in the app if you want to do that. Okay, better. So private record. This was about £23. Go about to inquire. They last forever. They're simple. There's nothing really to change out on them. They've been like, and they make great coffee, and they're really easy to use. Pack of filters will set you back. Maybe £5, lots of brews, three months worth. They're comfortable. That's not a long money spend, and you're pretty much at some good coffee. Now we did throw in a water filter. That's £25. You could buy a cheap one if you want to. If you're in a part of the world that doesn't have awful London water, sort of sucks for coffee, then not an essential expense, but if you are in a hard water area like this, or just where there's a lot of stuff going on, makes a big difference. Yeah, we got your little craft. This is a nice glass craft from the company that make the grind actually. That's quite aesthetic. I think it's nice. I think it looks cute. Again, it's well made, so it's pretty much spent for £25. But useful, just generally. Good for tea, coffee, whatever you can use. You don't have to use it all the time, but if you're going to use it like this, it's nice and they look nice. There you have a pretty great coffee setup. I couldn't really improve it without spending a lot as money. You know what I mean? So that for me, it was kind of the goal of like you could brew the rest of your life with a setup like this, and not really be missing out on the people who are brewing with really expensive stuff all just lost their minds. You're really going to be pretty close to fantastic. Amazing. Well, thank you very much. That's been wonderful. I don't know how to have the clever drip rock, which I'm going to be incorporating into my morning routine, along with all this stuff. Very kind of good to to bring it all over. Well, thank you very much for coming on the channel. Have a run. Check out James the channel, linked all the links down below, and you have a book coming up soon. Soon, yeah, just how to make the best coffee at home. Amazing. August 18th. August 18th. Cool, we'll put a link to the pre-order down below as well. Thank you. Thank you very much. pleasure. And so now I've had this fancy coffee apparatus in my house for the last two weeks. Every day, I've made a sick cup of coffee every morning, and now I am sold on the virtues of freshly ground, freshly made coffee done properly. And it's kind of annoying now, because like these random instant coffee machines and randomness cafes here and the coffee that they used to drink. Generally, in now tastes absolutely grim, and I realise, like, oh, wow, I now know what I'm missing. So, if you're interested in making coffee, would recommend checking out James's channel that we link to over here. And if you want to check out the interview that I did on our podcast deep dive, that will be linked right over here, which is all about entrepreneurship and like toxic productivity and hustle culture and a bunch of really cool stuff. So, thank you so much for watching, and I'll see you hopefully in the next video. Bye.
