# How to Become a Digital Nomad
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bH4RKOqAe-w
Thanks to Shopify for sponsoring this video. Get a free trial on the platform with this link - https://shopify.com/alicreator

Imagine having the freedom and flexibility to work on your own terms...this is what a lot of us aspire to and even if you don't want to travel the world, in this video I want to give you a step by step framework to get to that point. Enjoy x

If you want to download the list of remote jobs, you can access it here -  https://aliabdaal.com/remote-jobs-2022-pdf/

⏱ Timestamps
00:00 Intro
00:49 The key ingredient for the Digital Nomad lifestyle
01:33 How to actually make money
04:00 How to become a location-independent entrepreneur
08:15 The remote freelancer path
13:24 How to do all this with a fulltime job

💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://go.aliabdaal.com/subscribe-sundaysnippets

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - 
 https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

🎬 YouTube for Beginners - Everything You Need To Know To Start  - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/YouTube-for-Beginners

MY CREATOR COURSES
🎬 Part-Time YouTuber Academy - My 6-week live online course on becoming a part-time YouTuber → https://go.aliabdaal.com/parttimeyoutuberacademy
🏆 Creatorpreneur - My flagship course for scaling up your creative side-hustle → https://creatorpreneur.academy/course
🗣 Camera Confidence - My self-paced course on how to improve your creativity, career, or communication skills → https://cameraconfidence.aliabdaal.com/

MY FAVOURITE GEAR
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) -https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE TOOLS
🚀 VidIQ - How I optimise my YouTube videos - https://go.aliabdaal.com/vidiq

✍️ Shortform - The BEST summaries of books - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform

📚  Readwise - How I remember what I read - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise

🎵  Epidemic Sound - Where I get my music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound

MY KEY LINKS
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com/
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I’m Ali, a YouTuber, podcaster, soon-to-be author and ex-Doctor working in London, UK. I make videos that explore the strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. I also have a weekly podcast called Deep Dive (https://www.youtube.com/channel/UChfo46ZNOV-vtehDc25A1Ug), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://go.aliabdaal.com/subscribe-sundaysnippets).

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, 
**Date:** 2022-11-17

## Transcript
 Imagine a life where you can work for yourself, doing work that you enjoy without a boss breathing down your neck. Imagine being able to work from anywhere at all, traveling the world whenever you want, and working from your laptop while you're in cool places. Now this is the genuinely the dream lifestyle that a lot of digital nomads have. And of course there are some downsides to the lifestyle, but generally this idea of having the freedom and flexibility to be able to work on your own terms is something that a lot of us aspire to, even if you don't want to constantly travel the world. And so in this video I'm going to kind of break down a step by step framework, a high level playbook that you can follow to get to the point where you're potentially working for yourself, working remotely, and being able to do that on your own terms. Oh and the method that we're going to talk about does not require you to be a YouTuber or a creator because there's so many videos out there that's like just become a YouTuber and make content for two years and then you'll be able to get rich. That's not what I'm talking about here. Hopefully this is a more direct way to get to that lifestyle if you kind of execute on it and do it well. Part one, the key ingredient for the digital nomad lifestyle. Now unsurprisingly the key ingredient to unlock this kind of lifestyle is money. You either need to have money, in which case we wouldn't be having this conversation, you would just live whatever lifestyle you want, if you had a trust fund or whatever, or you need to find a way to make money while doing the lifestyle thing. So for most of us money is this limiting factor. Like clearly we need some amount of money just for a basic survival, but if you also want to live this lifestyle where you're travelling and stuff, you probably need a little bit more money than that. Although that actually depends depending on where you live, I for example live bang in the middle of central London. So my day-to-day lifestyle here is very expensive, but if for example I decided I wanted to travel around Southeast Asia, I'd probably be able to do that a lot cheaper than actually just living in London. But wherever you go, whatever you do, you've got to find a way to actually make money from this kind of lifestyle and that brings us on to part two how to actually make money. Now at this point I would like to draw a little diagram. So we have a two-by-two matrix, we have location bound and location independent and then we have employee and entrepreneur. So something like being a doctor is location bound and you are an employee. This is what I was for two years working in the UK's National Health Service. I had to show up to a specific place I could not work remotely because I was a doctor and I was an employee of the NHS. Next we have the location independent employee. So this could be something like a software engineer for example where you've got a remote job. So you're an employee, but you can actually work from anywhere. And this is actually a very reasonable place to get to more than that in just a second. Next we have location bound entrepreneur and by entrepreneur I mean like self-employed or you've got your own company or your a freelancer or whatever. And so a plumber might be someone who is a location bound entrepreneur. They can't really do their services remotely so they are location bound, but they're working for themselves. They've got their own thing, the self-employed they're entrepreneur, whatever that looks like. And then in quarter number four we've got the location independent entrepreneur. So this might be something like a freelance web designer or a freelance video editor or a freelance copywriter or writer or coder or anything along those lines where you're working for yourself but you're also location independent. So if you want this kind of lifestyle clearly you need to be in this location independent box. It is very very very hard to work remotely as a doctor. There are a few remote jobs doctors but there's not that many of them compared to all of the doctors out there. It's really hard to work remotely as a plumber. But if you can find a way to make money in a location independent fashion then that is the first step along this path to living this kind of digital no matter lifestyle. Now for most people there is actually nothing at all wrong with getting a remote job. Like loads of jobs have gotten remote these days. For example everyone thinks being a coder or being a designer or being a video editor. These are all remote jobs and yes okay that's fine. But also there's things like being an accountant, being a but keeper, being a recruiter person, being a sorcerer, being an HR person. Like almost any office-based job has now kind of gone remote and so there are so many companies that are looking for people who can have who have their skills to get those sorts of jobs but who are potentially location independent. And so for example you've been building up the skills to be an accountant for the last 10 years. There is no need to think that you have to throw away that skill set in order to become a web designer because that's remote. You can absolutely be an accountant remotely as well as long as you find the right kind of set-up that works for you. But for the rest of the video I want to talk about this branch over here because to be honest most people don't really think I dream of being a remote employee. Like the aspiration for the digital no matter lifestyle tends to be I want to be a location independent entrepreneur. I don't just want a remote job I also want to be able to control my time and control my hours and not have a bus and that's where we get into this coder number four. Part three how to actually get into coder number four the three paths. Okay so broadly there are three different paths that you can follow to get into coder four and the first one is the creator path. I'm not going to talk about this too much in this video. I have made loads of videos about this. I have loads of courses about this. My part-time YouTuber Academy is about this. But in a nutshell the creator path is the path that I've personally followed. You spend a long time making free content on the internet. But over time you build up an audience of people who know like and trust you. And over time you start making money through outskirts and through sponsorships and through affiliates and then at some point you can sell your own product like I sell my online courses and then you make loads of money in the negate region. That's kind of the creator path. The problem with the creator path is that the payoff is further down the line. You can't just think I want to be a YouTuber and then the next day you're making money. Where you actually kind of can do that with some of the other paths that we're going to talk about. This is like a long-term project. And also there's loads of people trying to become like trying to make money out of being creators. Very few of them according to the stats will actually succeed at the thing. So that's actually quite a hard path to follow. It's one I followed personally. I know loads of people have followed that path but it's not necessarily the one I'd recommend if you're optimizing for the digital nomad lifestyle at least not in the short term. Next we have path number two which is the entrepreneur path entrepreneur bit of a rogue word. But basically this is the path where you build a business or you build a startup. So my brother, Tameau for example, is following this path number two. He's building his own tech startup. It's called causal. They have recently raised or recently like I want to go raise their series a funding. They've raised $20 million of funding. They've valued $100 million. He's been working on the product for the last like three years now. But he is a location independent entrepreneur. He's important for because he's building his own tech startup and he's got his own team and the raw remote. But he's kind of doing it on his own terms by trying to build a company. Again, if you're optimizing for the digital nomad lifestyle, again this is not the path that I would recommend. It's really hard to be a startup founder. It's really hard making making a thing and building a business that gets to the point where it's profitable and you know you could go down the fundraising route or you could go down the bootstrap route and there's this whole kind of worms. If you guys are interested in learning more about the topic, I can do an interview with my brother. I can talk about it. We can talk more about these. But again, it's not really the path that I would recommend if you're optimizing for the lifestyle. Now the path I would recommend if you're optimizing for the lifestyle is path number three, which is the freelancer path. And the freelancer path is fairly simple. All you have to do is two things. Number one, you need to have a skill that you can do remotely. And number two, you need to find people to pay you for the skill. That's a definition of a freelancer. If you just do that, you have already unlocked this digital nomad lifestyle. So this is the one that we're going to zoom into a little bit more and we're going to explore like how you actually go about this because like we said at the start this video is all about this step by step playbook. But before we go there, I do just want to flag one thing. And that is that even though I didn't recommend the creator path and the entrepreneur path, these paths have more leverage. What do I mean about that? Well basically, when you're a creator, you have the leverage of the media. Media is a highly leverage thing because like for example, it takes me a one time amount of effort to make this YouTube video. But this YouTube video could be getting views for the next five to ten years. Think it's gross, hopefully, if it's any good. And that means I could be making money while I sleep through the fact that this video is going to be out there on YouTube. Similarly, if I were my brother when I would I would I would I would creating a tech startup. I would put in the work to create the product and this is the leverage of code. And then the code would work for me because the code is like little robots to use an analogy from Nevada, I can't. The code is like little robots that's out in the world that's doing my bidding. And so a customer can sign up to my product once I built the tech app itself. The customer could sign up from anywhere in the world. And it doesn't take that much more effort to serve a thousand customers as it does to serve a hundred customers or ten customers. So this again provides more leverage. The problem with the freelance path is that it doesn't really provide leverage. You are ultimately trading your time for money. And yes, you could start off as a freelancer and then further down the line, try and build your own agencies to try and get some aspects of the entrepreneur path going in. You could start up as a freelancer and try and build your own audience. So getting aspects of the creative path in, but fundamentally to make money as a freelancer, you're exchanging your time for money. And so it's not particularly leveraged. Like to serve ten times as many clients. You generally have to put in a lot more work compared to the creator or the entrepreneur. But that's fine. That's kind of the tradeoff that we're going with because the freelance path gets us to being profitable fairly quickly compared to the creator path and compared to the entrepreneur path. Part four, the remote freelancer path. All right. So in the path of the remote freelancer, how do we actually make money? But like I said, there's basically just two things that we need. You need to have a skill that you can do remotely and you need to have clients who are willing to pay you for the skill. You combine those things and then you make money. It's like a magical equation that to be honest, this is how commerce and services and stuff have been working since the dawn of time. It's just that it's easy to forget that in today's like the laptop class laptop world. So step one for that is clearly you need to have some kind of skill and some kind of thing that people will pay for because ultimately money is just an exchange of value. I say this every time I make one of these videos, money is just an exchange of value. You have to be able to provide value to people who are willing to see that value and pay for it for you to actually make money. Now there is an absolutely huge list of skills that you could potentially learn. If you go on any of these freelance websites, you will see there are hundreds, if not thousands of potential skills that people are out there paying for and if you don't have a skill, all you have to do is learn one or two of these things that you find somewhat interesting to weren't actually learning them and then you can find people to pay for the thing. Now in the video description I've compiled like a PDF of some of the skills that I would recommend, you can check that out if you like. But the other thing you might want to think about is when it comes to learning skills like what are the skills you already have? If you had to go out there and make money right now, what's the sort of service that you'd be offering people? If hypothetically you would just gonna knock onto us. That's probably the skill you already have. If you already have a job then you obviously got skills because you wouldn't have a job if you didn't have skills. So at this point we would rest the skills side of the equation. Another question becomes how do we actually find the clients? Now there's loads of ways of going about this again, use some resourcefulness and initiative once you've got to that point. You can go through freelance websites, websites like Fiverr and Uppurr and people per hour. I generally wouldn't recommend that. There's like billions of people also trying to do that. So what you want to do is show some initiative, be a little bit proactive, and try and find interesting other ways to find clients for your services. Now there are two classes of clients that I find quite interesting. The first one is creators. I'm very familiar with the audience of creators. I really like the idea of targeting creators because you can look at some of the YouTube channel, you can find creators that you already like can follow and stuff. And you can see who are the ones who are making money, who, your skill would potentially benefit. And then what you can do is you can just reach out to them and say, hey, I noticed you are a YouTuber, I have this skill that could help you hear all the reasons why it would help you to help you. You craft a nicely crafted email that makes it very easy for them to say, yes, you may be offered to work for free for a week and see what happens and if they like you, then great. And if not, and that's totally fine, it means your skills need to improve. I can generally fairly easy to contact creators because they are contactable than all the social platforms. And you know they probably have money based on just a quick analysis of their YouTube channels, for example. And then the other interesting type of person to target is businesses, but crucially, boring businesses. A boring business is a business that is in fact, that's boring. An orthodontist, a dentist, a plumber, an electrician, a builder. These are boring as businesses, that is like, makes up 95% of businesses out there. They're not the sexy tech startups. It's quite hard to get a job working for those guys, because those people are trying to work for them. But there's loads of boring businesses around your area where the business owners are desperate to find people who are competent to provide them with certain skills. I know loads of people who are students, for example, who manage to make money by selling social media marketing services to local businesses. You understand social media, they probably don't, they need an Instagram audience, they need a Twitter presence, they need a LinkedIn presence. It's fairly trivial to target some of these boring businesses that no one else is targeting because they're in your local area and offering them something. And the nice thing about targeting businesses is that businesses have money to spend. The other mistake that people get into, this people of all levels, is that because you are an individual, then you think like an individual. And you value things like an individual. But it's like the way an individual values money is so radically different to the way business values money. If a business can see an ROI, a return on investment, they'll happily throw money out of problems, especially if you can demonstrate decent communication and the fact that you have a skill. The other important thing here is that you need to make yourself findable and present yourself in a nice way. So this involves having a decent Twitter account, having a decent LinkedIn profile probably depending on the niche that you're targeting, probably having your own personal website that actually looks somewhat reasonable. It's so easy to make a website these days, anyone can put one together. And to be honest, it's so easy to make a competent and professional looking website these days that also allows you to accept payments and sell both goods and services which brings us to Shopify, who are very kindly sponsoring this video. If you haven't heard, Shopify is the world's leading e-commerce platform that makes it ridiculously easy to set up an absolutely sick living website without needing to know how to code and sell basically anything you can imagine on that website, like goods or services or digital downloads. Shopify lets you sell online or in person and on all major social platforms and they power more entrepreneurs than anyone else in the world. Including us, we have our own e-commerce site on Shopify and it's super nice because the other day I was tinkering with it and trying to make it look pretty and it's so nice being able to integrate Shopify directly with our course platform and also into the YouTube channel directly and so it's a great way for us to accept payments from customers or around the world for all of our courses and digital downloads. They've recently also added a Shopify starter plan which is just a $5 package that lets you get started with his website without needing any kind of code at all and lets you get started selling within minutes. And it's a great way to try out product ideas and try and sell products on your social media through link pops, speaking of, link pop is also a thing that Shopify has which is a thing like a link that you can add in your bio and various social apps and then you can sell directly through those so that's also a super easy way to sell any kind of product that you want. Anyway, if any of that's known that if you're straight and you like the idea of having your own no code, super slick looking website that lets you sell physical and digital products and services online then head over to shopify.com forward slash early update and that will give you a free trial of Shopify so you can try it out and see if you like it. So thank you so much Shopify for sponsoring this video. And honestly, it's amazing how many emails I get from people soliciting services because they've seen one of my previous videos that says target creators and so the email me being like, hey, come out for your service and off those like one in a hundred of them are a written in competent English where it's good they've got decent communication skills and then they know how to write an email and even fewer of them have like an actual website or a portfolio or something I can look at to get an idea of what the work is like and really the message here is that once you've got the skill and you know you can do the thing then present yourself in a way that makes a business or a creator think oh wow I trust that this person knows how to do the thing there's tons and tons of videos on YouTube to explain how to build a website or like how to optimize your Twitter and LinkedIn profile or anything like that and really all you really need to make this work is just one client just a single paying client because as Charlie Munga famously said the best source of legal work is the work that's already on your desk if you can do a really good job providing the service with the skill for a single client and they're like oh my god this guy's amazing with this girl's amazing at that point you can ask for word of math recommendations you can ask for testimonials and it becomes so much easier to land subsequent clients once you've made your first client happy in a non weird way. Part five how to do all of this with a full-time job. So clearly all of this stuff takes a lot of time it takes a lot of time to build up a scale or even if you have this scale it takes time to try and find people to market it too and even learn a lot and you can fail along the way and it's a really valuable thing to do but it definitely takes a lot of time and it can be hard to make the time for it or to have the energy for it if for example you have a full-time job or if for example you're a full-time student actually if you're a student you probably have loads of spare time so I'm going to mostly talk to people with actual jobs because if you have an actual job my advice would be don't quit your job just here it's very sexy you know everyone talks about like how to quit your job and follow your passion all that crap like it's really really really hard to quit your job and then find a way to make money like that just is never going to work. What I prefer to do because I'm fairly risk-averse is kind of overlap things where you've got your job and then in the evenings and weekends you are doing the side-hustling to figure out how you can land your first client or your first two or three clients. I met a doctor the other day she's been working in medicine for 14 years and she's become a coach recently and she's continuing to work in medicine but now she's got like three paying clients and so she's going to kind of dial down on the medicine staff and dial up on the paid client stuff whatever they might look like for you is probably not advisable to quit your day job until you know you can fund yourself through the side hustle and then that begs the question how do you actually do this stuff with a full-time job like especially if you have kids I don't have kids it's very easy for me to say hey just on the evenings and weekends it's just like hustle and do your thing and that's kind of how I did it while I had a full-time job for like three years while building up the YouTube channel but if you have kids it's a lot harder like you have so many more demands on your time than I do and there's no getting around the fact that this is not an easy path it does require you to be able to manage your time and your energy appropriately and if you're interested in learning more about how to manage your time such that you have the time and energy to do this sort of stuff on the side if you like you can check out that video over there which is a video on my top time management tips to be more productive and do be able to do this stuff in the evening so thank you so much for watching I hope you enjoyed this video and I'll see you hopefully in the next one. Bye!
