# How to design an app | Medical Students Making an App - Episode 4
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Bmxjb3qThWI
In this video, we talk about the design process of the app. We started by drawing boxes on a page with pen and paper, and then translated those initial designs into a mockup using Sketch (but almost any software would do). 

Resources Used:

Sketch - https://www.sketchapp.com
Figma (Free Sketch alternative) - https://www.figma.com
Ionic Framework Components - https://www.sketchappsources.com/free-source/820-ionic-ios-wireframe-sketch-freebie-resource.html
**Keywords:** Surgical Logbook, Medical students, medical student, app, surgery, surgery app, medical student app, med student app, medic app, how to make an app, how to design an app, app design, app design sketch, app tutorial, app design tutorial, 
**Date:** 2017-08-02

## Transcript
 Hello guys, welcome back to another episode of the We're Making an App Series where Ben and I talked to you about the behind-the-scenes process of building Kind of past a surgical logbook for medical students and after we're building over the next few weeks. In today's video, we're going to be talking about how to design the app. And hopefully I'll be showing you that this is quite a straightforward process that doesn't need to be as complicated as it's sometimes seen to people who haven't done it before. There are loads of tutorials on YouTube and around the rest of the internet about the specific apps that we're going to be using for this. But the point of these videos isn't to give you the nitty gritty of how to use the apps, you know, click this button, click that button, this is how you use the pen tool. It's more about high level overview about, right, if you've got an idea for an app, how do you take that idea into a product and what steps do you need to do, how do you go about it? And if you do end up doing this, then of course you can find more detailed tutorials about how to use sketch or envision or any of the other things we're going to be using. Anyway, once you've got the idea in your head about what you want your app to do, which was pretty much the level that we were at, we then need to design what we think the app is going to look like. So for cut and paste, we just started out with some sketches, then spent an afternoon drawing boxes on a page on a piece of paper that we stole from one of the prints at the hospital. The box is like a box for the home screen, a box for the logbook page, a box for the ad operation page, and a little box is inside there's that right on the home page. We want a button that links the logbook on the operation page. We want to show all of the items on the ad operation page. We want a box asking for the patient ID, that sort of thing. Designing an app is to put it very, very bluntly, just drawing boxes on a page. And I know this is probably going to annoy any legit designers who watch this video, or the whom I'm getting no legit designers are going to be watching this video. Our purpose is for the purposes of essentially lay people who are not experts in design or anything like that, who just want to get something from idea and to reality. Designing an app is effectively just drawing boxes on a page. And we start by doing these by pen and paper. And then once we've done that, we can transition into converting them into an into a digital copy of the designs. So after Ben's been a few hours with his pen and paper drawing these boxes, we have a little session where we discuss some of the ideas and suggested some ways in which it could be proved and some things that we don't quite want. Anyway, once we had the sketches, the next step was to convert them into the actual computerised design with the app that we used for this doesn't really matter. The point is we just need some kind of software for the computer that can draw boxes on a screen. The one that I personally like using is called Sketch. It's available only from Mac. It's a specific web design or app design tool. And I think it costs about 40 pounds for their student discount license. If you don't want to pay any money, that's absolutely fine. You can use something called FIGMA, FIGMA, which is also really good. And it's a web-based thing so you don't have to install anything. You can use it on Mac and Windows. Or you can even use things like PowerPoint and Word because PowerPoint and Word let your draw boxes on the page. Secondly, another important point is that there's no need to start from scratch. I think a lot of times when people who haven't done this sort of thing before think about designing an app or designing a website, they think about the blank screen, the blank piece of notepad paper that they're going to have to write their code on. And maybe that was through 10, 15 years ago when you picked up an HTML book and had to write everything out from scratch, like HTML, body, head and all of that stuff. That's not really true in this day and age. In 2017, there are so many good free resources out there that there is very little point in actually starting anything from scratch. So although designing an app is just drawing boxes on a page, it's nice that those boxes look pretty like if you've got a text field or if you've got a keyboard or if you've got an image, it would be nice for it to look like how it would on an iOS device or an Android device. And luckily, there are people on the internet who very kindly have given away templates of these boxes for iOS for Android. So we found one on the internet and it just comes with a series of components. It gives you all the boxes, it gives you buttons of different colors. So in that sense, designing this app, designing a paste was just a matter of taking this existing template and then dragging and dropping the right buttons and the text fields onto a separate document and changing the text a bit. Now, of course, there's more to it than that if you want to become a full-time designer and actually do this properly. But we're not full-time designers, we're just medical students doing this as a side project. And I imagine if you're watching this video, you're probably also in that position whereby you've got your own full-time thing going. You just maybe want to learn how to design an app as a side project. And in that case, there is absolutely no need to reinvent the wheel. There's no points dying from scratch. You might as well get a template off the internet. There are loads of free ones, you can get nicer ones if you pay a few pounds for them, but there are loads of free ones just customize them to suit your needs and then you have something ready to go. And in about two hours of growing boxes on sketch and copying and pasting components from this template into our actual document, we managed to create a pretty reasonable looking design. Hopefully, you like it, we think it looks quite nice. And it took a few hours of Ben drawing boxes on a piece of paper and then a few hours of me and Ben sort of collaborating on sketch on a single computer and drawing boxes on this app. So, hopefully, it doesn't look too shabby. And hopefully, this video has shown you that designing an app is not as hard as it initially seems. And once you've got an idea in your head, you just convert it into a paper sketch, convert it into an online document, and then you're pretty much ready to go. So, thank you very much for watching this video. Stay tuned for the next video in the series in which we'll talk about how we prototype the app, how we made the screens go from one to the other. Thank you for watching. Please give it a thumbs up if you like the video. Please subscribe if you haven't already. I will see you in the next one. Bye.
