# Tough Choice - M1 Macbook Air vs Macbook Pro (2020)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BmznD0BNCzE
Hey guys, in this video I'll be comparing the new M1 MacBook Air and the M1 MacBook Pro. Which is right for you? Watch and find out xx

00:00 Intro
01:13 Performance
02:50 Battery
04:43 Portability
05:11 Microphones
06:40 Speakers
07:42 Screen
08:36 Touch bar

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
📚  How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali
What I Use For Analytics - https://go.aliabdaal.com/tubebuddy
🌐  My website platform (Ghost) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost
🎤  My podcast hosting platform (Transistor) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/transistor

OTHER RECOMMENDED COURSES
📔 Effortless Output with Roam Research - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/roam
📓 Building a Second Brain - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/basb

🎙 MY WEEKLY PODCAST - https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCdXpN-Z7LyTgc3OLo_Zw2Pg
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app. And we post clips + full episodes on the YouTube channel, so please subscribe to that!  

BE MY FRIEND:
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮  Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, m1 macbook pro, macbook pro review, macbook pro 2020 review, macbook pro m1, macbook pro m1 review, macbook pro 2020, macbook pro, macbook pro m1 unboxing, how to be productive, apple m1, macbook pro 13 2020, new macbook pro, 2020 macbook pro, apple silicon, macbook pro 13 inch, apple, m1 chip, apple silicon mac, macbook pro 13 review, macbook air vs macbook pro 2020, which macbook should i buy, m1 macbook air vs pro, macbook air vs pro, 
**Date:** 2020-12-01

## Transcript
 This is the new M1 MacBook Air and this is the new M1 MacBook Pro. I've been using both of these for the last two weeks testing them out and so in this video I'm going to be answering your question that's been plaguing philosophers since the dawn of time. Do you go for the M1 MacBook Air or do you go for the M1 MacBook Pro? I'm going to talk about seven reasons about how you can make your decision and I'm going to explain why I am personally going for the M1 MacBook Pro. Hey friends, welcome back to the channel. If you're new here, my name is Ali. I'm a doctor based in the UK and on this channel we explore the strategies and tools that help us live healthier, happier and more productive lives and to be honest, nothing gets a productivity nerd like me more excited than when new Apple products specifically new MacBooks come out because these are the real powerhouses of my personal productivity. Now quick overview if you haven't already seen a hundred videos about this. These new M1 chips are a total game changer because Apple is moving away from the Intel chips that used to run the MacBooks more to their own Apple design silicon M1 chips which is sort of like the chips that have an iPhone's and iPads which is what makes iPhones and iPads ridiculously fast. And now that's what's made these new MacBooks and the new Mac mini ridiculously fast as well. So looking at prices, the MacBook Air starts at $1,000 but the MacBook Pro starts at $1,300 and it's exactly the same chip. So what are the differences that justify the extra $300 that you're going to pay for a MacBook Pro compared to the MacBook Air? Let's start with performance. Now the two laptops do have exactly the same chip in them, but the MacBook Pro has a fan and active cooling whereas the MacBook Air does not have a fan. Essentially what that means is the MacBook Pro and the Mac mini because they've got fans. They're going to be capable of more sustained performance over a long period of time. Whereas the MacBook Air will have the identical peak performance but it will have less good sustained performance because it won't have any fans to actively cool it when the chip is getting hot and performing high intensive tasks. Now I actually had a call with the Apple Marketing team about this and I asked this exact question like is there much of a difference in performance who should go for the MacBook Air versus the MacBook Pro and what they were saying is that honestly the vast majority of people will probably be completely okay with the MacBook Air. The only time you're going to notice a difference is if you are hitting peak performance workloads and doing that for many hours each day. So for example someone like me if I edit a video maybe once a week I won't need a MacBook Pro. I will just be all right with the MacBook Air but if I'm editing videos for hours and hours an hours a day or using intensive graphics applications like Photoshop or Lightroom or doing tons and tons of 3D modeling or doing lots of gaming at that point I might be hitting those peak performance levels and need to sustain it throughout the day. The MacBook Air is totally fine for short bursts whereas the MacBook Pro and the Mac mini are better for sustained performance over a long period of time. What does that mean for me? So if I were still editing my own videos I would absolutely go for the MacBook Pro in a heartbeat because I would actually be spending hours and hours each day in final cut in my editing software but because I don't really edit my own videos anymore I only dabble in video editing occasionally. The MacBook Air would be completely fine for me personally on the process of front and in fact the MacBook Air is what I've been recommending to most of my friends who've been asking me for recommendations. The MacBook Air versus MacBook Pro. Secondly let's talk about the battery. Now this is a reason to go for the MacBook Pro for me because in theory the MacBook Pro has two hour greater battery life than the MacBook Air. I haven't really done any proper scientific testing of this but and ago today I do notice this battery runs out slightly less quickly than this battery runs out even though it's still a really, really long time. I almost I feel like I almost never needed to charge the MacBook Pro or the MacBook Air because it's like a 15 hour battery life versus a 17 hour battery life for basic web browsing things. Now the question is is this extra two hours of battery life enough to justify the $300 investment in the MacBook Pro compared to the MacBook Air and in my book the answer is kind of yes because it's the most annoying thing in the world when a laptop runs out of battery. With my old 2018 MacBook Pro I pretty much have to carry the charger wherever I take it because it would only get like three to five hours of battery life depending on what sort of stuff I'm doing. These have much longer battery life in between them but theoretically I'm planning to hold onto one of these laptops for the next few years. Now in that time if there is even one occasion where the extra two hours of battery life on the MacBook Pro allows me to get an extra hour or even half an hour of working that will for me personally easily justify the extra $300 investment because not to flex here but I value my time at something like a thousand to two thousand dollars per hour. So if I can do an hour of work that adds a thousand to two thousand dollars of value to my business overall and therefore spending an extra $300 to upgrade a battery life by an extra two hours is actually a totally reasonable choice for someone like me who's in that position where I'm weighing up the return on investment. If you're not someone who's a business owner buying one of these as a business expense and you are on some kind of budget then honestly I think the MacBook Air is probably the way to go like 15 hours battery life is not much different to 17 hours battery life and as long as you're charging it at the end of the day or overnight you're probably wouldn't notice a difference between the two. The only time you probably notice a difference if you were like a traveling for a whole weekend and using a laptop extensively and not wanting to bring your charger along in that point maybe the extra two hours would make a difference. Thirdly let's talk about portability now the MacBook Pro is about 90 grams heavier than the MacBook Air and honestly when I hold them slide by side I can notice a difference in the way because I know this one is slightly heavier but like it's not realistically something I would actually notice day to day that extra 90 grams is not going to make any difference between my life in the slightest and so in terms of portability I don't think that is the reason to go for the MacBook Air because it's 90 grams lighter than the MacBook Pro. I don't think portability should play much of a role in your decision making. Let's now talk about the Microphones now this is actually quite important because I do a lot of interviews a lot of podcasts and I'm sure what you're listening to this even if you don't do podcasts and interviews you're probably on a reasonable number of Zoom calls or video calls each day and so in an ideal world you want to have a laptop that has reasonable microphones in it. Now in theory the MacBook Pro has studio quality microphones like a three way microphone array or something like that whereas the MacBook Air just has standard microphones. So I'm not going to do a test of both microphones and we'll see if we can notice a difference between them. So this is a test of the microphone quality on the MacBook Air. What does this sound like? This is a test of the microphone quality on the MacBook Pro. What does that sound like? In theory because the webcam and the processor on both of these laptops is identical you shouldn't see much of a difference in webcam quality but potentially this MacBook Pro might have slightly better microphones. I'm not really sure what it's going to sound like until I see the edit but maybe you can decide for yourself does this microphone on the MacBook Pro sound significantly better than this microphone on the MacBook Air who knows you can decide but in theory I'm going to stick with the MacBook Pro because if Apple tells me it's got a more legit microphone then even if I just need to record one podcast and I forget my microphone one day I'll feel a lot better having the best quality that I can get rather than having a slightly worse quality on a MacBook Air and you'll notice I'm kind of equidistant from both of these so in theory my distance from the microphone shouldn't make much difference. I am talking to these as if I would be doing a zoom call on one of these microphones. And actually I've just played back and I can tell the difference between the microphone quality on the MacBook Pro versus the MacBook Air although the MacBook Pro also has slightly better speakers so maybe that plays a factor as well. Next let's test the speakers on both of these. Now this is always going to be a little bit difficult so I'll give you my subjective opinion but I also bring the microphone to work with them so you can hear what it sounds like from both of the speakers. This microphone is pointing here and we'll see what this sounds like. That was a MacBook Air so I'll pick up the MacBook Pro exactly the same position. Honestly, that's right. Honestly it's really quite hard for me to subjectively to tell the difference between the two speakers. Theoretically the MacBook Pro has better quality speakers. Maybe you've been able to judge that a little bit better from this microphone. I think because I know it's got better quality speakers it feels to me like there is a little bit more bass and the sound feels a little bit more rich but I don't know if I was doing a blind test what I really know the difference between the two. So yeah speakers don't really make a major difference in my subjective opinion as a non audio file but if you're super into music and stuff and you're not going to use an external speaker ahead of them then maybe the MacBook Pro would justify the extra $300 investment for you. For me personally the speaker is not a reason to go for this. Let's not talk about the screen brightness. Now the difference in brightness in peak brightness is that the MacBook Air goes up to 400 nits whereas the MacBook Pro goes up to 500 nits. What does this mean? Well it means that if you wrap up the brightness all the way to the max. I can tell that the MacBook Pro is slightly brighter than the MacBook Air. Usually the screen brightness doesn't make much of a difference because I personally don't usually have either of them on full brightness. The only circumstance in which it does make a difference is if I'm trying to work outdoors where there is glaring sunlight shining on the screen and in that case I will appreciate the extra $100 nits brightness of the MacBook Pro and in fact even with this bass light shining in front of me I can kind of tell the difference between them and I would rather use the MacBook Pro full brightness than the MacBook Air full brightness just because a brighter screen has just a little bit higher quality. Especially if you're using these laptops to watch a lot of things if you watch a lot of Netflix or YouTube or whatever maybe you'll appreciate having a slightly brighter screen especially if in the summer you're going to take it outdoors as well. Finally let's talk about the touch bar. Now the MacBook Pro has a touch bar whereas the MacBook Air does not have a touch bar. Me personally I'm actually not a fan of the touch bar. I would rather have the physical buttons on the MacBook Air which I think is like brightness and volume and forward and back next track, play, pause and Spotify rather than have the touch bar because I'm always a little bit annoyed by the touch bar. Thankfully both have a physical escape key and both of them have the touch ID sensor in the top right hand corner but another main question that you can ask yourself is do you care about the touch bar? For me actually the fact that the MacBook Pro has a touch bar is a reason to not go for the MacBook Pro. I would rather have a non touch bar than a touch bar and I think it's unfortunate that the MacBook Pro has a touch bar. All right so those are the seven different factors that are the differences between the MacBook Air and the MacBook Pro. Otherwise basically everything between them is identical. Now I'm going to share my personal opinion so I think for the vast majority of people watching this you can probably go for the MacBook Air. The MacBook Air is fantastic and I don't think a lot of these different factors will be worth it for the vast majority of people and in fact for most of my friends whether or not they dabble in video editing or dabble in coding or dabble in graphic design or whatever. I've just been advising them to go for the MacBook Air but having said that I'm personally going for the MacBook Pro and I've got kind of three main reasons for doing that that I touched on throughout the video. Firstly is the battery life. If I even get maybe an extra half an hour of work on this because it has more battery than the MacBook Air would have run out of battery that counterfactual analysis means that it would be totally worth it for me to spend the extra $300 to go for the MacBook Pro. Secondly I do prefer the fact that it has a slightly higher quality microphone because I do a lot of podcast recordings and it means that if for some reason I need to record a voiceover and I don't have a proper microphone with me for whatever reason it means I'll be able to get away with the microphone on the MacBook Pro and certainly when it comes to the power now right now my personal workflow does not require sustained levels of high performance because I don't really do many high performance tea type activities but for example next year I'm planning to live in different European cities for a month at a time where I'm not going to be bringing my Mac Mini along and so my main device is going to be the MacBook Pro or the MacBook Air and because I do a lot of online courses like my part-time youtuber academy where I am on a zoom call with a wide and wide ethernet cable and recording the screen and feeding like a webcam feed straight into my laptop that is quite kind of resource intensive especially when you're recording a screen and then exporting it out for like a solid 2 and a half hours that is when my old 2018 MacBook Pro that would really bring it to a bring it to its knees and the fans would be worrying all the time and stuff and for me if I can spend an extra $300 to get the safety blanket of knowing that there is a fan which can accrue the processor if for some reason that requires a large amount of workload that's personally going to be worth it to me because if my laptop slows down during a live zoom call where there's like 400 people who have paid large amounts of money to attend my course that's not a good look so that's why that's another big part of why i'm going for the MacBook Pro just in case i might ever need that sustained performance even though right now i don't need to so if for you that is enough of a reason to justify the $300 investment which i think it's an absolute no-brainer if you're buying this as a business expense then you should go for the MacBook Pro if you're anyone else and you can't see yourself in those sorts of semi-highstick situation where it is mission critical for your laptop to be performing in its peak capacity then just go for the MacBook Air the MacBook Air is absolutely fantastic so thank you very much for watching if you're interested in more information about these laptops i have an in-depth review of the MacBook Air over here and i have an in-depth review of the MacBook Pro over there thanks for watching and i'll see you in the next video bye bye
