# Monthly Favourites #7 - Ali Abdaal
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bobphaq2dYA
In this monthly favourites video for March 2019, we discuss a book, a blog post, a podcast episode and a kitchen appliance. Enjoy xx


💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking 

📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal


TIMESTAMPS
00:27 - The Courage to be Disliked
05:10 - Learn by Exploration
07:04 - Neil Gaiman interview
09:37 - The Oven

LINKS
1. Book - The Courage to be Disliked - https://geni.us/thecouragetobedisliked
2. Blog post - Learn by Exploration - https://taimur.me/posts/learn-by-exploration-then-by-theory/
3. Not Overthinking - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking
4. Tim Ferriss x Neil Gaiman interview - https://tim.blog/2019/03/28/neil-gaiman/
5. Book - Good Omens (Terry Pratchett + Neil Gaiman) - https://geni.us/GoodOmens
6. Fit Men Cook - https://geni.us/FitMenCook
7. One Pan Roast Recipes - https://www.bbcgoodfood.com/recipes/collection/one-pan-roast

🎬 My online course on video editing - https://skl.sh/32TpEvm
🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal

Who am I:

I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com  

My most popular videos:

- How I take notes on my iPad Pro in medical school - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=waR3xBDHMqw
- How to study for exams - Evidence based revision tips - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ukLnPbIffxE
- How I ranked 1st at Cambridge University - The Essay Memorisation Framework - https://youtu.be/-46Vyiwat_Y
- My productivity desk setup - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rApxWtDIRAM
**Keywords:** monthly favourites, monthly favorites, monthly favourites 2019, ali abdaal, neil gaiman, tim ferriss, the courage to be disliked, ali, 
**Date:** 2019-03-30

## Transcript
 Hey guys, welcome back to the channel. If you're new here, my name is Ali, I'm a junior doctor working in Cambridge and this is going to be a revival of the monthly favorite series where every month and I'm going to commit to doing every month. I'm going to talk about some of the interesting things I've discovered or rediscovered that month. So in this episode, I'm going to be talking about a book, a blog post, a podcast episode, and a physical product, and I'll link everything in timestamps. So if you don't feel like watching this long video, you can just skip to whatever timestamp most interests do you. So the book I want to talk about is the courage to be disliked by itchiro kishimi and fumitalki kuga and the subtitle is how to free yourself, change your life and achieve real happiness, which sounds a bit corny and self-helpy, but it's actually really good. And basically, I just really are aligned from the back. It's using the theories of Alfred Adler, one of the three giants of 20th century psychology, alongside Freud and Jung, a philosopher and a young man have a discussion. Their conversation reveals a profoundly liberating way of thinking that by developing the courage to change and to ignore the limitations so frequently imposed upon us, it is possible to find happiness. And the interesting thing, there's two interesting things there. Firstly, it's using the theories of Alfred Adler, who was pretty cool and if theories are pretty legit in my opinion. And secondly, it's a philosopher and a young man having a discussion. And the cool thing about this book is that the whole book is written as a discussion between the philosopher and the youth. So the philosopher is espousing this notion. The backstory here is that there's this philosopher who's famous in their village for pretty much telling everyone that actually life is pretty simple and we can all find happiness if we really want it. And we all blow all of our problems out of proportion. And there is a young hot headed youth who hears this stuff and who thinks that no way that can possibly be the case. I feel like my life is quite hard. I've got struggles. What do you know about my life? And he gets to egos to the philosopher's house and over over the course of five different sessions with the philosopher, they have a back and forth where the youth is arguing about how life is hard and how he's got real problems and how he's suffered childhood trauma and all this sort of stuff. And the philosopher is replying to him in a nice way being being like, you know, yeah, that's how you perceive it, but actually you could do it in this context instead. So I'll just read you out the first bit in the introduction. So there's like a bit of a youth. I want to ask you once again, you do believe that the world is in always a simple place. Philosopher says, yes, this world is astonishingly simple and life itself is too youth. So is this your artistic argument or is it a workable theory? What I mean is, are you saying that any issues you or I face in life are simple too? Philosopher says, yes, of course, youth. All right then, but let me explain why I've come to visit you today. Firstly, I want to debate this with you until I'm satisfied and then if possible, I want you to retract your theory. Philosopher says, hard, youth. Because I've heard all about your reputation, the word is that there is an eccentric philosopher living here whose teachings and arguments are hard to ignore, namely that people can change that the world is simple and that everyone can be happy. That is the sort of thing I've heard, but I find that we are totally unacceptable, so I wanted to confirm things for myself. If I find anything you say completely off, I'll point it out and then correct you, but we find that annoying. Philosopher says, no, of course not, I'd love to get the opportunity to be corrected. So essentially, the whole book is this conversation between the youth and the philosopher and it's like, it's like, it's like really good. The first night denied former and that is where he proposes the very controversial view that there is no such thing as trauma and that essentially any time we have a problem, it's not because of something that happened in our past. We can't blame our past for our current problems instead it's because we want to have that problem and we're just using the past as an ad hoc, a post hoc justification for that particular problem. That's all very interesting and the youth obviously argues against this and the philosopher eventually gets him around to his way of thinking. The second night, essentially argues that all problems are interpersonal relationship problems. Interesting. The third night, discard other people's tasks. That's all about how actually, how other people think about you is completely their responsibility and not yours. You don't have to worry about it at all. The fourth night where the centre of the world and the fifth night to live in earnest in the here and now. Overall, yeah, really, really solid read, not at all like the classic self-help books that I tend to read and enjoy. Another thing I think about about self-help books, but this is just a very interesting one. When I was reading this, I felt like the youth are getting instigated against the philosopher, I think, at the end. I don't think it really changed my world view because I was already fairly sympathetic to the philosopher's view. Anyway, having read a lot about stosism and about other related schools of philosophy and psychology and things. But overall, it's really, really good book and actually saw someone reading this on the train the other day and she seemed to be absolutely engrossed in it as well. So, if you want an interesting book, that will potentially change the way you actually view the world, like to free yourself, change your life and achieve real happiness. This is probably the book for you. Also, because I'm not a heathen, I don't actually read this in physical book. I read this in Kindle so I could highlight stuff. I only bought the book so I could show it off in this video. So, I'm going to give this away to someone to one of the one of the viewers. So, if you want to get a copy of this book, if you leave a comment below and just say whatever you want, but include your Instagram username. I'll randomly pick the comments and then I'll DM you on Instagram and ask for your address if you want a copy of the courage to be disliked and I'll write a little something for you in the front and include some of my favorite highlights in the book so you can do that if you like. Secondly, I want to talk about a blog post and this was actually written by my brother. I'll put a link in the video description and it's entitled Learn by Exploration and then by Theory. And it is in this, he talks about this idea that when we are learning stuff, we can either learn the theory straight up front or we can kind of explore a little bit and then learn the theory and then discover the theory almost a little bit later on. And he talks about how if we start off with exploration and then we do the theory bit. That is very, very satisfying. So, if you've tried to learn something like for me, you know, when I was learning how to play the piano, I started off just bashing out a few notes, realizing what sounds good together, realizing that chords existed. And then sort of sort of being able to play stuff by ear, I'd kind of figure out that you into Mary had a little lamp and play a random bit on the left hand. And this was just me trying to learn the piano by exploration when I was younger. And then once I discovered that actually there was a whole world of music theory and this playing by ear thing is actually a thing and that people have mathematical formulas for how to appropriately discover what chord goes with, what bit of the melody that I completely blew my mind. And that was such a profound interesting insight that I don't think I would have had, I just tried to learn the piano by the traditional root. So, interesting blog post, interesting idea, learn by exploration then by theory, you can check it out in the link below. Also, if you like that, as such, if you like the sort of content, then me and my brother have actually just or rather, sorry, my brother and I have just started a podcast. We've released two episodes so far, the third episode, like the third episode is coming out on Sunday, the 30th of March or something like that, is that even the right day? I don't know. But like every Sunday morning, we released an episode of this podcast. It's called not to overthink and you can find it at notoverthinking.com and it's available in all various podcast and in that, the two of us pretty much just chatting about happiness, creativity and the human condition. So, quick plug for that if you're looking for a podcast slash you enjoy this, this sort of stuff. All right, the third thing I want to talk about is a podcast episode that I actually listened to earlier today and yesterday with my mum while we were driving to IKEA to get some furniture, obviously I could almost do do an IKEA. And it's the Tim Ferriss interview on the Tim Ferriss show with Neil Gaiman, Neil Gaiman, who's famously the author of American Gods and the Gravy Odd Book, which is really good and star dust, which is actually really, really incredible as a book and also an audio format and the film is pretty sick as well. And that was, I think, I think it just become one of my favorite episodes of the Tim Ferriss show. I've been listening to this podcast for years and years now, but I thought this was a particularly good episode. Firstly, because Neil Gaiman's voice is absolutely hypnotic and enchanting and just really, really nice. So, when he narrates the Gravy Odd book and starred us, he's got such a beautiful way of speaking. So, I tried to pick up some tips from his way of speaking in that as well. He also talks about his own personal rituals for getting down and writing a book. So, you know, the fountain pens he likes to use, the notebooks he likes to use. And I'm a real sucker for this sort of very specific, what sort of penji you use advice, even though, yeah, it doesn't really make any difference. And someone like Stephen King would argue that the pen that on all the users is completely irrelevant. I still think it's kind of nice to see what tools someone who is at the top of their game writing lies is using. And towards the end, there was a very moving bit where they were talking about Neil Gaiman's friend Terry Pratchett, the famous author of the Discord series, who died a few years ago, I think it was. But he was a big proponent of assisted suicide. So, Terry Pratchett had a form of dementia that was going to be progressive and he knew before it got to that point. He knew that he didn't want to live and he was a strong campaign of for the right to die. And hearing Neil Gaiman talk about it, and I genuinely bought a tier to my eye, and he recommended the documentary that Terry Pratchett had released about assisted suicide. So, that's something I'm definitely going to be watching, especially because as a medic, I definitely care about this topic, and I've actually done videos about assisted suicide, and reference Terry Pratchett's views in the past. That was interesting for listen to. And also on the podcast, they talked about a TV series that is being really soon called Good Omen's. That's adapted from the book that Neil Gaiman and Terry Pratchett wrote together. So, that is also as now become on my two readlists. So, I might discuss that in next month's monthly favorite video. But yeah, I just really solid all round conversation, Tim Ferriss and Neil Gaiman. The thing with with like long form interview, I think overall the video was just over 90 minutes. That's really hard to say what it was actually about because they discussed so much stuff, and kind of describing it to you guys. It might seem that, okay, cool, I've got everything I want by, I'll at least summary of it. But, you know, my summary does absolutely, and it absolutely no way does just do the conversation. Please listen to it. I think you'd really enjoy. So, that was the podcast that I really enjoyed this month. And finally, I want to talk about a physical product, and that is the oven. And earlier this month, or I might have been towards the end of last month, I discovered the oven as a concept, and it was, it just blew my mind. Because, you know, the last six years of living at university, and even the last six months of living in this house, as a proper adult, I haven't really used the oven to cook much stuff other than, you know, put an oven pizza in it, or, you know, occasionally cook one of those roast chicken things in it. But, actually, I realized that there's a whole world of oven cooking, and one of my friends recommended this book called, like, one pan, one pan oven recipes, or something like that, that I need to get. And that's all about how you can just put everything into one oven roasting tin thing, like, veg and meat, and whatever else you want, and you make a really good dish. So, I used the oven to cook this like set baked salmon with some veg, and it was like the healthiest thing I've ever eaten my life, I think. But, I already want to start using the oven much more or two, do meal prep, and to live a healthier life. So, I just wanted to mention that in this, monthly favorites video, because, yeah, the oven is an incredible invention. And if you haven't discovered the oven, then you might find it helpful. It's actually a recipe, but called, fit men cook codon, I get that and so. This one, fit men cook by Kevin Curry, he's pretty hench, a hundred plus meal prep recipes for men and women always healthy, never boring, and this uses a lot of oven stuff. So, I've been playing around with some of the recipes from here. I made a really good, like, Chinese, Chinese style, black bean, and beef, and broccoli thing that involves some use of the oven. So, this is a pretty solid. So, like, a bonus recommendation, number five, fit men cook really good cookbook. I've never really bought a cookbook before, but I started to get into cooking. So, I want to do more of that. So, yeah, thank you for watching. That was this month's monthly favorite video. I hope you found something semi useful from that. I quite enjoyed doing this video. I think they're good because it encourages me to be a bit more reflective about the things that I consume or the stuff I listen to and stuff that I watch of the stuff that I read. Actually, one thing I found when I tried out this monthly favorite stuff last year was that every month I was kind of thinking, oh, I'm not really sure I discovered much new stuff this month. So, actually, what I'm going to do from now on is that instead of just focusing on new stuff, I'm going to even talk about stuff that I've read discovered. So, there's a lot of this book I actually read a few months ago, but I rediscovered it this month, and we've read my Kindle highlights for it. That's one of the best part about Kindle highlights. So, I'm not going to confine the monthly favorite videos to new stuff because I think that's too much of a focus on the new and novel. I'll be also talking about books and videos and podcasts and articles and stuff that have really helped me develop as a person. So, that's changed my view. So, that should just end obtaining or inspiring. So, that was today's rambly monthly favorite videos I hope you liked it. If you liked the video, please give it a thumbs up. If you want to see more behind the scenes of how I make these videos and what my life is a doctor is like, follow me on Instagram. You can check out my brother and I, my brother and my brother's podcast. I think as I say, you can you can check out mine and my brother's podcast at notoverthinking.com. It's available in all various podcast players and I'll put some links in the description as well. Thank you very much for watching. If you like the video, please give it a thumbs up. If you haven't subscribed to the channel, then please consider doing so. Have a lovely day and I will see you in the next video. Goodbye. you
