# How I Organise My Life
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bpikCLhpIRY
🚀 Join my live online course, the Part-Time YouTuber Academy, running 7th June to 14th July 2021. If you want to learn how to kickstart & grow your channel without quitting your job, check out https://academy.aliabdaal.com 😃
Get free access to my Workflow series on Nebula, along with a load of other exclusive content, bundled with CuriosityStream - https://curiositystream.com/ali and use the code ALI at checkout for a 26% discount on the annual premium plan!

In this video, I'll be taking you through how I use Roam on a daily basis to take smart notes and organise all things important to me. 

00:00 Intro
00:35 What is Roam?
00:59 Key Features
02:57 Book Notes 
06:27 Trees of Knowledge 
08:20 Morning Pages
09:12 My Daily Notes Template
13:58 The Nibble Framework 
17:00 Pricing
19:34 Drawbacks

The online course that my note-taking workflow is based on - Building a Second Brain - https://go.aliabdaal.com/BASB

Check out Nat Eliason's Blog: https://www.nateliason.com/

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
😃  How to be Happier - Stoicism Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/stoicism

MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️ My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝 My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
📚 How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵 Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
🌐 My website platform (Ghost) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost
🎤 My podcast hosting platform (Transistor) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/transistor

OTHER RECOMMENDED COURSES
📔 Effortless Output with Roam Research - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/roam
📓 Building a Second Brain - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/basb

🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/friendzone
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/friendzone).

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, roam research, how to use roam research, how i use roam research, notes with roam research, taking notes with roam, how to organize with roam, book notes with roam research, how do I use roam research, roam research tutorial, roam research setup, roam research workflow, roam research tips, roam research guide, roam research notion, is roam research good, roam research overview, ali abdaal roam research, ali abdaal, how to use roam, shu omi, 
**Date:** 2020-07-21

## Transcript
 So a few months ago, I discovered this fancy new note taking up called Rome Research, and not gonna lie, initially I was a bit skeptical, but I've now been using it pretty much every day for the last four months. It has transformed my workflow in certain ways, and so in this video I'll break down exactly how and why I use Rome, and we'll go over some of the features and the drawbacks so you can decide whether it's the right app for you. Hey friends, welcome back to the channel. If you're new here, my name is Ali, I'm a doctor working in Cambridge, and this is the first episode of Ape Hour, a new series where I'm gonna be reviewing apps. Let's dive into Rome as usual, there's gonna be timestamps here and in the video description so you can skip around the video if you feel like it. So firstly, what is Rome? Well, Rome is basically a glorified note taking app on their website. They call it a tool for thought. It's an app that allegedly helps you think better and produce stuff more better. That sounds really weird to say, but it's basically a glorified note taking app, but it's got a few features and a few different ways of operating that separates it from more traditional note taking apps like Evernote and Notion. With Rome, there's basically two key features that separated from everything else. The first one is that when you open up the app, you start off with a blank page called the Daily Note and every day you have a new Daily Note, so today's July 20th, 2020, and so I've just got this blank screen with a blinking cursor and a bullet point, and now I can start writing whatever I want, it is that that simple. Like, there's no official folders, there's no structure of notebooks and notes within that. It is literally just a blank page and you can start writing from the blank page. So that's feature number one, and key feature number two that makes Rome what it is, is a feature called by directional linking. That's kind of how to explain so I'll show you how it works. Let's say you want to write something. So Evernote, today I read Slaved a sensation by Nalini Singh, pretty good author, good paranormal romance series, the way by directional linking works is I can highlight Slaved a sensation, and I can press the square bracket key, and over there what it's done is that it's generated square brackets around the thing that I'm writing, and it's offered to create a page for it. So I can click on that, and now a separate page has been automatically created for the phrase Slaved a sensation. Equally I can do the same thing with the only thing, I can turn her into a page. Now this is a link, now what's going to happen when I click on this link. Let's click on Nalini Singh, and this is a blank page, but you'll see over here we've got one link to reference, and that is a link to reference to July the 2020, where it says today I read this pen on any thing. So that is what by directional linking means. It means we can go on a daily note, we link in one direction to whatever page we want, but then it also tells us the link references to the pages that have linked to it, if that makes sense. So between those two features, the daily note and bi-directional linking, that's basically the foundation that the whole of this app room research is built on. And there's loads about the features, which I talk more about in my videos on Nebula, I'll tell you more about that at the end of the video, but essentially those two other key features. And so if you're watching this now, those two features might not seem that groundbreaking, but I'll show you some of my use cases and why those two features are like the best thing ever. So one of my favorite things to use Rome for is for booknotes. So for example, if we look at the book, the elephant in the brain, which I can see that I've finished on June the 28th. Essentially, I've created this page for the elephant in the brain. And for example, started at June 26th, that is a bidirectional link. So if I shift click on that, I can see exactly what I was doing on June the 26th, if I want to. Then I've written recommended by, and I usually have this for all my booknotes, recommended by, and I've linked to Natilison. He's on my favorite bloggers. You can check out his website, and he's actually got a course on how to use Rome, which I took, link in the video description. Anyway, I click on that a lesson, and I don't have any stuff written for him. This is a blank page. But we can see there are 11 linked references. So I've linked to Natilison, like 11 different times. And so there was this article, another book he recommended, another book. This is an evergreen note more than that later. And a few different things that this guy, you know, I've referenced him in various notes throughout the last four months. And so at some point when I email him or DM him on Twitter and say, hey, do you want to feature in a deep dive on my channel or something? I'll have this long list of stuff where it'll just automatically tell me every time I've mentioned him in me and anything. Going back to the booknotes, I've got my racing ten out of ten books cited book rational ritual, which I now click on. I've said, bought on July 1st, recommended from a passage in this book, hashtag TBR, which means to be red. And so if I click on TBR, it shows all of the books that are linked to the phrase TBR, because you can link stuff with the hashtag as well. And there's all the books that I want to read for now. Anyway, let's get on to the actual stuff. So essentially what you can do in Rome is it's a note taking out, but you build the notes based on these bullet points. And so what I'm doing is I am kind of summarizing the different chapters of the book. And hopefully trying to write it in my own words along with some different quotes. And so there's nothing really special here. It's just kind of a nice note taking out. But for example, what I can do is while I'm writing my booknotes, I can expand stuff. Here we go. So common knowledge, recommendation for book, the rational rituals. As I was writing that, I turned that into it's own link. And I filled out the details for that. If we go down here in the chapter about self-deception, we've got recommendation book, why everyone else is a hypocrite. Shift click on that, opens up in the sidebar, and I've added that to the 2B red list as well. So another thing I can do while I'm writing my booknotes is if I find something that I want to turn into its own page, because it's interesting, it becomes an evergreen note, then I can select something like the Macaveralian Intelligence hypothesis. That seems like the sort of thing that's kind of cool that I'd want to make a note about, make myself remember it. So all after it is highlighted, double square brackets. It's now turned into its own page. I can now either open the page directly, or I can shift click to open it in the sidebar. And then I can write my own notes on the Macaveralian Intelligence hypothesis. And if we go on the actual page, I can immediately see where it's referenced. So this is the sort of thing that might be called an evergreen note. The idea is that as I'm reading the book, I'm taking notes on the book, I'm creating these evergreen notes as we go along. And so in future, if this sort of concept becomes relevant, maybe let it look three years time, I come across the Macaveralian Intelligence hypothesis. Again, or I think about how I might feature in like a video or not, I call it something. I'll have this page, and I'll see, oh, I first discovered this way back in July 2020 when I read the elephant in the brain, because this linked reference is there automatically. The second thing is my workflow for evergreen notes. So we've talked about how we've got booknotes on all of this kind of stuff. The second one is that I've got this page called Trees of Knowledge. And within here, I'm slowly building up my bank of evergreen notes. So, for example, within the topic of life, we have the four important things in life. So let's click on that. I actually can't remember what it says. Oh, okay, this is interesting. So I've tagged this with hashtag evergreen because I'm hoping this is going to be an evergreen note. Hashtag live hashtag meaning hashtag happiness sounds a bit corny. But those are sort of the, it works like a simple tagging system. So for example, if I look at happiness, these are the 15 linked references to happiness that I've got. Oh, and I've got, I was to use the word happiness like a load of times. I just haven't explicitly linked to it. Anyway, that's not what I want to talk about more on that in the video series. I'm nebula, which I'll tell you more about at the end of the video. But kind of this note, called the four important things in life, is an evergreen note that I made, after listening to this podcast episode with Navarrabic Hunt and Samantha Ryan. And so what I did while I was listening to this and afterwards is that I got quotes out of the podcast. And for each of them, I kind of turned an interesting point into an evergreen note. So for example, I made one called work, it's synonymous with misery. And these are my own notes. How do we define work? Maybe one way is to define it as inherently unpleasant. Something is a hobby if it's fun and it's work if it's not fun. So it's novel. And I've got a linked link to reference to a work we're kind of getting into the weeds here, but that's fine. So this quote over here, it's not just copied and pasted. It's actually referencing the original source. So if I click on that, it shows us the original source that it's part of this podcast episode with Navarra and Samantha Ryan. And so if I make changes to one of it, it will automatically update all the references across the board, whereas in other note taking apps to have that sort of feature, you need to do a lot of copying and pasting. Anyway, this podcast episode helped me generate a lot of evergreen notes. And in my workplace series, I'm Nebula, I've got like a detailed tutorial of how I make these evergreen notes, but this is just kind of an overview. The third use case for room is that often within my daily notes, I will do my morning pages. Now, morning pages is this kind of creative exercise where at the start of each day, the ideas that you just write three pages of long hand as in written by hand, continuous prose. And that kind of helps you get stuff off your mind. It helps you come up with new creative insights. I don't like doing it on pen and paper because my writing speed is a lot slower than my typing speed. And so often, if I've got like a day of work or something, I will do morning pages where I just kind of write a ton of bullet points. And through writing those, I can create links and stuff. I'm not going to show you them because I like to keep those private because they're personal stuff, as well as business stuff. But that's another nice thing that I use room for. And often, I found that notes that I'm making in my morning pages actually link to books or podcasts that I listened to over the last few months. Point number four, is something I've actually started doing more recently. I think over the last few weeks. And that is using a room daily notes template. So using the app Alfred of creative a snippet that if I type in room daily, it automatically creates this sort of stuff. Let's just get rid of those two. So initially, we've got this little thing. Your daily reminder, don't ignore your dreams, don't work too much. Say what you think. I'll do it at friendships. Be happy. I'm creating a little bit. But this is from a blog post by I think Paul Graham where he talks about a book called the Top 5 Regrets of the Dying. And the Top 5 Regrets of People Who Are Dying are, they wish they didn't ignore their dreams, they wish they'd worked less, they wish they said more what they thought, they wish they'd kept in touch with friends and they wish they'd given them themselves the permission to be happier. And so what he's done is he's converted that into this sort of list of five directives, which I now have at the top of my to do list each day. So it kind of reminds me about, you know, these are the five regrets of the dying that I need to remind myself not to sort lose focus on anyway. The point is this daily room template gives me these six things create, connect, consume the other the other three are a bit or a bit a ropey. It's a regret, a coordinate and a consolidated. This is also a little bit cringe. I'm sorry. But basically the idea is that it sort of gives me these six categories of things that I want to focus on each day. And so under create, I might be like filmed a role. Oh, and over there, what I did is that I'm filmed a role in screaming according for, so I've double open bracketed and now I'm because I'm creating a page. I've typed in Rome and it's telling me what all of my different Rome pages are. And I know that I've got a page for this very video, so this is video, Rome intro, done. So that is under the create thingy. Under the connect thing is usually when I write notes about people that I've spoken to that day and I have a little reminder within the template message someone I haven't spoken to in a while. So let's see what's on the connect list. Let's say helped Jake and Molly mouse. For example, sometimes I'd even have it to do this here. So for example, I need, I was like having and might to do this each day. You're a reminder to call my grandma. So I might write call nonny. That's my grandma. And if I did command enter, it turns it into a to do item. More of that on the Nebula workflow thingy because there's like a whole long thing that you can do around to do lists. Under consume, I usually link to the stuff that I've consumed to that day. So whatever I do, whatever consume today. So let's say on the drive to work today, I'm listening to the book War Doctor on Audible. So continue. So you can see over here, I've just typed in the word War and it is telling me self awareness has worn it. But book War Doctor is what I want. Continue listening to that. Sarah Braids is a bit crap. It sort of means sort of thinking, but it's like a really paused in an infrared. But within that, I usually have if I've created any evergreen note. So for example, if I was listening to that podcast with Neval and some other Ryan, I might tag here the four important things in life because that would be something that I've thought about and something that I've created and evergreen note about. Coordinate is usually kind of things on my calendar. So for example, I've had a weekly meeting with Christian, hangers, and Liz, who are the four members of my team. And then I can write more about the stuff that we did in our weekly meeting. I would have to take notes with from that meeting in Notion. I still use Notion for a lot of team-based stuff. I also have a video on Nebula in the workplace series about room versus Notion, but more on that later. Sorry, I keep unplugging that. Because there's just so much to dive into with room. It's hard to talk about in one video, but definitely do more videos about it. Anyway, and then consolidate is another really important and then basically it means it reminds me to focus on my health and like consolidate my life. And so if I'm for example doing a workout or if I need to do a workout and my right workout day becomes a to-do list with the command and enter. And so for example, I always have the app open on my laptop, but also when I'm at work, a room has a web app. You just go to roomresearch.com, and it works on all the crappy work computers in the hospital. And so I always kind of have this up so that if I've got moments of downtime during the day, I can look at my room list and I can be like, okay, I need to call Nani, have I got 20 minutes to take a quick break and call my grandma or workout day, I can't do that at work. But for example, I can be like, oh yeah, I'm listening to the book War Doctor, why don't I add more notes from when I listen to this morning? So it's just sort of, it's a very kind of cross-platform way that I can just have a reminder of all the things that I'm doing that day, and it encourages me to take more notes on the stuff that I'm consuming. Finally, I just want to show you quickly something called the nibble framework. This is based on my friend Tiago Forte's building a second brain online course. It's very good link in the video description. But basically, anytime I read, watch, listen to anything, I target with the phrase nibble with the worst nibble because I kind of view every piece of content that I consume to be a nibble of some sort. And all of these nibbles are awaiting digestion, this is again really weird and cringey, but it's just, you know, I like calling it these weird things because, I mean, I suppose really just have content in box by the phrase content in box, sounds boring AF, therefore I like the word nibble, it just sounds more playful and more nice. Anyway, nibbles are waiting digestion. So, for example, I listen to this podcast Hugh Jackman in Tim Ferriss, on July 11th, finished podcast over that, whatever. And I've tagged it with the word nibble, and that means using Rome filters, using this query, again, more on this on regular, it's now in my list of things nibbles are waiting digestion. Once I have digested a nibble, so let's look at this article. This is one of nuts articles. This is just an example, lessons from one year of nomadic passive income. I've said knit hashtag nibble, but I've also said hashtag digested, which means I have gone through the article, and I have converted the insights into my own words and created evergreen notes based on that. So, in that article, you talked about this concept of geeky guy, which I thought, oh, that would be a good evergreen note, so I made an evergreen note for it for a geeky guy, and I included this thing from Google images and stuff, and I've got a few references, and you can see some linked references. So, I've converted the insights from the article into my own notes into these evergreen notes, and once I've done that for the whole article, it becomes hashtag digested, which means no longer appears in this nibbles awaiting digestion category. And this system just sort of encourages me to think a little bit more harder about the stuff that I read, watch, and listen to, because even with a system like, you know, if you're familiar with my notion set up, my resonance calendar, I used to have my resonance calendar, and I used to add stuff to it, but there was just no real process to encourage me to actually take notes about it, and actually mine the insights from it, where I was calling this stuff nibbles, and making them a wicked digestion to be digested, and having kind of this to-do list of things to digest, means that at any moment, for example, if I'm at work, and I've got a spare 20 minutes, I can look through this list and think, oh, you know, um, man's search remaining, I read that the other day on the 12th of July 2020, and here are some references to it. Oh, so you can see that I bought it on July the second, and I started listening to it on July the 12th, and I finished it on July the 13th. And this is just stuff. I mean, this is kind of nice, knowing that I bought it, and then like 10 days later, I started listening to it in two days, but it just means that when I'm on a computer, I have this list of default things that I could be doing, so I could be like, oh, okay, what's on my nibble list, man's social meaning. Okay, cool. Let me go through my Kindle highlights, because I was highlighting it on Kindle, while also highlighting bits on audible. I can go through my Kindle highlights, and I can convert those into evergreen notes. And this gives me something to do when I have nothing better to do, it's a good default activity. All right, let's talk about pricing. Now, unfortunately, Rome is not free. It's kind of good that it's not free, because it's really hard to make the economies around free apps actually work, and I kind of prefer to pay for apps that I'm using for a long period of time, because I know that by paying for them, and if an app has like a paid model, I know it's probably going to be around for a while, whereas every year, there are so many free note-taking apps that spring up, but really only a handful of them last a test of time. Pricing wise, Rome costs $15 a month. That is quite a lot. That is one of the most expensive subscriptions that I pay for. They have a 31-day free trial that you can sign up to if you want, and if you're a full-time student, or if an actual hard chip, or you earn less than $25,000 a year, or you're a teacher, or you're a researcher, they've got this scholars program that you can apply to, and with that scholars program, they give like half price discounts. Sometimes even full-priced discounts to whoever sort of wants it, so more on that in the website, I'll link that in the video description. But yeah, it's $15 a month, and $15 a month is a lot to pay for a note-taking app. I personally think it's completely worth it, because to be honest, any app that can improve my workflow for improving my thinking, or improving my life, or improving my productivity, or helping me make more videos, basically anything like that is totally totally totally going to be worth the money. Honestly, if Rome was $50 a month, I'd probably still think it's worth it, and actually, I pay a lot more than $50 a month for a lot of different apps that help run this YouTube channel, and a lot of them are used a lot less than I use Rome. I use Rome literally every day. And so $15 a month, I think it's completely worth it, for the right sort of person, it'll also be completely worth it. And in fact, I don't pay $15 a month for it, because I've actually signed up to their Believer plan, which is $500 upfront, but then you get Rome for five years. So that becomes $100 a year, which becomes like $8 a month. But I've signed up to the $500 Believer plan, because I believe in the apps so much. I'm not being paid to say this at all, they're not sponsoring this video in any way in the slightest. I don't even think they have an affiliate program. It would be nice if they did. Conor, if you're watching this, please make an affiliate program for Rome, because I'd love to recommend it to more people. But yeah, I pay $500 for the five years. I'm totally worth it. Yeah, I get that a lot of people watch my videos and think, oh bro, why do you only talk about paid apps? It's because I consider these apps as like an investment in my future and in my life. And I would happily blow $15 on like a takeaway, which is objectively bad for me. Why wouldn't I spend $15 a month or $8 33 a month via the five year package? Why wouldn't I spend that on an app that improves my life in more meaningful ways than a single takeaway? For example, but you know, I get there for a lot of people $15 a month or $8 a month. Or even $7 50 a month on the scholars package might not be worth it. Finally, let's talk about some drawbacks. And when I was drafting this video, I was thinking, well, one of the drawbacks is that Rome only has a web app. But actually, as of yesterday, they have now released a sort of desktop app and an iOS app and an Android app so you can kind of use those. They're not fully featured native apps. There's sort of progressive web applications if you know anything about kind of apps and stuff. So it's not quite the performance of like a proper app. But those proper apps are under development. It's quite a small team of people that's running it and I think they're doing a great job. The other kind of annoying thing about Rome is that very occasionally it takes ages to reload the page. Sometimes if you hit the refresh button, you'll be waiting maybe 30 seconds for it to reload. In the last like two months, I can think of like two or three times that this has happened. It used to happen a lot in the early days of Rome, but I think they're making a lot of changes to the infrastructure and making it a lot more performative. So that's kind of nice. And the final annoying thing about it that people say is that there's this quite a bit of a learning curve to it. Like when you open up the app, you're confronted with just a blank page and you're sort of expected to know what to do with the blank page, which is why courses like my videos on Nebula, or for example, Natalyse and Rome course link in the video description, stuff like that is quite helpful. And I personally took Nat's course as a sort of introduction on how to use the Rome for these different use cases. But the idea is that probably you don't want to copy exactly what someone else is doing. You probably want to look at why the people are doing play around with it yourself and then figure out if you can sort of build Rome into your own workflow. If you're looking for a more in-depth guide on how I personally use Rome to make my life better in every way, then you might like to check out my workflow series on Nebula. It's a series that I add new videos to each month and it's basically where I kind of deep dive full nerd level style into my favorite apps. So I've got a lot of videos about Rome, a lot of videos about notion, a few videos about how I consume podcasts and how I read articles and how I transition those into my second brain. And so if you're a massive nerd like me, you might want to check that series out. If you haven't heard Nebula is a streaming platform that me and a bunch of other creative friends are helping to build, it's kind of like an alternative place where we can put content that might not necessarily work on YouTube. So for example, a long introduction or like a series of 10 videos and how I use Rome, clearly I'm not going to make 10 videos on how I use Rome in a row on YouTube because the algorithm just wouldn't work for that. But Nebula is a sort of place that I can put those videos. So on Nebula I've got this workflow series along with a deep dive series where each of the kind of two hour long interviews like live stream interviews I've done on the channel, we chop those up into bite size snippets of wisdom. So each one has about like five to 10 bite size segments so you can watch those in kind of two to five minutes rather than having to sit through a two hour live stream. It's not just my stuff on Nebula, there's also a lot of exclusive content from other educational-ish creators that you might have heard of like Thomas Frank, Windover Productions, Legal Eagle. And we also get to collaborate in ways that might not work on YouTube. For example, one of my favorite YouTubers Tom Scott has this amazing documentary called Money where he pits a few famous YouTubers against each other and explores the psychology of money and lying and gambling and it's so good. To get access to Nebula the best way is to sign up to CuriosityStream who are very kindly sponsoring this video. CuriosityStream is the world's leading documentary streaming subscription platform. And because CuriosityStream also love educational creators like me and some of my friends, we've got this bundle where if you sign up to CuriosityStream you get completely free access to Nebula, not just for a short period of time but for as long as your CuriosityStream subscription lasts. That currently running a promotion where you can get 26% off the annual premium subscription to CuriosityStream. So if less than $15 a month you get access to high quality, high budget documentaries from people like David Attenborough and Chris Hatfield and bundled with that completely free of charge you also get all of this exclusive content that's available on Nebula. So if you click on the link in the video description you'll get both CuriosityStream and Nebula at 26% off or you can go to CuriosityStream.com forward slash Ali and use the coupon code Ali at checkout to get the same deal. If you like this video here is a playlist of more apt themed videos about how I take notes using notion and how that compares to Rome. Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.
