# How To Manage Your Time As A Student
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BsLC5eIjcag
The first 1,000 people to use the link will get a 1 month free trial of Skillshare: https://skl.sh/aliabdaal10221

Check out my Skillshare class on studying here - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

When I was a student, I tested a load of different time-management techniques and in this video, I'll go through 12 tips which really changed the way I managed my time at school and university. Enjoy :)

My Study Related Courses
How to Study for Exams: Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
Learn Anything With Flashcards: The Ultimate Guide to Anki - https://skl.sh/3RsyMjf

🎬 Study Related Videos
How I Ranked 1st at Cambridge University - 20 Study Tips - https://youtu.be/76yqErAib5g
How to Study for Exams - The Retrospective Revision Timetable - https://youtu.be/b7o09a7t4RA
How to Study for Exams - Evidence-based revision tips - https://youtu.be/ukLnPbIffxE
How to Study for Exams - The STic Framework for Effective Learning - https://youtu.be/k5A26Sc63F0

🎙 Subscribe to podcast, Deep Dive - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://go.aliabdaal.com/subscribe-sundaysnippets

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - 
 https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

🎬 YouTube for Beginners - Everything You Need To Know To Start  - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/YouTube-for-Beginners

MY CREATOR COURSES
🎬 Part-Time YouTuber Academy - My 6-week live online course on becoming a part-time YouTuber → https://go.aliabdaal.com/parttimeyoutuberacademy
🏆 Creatorpreneur - My flag-ship course for scaling up your creative side-hustle → https://creatorpreneur.academy/course
🗣 Camera Confidence - My self-paced course on how to improve your creativity, career, or communication skills → https://cameraconfidence.aliabdaal.com/

MY FAVOURITE GEAR
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) -https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE TOOLS
🚀 VidIQ - How I optimise my YouTube videos - https://go.aliabdaal.com/vidiq

✍️ Shortform - The BEST summaries of books - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform

📚  Readwise - How I remember what I read - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise

🎵  Epidemic Sound - Where I get my music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound

MY KEY LINKS
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com/
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🎮  Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I’m Ali, a YouTuber, podcaster, soon-to-be author and ex-Doctor working in London, UK. I make videos that explore the strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. I also have a weekly podcast called Deep Dive (https://www.youtube.com/channel/UChfo46ZNOV-vtehDc25A1Ug), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://email.aliabdaal.com/).

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but feel free to email me at (mailto:hi@aliabdaal.com). I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, time management, time management skills, time management tips, study tips, how to manage time, time management for students, how to manage your time, how to stop procrastinating, time management techniques, how i manage my time, how i manage time, time management skills for students, time management for high school students, time management motivation, 
**Date:** 2022-10-08

## Transcript
 Now, I always seem to get questions from students in the audience all about time management. And so in this video, we're going to talk about my 12 top time management tips for students. Let's go for it. Tip number 12 is to avoid cramming because cramming is ridiculously inefficient. Yes, it seems like it is. People always like really struggle to make the most of their time. And therefore, you end up cramming for your exams. But like four hours of cramming, the night before an exam, is way, way less efficient than four hours of studying for the exam. Spread out over a few weeks, for potentially even a few months. This is because of how memory works. Generally, we want stuff to be going into a long-term memory because then recalling it is way easier. Then if it's just sort of staying in our short-term memory, which brings us on to tip number 11, which is to learn how to study effectively. This is a thing that I've been making videos on about for the last like four years on this YouTube channel. But how to study effectively, for exams, and just generally, how to learn effectively, is something that no one ever teaches us in school or at university. I picked it up in my second year of medical school when we happened to have a psychology lecture as an optional thing, which is all about the science of memory formation and how memories are formed, and therefore how to study for exams effectively. And at that point, I was just like, oh my god, why has no one ever told me this before? And since then, I really applied all of these different strategies like active recall and space repetition. Those strategies for effective studying basically freed up tons and tons of my time while I was at university. And I really wish I'd known those strategies when I was in school as well, because it would have just given me so much more spare time to do things I actually wanted to do rather than the thing I had to do, which was study for my exams. If you want a good resource on this, my friend, Unjaded Jade, has actually a very good book on this, the only study guide you'll ever need, where I have I actually feature in this, I have a little paragraph about space repetition, which is sick. So you can read this book, you can also check out my Skillshare class on studying that'll be linked for free down below, or check out any number of the 15 videos I have on the topic of effective studying that'll be linked all down in the video description. All right, tip number 10 is to be a little bit experimental about your self-care time. Now, this is an area where I don't want to get cancelled for this, but with a lot of students, there is this idea that, oh, you know, studying is so hard, it's so stressful, just waiting to start work. Studying is so stressful, I need three hours every evening to wind down and I need to be watching TV and I need to be scrolling Instagram because that's my self-care time. To which I would say like that, that's all well and good, but it's okay to experiment a bit and to question your assumptions about how much quick self-care time you actually need. If you are, for example, a student and university, and there is the option of going to all these different clubs and societies and stuff, or there is the option to sit down and watch TV for three hours, I can basically guarantee when you get to the end of your university experience, the thing you'll regret not doing is taking part in all these different activities and trying out different things, but we tend to as students tend to waste a lot of time and even as adults, under this guys of self-care. I'm not saying self-care is very important, it's a really important part of avoiding burnout, but you can kind of be a little bit experimental about it by which I mean, if you currently think you need three hours of self-care to watch TV every night. Try two and a half hours one night, and see like genuinely treat yourself as a bit of an experimental subject in a study. Like see how do you feel with two and a half hours of self-care time versus three hours? Cool, two and a half hours versus three hours, no real difference to your own self-care and your own mental health, fantastic. You have just freed up half an hour of your time. If your goals are genuinely to watch TV for two or three hours every evening, that's totally fine, you do you, but generally, most students kind of wish they had a bit more time to do more things like take part in more societies and more clubs or learn new skills, or even just study for their exams in a less stressful way. And often, we tend to waste a lot of time doing pointless crap, like watching TV and scrolling social media. All right, tip number nine is to figure out what does as a student your ideal ordinary week look like? So if you were to fast forward in your group calendar or whatever to a blank slot, how would you actually like to be spending your time if you could design your life however you wanted? And then compare that with how you're actually spending your time. Now when I was a student, I would find that how I actually wanted to spend my time, basically did not include any watching a TV unless it was a social activity, did not include any randomly scrolling through social media and yet I found myself doing a lot of that. It did include spending more time reading and then I wasn't making time for reading. So it's like every now and then actually thinking, what does my ideal life as a student look like? And why is my current life not like that? And what are the strategies that I can use to bring my current life closer to this ideal life, this ideal ordinary week that I have? Tip number eight is to completely scrap the idea of revision time tables. Revision time tables are a complete myth. There are total waste of time. There's just a way for us to procrastinate. There are a way for us to feel good about the fact that we're planning to do all this revision, but then when we get around to it, we don't actually follow the revision time table. Unless you're one of those very few like really conscientious students who follow a revision time table, but if you are, you probably don't need to watch a video teaching ahead of manage your time. Generally, but lazy people like me and for most students in the world, following a time table for revision for studying is just super super super super super hard. I've got a video with an alternative way to do a revision time table. I call it the retrospective revision time table rather than the prospective revision time table. This is the strategy that I still use whenever I need to learn or study for anything at all. And I found it to be way more effective in terms of efficiency of studying and also enjoyment of studying and also actually being more efficient with managing my time than any other revision time table that I've tried. Tip number seven is again something a little bit controversial, but when I got to university, I said a rule for myself. I was not allowed to watch TV unless it was a social activity. This rule transformed my life because it freed up hours and hours of time, where when I was in school I was wasting all this time watching TV shows like Gossip Girl and 92100 and the Vampire Darius and Grey's Anatomy and stuff. And yeah, these TV shows were great, but at university I decided the only TV I'm allowed to watch is if it's a social activity. And so every week, you know, when Game of Thrones was on we would have Game of Thrones nights where we'd get a monitor or a projector in my room, invite some friends over, get some pizza, and that was really fun, and those are some of my happiest times of being at university. But beyond that, I didn't really watch any TV. And I, if I think back to my university experience, do I regret not having seen the office? Hell no. Do I regret not having seen more TV shows? Hell no. But am I really glad for the time that I spent working on this YouTube channel or learning how to code or learning other skills or even just studying for my exams in a way that didn't stress me out during the exam term? Absolutely, I'm so glad I did that instead of watch TV. Tip number six is the rule that nothing good ever happens after 2 a.m. I think this is from how I met your mother or something. And I first learned this tip in my second year of university and I found that every time I stayed up until post 2 a.m. to hang out with friends or to do a chill of some sort, nothing good ever came for it. I think 2 a.m. is the cutoff point at which, you know, you've already had your deep conversations from like 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. nothing good happens between 2 a.m. and 6 a.m. it just means you completely screw yourself at the next day because now you're burnt out and tired and exhausted and you have to go to lectures and you're falling asleep in lectures and it just becomes a total nightmare. So 2 a.m. was like my curfew. Tip number five is to use a calendar and run your life religiously based on your calendar. There are so many people I know still to this day, even adults that don't run their lives from a calendar and it just boggles the mind because it's so hard trying to remember all of the things that you have to do. The other great thing about the calendar as well is that it let you be more intentional with how you're using your time. So let's say you decide that you know one of the things I want to do at university is take part in this extra project or something. You can look at your calendar and you can decide, do I actually have the time to do this? It's so easy to beat ourselves up because we think we should be doing these 100 different things, but if you run your life based on your calendar and your calendar is broadly accurate, you can physically see, do I actually have the time to do this? Let's say, you know, I want to do my studying, I want to do my sports, I want to do my socialising, I want to do my sleep, I want to do my self-care. How many hours of genuinely left in the day to actually do other things? And if you run your life with a calendar, you've got an accurate idea of what that is. And if you don't run your life through a calendar, A, you might end up wasting loads of time, but B, you might also end up trying to beat yourself up and infagillating yourself for not doing enough. When realistically you're doing so much, you just don't know it because you happen to not use a calendar. And that relates to rule number four, which is to schedule absolutely everything. We've talked about scheduling classes, scheduling sports nights, scheduling like social events, scheduling literally everything. Even travel time, I used to schedule in my calendar. When you schedule things, you can then start using these little pockets of time that you free up for doing something intentional, rather than something unintentional. Now again, generally, scrolling Instagram or TikTok is an unintentional way to spend your time. Broadly, most people I know don't scroll Instagram and they're like, you know what, this is something I really want to be doing. I'm fully being intentional and living my best life right now by scrolling Instagram. Instead, it's just one of those things that you end up doing, because you've got like 12 minutes. And you're like, well, you can't do any work in 12 minutes, so you might as well just scroll Instagram. That's not like intentional. And the thing that I always tried to tell myself when I was at university and even now is time is the only thing that we have. Time is the only resource that we have that we can't make more of. We can always make more money, but we can never make more time. And so why am I squandering my time on this earth? My precious time on this earth, doing something that I actually don't actually genuinely want to do. And so what I found is when I schedule everything using a calendar and I find these little blocks of time, I also try to not squander those minutes, because you know, 12 minutes here and there between classes or whatever, is actually a lot of time that could be spent reviewing flashcards or reviewing notes for the class or even just kind of deciding to take a walk around the block without like having anything in your airports or even something active like relaxation, rather than something totally passive and bad, like scrolling social media. In this video, I've sort of hated on social media a lot. Again, I'm not anti-social media, I have built a career off of social media, but I am in favor of us using our time in the most intentional way possible. So whatever you're doing, just make sure you're doing intentionally and you're not just falling into these bad habits, which is so easy to do when you've got a zillion other things going on, especially in your life as a student. Tip number three is to embrace welcome distractions. Now, this is why I would always prop my door open at university with a little door stop and why I think this little five dollar door stop is one of the best purchases I've ever made, because my door was always open, which meant people could always come in and have a chat. Now, this did mean that when I was studying and when I was trying to focus, I'd occasionally get interrupted by friends coming in to have a chat or coming in for a cup of tea, but those were welcome distractions, like I wanted my friends to interrupt me, because ultimately, I realised that the point of being a student isn't so much about the grades that you get or about the degree that you get at the end of it, although that is a part of it. But really, the point is, you know, the friends you make along the way and like the vibes and the connection and the network, like those are really nice moments that if I had shut my door and focused on work to be more efficient and more productive, I want to have had those moments and I never ever remember any amount of time I spent studying, but I do remember those moments. This whole productivity and time management stuff, I think, should not come at the expense of our friendships and relationships by the way, just a quick snippet from me from the future and you get a little sneak peek of on you set up. But if you're interested in getting more from your time as a student, you might like to check out a couple of my online classes over at Skillshare who are very kindly sponsoring this video. Now, I've been teaching on Skillshare since 2019. My most popular class is all about productivity strategies, which are great if you're a student, and my second most popular class is all about evidence-based study tips. This is me compiling absolutely everything I know, including a load of scientific evidence and stuff around what makes the most effective study and you can find all of that over for free on Skillshare by hitting the link in the video description. And if you're one of the first thousand people to hit that link in the video description, that will give you a totally free one month trial to Skillshare where you can check out these classes. So, there's the productivity one. There's the studying one. I also have a whole masterclass on how to use Anke, which is the world's best flashcard software. These classes between them have had literally thousands of five-star reviews from students all around the world, and they're completely free. Also on Skillshare, other than just my 12 or 13 classes, you can access thousands of other classes from all sorts of topics, including entrepreneurship, and personal finance, and video editing, and interior design, and cooking, and textiles, and manufacturing. Basically, anything you can imagine learning you can learn on Skillshare. So, if any of that sounds up your street and you want a way more detailed guide to how to manage your time, how to study efficiently, how to use flashcards properly as a student. Again, it's completely free. Check out the link in the video description, and thank you so much Skillshare for sponsoring this video. All right, we're nearly done. Tip number two is something that I used to do a lot, which is to use a downtime in the school holidays and university holidays to study. So, what I would do at university, our terms were quite short. There were only eight weeks long, and we had these enormous six week long holidays when I was in medical school. And so, during term time, I would tend to fall behind, because it was actually genuinely really hard keeping in top of lecture. They were always for the sleep, I never did enough work, et cetera, et cetera. But, and I kind of used term time as socializing time, because that's when all my friends were around, and so I'd always prioritise socializing over studying. But, then, in the holidays, where broadly I was bored, because all my other friends were at university, or they left too far away, or I didn't really have much to do, that would be when I would go to the local library, and I'd be using that time to catch up on the work that I missed during term time. And I'm really glad I followed this formula basically throughout the six years of medical school, because it meant that I were able to make the most of the university experience, doing the thing that you could only do when you're at university, Brody, which has spend loads of time with your friends, and just hang out and do cool stuff through clubs and societies, and I spent the otherwise fairly boring time where I was on my own, or with my brother during school holidays, I spent that time studying and catching up instead. And finally, tip number one, is that however you end up managing your time as a student, or as an artist student, you can choose to be satisfied with how you spend your time and how you spent your day. This is something I used to struggle with back in the day. I used to have a tendency to beat myself up when I felt like I wasn't productive enough that day, or I didn't get enough studying down, or I didn't get through the subjects that I had on my crappy revision time table. I used to beat myself up about that. And I realised, I fairly recently actually, that me choosing to beat myself up doesn't actually change how much work I've managed to do. It doesn't change anything about how effective my studying was. All it does is just make me feel bad for the rest of the evening, and make me struggle to sleep, because I'm like, oh my god, I'm somewhat stressed that I didn't get enough work done. And it doesn't even help me, it doesn't even galvanize my motivation to do more work than next day, because it's like every day as an individual day, and if I've done badly one day, I am not any more likely to do well than next day. And so the real hack here is, however, like, whatever you manage to do, however much studying you manage to do, however much socialising you manage to do, at the end of the day, you can simply choose to be satisfied with it. You don't have to think, like, oh, I'm a bad boy for not doing enough studying. Like, there's just like no need for that. It tends not to have any benefits, and the major drawback is that it just makes us hate our lives. So that's a little little final tip to take home with you, hopefully. If you go to this point in the video, thank you so much for watching, you might not check out this video over here, which is a video I made I think about four years ago, and as one of my most popular videos about studying, that is all about the power of active recall, which is the single most important study technique in the world. So check out that video over there if you want to study more effectively. Thank you so much for watching, and see you in the next video. Bye-bye.
