# Monthly Favourites #2 - Ali Abdaal
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bvTkOIkiYu0
This month's favourites include the soundtrack to "The Greatest Showman", "The Kingkiller Chronicles" by Patrick Rothfuss, a fun productivity hack that's increased my efficiency a lot, and "Crushing It" by Gary Vaynerchuk. Enjoy xx

TIMESTAMPS:

00:42 - My 4 favourite things for February 2018
01:39 - #1 Favourite soundtrack - The Greatest Showman
02:30 - Digression where I ask your views on branching out into music stuff on this channel
03:44 - #2 Favourite book series - The Kingkiller Chronicles
05:07 - #3 Productivity Trick - Increased computer operating efficiency
08:05 - #4 Favourite nonfiction book - Crushing It, Gary Vaynerchuk
09:13 - Quote + thoughts on being unafraid to make mistakes
12:37 - Quote + thoughts on the “document, don’t create” mindset for creators
16:51 - Closing comments

💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking 

📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

LINKS

1. The Greatest Showman

 - [The Greatest Showman (Original Motion Picture Soundtrack) by Various artists on Amazon Music - Amazon.co.uk](http://geni.us/89cOi)

Spotify Links:

* [A Million Dreams, a song by Ziv Zaifman, Hugh Jackman, Michelle Williams on Spotify](https://open.spotify.com/track/0RoA7ObU6phWpqhlC9zH4Z?si=rSv00shVQyWesnR9F0Sd8Q)
* [This Is Me, a song by Keala Settle, The Greatest Showman Ensemble on Spotify](https://open.spotify.com/track/45aBsnKRWUzhwbcqOJLwfe?si=U5fasl67Qpe2_S77YKYYzw)
* [Rewrite The Stars, a song by Zac Efron, Zendaya on Spotify](https://open.spotify.com/track/65fpYBrI8o2cfrwf2US4gq?si=0in6IdA0RM-ke2LXVmlNxQ)
* [From Now On, a song by Hugh Jackman, The Greatest Showman Ensemble on Spotify](https://open.spotify.com/track/3IkWmgGsXbsafrunwPojXO?si=M-eJx8kSRDSLAoPJGetGtg)

2. The Kingkiller Chronicles by Patrick Rothfuss

* Book 1 - The Name of the Wind - [The Name of the Wind: The Kingkiller Chronicle: Book 1 (Kingkiller Chonicles) eBook: Patrick Rothfuss: Amazon.co.uk: Kindle Store](http://geni.us/thenameofthewind)
* Book 2 - The Wise Man’s Fear - [The Wise Man’s Fear: The Kingkiller Chronicle: Book 2 (Kingkiller Chonicles) eBook: Patrick Rothfuss: Amazon.co.uk: Kindle Store](http://geni.us/thewisemansfear)
* Mistborn Book 1 - The Final Empire - [The Final Empire: Mistborn Book One eBook: Brandon Sanderson: Amazon.co.uk: Kindle Store](http://geni.us/fJ0S)

3. Productivity Hack involving Alfred / Keyboard navigation

* My blog post about this - [Saving time with Alfred](https://aliabdaal.com/2017/02/02/saving-time-with-alfred/)

4. Crushing It - Gary Vaynerchuk

* [Crushing It!: How Great Entrepreneurs Build Their Business and Influence—and How You Can, Too eBook: Gary Vaynerchuk: Amazon.co.uk: Kindle Store](http://geni.us/SNeia4)
* [Show Your Work!: 10 Ways to Share Your Creativity and Get Discovered eBook: Austin Kleon: Amazon.co.uk: Kindle Store](http://geni.us/RAkz8J5)

* Marcus’ online art/merch charity store - https://www.redbubble.com/people/mearecus/shop

🎬 My online course on video editing - https://skl.sh/32TpEvm
🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal

Who am I:

I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking 

📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal
**Keywords:** monthly favourites, monthly favorites, favorites, favourites, february favourites, february favorites, productivity, gary vaynerchuk, crushing it, kingkiller, greatest showman, cambridge medical student, cambridge medicine, medical student, 
**Date:** 2018-03-07

## Transcript
 Hey guys, welcome back to the channel. If you're new here, my name is Aliya. I'm a finally a medical student at Cambridge University and this is the second installment in the monthly favorite series where each month I talk about like books, articles, podcasts, interesting things I've discovered for that month that I want to share with you guys. The response to last month's favorite video was was was pretty great. People seem to actually like it and it's really nice for me to see that even when it's just me talking about random stuff that has nothing to do with medicine that people are still watching because I sometimes get a little bit worried that, you know, maybe if this content isn't specifically related to medicine, people won't care about it. But it's nice to know that that's not the case and that I can kind of branch out into other things that I'm interested in other than just focusing on medicine. I've seen more wearing scrubs. Anyway, yeah, today's video is about my monthly favorites from February 2018 and let's roll that into. Okay, so in this video I'm going to be talking about four things and they're going to be linked for your convenience in the description below along with timestamps. So if you don't want to watch the whole video, that's absolutely fine. You can just like forward to your appropriate section. Firstly, I'm going to be talking about my favorite new music thing, which is the soundtrack from the greatest Sherman and incredible film that I would highly recommend. Secondly, I'm going to be talking about a new fantasy series that I've started reading called The King Killer Chronicles and the first book The Name of the Wind is one that I read. It's really, really good. Thirdly, I'm going to be talking about a little productivity hack that I like using involving Google Drive, but it's kind of can generally be applied to life. So I think you might find that useful. And finally, I'm going to be talking about a book called Crushing It, which was just released by Gary Vaynerchuk. And there are a lot of interesting lessons for entrepreneurs, for creative people, for like YouTubers and stuff in that that I want to share with you guys. And I think those lessons can be applied to life generally as well. So yeah, everything in timestamps down below. And now let's talk about topic number one, which is my favorite new soundtrack. So yeah, if you haven't heard of the greatest Sherman, it's a film starring Hugh Jackman and Zach Efron. And it's basically about this guy called PT Bonham who I think created the original circuses that he brings in sort of people that were shunned by society, freaks, they were labeled and showcases their amazing talents. And the film kind of follows his story and how this circus kind of comes into being. But the soundtrack is absolutely amazing. There are a few songs that I really like on it that I highly recommend you listen to. I link them on my Spotify down below. So my favorite songs are Firstly. This is me, which is like the main song of the whole thing. I really like reading right the stars, which is like one of those classic love songs and it's really, really nice. And I really like the final song in the film, which is called From Now On. And that's kind of like the climax. Oh, also a million dreams. That's another absolute banger. So those four songs are the songs that I've been kind of listening to on repeat in the car at the gym wherever I go in my house. It's been really knowing the people I live with. And I've been trying to learn to play them on the piano and the guitar and stuff and singing along. And I might actually do a video at some point where I post a cover of those. If you'd like you'd like to see that. Or if you'd not like to see that, I'm not really sure what the deal is with posting covers of songs in YouTube. That was sort of the reason why I started YouTube in the first place in order to post covers of popular songs. And then it kind of morphed into this sort of helping people that enter medicine thing. But I still really like the whole singing music thing. And that's a big part of my life. So I'm kind of at the moment on sure I still whether it's you know, sensible to share it on the YouTube channel. I could make a second channel, but then it's always, it's hard enough maintaining one channel, maintaining two would be probably a bit too much, especially when I start work as a doctor. Yeah. So let me know in the comments of what you think about this whole. Basically what I'm asking is, would you still maybe watch the videos? If it's me and my friends, usually medic friends, actually, singing covers of popular songs. I'm concerned that people would then start unsubscribing because you know what they signed up for for was the medicine content and what they're, you know, sometimes getting is, you know, random covers of Justin Bieber's life. Never mind. Yeah, let me know in the comments below. Anyway, we're talking about the British women's soundtrack. It's really really good. But I'd recommend, links and Spotify. The film is really good as well. It wasn't that critically appraised. I think it only got like 6.9.9 dB. And that sort of makes sense. It is sort of predictable. And the plot line isn't great. And the characters aren't like amazing. But as far as like entertainment value goes, it was a really good film that I'd highly recommend if you haven't seen it. Okay. Number two, I want to talk about a new fantasy series that I discovered called The Kid Kid A Chronicle. So in the last video I talked about how I loved the Mistborn trilogy. The Kid Kid A Chronicles are significantly longer. It's, it's kind of hard to tell how long a book is because I really read them on Kindle. But I found that it was taking me a lot longer to get through the books. And I think that's a good thing because they're really good. And I actually started listening to the audiobook of the second one. I finished the first one in while on GP placement. That's called The Name of the Wind. And then I started the second one, but then decided to exclusively listen to it in Audio Performance. And the narration of this particular audio book that Kid Kid A Chronicles, it's done very well. The guide does very good voices as well. Like the second audio book lasts about like 40 hours or something. And I'm six hours into it. So like each time I go to the gym, I kind of look forward to going to the gym because it means I can listen to more of this audio book. And I've kind of convinced myself not to just blitz through it on Kindle, like reading it normally because it's like, I like having this this crunch that gets me to the gym because otherwise it's not an inherently pleasant experience going to the gym. But like once I'm there it's fine, but it's just a little sort of motivational technique that I found very good. Make myself only listen to this audio book while at the gym which encourages me to go to the gym more. But yeah, if you're a fan of fans, see you love this. Though if you're a fan of fans, you probably read it already because it's really famous. If you're not, or if you don't normally read them, yeah, maybe start with a misborn series because there's probably a bit more readable of it. So fast to paste. So yeah, King Killer Chronicles would recommend link in the description if you want to check that out. All right, coming in at number three for this month is a little productivity hack. The reason I put it in this month's video is because Google Drive are the the backup and storage app on Mac. Recently released an update where if you if you have files within Google Drive and you want to share them with someone, you can right click them from within finder room, which is the Mac equivalent to Windows Explorer. It's now very easy to share files with people that I've got on my Google Drive. And I'm mentioning this because this is part of a wider productivity hack that I use that I think is one of the reasons why people think that I can do a lot of things in a small amount of time. Because most of the things we'll be using in computer and the little hack is that I really do everything I can to to minimize the time between me thinking that I want to do something on the computer and that thing being done. So I'm actually written on article about this on my personal blog, I'll be able to come. Yeah, I know it's narcissistic as hell isn't it, having your own personal website. But I'll link that down below so you can read more about it if you if you're into this sort of thing. It involves using something called Alfred or the equivalent of spotlight and there are equivalents on Windows as well. The idea being that you minimize how much you use the mouse or the trackpad and you maximize the amount that you use the keyboard. So if you want to open up Microsoft Word, you do you hit command space bar and you type in word and it opens up or if you want to search something on Google, you hit command space bar and just type whatever you want. Or if you want to open a file here, hit command space bar, hit next space and then type in the name of the file. And so previously let's say I wanted to open a file deep within my Google Drive code, click on Google Drive, I'd go in 6th year, I'd go on projects, I'd go on roll of college of obstetrics and god of colleges, post number one, I'd click on the PowerPoint and double click it, I'd open it, that would take about 10 to 15 seconds to do. Whereas with using Alfred or using kind of a keyboard search function, I can just hit command space bar type in poster and it would know that the latest poster opened was the PowerPoint file hit enter and within about two seconds I've opened up the file that I want. Therefore I've saved 13 seconds in between thinking of this action that I want to open this PowerPoint file and the action happening, I eat the PowerPoint file opening. This doesn't seem like much, but this really, really adds up over time. And I've noticed that when I'm watching a little of my friends who aren't as into computers, I aren't as nerdy as I am using a computer, I marvel at how slow they're getting through everything because they're sort of insisting on clicking on over Chrome or clicking on a file or start menu, files, desktop, whatever, and navigating. And it could save so much time if they embrace this whole keyboard thing. And this keyboard thing I picked it up from a program that I follow, it took me a few months to actually actually get on this like in every video I can mention that guys, if you're not using this, you should be using this because this will save you a lot of time. And then once I finally switch to using the keyboard shortcuts, these keyboard keyboard navigation rather than mouse navigation, it really increased my productivity when I'm on a computer and to be honest, that's most of what we do in life these days, most of what we do, whether it's university work or school work or anything in all of the using computer. So if we can maximize our productivity on that, we are increasing our efficiency overall and then we can either get more done in a given amount of time. Or we can get it on quicker and then do more interesting things with our time that don't involve sitting on a computer, however it may be. But yeah, that's one of my biggest productivity tricks. That's a bit rogue, it's point number three of this month's favorites. And the final thing I wanted to talk to you about is a book called Crushing It by Gary Vaynerchuk and a Gary Vaynerchuk or Gary V for short is quite famous on on the internet. He's the CEO of a company, a social media company called VaynerMedia. He wrote a book in 2009 and that's all about the importance of setting up a personal brand, which is sort of what I'm trying to do with this YouTube channel. A personal brand is kind of where you become known as an individual, as an expert in whatever field you happen to be. And then you kind of build this brand up over time by providing people with really good useful content and then people know you as an expert and then if further down the line you, for example, want to write a book and sell it, you've got this audience of people that already know you've got really good work and therefore be happy to pay seven pounds for a book that you've written. In this book, Crushing It, there are loads of stories from people who you quit their jobs or don't quit their jobs or basically people who who started their own little side projects and turned them into businesses by using the power of the personal brand. It's really interesting, really if you're into this sort of entrepreneurial ship stuff, I highly recommend it. There are a few quotes that I want to share. I highlight to them when I'm reading it on Kindle and then I can quite easily export those horrors to a text document which is really useful. So I'm going to read you about some quotes and kind of share my thoughts about those. There are two in particular that I want to share it. The first one relates to effectively not being afraid to make mistakes and the quote goes as follows. Being unafraid of making mistakes makes everything easy for me. He's quoting someone who's stories and doesn't make. Being unafraid of making mistakes makes everything easy for me. Not worrying about what people think frees you up to do things and doing things allows you to win or learn through your loss. Which means you win either way. Here we now. You are better off being wrong 10 times and being right 3 times than you are. If you try only 3 times and always get it right. Obviously this is not groundbreaking advice and in fact in any of these self-help, or that that's a almost productive term. In any of these self-help books you don't really get any groundbreaking advice but it's just really useful to see things that we all kind of know to be true and find stories of people applying them and that's what he's done in this book crushing it. So like we all know that it's okay, it's okay to fail and that making mistakes is kind of a good thing because you learn from those mistakes. I think the more we internalize this, the more success we can have in life and I've really noticed this within medicine. Often when we're in lectures or in classes or whatever and an lecturer or a doctor asks a question, there are always very few people that are up for putting their hands up and having a go and I'm spoken to quite a little of my friends about this who used to be in this position where they weren't really want to speak up even though they probably knew the answer or even if they didn't know the answer they could take a guess. They wouldn't speak up and what this sometimes said was there they're afraid of getting it wrong. They don't want to look an idiot in front of their peers. They don't want the doctor to think that they're an idiot but all of this kind of stuff. And what I've read about quite a lot in in a lot of other books this day, it's really important to have this growth mindset where so it's like the difference between the growth mindset and the fixed mindset. The fixed mindset says I have this set of skills and if you know if I get something wrong then you kind of treat it as a personal failure on your part and it affects yourself as a team and all that whereas growth mindset is more on the lines of I know that if I get it wrong it's all part of the process of improvement, everything goes together, everything can be learned and if you know if I don't have a go and then I'm not going to improve and that's the growth mindset version of it and obviously you know even from the way I phrased it and quite intuitively the growth mindset is probably objectively better than having a fixed mindset because it means you're more open to learning it means you're in a way less arrogant about your own abilities and you're also more sheltered from from your own personal self-esteem being hit by particular failures but yeah this point about not being afraid to make mistakes was really good one and in the context of this guy setting up his personal brand it really made me think about why I started this kind of talking to the camera this YouTube thing because kind of with YouTube I started this in my very first blog where I decided I was going to start blogging you really have to not really care what people think because you're saying they're talking to a camera or running around or having a really important public but that we can mass of camera and a massive microphone and that was one thing that I really struggled with initially that what am I friends going to think what are people in my year going to think I'm a narcissistic prick for you know having the audacity to sell a YouTube channel but now that I've done it I'm really glad to have done it and even if this channel doesn't get any bigger even if this is the best it's going to get then I've still had at least 50 messages from various students saying thank you I really liked your videos really happy with my interviews and that wouldn't have happened if I hadn't been kind of afraid to make the mistakes and afraid to you know if I'd been afraid to kind of just put myself out there and try and share what I know of the world as corny as that sounds but yeah that's my little motivational quip of the day and number one so that was something that I picked up in this book and kind of reinforced it for me and secondly I want to talk about another concept and that's the concept of document don't create Gary Vee mentions in the book that a lot of times when for the let's take you to for example you're making a vlog or making some kind of video and and you feel the pressure to create something good and a lot of times people including me I've had this a lot I think that is a series number of gold or I can't I can't film the video because I'd not good enough to to make this particular thing and you we put this whole pressure on creating creating content creating a video creating a story and it makes it a lot harder to actually get stuff done whereas what Gary Vee says in the book and and this was sort of groundbreaking for me because I I'd not come across this concept before is that instead of creating think of it as just documenting like you're just documenting your life or you're documenting the things that you currently know or you're documenting your process of learning something so for example if I'm doing a vlog about a day in the life on GP placement which is coming up soon um I would think of it as I'm just documenting I'm not creating content I'm not trying to create an interesting story all in doing is documenting and this this kind of mindset of documentation only just really takes the pressure off it it makes it a lot easier to create create content taking the document don't create approach means you're conceivably going to pour a shitload of boring content into the my asthma of boring content already giving on YouTube now that was quite a nice purpose like that's something that I'm sure all YouTube struggle with they all worry and I definitely do it every single time this is this video to boring is just gonna add to the amount of boring content on YouTube and he goes on to say that actually if it does that's absolutely fine because if you realise you don't have an audience and you realise that the market is not there or it's not working then at least you've tried it and now you know that you're probably not suited for video in at this moment in but if you try it and it goes well then he tells loads of stories with people who've done the same and they've built their personal brands and it's going to be well for them and if they've been able to quit their boring corporate jobs and do something they love like medicine or YouTube or whatever so this document don't create thing was quite new for me and that was something that I wanted to share with you guys I suppose it's not really relevant to most people but actually I don't know I think if you're any if you do any sort of creative work then it's good to share your work with with the world I've got quite a few friends who are really into art and who are really good artists but very few of them actually pose to stuff online because they always say oh I'm not good enough all I'm doing is copying this other artist just that and the other and then I've got this other friend Markus who did a lot because just as good as it is all the others it's not any better really it's pretty solid and he posts it on his website with that creates like merchandise t-shirts, mugs and stuff and all the money he makes from the sales of those he donated to charity and that's that's a really good thing that he does he puts his content online he shares his work with the world even though he still thinks inside that world it's not very good it might be a bit crap it's not it's really good and I'll link it down below you can check out Markus's merch but he shares it with the world and this sharing thing is is generally really really good to do there's another really good book that I'd recommend if you're into this sort of thing called to show your work it's a bio guy called Austin Cleon and that he makes the point that you know document this process of learning like let's say you're you're you're learning to become an artist or you're learning to program or you know just put put your stuff online if you're learning to be a writer put your work online and you know just to have have this thing have this kind of backlog of content that you've designed over time and what Gary V says in this book crushing it is that the whole point of having this sort of backlog of content isn't that it's useful in this very moment but it will be useful five ten years from now even when you do make it big and people see that oh wow this person's been writing about this topic for the last ten years well that's really awesome even if no one reads your content in the present moment even if no one's watching these videos right now it's it's fine because the this is this is fun to do it's a long term thing and all I'm doing is is documenting the process of learning and I want to be documenting my journey as a junior doctor, documenting my journey as a medical student but yeah I've rambled on quite a bit crushing it by Gary Vaynerchart and I'm describing to his channel he's got a good podcast as well written some interesting books the vast majority of his content is completely free of charge his books are almost free because they're like books and you can get it from a library and in fact he makes the point that he doesn't really care if you buy his book or not find it a library find a part of torrent PDF of it if you like all he cares about is sharing the content because he's focused on this long game of building this personal brand and helping people out and I find that quite an inspirational thing someone asked the other day who my inspirations are and I think Gary V is definitely one of them in terms of this whole share useful content with the world and and and and at some point down the line maybe you can you can sell a book to them or something you know for all it matters yeah so that's the fourth thing that I want to talk about and that is crushing it by Gary Vaynerchart so yeah that brings me to the end of the video monthly favorites from February 2018 if you watched this far thank you so much you're amazing thank you very much for watching if you liked the video please give it a thumbs up and all that just to summarize we talked about number one what do we talk about we talked about number one the greatest showman we talked about number two the king killer chronic holes number three this productivity hack of increasing efficiency on the computer and number four crushing in by Gary Vaynerchart and his associated content everything is going to be linked down below if you haven't seen some of them and you might like to times times below all of that stuff but yeah thank you so much for watching if you like the video please give it a thumbs up if you haven't subscribed yet please consider doing so if you have any question that or if you have anything interesting to or even not interesting if you have anything to add at all please leave a comment down below and I promise I'll get back to you because I literally read everything and reply to everything because there's also some of the people are commenting on these videos but yeah thanks very much I'll see you in the next video bye bye
