# Is Learning to Rap Useful?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CFN1uO1g3ls
🚀Join Cohort 4 of the Part-Time YouTuber Academy!

It's my flagship live YouTube course where I teach people to do YouTube as a side hustle. If you want to learn how to grow your YouTube channel without quitting your day job or sacrificing your current projects, it's one of the best places to start this journey.

More than 350 people are already signed up, and we're stoked to get started. We're closing the enrolment this Wednesday the 20th so, if you decide you do want to join me and other creators and spend the next 6 weeks learning ins and outs of YouTube, click the link below. 👇
https://academy.aliabdaal.com

🚀 Join my live online course, the Part-Time YouTuber Academy, running 7th June to 14th July 2021. If you want to learn how to kickstart & grow your channel without quitting your job, check out https://academy.aliabdaal.com 😃
During my second 30 day challenge, I tried to learn how to freestyle rap. It was an interesting journey but one that was really enjoyable and I did make some progress but I don't think the pros have anything to worry about just yet. 

Check out my 8 classes on Skillshare with a free trial of Premium: https://skl.sh/aliabdaal03211

Ultraspeaking Website - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ultraspeakingfundamentals
Ultraspeaking YouTube - https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC-3z6ND-NCn0r56e69cox1g
Michael's Twitter - https://twitter.com/MichaelGendler
Tristan's Twitter - https://twitter.com/Montebello

Harry Mack - https://www.youtube.com/user/hmckenzie217
Chris Turner - https://www.youtube.com/user/ChrisPJTurner

Flowfam - https://www.flowfam.com/

Timestamps
00:00 Introduction
00:30 Day 1
01:15 Week 1 Check-In
02:50 Why am I doing this?
04:00 Getting into 'flow'
05:55 Day 15
06:20 What my flatmate thought of the challenge
07:20 Lessons Learnt
11:10 Day 30
13:18 Final Thoughts

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

PART-TIME YOUTUBER ACADEMY:
🍿 My 6-week live online course - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ptya_aliabdaal

MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
✍️ The best summaries of books (Shortform) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
📚  How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
Deep Dive Podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/
The podcast that delves into the minds of entrepreneurs, creators and other inspiring people to uncover the philosophies, strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. You can find it by searching “Deep Dive with Ali Abdaal” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc).
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali
What I Use For Analytics - https://go.aliabdaal.com/tubebuddy

🎙 My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮  Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, 30 day challenge, 30 days, freestyle rap, how to freestyle rap, singing, rapping, harry mack, chris turner, I tried to learn, freestyle, learning, lifelong learning, meaningful productivity, music, rap music, Jay-Z, 50 Cent, Logic, ali abdaal rapping, ali abdaal singing, ali abdaal music, I tried to learn to freestyle rap, freestyle rap music, learning to sing, learning to rap, how to learn to rap, how to learn to freestyle rap, 
**Date:** 2021-03-17

## Transcript
 So, I recently decided that I wanted to learn how to free-scale rap. It's not something I've ever thought of doing before. As a doctor and productivity nerd, I always wanted to be the next Ed Sheeran, not the next 50 cents, Jay Z or Logic Pro. But a couple of months ago, I discovered some videos by Chris Turner and Harry Mac, and I realized that free-style rap is the coolest thing ever if you can do it properly. Alright, that's seen up in your background, you'll be groovy on your snowboard! And so, because we're all fans of lifelong learning, my free-style rap journey had begun. Alright, so, it's day one, and I'm just about to have my very first coaching session with my friend Michael. I have no idea how it's going to go, let's just see what happens. Michael is one of the founders of ultra-speaking, and he's been doing freestyle rap for about eight years. It just got slower than it's ever been, I'm not a veteran. In our first session though, it was quite clear that I had a lot to learn. I'm going to say hello, you've got to reach into the zone, you've got to hit that flow, you've got to spit those bars like you're spitting fire. I don't know what even rhymes with fire, I've got my posted note, I'm going to take my notes about the free-style rap that I'm going to go, I'm going to make a video on YouTube doing. During the first week, I tried to practice for 10 minutes each day in the shower, but I've constantly feel super self-conscious, even though the only person who could hear me was my housemate. And so, the first week was really hard, and I went back to Michael a little bit frustrated and wondering how I could improve. When I listened to like, people doing it on YouTube. It's like the gap between me and them, it's like so huge, but it feels completely dismantled. There is a component of this that you're not going to be able to shortcut in 30 days, because of just the true experience you get from rhymes, from rhyming the same words over and over again. Rhyme works simply by taking the word and really dissecting it into just the root sounds. Okay, so what are the root sounds of Pepsi and E? Yeah, E. What we want to start practicing, one of the ways we want to start practicing, is to flood our brain with Rhyme, essentially forcing it to make the sounds on the spot. And whether or not it's a real word or it makes sense, you literally run through that program. So, let's practice Fortnite. Fortnite, it's not that bad. Oh, Mike. Yeah. But I'm on a boat right, because I'm playing Fortnite, and it's a port fight, and it's a, good, that I've got. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. So, the only difference between you and me right now, right, is self-consciousness. Right, so it's day 12 of the journey, and I can feel like things are kind of becoming easier, but I know that I've still got tons of times of practice to do if I want to get actually get good at it. Now tomorrow, I've got a session with a channel called Gavin from a flow fan, which is apparently like this training community type thing where they help you get into flow when it comes to rapping. So, we'll see how that goes. Before we go on, I just want to address why I'm doing this freestyle rap thing. And the main part of the reason is just because I think it's cool. Like, I'm generally a fan of learning cool stuff. And even if what I'm doing doesn't actually have any real long-term benefit, like, I'm never going to become a freestyle rap or I'm never going to make money of it. It doesn't matter because I think it's cool, and it's fun. And that's the mental model that I use to decide whether I'm going to do something. Does this seem like it would be fun? Does it seem like it would be an interesting journey to go on? So, that's the most important part, but freestyle rap is actually useful in other ways as well. A study published in 2012 found that when people perform freestyle rap, their brain activity increases in the areas responsible for motivation, action, language, emotion, and motor skills, while we get reduced activity in the brain region's responsible for regulating supervision and monitoring, which normally limits our spontaneous creativity. One potential theory around this is that when we're freestyle rapping or in my case attempting to freestyle rap, it forces our brains to try and find these unique words and rhymes and combinations, and that kind of forces us to be more creative with our language. And when all these factors are interacting, and the stars are aligned, freestyle rappers get into the flow state, and that was what I was trying to work on with Gavin. He began by explaining what he thinks is key to the freestyle rap process, which is something he calls the flow cycle. So, flow state actually has a cycle, there's four different stages. It's called surfer, SRFR, ride the wave of a flow. The first principle is called flow is just around the corner. It just means put one step in front of the other. If you stumble, it's okay because that's actually the first part of the flow cycle, which is the S, which is struggle. A challenge should actually be a little harder, but basically it should be a little harder than your skill challenge so you exert a little effort into it. And then basically becomes this positive feedback loop where you start to get the hang of it, and that triggers the second phase, which is the R, release, where your person pathetic nervous system is engaged, your heart rate slows down, and you relax. And when you relax, you start to judge yourself less. When you get into that place, it triggers the next one, which is flow state. They call it transient haplophantality, right? So, this is where the parts of your prefrontal cortex that's responsible for decision-making, planning ahead, planning your 2021 goals, that actually shuts off. And that's a really important part of your brain, and it's also the mechanism where the inner critic comes. It's like all what we think are, what if I fail, what if I don't do good at this? And it keeps us in our head, so that's going to be the goal is for you to access flow state today using the emotive power music. We then began doing some scouting exercises to help unlock flow, where the aim isn't to make any sense at all, but just to lean into the discomfort and get over that inner feeling of cringy self-consciousness, and just basically make random noises about it. Even though it sounds strange, doing these exercises actually helped me lean into that discomfort a bit more, and it helped me find that flow far more quickly as we move towards the halfway point of the challenge. So, you're about halfway through your journey now, what's working, what isn't? I'm wondering if it's just starting to realize sort of words and phrases that I can lean on if I need to, like driving with my homies and chilling downtown. Most rappers use their names, so Harry Mac, he'll always hear him saying we need to, yeah, Michael and I continued our session afterwards, just like last month, I thought I'd asked my housemate Sheen what she thought of my challenge, and whether she'd noticed the benefits that I talked about, and whether she thought I had a potential career as a world famous rapper. Career is a strong word. I can't wait for it to stop. Do you know if it's going to stop after the 30 days thing is done? I don't know how to put it into words, it just, it makes me cringe, for him, because he doesn't cringe at it enough to make him stop. He just doesn't have the street cred, I think, to do it. What would it take for him to get the street cred to do? Another lifetime. For the next 15 days I carried on practicing wherever I could, at my desk on the sofa, in the kitchen, in my Tesla, in the shower, on the podcast with my brother, I managed to sneak in a few more sessions with Michael, and then after a little while, things started to feel a little bit like they were clicking, and I was finding it a little bit easier to get into that flow state. So before we get into the final day, I want to share a few lessons that I've learned over the last 30 days of trying to do this freestyle rap thing. Less than number one, and the most important is always stay in the zone, like always stay in character, keep the flow going, and this is really hard. If you're trying to do a little bit of freestyle rap, and then you're like, oh crap, I can't think of anything to say, and then you just have to kind of just keep on going, because that's kind of the game, and the more you keep on going, the more the stuff starts going down, and trying to train ourselves out of monitoring the things that we're thinking, and cringing at them, and then being like, oh my god, I can't, and I'm getting embarrassed, and I'm going to stop. And for the first few days where I was doing this, I just like really, really struggled to break through this, like, oh, I know what I'm saying doesn't make sense. I know this is absolutely terrible, but I've just got to keep on going anyway, because that's just how it works. Secondly, I've learned that our brain has a surprisingly good auto-complete function, and that we should trust it. I often when I was doing the freestyle rap in the shower or in my car, and I leaned into that thing of embracing the discomfort of being absolutely terrible at it, and embracing the side of just keep going, I found that occasionally I was coming up with some pretty good stuff, and I would just kind of start a sentence, and then my brain would randomly finish it off with something that sounded kind of cool and sounded like it was rhyming with the thing that came previously. And I just think, damn, that's pretty solid. I don't know how I came up with that. And I think this is interesting, because at least for me, like when I'm in social situations, I always kind of monitor what I'm saying, and especially if it's like a social situation in which I'm not particularly comfortable, like if I'm talking to a pretty golf, for example, I'm always kind of like running this thing in my head of like, oh I don't want to say anything that might be misconstrued as being like bad or like creepy or like cringe or like a fence ever like, you know, what if they think that I'm an idiot because I say this thing, and I've got this constant like thing running through my head, but what I found is that like if I just take a step back and don't think about it too hard, then then things just work out, like when I'm with my friends, when I'm with my housemate, when I'm when I'm with people I'm comfortable around, I'm not worried about what I'm saying. Through learning freestyle rap, I've realized that I need to try and get into this state more often, where I'm just kind of having a very nonjudgmental approach and trusting my brains or to complete function, to say something reasonable, whether or not it's the right thing. Rule number three is that you have to break through the cringe response. I think I'm pretty good at being okay with this, like, you know, making a video like this, where people in the comments are going to be like, oh my god, Ali, you know, stop doing freestyle rap, stick to making freaking videos on YouTube. That's fine, like it takes a certain level of like not giving a shit to be able to get through that cringe response. You know, the judgment from others, but also the more importantly, the judgment from ourselves that, ah, this, I suck at this thing, I just have to keep on going. I think this is a transferable skill to other aspects of life. Like, if you can get over the fear of being cringy, it just unlocks a very interesting aspect of the human experience where you're over more okay with taking risks and doing stuff that feels fun to you that might look weird to others and embracing your personal weirdness, because really it's the personal weirdness and the authenticity that helps us connect with other people. Rule number four, freestyle rap can absolutely be learned. You know, when I started this journey looking at Chris Turner and Harry Mackie, like, he's got a freaking amazing. I had zero idea, like, it seemed like such a black box. How do I go from here? Like, zero experience with rapping, like, I don't even listen to rap, don't even know what rap is. Zero experience. How do I get anywhere close to where these guys are? And I'm still, obviously, no when you're at no near that point. But by spending a little bit of time working on it, I feel like I've cracked the black box. And now it's like, oh, okay, I see the road to get to where they are. I see the practice it takes and I see the methods along the way. And it's not like such an unknown kind of thing. And so what I'd encourage you to do is if you're thinking of learning something and you it feels like a black box to you. Don't be afraid of the black box. It's crack it open and you'll find that there are probably some very well-trodden parts hiding within the box. My final session was with both Michael and Tristan from UltraSpeaking during a YouTube live stream. We're playing a game called a blind slideshow where random images come up and we have to try and wrap about those as prompts. Here was one of my attempts from the session. So this is a wrap about my favorite childhood memory. It's one of those things that I just can't even see. I'm in this tiny store and I'm wearing my mask and I don't know why it's real mask in the sunlight with my black car and my master and my mom and she's in the driver's seat. And I'm sitting in the car and the windows are down and the blowing in my air. And now cleaning up my see what you're doing. You see the smoke go wild. You see the wind in your face and you go back and back it and you're going down the home and see the packet of the thing in the side and the better, better, better, something, better, god of just keep blowing, got to keep going on, got to do my breathtaking tea, chillin up the wall with my homies, downtown. And my memory that's what I'm supposed to be talking about. But I just don't know what I'm even talking about. I just know that I've got to stay in the flow. I feel like a lot of times my memory these days is sitting on my desk with my lights in my face and the camera in my own here and I just go on and on and I speak to the camera. I do these like screams and I look outside and I notice the sunset, the clouds in the sky, the air and the wind as they just go by. But really I'm just sitting here in front of the PC. It's not a PC. It's my mask and you know that I don't believe in windows because you just outside. There's a window in the background with my orange bag and I've got my childhood memory and I've got my swag and it says, Ronit, it's set apple. This is a freestyle wrap and then my work was my 30 days of trying to learn how to freestyle wrap. Obviously, still not very good but it's a work in progress. If you guys are interested in lifelong learning the way I am, you might like to check out Skillshare who are very kindly sponsoring this video. I've got a ton of online classes in Skillshare. I've got two themed around productivity, two around how to study for exams. One about the lessons that I've taken from stoicism to make myself happier and one on how to video edit using Final Cut Pro if you want to create videos exactly like this one. If you're one of the first thousand people to hit the link in the video description then you will get a free trial to Skillshare and during that trial you can check out all of my classes along with the thousands of other online classes that they've got on Skillshare and those range from all sorts of topics from graphic design and illustration to business and productivity and cooking and interior design and basically anything you want to learn you can learn on Skillshare also there's like 10 plus hours of my own stuff on Skillshare that you should definitely check out. So if that sounds good then hit the link in the video description, get your free trial to Skillshare, check out my stuff, check out the other stuff. It's great for lifelong learning. If you like this video you might like to check out this playlist of here which has some of my other learning themed 30-day challenges. Thank you so much for watching and I'll see you in the next video.
