# Monthly Favourites #5 - Ali Abdaal
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cgmcC0UDlR4
In today's Monthly Favourites video, we're talking about my favourite podcast episode of all time, a really useful food website setup by a friend of mine, the Disney Pixar animated film "Coco", and the blog of entrepreneur and author Seth Godin. Enjoy xx

💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking 

📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

📝My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://paperlike.com/ali
🎶 Where I get my music from (amazing for YouTubers) - http://share.epidemicsound.com/ali

TIMESTAMPS:

00:35 - Favourite podcast episode of all time - Interview with Joe Gebbia on the Tim Ferriss Show
02:09 - EATasty.org - an ethical eating website setup by a medic friend of mine
03:31 - “Coco” - Disney Pixar animated film. Really heartwarming, made me cry.
04:22 - Seth Godin’s blog and podcast - Incredible source of ideas for entrepreneurship 

LINKS:

1. My favourite podcast episode of all time - Joe Gebbia interview with Tim Ferriss - https://tim.blog/2018/03/08/joe-gebbia-co-founder-of-airbnb/
2. The Four Hour Workweek - [The 4-Hour Work Week: Escape the 9-5, Live Anywhere and Join the New Rich (Vermilion) eBook: Timothy Ferriss: Amazon.co.uk: Kindle Store](http://geni.us/4hwwali)
3. EATasty.org 
4. [Coco Official US Teaser Trailer - YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zNCz4mQzfEI)
5. [Seth’s Blog](https://seths.blog)
6. [Seth Godin’s Startup School by Earwolf on Apple Podcasts](https://itunes.apple.com/gb/podcast/seth-godins-startup-school/id566985370?mt=2)

🎬 My online course on video editing - https://skl.sh/32TpEvm
🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal

Who am I:

I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com
**Keywords:** ali abdaal, tim ferriss, joe gebbia, seth godin, coco, vegan, monthly favourites, monthly favorites, cambridge uni, university of cambridge, cambridge medical student, cambridge university, medical student, medical student vlog, medicine vlog, cambridge medicine vlog, cambridge medical student vlog, med student, 
**Date:** 2018-06-17

## Transcript
 Hey guys, welcome back to the channel. If you're new here, my name is Ali. I'm a final e-medical student at Cambridge University. Today, we're talking about four interesting things that I discovered in May 2018, so that's going to be a podcast, a blog, a film, and a website. So let's roll that intro. Okay, so the outbound of the video is going to appear on screen and then you'll find timestamps to all of the stuff we're going to talk about in the description below. So if you don't want to watch the whole video, you don't have to, you can just skip to the thing that interests you the most. But now let's just jump into it and I'm going to talk about what's probably the best podcast episode I've ever listened to in my life. So I often get messages from people on Instagram asking what my podcast recommendations are and always the top of the list is the Tim Ferriss show. Tim Ferriss is an entrepreneur and author and investor. He's he's done a lot of things, but he's probably most famous for writing a book called The Four Hour Workweek, which was released about 10 years ago and is one of my favorite books of all time and has really changed my attitudes towards productivity and entrepreneurship and all that stuff. And he's got a podcast called The Tim Ferriss Show where every week he interviews for like two, three, four hours like really long form. He just has a conversation with various world class performers in various fields. So it might be, you know, athletes or billionaires or entrepreneurs or chess players or magicians. And the point of it is that he's trying to tease out actionable advice like, you know, favorite books, morning routines, habits. If you haven't come across the Tim Ferriss show, I highly recommend you check it out. You can download it on all sort of podcast players. There was one episode in particular that I listened to a couple weeks ago and that was an interview with Joe Gebio, who is one of the co-founders of Airbnb. But in this interview with Tim Ferriss, they kind of focus on his life before Airbnb. And one thing that really stood up to me from this interview was that I imagine the situation for a lot of us. When we imagined something like something big like Airbnb, we assumed that like, I don't know the the people who made it just got, it just got really lucky. They stumbled across an incredible idea and executed it well and then you've got the thing. But actually in this interview, it made me realize that actually this guy has been designing products like his whole life. He's a really, really great storyteller and I really appreciated the hustle that went into everything that he's done. I can't really do it much justice in this video, but genuinely, it's probably the single best podcast episode I've ever listened to in my life and I listened to podcasts like, you know, 10 of them every week. So like, this is, this is a proper legit, a link at below. You can check it out if you like. So yeah, that's Tim Ferriss's interview with Joe Gebio on the Tim Ferriss show. Secondly, I want to talk about a website called EATasty, a link at below, which was actually set up by one of my friends from university, her name is Visea. The idea behind this website is that it gives simple recipes like food recipes for anyone who wants to start eating more ethically. I'm going to be honest, like, for me personally, I don't really care at the moment about kind of eating ethically. I care more about eating healthily and I've come across some evidence that suggests plant-based, maybe vegan, maybe vegetarian diets are more healthy in the long run than meat-based diets that I've been quite a meat-eater for the past 24 years of my life. So Lucy has sent me some links to her website, EATasty and they're actually a really good, like, single-page document that I've been referring to a lot and it basically, like, gives you a formula like herbs and spices, flavors, vegetables, sauce, protein, toppings and what you can serve stuff with. And because I don't really know anything about cooking at all, but I quite like systems and formulas for various stuff. I found that really helpful because it made me understand that, okay, right, I can combine these spices with that and then I can add a few of these vegetables and I can mix and match with that protein and then serve it with a bit of rice and you get a decent meal. So I've been experimenting with these, I've made like chickpea curries and lentils with vegetables and all that stuff over the past few weeks. So yeah, if you're in the position where you're not really, I'm sure how to do this cooking thing or not really sure what to buy when you go into the grocery store and stuff. I link the website below you can have a look at some of the recipes and there's a few other links to resources that you might find helpful in that regard. So yeah, that's my friend Lucy. As a website, EATasty.org, you can check it out, there'll be a link in the description below. Thirdly, I want to talk about a film called Coco, which is a Disney Pixar animated film that I watched a few weeks ago with my friends. And it follows the story of this boy from Mexico, who's like super into playing the guitar and singing songs and stuff. But his family don't really like the idea of him playing the guitar because of some issues that happened with that granddad. And it kind of has this theme of music, guitar, and kind of ties it in with family and ancestors. And you know, what it means to kind of be part of a big family. And it was like, I don't really want to give much to the plot way. It's a really, really, really heartwarming film. I think we were all kind of interiors by the end of it. Like, happy tears because they were just so nice. And it's personally inspired me to kind of get better at the guitar because now I realize that, absolutely sick. And also the whole family thing is like, it makes me feel warm and fuzzy inside. And yeah, just like, you know, I link the trailer below. But I highly recommend checking out the film Coco. If you haven't seen it, it's really, really good. And finally, I want to talk about a blog that I came across. And that's the blog of Seth Gauden. Seth Gauden is an entrepreneur. He's written like a ton of books over time about entrepreneurship and marketing and setting up your own businesses and all of that stuff. And quite a few guests on Tim Ferriss show are like loads of loads of people kind of running big companies and running startups that I've heard interviews with. They all recommend his stuff. And I never really before checked it out. But I listened to one of his podcasts called Startup School. And that was really good. And I've been listening to it for the past few weeks. And that's taught me a lot more about entrepreneurship about what it means to set up a business. And because I have my own business, I find that it like, I'm getting gaining a lot of lessons. And I kind of wish I'd stumbled across Seth Gauden earlier. It would have helped me avoid a lot of the mistakes I've made in running my own business. But he has a blog. And his blog has been running for like 10 plus years now. I can't remember how long it's been going on for. But every single day he writes like two or three paragraphs post on his blog. So I've signed up to the mailing list. I had a highly recommendy signed up to the mailing list if you're into that sort of stuff. And I'll put a link below to his top 100 posts. So they're usually quite short just a few paragraphs long, but they kind of really get to the core of some kind of some interesting topic or another. And he's very good at cutting out all the fluff and just getting straight to the point. And I am trying to get inspiration from Seth Gauden from reading a stuff for my own mailing list. Quick plug, you can sign up for my weekly email. I send an email every Sunday where I talk about stuff. No one here is going to Seth Gauden's, but you know what? We're going to get there eventually I hope. And yeah, I'd highly recommend checking out Seth Gauden's blogs. So that brings us to the end of this video. Thank you very much for watching. I hope you enjoyed it. If you liked the video, please give it a thumbs up. If you haven't subscribed to the channel, please consider doing so. Have a lovely day. I'll see you in the next video. Bye.
