# My Annual Review using Notion
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ck5JOj4TlM4
👉🏻 Sign up to Notion for free - https://bit.ly/alinewyear

🤜🏼 Download my Annual Review Notion template - https://www.notion.so/notion/Ali-s-annual-review-template-cc7ad286375a4749b22439d3ae2186f1

💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.notoverthinking.com 

📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

My 2019 Life Lessons
1. Daily Highlight - http://email.aliabdaal.com/issues/a-productivity-hack-that-actually-works-208460
2. If this isn't nice I don't know what is - http://email.aliabdaal.com/issues/if-this-isn-t-nice-i-don-t-know-what-is-211008
3. Window openers vs door knockers - http://email.aliabdaal.com/issues/window-openers-vs-door-knockers-202120
4. Obvious to you, amazing to others - http://email.aliabdaal.com/issues/obvious-to-you-amazing-to-others-198524
5. The flywheel concept - http://email.aliabdaal.com/issues/the-concept-of-a-flywheel-197365
6. Master boring fundamentals - http://email.aliabdaal.com/issues/boring-is-fun-192863
7. Type 1 vs Type 2 fun - https://jamesstuber.com/boring-is-fun/?utm_campaign=Ali%20Abdaal&utm_medium=email&utm_source=Revue%20newsletter
8. Fast Bad Wrong - http://email.aliabdaal.com/issues/the-acronym-that-changed-how-i-write-188247
9. The Reitoff Principle - http://email.aliabdaal.com/issues/the-reitoff-principle-for-productivity-175707
10. The Mundanity of Excellence - http://email.aliabdaal.com/issues/the-mundanity-of-excellence-153443
11. The Go First Rule - http://email.aliabdaal.com/issues/the-go-first-rule-152553
12. High leverage housekeeping - http://email.aliabdaal.com/issues/high-leverage-housekeeping-178649
13. The inbox for your brain - http://email.aliabdaal.com/issues/the-inbox-for-your-brain-182278
14. The power of project lists - http://email.aliabdaal.com/issues/the-power-of-project-lists-183468

Who am I:

I’m Ali, a YouTuber, podcaster, soon-to-be author and ex-Doctor working in London, UK. I make videos that explore the strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com
**Keywords:** notion setup, how to use notion, notion 2019, notion annual review, notion for productivity, building a second brain, building a second brain notion, perosnal crm notion, notion tutorial, notion app, productivity apps, notion.so setup, notion.so templates, notion productivity, notion app setup, notion for beginners, apps like evernote, evernote replacement, evernote substitute, notion examples, notion setup examples, getting things done, notion guide, notion review, 
**Date:** 2019-12-27

## Transcript
 Hey friends, welcome back to the channel. If you're new here, my name is Ali. I'm a doctor working in Cambridge. And in this video, I want to talk you through my annual review process. Well, I basically think about and write down all of the things that I'm grateful for, people that I'm grateful for. The stuff I've discovered that year, lessons I've learned, and stuff that I want to kind of do more better the following year. If you haven't done an annual review before, then I would highly recommend that you do it. And I'll show you the process that I go through, so maybe you can get some ideas. And I'll be sharing my template that I'm using for this on notion so that if you want, you can just kind of duplicate that template and you can go through this process yourself. So this is my life OS kind of notebook. This is kind of a kind of a nerdy joke on my part. I'm not really a joke. It's kind of true because I like to use notion as like the operating system for my life. So I've got like my daily highlights and some of my weekly reviews here, but I've also got my annual reviews and I'm going to show you the non-private one, where I've removed all the potentially sensitive things. Now, here are the general kind of categories of stuff that I like to mention in my annual review. So firstly, I like to talk about stuff that I'm grateful for, then stuff I discovered, then life lessons, then stuff to work on for next year, and then like a bucket list of kind of just general things I'd like to do at some point in my life, and that can be as unrealistic as we want. And previously I used to do this on Evernote, but the nice thing about notion is that you can use these toggle features, which means that it doesn't like turn into this whole ass massive page of stuff. You can kind of put things in these toggles. So let's start with experiences. This is just a few of them. A stuff I'm grateful for, recent trip to Japan, recent trip to Civil, and Spain, trip to Sudan, in January was quite nice, super nice for any people, healthy amounts of figuring, figuring outing, going on in the clinics, et cetera. So like alongside each one, I've just written a few notes for myself to jog my memory, because kind of the point of the annual review is not just to reflect on the year and to plan the following year, but I think in maybe 5, 6, 7, 10 years time, it'll be really nice to look back on the annual reviews that I've been doing since 2017, and seeing kind of the trajectory of where my life has gone, which is why I'd like to add a few bits of explanation to each one. So that is experiences, general surgery placement, really into with a team work, making friends with Komi, Jo and Antonio. There's some colleagues that I was working with. Guys, if you're watching, then thanks, you're great. Next I've got like people, and out in this I actually had like a list of about 100 people, but I've got rid of most of them because you don't need to know and a few of them were sensitive and all that stuff. But tame is my brother, said that the podcast has been quite fun, we've had been having good chats, and I think he's a really good sounding board for ideas, so tame, if you're watching, you're probably not because you don't watch any of my videos, type, and then, you know, thank you for that. Molly's my housemate, a few notes about Molly, so socialising my default, by this I mean, it's really nice to have someone that I can just kind of talk to by default when I get home from work, and that's been really nice. Molly's also kind of taught me a lot about feeling and expressing my own emotions and getting better at communication and stuff like that, and has been offering some pretty good advice about love life amongst other things, so thanks Molly for that. Paul, yes, he started a podcast recently, so it was really nice having a creative friend to talk to about that sort of stuff, and just a few other notes about some of my other friends, and I've deleted loads, so if you're a friend of mine in real life and you're not on this list, don't worry, you're probably in the private one, and I don't want to share all the stuff publicly. Also, I'm put Thomas Frank on the list, he's great, he's another productivity YouTuber, he's a lot bigger than I am, but he, I really gave me a lot of really good advice a few months ago, and he introduced me to the agency that I'm now part of, which is called Standard, we've got Dave, who've run Standard and signed me onto this agency, and that's really changed the game in terms of YouTube, because it means that now we can do sponsored videos pretty much whenever, and that means that there's a lot more money coming in, which means that I can actually hire people full time, and I can scale the YouTube channel in a way that I haven't really been able to do before, so thanks guys for that. Simon Clark, I haven't actually met Simon Clark in real life, but he was one of the two YouTubers that really inspired me to start this YouTube channel, I'll put a link to his channel down below, and Peter McKinnon, everyone knows Peter McKinnon, famous photography, videography, YouTuber, he was another big inspiration in starting this channel. He recently, I've written here that he recently released a camera bag on Kickstarter, and as soon as I saw this, I was immediately dropped $500 on it, and it was really weird, because I don't usually get emotional about things, but when I was buying that camera bag, I was like, oh my god, this is amazing, I finally have a chance of going out of giving back to Peter McKinnon, who's inspired me to start this YouTube channel. Anyway, moving on, accomplishments, I feel a bit uneasy about the word accomplishments, because like, you know, I don't like the idea of taking credit for stuff, but you know, people say you should talk about your accomplishments in your annual review, and this is normally a private thing, so I apologise, but yeah, you know, YouTube growth, revenue growth, hiring a full-time team member, you launching an online UK catcourse. We launched a podcast, me and my brother, we've been doing it for the last like 36 weeks, with some semblance of consistency, which has been good. Email newsletter has grown quite a lot, I think this time last year, it was maybe 4,000 subscribers, and now we're at 18,000 subscribers, which is awesome, Instagram recently hit 50K, which is cool, and became a physiology supervisor at Goat and College Cambridge, which has been really fun, a nice accomplishment. I think I've gotten a little bit more hensh, like, you know, been going to the gym semi regularly for the last few weeks, and so people have been commenting on all the biceps, whatever, combating hair loss with finastery. I've been taking finastery, it's like January, and I feel like my hair has kind of grown back a little bit, and a little bit of chat about dating. There were a few more things on the list, but I got rid of some, and then like stuff that I'm grateful for. Again, this is going to seem a bit big headed, but this is normally supposed to be a private thing, but I thought I'd share some of it. So I absolutely love my desk setup. I've got a video about it at that link down below, but anytime, like it's clean, it's not right now, there's loads of stuff behind the camera that you can't see. Anytime my desk is clean, I just feel like a real inspiration to create stuff. My car is really quite nice. So this is something I've been actively trying to tell myself, because I drive it like a eight-year-old car that I've been driving for the last like five years, and, you know, it's broken down a fair bit, but I'm trying to talk myself out of wanting to buy a Tesla, so I'm having to reiterate to myself that actually, you know, my car is really quite nice. It's all good. The flat is great for the tea-like bulbs are awesome. There was this notebook that I enjoyed. I discovered the Adidas Ultra Boost shoes, which have been really comfortable, you know, just stuff like that, and then game changes. So I put three things on this list. Firstly, standard that I said is the agency that I'm now part of, that has really helped generate sponsored videos for this for this channel. Number two is editor. So I started out sourcing the editing of these videos about six months ago, and as soon as I kind of took that plunge. I mean, perhaps it was even four months ago. As soon as I took that plunge and suddenly, like so much of my own time was freed up every week, and I could kind of do more things like go to the gym and try and eat a bit more healthily and stuff like that. And finally, I think like notion that this, this app that I'm doing this on has genuinely been a game changer, because like I use notion for so many different things. I think it's one of the few apps that buy design and like just because of the app, it's sort of changed the way I think about stuff a little bit, and I'm not just saying that because the sponsoring the video, this was on this list before I do, this was going to be a sponsored video. So yeah. Anyway, next we're talking about stuff I discovered this year. Again, I've just cut it down for the full of clarity. The wheel of time series by Robert Jordan really good series of books I've been listening to on audible building a second brain. I see a workshop online course series of blog posts by Guy Call Tiago Forte. That's sort of changed the way I think about content creation and about note-taking notion. I've talked about that already. The Julian method for building muscle. This is Guy Call Julian, a Julian.com. He's written this like really in depth the guide that's very followable about how to build muscle effectively. I've been literally following that sort of and I found that working out and going to the German stuff while listening to audible is much more fun now that I've got this method to follow. I've tried loads of things over the years, strong lifts and five, three, one and a few others, but the Julian method is the one that I think I've stopped too far the longest. The E-Mith is a book I'm blanking on who it's by, but it talks a lot about how to grow a small business. And I run a small business called six-met and I think I made a lot of mistakes in the early stages of six-met by not delegating enough and by thinking that I had to do everything. And now in my second business this YouTube channel I'm starting to I feel like I'm incorporating a lot of these lessons a bit more and the E-Mith was a really good book that helped me out with that. Discovered that you can use an oven to cook food, discover the power of light lunches that if you eat a heavy lunch then you feel like really full for the rest of the day and feel tired. If you eat a light lunch then at least for me I feel more energized. A Loish term 1917 somewhere in my bag is like a physical notebook that I like writing stuff by hand in a bulletproof radio stuff about biohacking that's a podcast that I listen to. There's a few other things on the list but let's move on. Next we're talking about life lessons so all 15 of these are actually additions of my E-Mith newsletter so anytime I come across a good life lesson that I find it that I think is valuable I share it in my weekly E-Mith newsletter so every Sunday I send this email out to now 18,100 people as of the time of this recording I'll put a link in the description below if you want to sign up you can check out all the previous issues but just going through life lessons quickly. If this isn't nice I don't know what is this is a quote from Kurt Vonnegut who wrote he wrote in one of his books or something and he says that you know as you're going through life take a bit of time every now and then to ask yourself if this isn't nice I don't know what is and that just reminds us to be grateful of things the daily highlight are going to be working on a video on that but essentially the idea is that every day you pick a single thing that you're going to focus on and that's going to be a highlight of the day window openers versus door knockers and analogy that came that I discovered in a podcast obviously you were amazing to others this is reference to a blog post by Derek Sivers the flywheel concept that I first came across in a I want to say Jim Colison interview on the Tim Ferriss show something like that master boring fundamentals a life life advice productivity thing that I learned from a guy called James Stuber basically there's a long list of stuff I'll put links to all of these different email news letters all 15 of them in the video description so you can kind of click on them and find out more but essentially the idea of the life lessons thing is that when you're doing your annual review then you can note down the lessons that you learnt that year and I think that's quite a nice thing to look back on like I look back on my 2017 ones and I think in 2017 I wrote about the power of consistency and that's something that has really helped like grow everything that I've ever tried to do like my business youtube channel podcast and stuff just really about the power of just being consistent with things anyway next week got stuff to work on for next year so yeah for three things that I've kind of split this into his life medicine and side hustles for now I'm going to add more to this list this is sort of a work in progress but I thought I'd share it as you know we're approaching the end of the year and you know you might want to do your annual review anyway so I want to get more consistent going to the gym I think it's much more possible now that I don't have to edit a lot of these videos by myself which is fantastic I want to get a lot better at cooking I don't really cook a lot make poached eggs occasionally make some pasta occasionally but more often than not I either eat at work get a McDonald's drive through in the way home or order takeaway from delivery route which is quite bad so I want to get into cooking a story telling I want to get better at telling stories this is a kind of good in real life just as a general social skill that I discovered in a book by Tyden called superhuman social skills which is actually really good but also telling stories is really important when you're making videos and writing stuff on the internet you know stuff like that yeah dating I think I'm I started writing more about this normally what I'm doing and you'll review I would flash this out but I'm filming it I'm filming this on the 20th of December so over the next like 10 to 11 days I'm going to flash these things out more I just wanted to share it but yeah I think I want to want to make more of an effort with dating and trying to make more people you know stuff like that I'm going to be 26 next year so I feel like you know might as well get on that sooner rather than later anyway medicine figure out what specialty to apply for takes some exams get pro teaching communication skills I'm currently training as a facilitator for communication skills get pro teaching physiology maybe make some videos and then side hustles these are some like ideas of things that I want to do for the YouTube channel for the blog for the podcast of that sort of stuff and finally I think it's important to have in our annual reviews a bucket list yeah bucket list can can be as unrealistic as you like and I've started making mine I normally have at least like 50 things on the bucket list just because I find it this is generally quite useful to just think about everything in life that I could possibly want to be doing and then just chuck it onto the bucket list and you know maybe some of them will happen maybe some of them won't but like it just sort of gives us that level of kind of background processing like if I've got you know let's see learn archery on my bucket list just the fact that over it in that down means that if the opportunity comes up to learn archery or I have some time one afternoon and the thought comes to me that oh you know I wonder what's on my bucket list then I might seek out archery lessons or find some kind of weak long holiday camp or you learn archery and stuff like that and just kind of sayings to the video now makes me want to google how to do archery and like I'm sure there's some kind of retreat that you can go on where you hunt rabbits and eat them and you know stuff like that but I think just the act of writing things down is really helpful in that in that regard so my list become a gym shock athlete that is you know that's never going to happen but just the fact that it's on my bucket list means that it encourages me to go to the gym more consistently eat more consistently and get better at social media so you know I think it's good to have in the bucket list a few clubs that I really like to do archery sword fighting is really cool I've recently been reading loads of fantasy book series for the last like two three years now and you know obviously sword fighting is a big part of fantasy busk on the London Underground and film it and then definitely on the bucket list right in book host a revision retreat my brother and I had this idea right so we like this idea of getting a group of people together and maybe getting an Airbnb cottage in a random place like you know in the lake district in the UK or in you know south of France or something where we get sort of 10 15 people together and the ideas that we would study for our exams kind of during the day and then in the evenings would just kind of chill out and have food and play board games and stuff sort of like a revision retreat so that's something that I maybe want to do next year maybe the year after at some point film a study with me video in a ridiculous location I thought it would be cool to film like a study with me video like you know in front of the pyramids in Egypt or you know some like weird exotic location like that not seeing Egypt is weird but you know you probably get the message get married have a kid perform a magic show teach a medicine revision lecture series past the MRCP MRCS MRCOG and FRCA these are all various postgraduate medical exams I kind of like the idea of doing all of them just for bands because I love studying and I love exams but you know it's on the bucket list it doesn't have to be realistic it's fine convert to room into a youtube studio we'll see by to let a house I want to buy a house and then rent it out it's like you know real estate investment by Tesla Model 3 it's on the bucket list it's going to happen at some point but you know I want to convince myself that my current car is legit for as long as I can stream on twitch join a world of warcraft rating guild and yeah I'm just going to flesh this more out as we go along so this is sort of the stuff that I like to put in my annual reviews there are loads of other ways of doing an annual review and again in the video description I'm going to link to a few others other formats for annual review for example Tiago Gforte who runs this building a second brain thing his annual reviews like 50 different questions but a lot of them are quite like goal-orientated and list your top three wins for the year what are your top goals for next year I just don't really like the idea of having goals I'm much prefer the idea of just kind of enjoying the process having systems that you know I want to release a video a week rather than I want to get to a million subscribers by the end of 2020 because I think like numerical goals like that are at least like they don't really sit very well with me because I sort of feel that it's kind of flies in the face of all this stuff about gratitude and about what we have being enough and kind of explicitly defining goals in that sense you know smart goals specific measure achievable realistic timely blah blah blah it doesn't quite sit well with me but you know I could be wrong maybe I'll change my mind about goal setting next year you know but yeah there's loads of ways of doing an annual review this is just the way I like to do mine and as I said I'll link my notion template in the video description so if you want to do an annual review like this then you can just duplicate that template into your own notion account by the way if you don't yet have a notion account you can sign up for a free one if you're a student just use your dot ac or dot edu email address and you'll get a personal account completely free you can get a free trial of notion that has a thousand block limit and a block is like sort of a piece of content on notion so you can definitely try it out for free if you really want to and actually I think you should be able to do an annual review with far less than a thousand blocks or if you want to subscribe like I pay for four dollars a month five dollars a month for the premium subscription it's good it's good like you know notion is one of the apps that's actually changed the game for me and I use it to organize most things in my life now so easily worth the money that I pay for it so yeah thank you for watching I hope you enjoyed this video have you gained some ideas about what you can do with an annual review you know if you're doing an annual review and you feel like making it public so the rest of us can see then leave a link to your notion workspace in the comments down below and I will definitely take a look and you know we can share some ideas about what makes a good annual review and also if you have any ideas that I haven't put in mind of things that like questions to ask ourselves the things that might work nicely in an annual review sort of annual reflection thing then again leave a comment down below and I'll you know look and reply to all of them or at least I'll try so yeah thank you for watching if you like this video you might like some of the other videos have done on notion links will be over there thanks for watching and see you later bye bye
