# 48h Study With Me + Highlighting Tips
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cky0O-hANDI
The first 500 people who click here will get 2 free months of Skillshare Premium: https://skl.sh/aliabdaal9

🎬 Check out my FREE 36-video online class on how to study for exams - https://skl.sh/2UOx68x 

In this video, we squeeze out various moments of studying / productivity over 2 days reasonably busy with work, teaching and other commitments. I discuss some of the ways in which I find highlighting to be helpful despite the evidence showing that it’s a poor technique for retaining information, and you see the process by which I learn a somewhat new topic. Enjoy xx

My new discord server - https://discord.gg/jwYwgUv (where we chat about books, productivity, study tips, podcasts and other wholesome things)

--------

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
😃  How to be Happier - Stoicism Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/stoicism

TOOLS OF THE TRADE:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk
📚  How I remember what I read - Readwise - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali
What I Use For Analytics - https://go.aliabdaal.com/tubebuddy
🌐 My website platform (Ghost) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost

OTHER RECOMMENDED COURSES
📔 Effortless Output with Roam Research - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/roam
📓 Building a Second Brain - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/basb

🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** study with me, ali abdaal, study, study motivation, how to study, how to learn, how to study effectively, how to study for exams, study tips, how to take notes, study tips for exams, study with me 2019, studying, how to study for a test, school, college, university, motivation to study, how to revise, motivational video, study vlog, cambridge university, uni vlog, student, ways to study, study techniques, exam revision, med student, studytube, medical school, study hacks, 
**Date:** 2020-01-29

## Transcript
 Hey friends, welcome back to the life of a doctor vlog. In this video I'll take you through two pretty standard days of my working and personal life and we'll try our best to squeeze in moments of studying and productivity wherever we can. On day one I'm wrote up to be on the maternity day assessment unit where pregnant women over 24 weeks come to get assessed if they have any issues like bleeding, pain, reduced fetal movements, stuff like that. This starts at 9 a.m. so I drive to work grab a cheeky latte on the way and realise that we've got no patience to see this morning and so at 9 a.m. I head over to the obstetrics and gynecology junior doctor's office and make a start on studying respiratory physiology. In the first instance I'm reading through the lecture notes and as usual at every point I'm asking myself firstly does this make sense and secondly could I explain this to a 5 year old? Fairly early on I come across this idea that the lungs in the chest wall are kind of like a pair of balloons in an airtight chamber. There's a line in the lecture notes that says the balloons expand until the negative pressure in the vessel is equal to the elastic recoil forces of the balloons. This doesn't immediately make sense to me and so I spend a few minutes googling why balloons expand on the negative pressure conditions and come up with the reasonably satisfying answer that I'd hopefully be able to explain to a 5 year old which hopefully shows that I understand the topic. As I'm going through the lecture notes PDF on noteability on my iPad Pro I'm highlighting different bits in different colours. If you've seen my original evidence-based study tips video you'll know that highlighting is generally considered an ineffective study technique because it's way too passive and doesn't require any brainpower. And yeah if I were just highlighting the stuff and thinking yep I'm going to remember that that would be a false errant because there's absolutely no way I'm going to remember stuff just because I've highlighted it. Instead I'm highlighting stuff with the intention that when I look over these lecture notes later today I'll immediately be able to spot things that I can turn into flashcards or questions for my students. For example in pink I'm highlighting examinable facts that might lend themselves to flashcards. For example at the pressure between the visceral and parietal plurra is a negative 5cm water. That value negative 5cm water isn't really based on having a first principles understanding of what's going on in the lungs. It's just one of those numbers that you have to know and knowing it helps you understand what's going on during the breathing cycle. Equally during inspiration I breathing in. This plural pressure force from minus 5 to minus 8cm of water. Again this is an examinable fact. Something that lends itself to memorization with active recall and spaced repetition and so I'm highlighting it in pink to make a question or flashcard out of it later. In light blue or indigo I'm highlighting things that are interesting or insightful. I find that this works best for subjects that we're already familiar with so that when we're revising them most of the information isn't new but occasionally we'll come across something interesting or insightful and that's worth highlighting so we can spot it at a glance when we're looking at our notes next. But I remember back to first and second year of medical school when all this information was new to me and I ended up practically highlighting the whole page in different colours and I feel that's a lot less useful. With highlight the point is to be able to spot things at a glance when you're next looking at them so less is usually more. And finally in purple I'm highlighting stuff that I don't immediately understand. So this is what I do until 10 a.m. when I stop to make sure that I haven't been bleeped in this time. Check some emails and pay last year's income tax to her Majesty's revenue and customs which ends up being a distressingly significant hit to my current account. Oh well, at 10.38 I look at the time, utterly amazed at how quickly time flies when you're procrastinating from studying and get back to respiratory physiology. For the first 15 minutes I continue to read through the notes trying to jog my memory of all these concepts and trying to understand what's going on. Then when I get to a new section about elastic properties of the lung and chest wall, I realise that I've sort of lost the forest from the trees and I switch over to notion to do what I should have done at the start of this study session and made an outline of the lecture notes. Just so I have an idea of where stuff fits in. Having made this outline, I get back to the lecture notes and to understanding compliance, elasticity and pressure volume curves of the lung and chest wall. This is stuff that I haven't really revisited since my first year of medical school seven years ago and so it takes a long time for me to grapple with the concepts in my head. Even talking out loud at points to try and get my head around what's going on, thankfully there was no one in the office to watch me doing this. I realise that I don't quite understand what's happening just by reading the lecture notes. I wouldn't be able to explain it to a five-year-old and so I find some YouTube videos exploring those concepts further and watch bits of them at double speed of course to try and get to the insights that I'm looking for. By 1143 AM my mind begins to feel frazzled which isn't surprising because I've been going for a solid hour without a break and so I park this topic of lung and chest wall compliance and head to the hospital cafe for lunch. I grab myself a super healthy tuna and cheese toasty with chips and because I have no friends I go back to the doctor's office to eat rather than sit on my own on a table alone in the hospital canteen which I feel people would judge me for even though actually they probably wouldn't. While I'm eating I watch through some more YouTube videos explaining lung and chest wall compliance but then one of the other doctors comes in and we end up chatting about my lack of healthy eating habits and she gives me some pretty legit advice on how to cook for myself. Then I get call to see a patient in the late pregnancy assessment unit which takes around half an hour to sort out and then I spend the afternoon with one of the consultants in the general gynecology clinic observing consultations and helping with examinations. At 5pm I drive home and grab coffee with some fans from 6 to 7pm. Play some badminton from 7 to 9pm and then for around 20 minutes when I get home I eat my microwave meal in bed while going through the respiratory physiology lecture slides to make sure I understand them. When studying properly I'd normally be doing something active like active recall rather than just rereading slides but firstly I definitely don't have the energy at this point to actually engage my brain properly and thankfully I'm not actually preparing to take an exam just yet. So I don't need to worry too much about committing stuff to memory I just need to make sure I understand it. At 930pm some friends come over to chat and sing songs and then at 11pm I head into bed right out the script for this video right a diary entry in the app day one where I keep a somewhat regular journal and head to bed. The following day is significantly less productive. I wake up at half past 7 drive to the hospital for a simulation day where we do different medically emergency scenarios on a fake patient to improve our leadership, teamwork and stay in cool under pressure skills. After work I give a talk at the Cambridge Career Service about marketing and communication for some reason and then I get home to start studying at 8pm. I set the kettle to boil and take one look at my desk and decide that I can't be bothered to deal with the effort of tidying it and so today like yesterday I'm going to be studying in bed. I crawl into bed in my dark room, try to turn on the Philips Hue smart light bulbs but find that for some reason my phone isn't connecting to the hue bridge and so the lights aren't working. We actually had a cleaner who came in this afternoon and so I wonder whether he might have unplugged the Philips Hue system from the mains to plug in the Hoover or something. With this realization I eat an orange while wallowing and self-pity for a few minutes at just how unfair life is that my smart light bulbs aren't working. At 8-05pm I negotiate myself out of bed to get my cup of tea and sort the lights out then I crawl back into bed, set the lights to the color temperature that I want. Order myself a takeaway from GBK because I've had a tough day and obviously deserve a takeaway I set my Spotify to play Taylor Swift the very first album and then I get to marking these essays that I have to do. The first batch of them are tacking the question, how and why does the shape of action potentials vary in different types of excitable tissue? Such a great question. After a record 35 minutes, food arrives while I'm in the middle of marking the third essay and so I finish it off while taking a few bites of the burger then I realise I'm enjoying this food way too much to warrant multitasking essay marking. So instead I multitask by watching my friend Thomas Frank's new class on Skillshare. It's called real productivity how to build habits that last and in the first couple of videos he talks about how perfect is the enemy of good which is one of my favorite Voltaire quotes of all time and about goal setting and his impossible list goal setting is something I sort of struggle with myself in that I don't really believe in setting goals but recently I've started to have my mind changed in that front and Tom someone who's been part of that change. He's also got an excellent class on how to create your own productivity system and in case you didn't know I've got my very own class on Skillshare where I take you through the entire process of creating these very videos in Final Cut Pro. A Skillshare premium membership costs less than $10 a month and it's totally worth the price and they've got thousands of classes covering anything you can think of from drawing an animation to cooking and writing. If any of that sounds up your straight, do please click the link in the video description because the first 500 people to do so will get a free two month trial of Skillshare in which you can watch any or all of the classes that you like. So thank you Skillshare for sponsoring this video. At 907 PM I resume Taylor Swift's first album on Spotify and continue marking essays. I bash through a handful that are answering the question, discuss the role of calcium ions in nerve and muscle. Taylor's first album then ends and so at 940 I switch to her second album, Fearless, which is one of my favorites and continue going through these essays. Now I'm marking a handful that are aiming to answer the question, how does the cardiovascular system respond to exercise? There's a quick point I want to make here about the pink highlighting that I was doing earlier so if you recall if you watched the beginning I said that I highlight things in pink if they're potentially examinable facts and therefore I might potentially make a flashcard out of them later. But now that I've become so familiar with respiratory physiology from kind of reading about it for the last two days and really trying to understand it, that initial point that I highlighted which was the idea that you know minus five centimeters of water and minus eight centimeters of water in the plural pressure. I highlighted that because I thought it might be worth turning into a flashcard but at this point it's so deeply ingrained in me because it's such a fundamental part of respiratory physiology that I really don't need to make a flashcard about those and that's another point that I like to say to people that when making flashcards I think less is more and that is very tempting to just make loads and loads of flashcards for every single lecture but then they become completely unsustainable to go through. So one way of reducing the workload is to highlight stuff initially and then in your second pass through the lecture you can figure out whether you still need to make a flashcard out of it and if that's the case then make the flashcard and if not then you don't bother because you know the thing already. Anyway it takes another 50 minutes to get through all these essays and so by the end of it it's half past 10 and I'm just over halfway through fearless. My house made Molly arrives home at that point so I catch up with her for a bit and then Lionbed intending to read some more physiology in preparation for tomorrow's supervision but then I realised that I really can't be bothered right now so I reasoned with myself that I'll just wake up early tomorrow and go over surfactant and the effect that it has on lung compliance and surface tension. I spend a few minutes doing some final typing for this video script and then call it a night. So yeah that's what I got up to across these two fairly standard consecutive days. If you've reached the end of this video then thank you so much you're amazing I hope you found this glimpse into my life not a complete waste of time. So thank you for watching and I hope to see you in the next video. Good bye.
