# The Most PRODUCTIVE Desk Setups on YouTube | 2021
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cs7TCNDQy1E
Having a productive desk setup is crucial for YouTubers. In tis video, some YouTube friends and I are going to run you through our day-to-day, 'highly' productive desk setups. 

📚 Get a free trial of Shortform here: https://shortform.com/ali
📃 Check out Ugmonk Analog https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

00:00 Intro 
04:06 Pat Flynn @Pat Flynn 
05:08 Oliur @Oliur / UltraLinx 
06:09 Ruby Granger @Ruby Granger 
08:42 Thomas Frank @Thomas Frank 
09:23 NothingButTech @NothingButTech 
09:39 Nathaniel Drew @Nathaniel Drew 
11:25 Matti Haapoja @Matti Haapoja 
12:25 Simon Clark @Simon Clark 
15:17 UnJaded Jade @UnJaded Jade 
16:47 Matt D'Avella @Matt D'Avella 
19:08 Captain Sinbad @Captain Sinbad 

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
📚  How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali
What I Use For Analytics - https://go.aliabdaal.com/tubebuddy
🌐  My website platform (Ghost) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost
🎤  My podcast hosting platform (Transistor) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/transistor

OTHER RECOMMENDED COURSES
📔 Effortless Output with Roam Research - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/roam
📓 Building a Second Brain - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/basb

🎙 MY WEEKLY PODCAST - https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCdXpN-Z7LyTgc3OLo_Zw2Pg
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app. And we post clips + full episodes on the YouTube channel, so please subscribe to that!  

BE MY FRIEND:
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮  Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, productive desk setups, productive desk, desk setups, matt d'avella, thomas frank, productive desk setup, home office setup, minimal desk setup, productivity desk setup, productivity, desk tour, desk setup 2020, productivity desk tour, desk tour 2021, desk setup tour, productivity room, productivity desk 2021, work from home setup, desk setup ideas, desk setup productivity, desk setup tour 2021, home office tour, home office, 
**Date:** 2021-01-27

## Transcript
 Hey there, Maddie of Ella here. Hello, my name is Tom Spring. Hello, I'm Ruby Granger. Hey guys, I'm Unjaded Jade. Hey guys, I'm Maddie of Poia. Hey friends, welcome back to the channel. Today we're taking a look at the world's most productive desk setups. But, crucially, what they look like on a normal day, rather than when everything has been cleared up, everything looks nice for a desk setup video. I recently released a video about my fancy productivity desk setup 2021, which I think looks pretty aesthetic. So I'm going to start by giving you a tour of what my desk normally looks like. And then we're going to visit some of my YouTuber friends who are famously productive to see what their desk setups look like as well. Alright, so this is what everything looks like as a very broad brush overview. The floor usually has random crap on it, AirPods Max, which I've got released recently. This is a random mess of wires that always sort of happens. I've had Pro with Magic Keyboard on Charge, and this is the home and miller sail chair. And currently, I have the desk in a standing mode, which means... I can stand at the desk, but the microphone here, if I'm on the zoom call, keyboard over here, I'm out over here. Let's take a look at what this looks like now. So, I always have these two pads with me. One of them is specifically for the book that I'm writing, that's this one, and one of them is just for general thoughts. And I often kind of fluctuate between different pens. My two favorite ones are the Unable Air, and the Unable Air Micro, the Unable Air I prefer for writing on bigger pads, because the ink feels more smooth. I have a deck of cards that I always use as a fidgeting This is a book experiment without limits, which is written by my productivity coach Chris Sparks. And underneath, we have two books by Austin Cleon. We have show your work, and steel like an artist. I've read both of these many many times, but I have them on my desk, because I've been referencing them a lot recently. Here we have the M1 Mac Mini connected to the Caldigit TS3 doc, fake plant, real plant over there, audio interface, and diary, ukulele in the corner. Second camera, random playing card, these are for my home workouts, and an absolute mess of wires over there, which work nicely when I'm in standing and sitting mode. Now on the desk, we have my water bottle, and the rest of it is a bit of a mess. So on screen, we have a book, this is the procrastination equation that I've been reading, and this is the website short form, where I like reading some reads of books, which is awesome. We have my IQ Unix F96 keyboard, we have the MX Master 3 mouse, and the short SM7B microphone, which is on this articulating arm, because I was on a Zoom call earlier today. Now, I always have coffee cups of some description of my desk. This was from the coffee this morning. This was from my coffee last night, and this is the Clever Driper, which is what James Hoffman sent me, as a productive way of making coffee. So you put coffee in it, and then after three minutes, you put it onto your coffee cup, and then it automatically drips without causing a mess. So it's like a nice way to make coffee, with that having to wait for the coffee to be made. This is a microfiber cloth that I've been using recently, for shoulder mobility exercises, AirPods Max, which I occasionally use, box of deck of cards, more pens, and command strips, and surgical tape. So recently, I've actually been, I've been taping my mouth shut at night when I go to bed, so I bought this, so that purpose, command strips to hang stuff on the wall. I usually have a piece of perfume, this is a Lyurahom by channel, and so occasionally I spray this to make myself feel good. Diet Coke, of course, caffeine free, because caffeine's bad for you. This is my wallet, I'll put a link in the video description if you want to check it out. And over here is my analog to do this system. Again, linked in the video description, if you do want to check it out. Basically, it's a series of key card flash card type things that you put on this sort of stand, and this is how I have my to do list in front of me every day. Random lens, Sony 24mm F1.4 G Master, and we've got the gather from Agmonker over there, which is where I store random desk accessories. And occasionally I'll put a post-it note on my screen to remind me to do something. This one says YouTube story, because it reminds me that I should be posting more often on YouTube stories. So overall, this is what my desk looks like on a normal day. It's a massive tip, and I intend to clean it up. But hey, helps me be more productive, or something like that. So that was my productivity desk that I've been real life. Let's now turn to some of my YouTube friends to see what this is like as well. Hey, what's up? It's Pat Flynn here. Welcome to my home office, and this desk that you're currently seeing where I do some podcasting and some gaming and stuff. Not too bad, but for most of my work, especially here on YouTube and my livestreams every morning, this is my setup, and it's an absolute mess right now. This desk has never been this messy. In fact, when I was asked to film this video, it was at the absolute worst time. We're moving stuff out of storage, we're doing some stuff. So even this side of the office is a mess. I might hoverboard collection here, and it's just absolutely atrocious. But, you know, the stuff that you see on camera, you don't see the mess. It's just all perfectly out of frame. I mean, here's the view for more I sit or stand. It's just, you know, I got a new microphone and just cord galore. It's just ridiculous. But, like I said, this looks okay. Great. It's hard to be productive when it's like this, and I'm likely going to take some time now that the world is seeing this to fix this situation. But, still it will make it work. It's not always perfect, but I try my best, and hopefully you can too. Hey, what's up everyone, Holly here. So Ali has asked me to show you guys my ultimate productivity station. Let me show you. So this really is as messy as my desk set up gets. I have a home in the military to show that I have more money than sense. Now I'm joking, I'm joking. It is actually a great chair. I have a sit stand desk from Argonophys. I have a serial magazine to make sure that everyone knows that I have good taste. I have a deep, deep candle to mask, all of the productivity sweat that is produced in this room. I use the M1 MacBook Pro, which is connected up to an LG ultra-fine 5K display. Keycoin keyboard, magic mouse, ULX desk mat, also have a microfiber cloth because everyone needs a microfiber cloth to wipe down all of those dirty screens. Over here, I have some camera gear, some lenses, some batteries. I also have a plant to add some greenery to my otherwise very jewelry setup. And then finally, you actually do have a mic here, which is just a cheap one for Amazon. So yeah, just a quick tour of my productivity setup. Hello, I'm Ruby Granger, and this is what my desk looks like. The main important thing for my desk is making sure that it's a static, so I enjoy sitting here to study. Obviously, that is a lot easier with the snow today. I have some candles, hands on a tider is obviously very important at the moment. My favourite pens are in this bust pen part. Then I always have my laptop here and a little SD card reader, which is always plugged in there. At the moment, I've just got some pens and to do this setup, I always have a little notebooks and pieces of paper dotted around my desk when I'm working. These pen pots usually live under my desk. These two pen pots are filled with all of the pens I use on a daily basis. These are the Zebra Sarasav vintage pens. They're just very nice colors right very well, and then I've just got miscellaneous mishear like scissors. Obviously, a letter opener is a matter of the central. This is shaped like the sort of godera crescendo. I keep lots of pens in these boxes. Do this really is not the most pathetic thing. This is a drawer-ganizer, which I got when I was about 11 years old, and it just kind of worked really well. Stay for now, it fits under her perfectly, so I use this. I just keep the things that I reach her on a daily basis. In the very bottom one, I keep lots and lots of sticky notes. I don't eat this very neat, because with the sticky notes, I like to just be able to reach for something and put it off of my desk and start using it immediately. I don't really have a preference, usually as to which one I use. My iPad and the central. I actually have an armchair as my desk chair, and when I'm working, I always have some blankets here, and I always have a hot water bottle too, because I do get quite cold, and I don't really like being cold when I'm working. And finally, I have a vision board on the wall next to my desk. Again, I just like to be in quite an aesthetic space, so this is filled with lots of photos that I very much like, and which kind of motivate me, I suppose. Just next to my desk under my bed, I also have a full-out lamp, so that if it's dark and I'm reading a text or something in the evening, I can prep this up, it's like really minimal reportable. It's got a variety of options, so you can change the brightness and the light color, which is very useful. And that is my desk set up with the glance. It's quite simple, but it's got everything that I need really, really, really easily accessible, and I quite like the aesthetic of the east. Hello, my name is Tom's Frank, and this is the current state of my desk. It's not always super organized. Now, I just moved into a new house, so the entire studio is a little bit of a mess, but this is indicative of how I often work. Sometimes I've just got a lot of stuff in the desk, so right now we've got some tools, microphones, some velcro strips, I was using to put these audio foam panels up on the walls, and it's really not the most organized place all the time, which is kind of interesting, because you think that the super organized place is a great place to get worked, but sometimes, well, you got to get worked on, and the state of the desk just doesn't matter. Hey, my name is Jacqueline, and this is my productivity and desk set up. So I have my MacBook Pro, which is the main thing I edit on, and script, et cetera. I have a couple of products that I'm currently reviewing, a podcast microphone, and my camera in the back. It's a pretty simple set up, but it's the one that I'm mainly using when I'm in the studio. So guys, I just wanted to share my productivity hack. This is huge, because I'm going to love this. So this is my desk, really simple set up. Usually it's messier than this, but what we have here is my MacBook Pro, and this is my productivity tool, okay? So this is a microfiber cloth, and it is an extremely powerful tool in my arsenal, because if you think about it, well, let me first explain my use of this tool. I use it to wipe my screen so that I can see clearly what I'm doing, because if you think about it, if you can't see what you're doing, can't really get a lot done, you know what I mean? So this has been like a representative paradigm shift for me. You know what I mean? Like this is just in every sense. It has multiplied my productivity by at least seven or eight times. So let me do a little demonstration really quick. Okay, so this is me opening up my computer here, and as you can see right away, and I'll take the brightness all the way down, so you really just get a full experience of this. Oh my god, look at that, just look at the smudges there, it's disturbing. Now with this fiber microfiber cloth, I just make my way across, I'm wiping away these smudges and boom, they're gone, they're disappearing like you wouldn't believe. They're at it here, get at it here smudges is what I say with my microfiber cloth. So once again, microfiber cloth, incredible productivity tool, in my personal humble opinion, so consider incorporating this in your own productivity routine. Is you haven't already? Hey guys, I'm Maria Poia, and this is my productive desk setup. And yes, this is what it looks like. Most of the time, I just finished filming my one-mill giveaway video, so that's why that's there. I have a fully desk setup, it's a standing desk adjustable, I got Mac Pro XDR monitor, I allowed monitors, thanks to Jonathan Morrison. I've been using these recently, I really like them, and 16 inch MacBook Pro here, I kind of go back and forth and then I have a aperture 120D as my light up there with this giant soft box that I kind of just like move around. So yeah, that's kind of a quick tour of my desk, this is the way that I work. I go back and forth between the two, and yeah, it's messy. This is what it looks like normally, but that's also kind of my philosophy that like, I like keeping things tidy, but I'm also not going to be cleaning all of the time because then I wouldn't get anything done, so sometimes a lot of the times it just looks like this. Hey guys, I'm Simon Clark, and this is what my productive desk setup looks like. So my desk itself is a standard standing desk for my care, but the hand crank one, not the motorized one, because I'm not made a money. And what you can see on here is two, BenQ, 1440 photo editing screens, monitors, basically because I do a lot of video editing obviously, and having the sort of true colors is really important to me. I have two, because I'd like to have something on this window, like for example a script or whatever it may be, and then editing on the other window, or in this case notion. I like the real estate basically. And the rest of it's pretty standard really, there's a normal Logitech keyboard with standard speakers, that's the volume control there, and just the normal mouse. The sort of more interesting things, this is a screen deck, so basically this allows me to control certain aspects of my live stream, so I can change which screen you see on stream, so if I want to change to, you know, showing more monitor or the other, and it also allows me to do sound effects, so that sort of adds a lot of value to the streams. On that note, we also have a road boom arm here with an 80, 2020 vocal mic with a pop filter, and I have a backup webcam here. This is for when my viewers force me to do press apps. The main webcam I use is a Canon 80D, which is hooked into the computer via an Elgato 4K, has an AC adapter, so I have to worry about changing the battery, and an 18 to 200 mill lens, basically a lot of 18 millimetres, so it's a bit overkill. That's my normal streaming camera, and I also move that around for when I do painting streams. And then in terms of just other little things, I also have space for the cat. It's very important to have good working conditions via co-workers, and then I have a little thing here, which is a 3D print of my podcast logo with me on one side of my co-host on the other side that was sent to me in the post by a fan, which was wonderful. Picture of my fiancé, who's cat private, so that's why it doesn't always face that way. I'm not ashamed of her. I just don't want to dock her, basically. Basically, to remind me of why I do all of this, and on a similar note, I have these three origami little pieces, which were given to me by a child at a Torquai David Oxford. Basically, I would give this Torquai and she came up to me with these three little tiny origami animals, and I love them so much, and again, they remind me of kind of why I do all of this, so keep them on their desk. And then these, the lights here are not only streaming panels, so these inscribed with Google Home, and I use them in this configuration, just when I'm working for a bit of extra visual interest for just behind the screens, but if I'm streaming, hey Google, set lights to daylight, then they become a large softbox, so I'm sort of nicely lit when I'm sat in front of it, and then they can also flash purple when somebody subscribes. That kind of thing, they integrate with what's happening on Twitch. That was way longer than, like a minute, sorry. I hope you found that interesting. Hey guys, I'm Unjaded Jade, and this is my productive desk setup. So every time I've sat online that you need a tiny workspace, this is what I mean. You've got to have your bowl of finished food, you know, you've got to keep yourself there, motivated with the snacks on the grind. I honestly don't know why this is here. I think this is just to inspire me to maybe pick up exercise, you know, I've got to break. Why I just pick up this resistance panel, get squatting, why not? I've got two options of headphones, not just one, because who knows, you know, maybe people being a bit loud. I'm just going to trade over to this. I've got my gorgeous light ready for the late night grind. I've got my laptop on a laptop stand, just so it fancy and not to kill my neck. I'm learning Korean, and I feel like this book is just, oh, focus. I feel like this book is just permanently here again to inspire myself to continue learning Korean, but of space repetition, and just for you. I've got a mug here with the inspirational, the adventure begins. Just to remind me of everything I want to be doing at a part from studying right now. So, that's a good motivation. And I've got my water bottle because you've got to stay hydrated. And that's my productive desktop. So productive that I even have my phone here. We love a bit of procrastination. Don't tell the procrastination police. Okay, thank you. Also, the reality is having a roommate. This is my roommate's dust. So, yeah, we're doing pretty well today. Hey there, Matt, the developer here. I'm about to show you guys something that I've never shown anybody before. It's my desk in its messiest state ever. It's pretty bad for a minimalist. Alrighty, so this is my desk right now. And yes, this is as messy as it gets. Give you a little bit of a tour. This is a fresh cup of coffee I just made. This is a mug from my sister's book. So, we got here a little rock figurine. Just a little daily inspiration there. I'm currently using a flip phone for 30 days. So, I'm piling up all my receipts right here for now. That's my laptop and my desktop. Not very minimalist. Let's see, this is my wife's old phone. Yeah, I'm in the process of downloading all the old photos and videos from there because I want to see what she was doing with her ex before me. I'm joking. I'm joking. This is a printer right here. I was going to put off some documents today, but I ran out of ink. So, it's just going to stay here for now. This is my credit card. You don't want to see those details or maybe you do. This is my flip phone that I was talking about. This is how I communicate and it's been awful. Here's my notebook. I like to keep a handwritten notebook from my to-do list and jotting notes. I really like the tactical feel of it. It's always great. Got a little bit of lotion here. Oh, that's that good stuff. That's that ASAP. That's when you know you've made it. So, you got to stay moisturized. The lens, some just random knick knacks, a couple hard drives there. That's it. So, that right there is my desk. My favorite part about this desk is right down there. That is a nice little mesh rack. I should say that's a little rack. As you can see, messy. Let me see this. As you can see right here, it's clean right there and then a bit of a party in the back. A lot of cables and cords and it's a little mesh. But it looks nice and clean. This is my chair. That's my desk. This is everything. I can't believe their desk flip like that. How do they consider themselves to be productivity youtubers? It boggles the mind because you see the thing is if you don't have a clean desk and you don't have a clean room, you're filth, you're vermin. And that's the problem with these males. These eco-tistical men, right? They have these channels. They've got hundreds and hundreds of thousands of subscribers and yet when it comes to their own productivity spaces, it looks like like absolute degeneracy. No, it's morally reprehensible at this point. Nikhil, your desk is not that kind of a mast too. Well, I'm different, okay? I've got Indian parents. Do you know what that's like on a person psychologically?
