# Day in the Life as a Doctor (Gynaecology)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cYyIpzlkq7E
Hey guys, today I'm bringing you a whole day in the life while on the gynaecology rotation at West Suffolk Hospital. 

Thanks to everyone at West Suffolk who participated and for allowing me to film.

https://www.wsh.nhs.uk/Home.aspx

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀 My free Productivity Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/productivityprinciples
🎬 My free video-editing Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/videoediting
🎓 My free 36-video online masterclass on how to study for exams - https://go.aliabdaal.com/study

TOOLS OF THE TRADE:
🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️ My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard
📝 My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://paperlike.com/ali 
📚 How I remember what I read - Readwise - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 

🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, day in the life of a doctor, day in the life as a doctor, doctor day in the life, hospital vlog, day in the life doctor, doctor vlog, day in the life at the hospital, gynaecology doctor, day in the life uk, uk doctor vlog, life as a doctor uk, junior doctor uk, doctor vlogging, ali abdaal vlog, doctor vlogging in hospital, what's it like to be a doctor, 
**Date:** 2020-07-17

## Transcript
 So, in this video, I'm taking you through a day in the life as a junior doctor, but two things before we start. Firstly, this was filmed many, many months ago, over the course of several days, way before the whole coronavirus COVID stuff started. So, we're not wearing masks. There's no social distancing. And secondly, I'm talking about patients, but the patients that I'm talking about are not real. They are aggregate patients, I.E. sort of, I've made up what a representative patient sort of looks like in each of these different scenarios, which tends to be how most medical journalists and writers and stuff deal with patient confidentiality, but also talking about patients. They're not real patients that made up, but this sort of representative. So, with those two caveats out of the way, I hope you enjoyed this video. Hey friends, welcome back to the vlog. In this video, I'll take you through a day in my life as a junior doctor on the gynecology rotation at West Suffolk Hospital in the east of England. The day begins at 6.30 a.m. when I wake up, shower, brush my teeth, do a wee and get dressed. At 7 a.m., I drive to work and I usually grab a cheeky oat milk latte from Starbucks on route. I get in at 8 a.m. and change into my scrubs with my favorite pair of bright orange trainers. And then at 8 o'clock, we start our obstetrics handover, where the midwives, obstetricians and anesthetists, discuss the ladies that we've got in the labour suite. This is not overly relevant to me today because I'm on call for gynecology, but I'll talk more about this in a future video about life on call for obstetrics. At 815, we get a handover from the gynecology night team about any patients that we need to see. Okay, so we've just had the handover and we've been told about two ladies that we have to see. Firstly, we've got a lady who was admitted with hyperemesis of gravitarum, which means severe nausea and vomiting and pregnancy. And we've also got a lady who came in overnight with an ectopic pregnancy. So that means a pregnancy growing in one of the floppy intubes rather than in the uterus where it should be growing. And she's just about to go to the operating theatre for a lap proscapy, which means the surgeons are going to put a little camera in her abdomen, and probably going to remove the tube where the ectopic pregnancy is growing. At 830, having had the handover from the night team, me, the registrar or resident if you're American and the consultant or attending if you're American, we all head over to the gynecology ward to see our patients on the ward round. The ward round itself involves seeing the patients in their beds, finding out how they've been overnight and how they're progressing, and having a look at their blood results and observations or vital signs to make sure everything's all right. Our lady with the ectopic pregnancy is just about to be taken to theatre for her operation. And so we say hello to her and wish her the very best for that. As the SHO or senior house officer on the ward, it's usually my job to type up the notes as we're going around and seeing the patients. And thankfully, the 10 hours a day that I've spent since the age of five sitting in front of a computer is really cramed me up for this moment. And so I managed to keep up with typing the notes as the consultant or registrar or speaking to the patient. And at this point, if there's anything I don't understand about the patient's diagnosis, investigations, management, anything like that, I just asked the consultant or registrar a question after we've seen the patient and they're usually very happy to explain things as we go along. We've finished seeing the three patients on the ward round by around 9 a.m. When the consultant and the registrar leave to go to the labor ward to deal with the obstetrics side of things, that leaves me manning the gynecology ward along with our team of wonderful nurses and healthcare assistants. For the rest of the day, my job is to deal with any queries that arise on the ward and to see patients who've come in for a gynecology review via the emergency department or via their general practitioner. So it is 10 a.m. and I've just got the first to bleep from one of my colleagues in the emergency department on our secure messaging app thingy. He's just seen a lady in A&E, she's 21 years old and she's about eight weeks pregnant and she's gone to A&E because she's got some growing pains up in the left area of fossa and also some bright red vaginal bleeding. Now the guys at A&E are worried that she might possibly have an ectopic pregnancy and so they've put in a cannula, they've sent off some bloods and are going to send her up to the gynecology ward where we're going to review her. When she arrives here, the nurses check her vital signs to make sure she's stable and then I see her in our clinic room. I take a history to confirm what symptoms she's getting and assess for any risk factors for ectopic pregnancy and then with her consent and one of the nurses as a chaperone, I examine her abdomen to see if there's any tenderness in any particular area and then look inside the vagina with a speculum to check for any signs of bleeding at the neck of the womb. All that seems very healthy and normal with no signs of active bleeding and so the next step is to get her an ultrasound scan to check how babies doing and whether baby is growing in the right place. So she's just had the ultrasound and thankfully it's confirmed a viable intra-uteroine pregnancy which means the pregnancy is growing inside the womb. And so from our point of view, that's pretty reassuring. It's not an atopic pregnancy and we can send her home with a bit of reassurance and if you does have the pain or bleeding again then she can always come back and we can reassess her. After seeing this lady, I document everything on our computer system and just as I finished doing that, I get a call from a GP wanting some advice. So I've just gotten off the phone with a GP who went to some advice about a lady that he's worried about. This lady's got pinned right in ectfossus for the right groin and also she's had some nausea and a bit of vomiting over the last few days. And especially because this lady already has a known right ovarian sister. So she's got a cyst of benign cyst growing on her right ovarian. The GP's worried that maybe she's got a very entortion which is when the ovarian sort of twists in on itself and that can be really painful in cause nausea and vomiting. And I can also be quite dangerous as if the blood supply to the ovarian completely disappears then the ovarian die and the croes and that would be a bad thing. So I've asked the GP to send her into the emergency department as soon as possible and then the guys and girls in ED are gonna stabilise her, make sure she's fine, do some bloods, exclude possible appendicitis because it could be information of the appendix that's causing this but most likely she's gonna end up getting a guinea team review. While waiting for this lady to arrive, the registrar and I grab a quick coffee in hospitals amazing restaurant timeout. Alright so here we are in timeout, timeout is the hospital's restaurant and of all the hospitals I've ever worked in, it's probably the nicest restaurant because it's very reasonably priced, there's always a load of stuff going on. The scones in this hospital are actually probably the best in the region. Apparently people come in like around Christmas time just for the scones and the mince pies and like the hospitals, like kitchens is famous for the scones in the mince pie. So it's a great place to hang out and at the moment I'm just sitting with two of the registrars because we've got a bit of time this morning to have a little catch-up and talking about the patients that we're gonna see for the rest of the day. Afterwards I managed to get super deep on camera to talk about what his role is as the registrar or resident on call. Hello, my name's Shivali Roy. I'm the registrar on call today at the West Africa Hospital for obstetrics and gynecology. So in terms of who does what work? So gynecology patients tend to be referred to the SHO on call. So they will generally see them examine them as a form of differential diagnosis and then in most cases discuss the impression and plan with the registrar on call. The days are unpredictable, yes. So anything really in obstetrics and gynecology, particularly the obstetrics side, the workload can be unpredictable and sudden. But the West Africa being one of the smaller units in the region, generally the workload is quite manageable so it's also a tight knit, friendly unit. It's plenty of opportunity to learn, consult with a very keen to get trainees involved and any sort of hands-on work. So overall the sort of place I'd recommend for sort of middle grades, obstetrics and gynecology training and indeed for any other grade of junior doctor. At one PM we get a teaching session from one of the senior doctors about maternal sepsis and the signs and symptoms that we should look out for in the postnatal period. IE up to a few weeks after a woman's given birth and that's super helpful. And then after lunch I'm back on the ward. The lady who the GP sent to Aini with possible ovarian torsion turned out to actually have appendicitis instead and she's been taken care of by the general surgery team. After dealing with a couple of more inquiries from GP's and accepting a referral from Aini, one of the midwives in our early pregnancy assessment unit tells me about a lady she's just seen who's unfortunately had a miscarriage confirmed on ultrasound. So we've got a few different options for managing miscarriages. We've got firstly expected management, which involves waiting for the baby to pass naturally. Or we can do medical management, which involves giving a tablet that encourages the uterus to contract and expel out any pregnancy tissue that's left behind. Or the women can offer surgical management, which involves passing a suction catheter into the uterus under a general anesthetic and removing the pregnancy tissue that way. I explain the risks and benefits of these options, and the lady opts for medical management. So after talking about that in more detail, she signs a consent form and we arrange for her to have the tablets on the ward. Chasing the results of the swab doesn't take too long, and so today I end up having around half an hour to spare at the end of the day. So it's now about 4pm and we've seen all the patients have come in via GP and Aini, and we don't have anyone waiting in the waiting room to be seen. And that means that now's a good time to chase up any results of investigations that we've requested over the last few days. So often if ladies come in with vaginal discharge or any symptoms of infection, we'll take some swabs using a speculum, and then we'll send those swabs up to the lab to be grown and analyzed. And we've got this little book that we write all of these outstanding investigations in, and every day we have a look through and see if any results are back yet. And so if someone does have an infection growing in one of the swabs, we can give them a call and say, hey, you know, I'm Aliim calling from the gynecology ward. You had some swaps taken. We've seen that those swabs have grown equally, and so we can give you some antibiotics for that. And we'd offer for them to come into hospital to have the antibiotics here, or we can write to their GP and they can just grab the antibiotics from their general practice if that's easier for them. I check in with the obstetrics on call team to make sure they're all right, and then I sit down and get some extra work done. Each week I run physiology supervision for first-year medical students. So if I've got time on a given day, I can try and find the time to sit down with my iPad and a cup of coffee to read through the lecture notes, which is quite nice. So it's 5pm now, it's already dark outside, and that is the end of my gynecology on call shift, because we do those from 8 o'clock in the morning to 5 o'clock in the evening. And if there's anything to hand over, like any patients that have to see or anything left to chase up, I'll hand that over to the obstetrics on call doctor who is on from 8 o'clock in the morning till 9pm in night. And so that was a day in the life. As a gynecology junior doctor on call at West Suffolk Hospital, I hope you enjoyed it. If you like the video, please give it a thumbs up. If you haven't subscribed to the channel, please consider doing so. I'll put up playlist there of some more day in the life sort of videos if you like. And I'll put a link in the video description to the West Suffolk website. If you fancy a career in any kind of health case, special to you, then why stuff is a great place to do it? So yeah, huge thanks to West Suffolk Hospital for being kind enough to let me film on site. I hope you found that video very interesting. Thanks for watching, and I'll see you in the next one. Bye bye.
