# Does money REALLY buy happiness?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d-bbJUQ_Vro
In this video I'll be answering the age-old—but still controversial—question of whether money can buy happiness. We'll take a look at the science and some real world examples and hopefully arrive at a satisfactory conclusion. 

Casey Neistat's video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ROfBLx6bLZI&t=380s
John O'Nolan: https://twitter.com/JohnONolan

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
📚  How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali
What I Use For Analytics - https://go.aliabdaal.com/tubebuddy
🌐  My website platform (Ghost) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost
🎤  My podcast hosting platform (Transistor) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/transistor

OTHER RECOMMENDED COURSES
📔 Effortless Output with Roam Research - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/roam
📓 Building a Second Brain - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/basb

🎙 My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮  Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, can money buy happiness, does money bring happiness, happiness money, happiness, being rich, does money matter, does money make you happy, will money make me happy, does money make me happy, does money buy happiness, money and happiness, money happiness, money can buy happiness, does money buy you happiness, money can't buy happiness, ways money can buy happiness, what is happiness, how to be happy, wealth and happiness, money, wealth, 
**Date:** 2021-01-10

## Transcript
 Money. It's one of the most fundamental components of our society. It affects how we act, how we feel, and how we spend 80,000 hours of our working lives. But one of the biggest myths about money is that we think that more money leads to more happiness. We think that getting a raise a work or getting a sweet video's sponsorship dollars is going to make our lives better. But is it really that simple? How important really is money to happiness? This is one of the questions that I've been thinking about a lot recently. Especially as I started making money as a junior doctor and now as my income is increased thanks to this YouTube channel and the businesses that go around it. And when you're on this train of trying to get more success and trying to make more money and trying to get more followers and more views or whatever, it's easy to have that view that like, you know, I just need to make more money and then my life will be sorted and then I'll be happier. But if you're anything like me and you enjoy reading pop psychology books and listening to interviews with celebrities who are rich but miserable, then you'll know that this relationship between money and happiness is complicated. So the thing we're going to investigate in this video is does money actually buy happiness. Hot one, yes, money does buy happiness. Now I'm going to cheat a little bit here and I'm going to include a one-minute segment from Casey Neistat's amazing video essay where he talks about how money does buy happiness. Rich or poor, we all face these problems, problems that all call life problems. Life problems are things like finding happiness and finding love in a sense of fulfillment in your life, in a sense of purpose, maybe in your career, etc. These are life problems. These are problems we all richer poor encounter. Money won't solve these problems. But when you're broke on top of and I mean that literally and figuratively on top of these problems, you've got money problems and money problems are things like, how am I going to pay rent? How am I going to pay for food? I'm sick and can't afford you're the doctor. I can't get a job because I can't drive to work. I don't have any nice clothes to wear that job. It's things like that. And he goes on to say that if you have these money problems then they literally drown out all of the other life problems. And so if you have no money then money literally does buy happiness because it solves your problems associated with money. And so if we draw a graph of money versus happiness it starts to look a little bit like this. But then we come to an interesting question which is what is the upper limit here? Does money continue to buy happiness? Or is there a point beyond which? Having more and more money doesn't actually lead to more and more happiness. Part two, to what extent is money actually buy happiness? Now there's been a lot of studies that have tried to figure out this point of enough like how much money do you actually need to be happy beyond which kind of further money isn't actually going to increase your happiness. But the study I want to draw your attention to is one from 2018, published in the Paper Nature which is one of the world's most respected publications. And these guys looked at data from 1.7 million people in a 164 countries. So this is a lot of data that we have to help answer this question. And if we look at the data in this paper it shows us that there are three possible answers to the question of does money buy happiness. Number one, does money buy happiness? Well it depends on how you define happiness. So how do we actually define happiness? All right so if you look at these various social science studies that have been done investigating the idea of happiness, essentially they don't call it happiness, they call it subjective well-being because the actual definition of happiness changes depending on who you are. And there's also a couple of different ways of measuring subjective well-being, one of which is this idea of life evaluation. If you're trying this up for yourself I want you to imagine a ladder with the steps labeled 0 to 10 where 0 represents the worst possible life and 10 is the best possible life. Where would you rate yourself on the scale right now? This is called Cantrell's self anchoring striving scale for whatever that's worth. And this is one way of measuring someone's life evaluation. Now interestingly if you draw graph of people's kind of life evaluation and you compare it with their kind of household income you get this very interesting kind of shape and you do get a point beyond which people who have more money are not saying that they would rate themselves higher in terms of life evaluation and on average that point is about $85,000 if you look at all of the different countries they studied. But apart from life evaluation there's another way that psychologists and people who study this thing measure happiness and that's the idea of affective or emotional well-being. Now it's quite hard to accurately assess your own emotional well-being and so what they do is that they ask questions like you know in the last week how often did you love how often did you smile how often did you experience gratitude and they also ask questions like yes today were you unhappy were you stressed were you anxious and so they get a sort of combination of positive and negative emotions and turn it into a number and simplifying all of this stuff it gives us a score for someone's emotional well-being. Now if you graph people's household income against their emotional well-being you find that again there is a linear relationship but the cutoff point the point beyond which more money doesn't lead to more emotional well-being is about $55,000 per household and we can imagine why this might be like if you imagine your best possible life then usually you can imagine having a higher standard of living than you currently do which is why you probably need more money to kind of satiate that life evaluation thing whereas if you imagine emotional well-being we can all appreciate that that's probably based on things other than your career success or your salary or things like that and far more about things like relationships and your hobbies and the things that bring you enjoyment and fulfillment in your life. Point number two does money buy happiness well it depends what country you're in so earlier I said that the average point for life evaluation beyond which money stops buying happiness is about 85,000 US dollars but this varies massively depending on which country you're in so if you look at the paper they've done this for all the different countries that they looked at and they found that in Western Europe and in North America I'm in Britain which is in Western Europe the kind of satiation point for how much money no longer brings you more happiness is about 100,000 to 105,000 US dollars in Southeast Asia that number is about $70,000 and in Latin America and Caribbean it's about $35,000 point number three does money buy happiness well it depends on how many people you're looking after now obviously if you're earning $50,000 as a single person that is a very different thing then if you're earning $50,000 to support a family of four and so usually when they do studies like this and certainly in this nature paper that they've done these numbers that I've quoted for the video so far are all based on being a household of a single person so if you're a single person household your satiety point in Western Europe is about $100,000 but the way they control for different people in a household is you take the number of people in the household and you square root it and you multiply it by that household income and so if you're a household of four people square of four is two two times a hundred thousand is two hundred thousand and so your point beyond which money stops buying happiness again if you look at the sort of large population of data your point will be about $200,000 compared to the one hundred thousand dollars for someone who's just a single person household but I think the interesting thing about all these studies isn't really the point at which you have this because these are all like it's it's all based on so many averages and so much population double data and we're not saying that hey if you're earning $100,000 if you were to double your salary it wouldn't make you happier it's just that you know on average people with salary of $200,000 are no less happier than people with the salary of $100,000 because they've hit that point of association and so the overall answer to our question of does money buy happiness is that yes money does buy happiness but only up to a certain point and I think understanding some of the reasons why this might happen is really helpful because even if we're not at that satiation point of a hundred thousand dollars or whatever we can still learn a lot of lessons about why more money doesn't bring more happiness beyond that point part three beyond the point of satiety why does more money not necessarily lead to more happiness this I think is an interesting question and there's lots of different answers to it but one of the answers and a big part of the answer is something called hedonic adaptation hedonic adaptation is the famous idea that we all have a tendency as humans to quickly return to a similar level of contentment even after major positive or negative changes in our lives there's actually been a few famous studies on people who won the lottery like one loads of money in the lottery like tracking their happiness before and after and they found that after a while like they actually very quickly returned to more or less baseline levels of happiness and we've all definitely had this experience and I do it as well like for me a few months ago in September of 2020 I bought a Tesla Model 3 and yeah for the first few weeks it was like oh my god I'm driving a Tesla it's like really comfortable and super nice but now when I drive it it's still nice but like it's it's now become the new normal and so I don't get as much pleasure from it as I once did back in September when I first had the car but do I regret buying the car absolutely not I think it's great and I knew very well that I was gonna hit on a clear dab to it and so given that I know that that that is like a fundamental aspect of human psychology it means that when I get into the car or when I just kind of live my life in general I can make it a point to be more grateful for the things that I do have and so when I'm getting into the car I can think you know what this is a pretty sweet car so hedonic adaptation is one reason why money doesn't buy happiness beyond a certain point but another part of the answer is the idea of comparison the famous British economist and philosopher John Stuart Mill once said men do not desire to be rich only to be richer than other men this idea has been confirmed by lots of studies and it's called relative deprivation which essentially explains that our happiness usually depends on comparing ourselves with our friends and colleagues and so because we all have this tendency to compare ourselves with our peers like our actual happiness based on our income and how much money we have isn't actually diet tied directly to the money itself it's tied on how it makes us feel relative to our friends so if all of my friends were earning 20,000 and I'm earning 50,000 I'm going to be feeling pretty happy about that because it's just how human psychology works unfortunately but if I was earning $200,000 and all my friends were earning $500,000 I would feel pretty bad about that and studies have shown that I'm more likely to think of my life as being less happy and less meaningful because of that comparison and so bearing this in mind this tendency that we all have to compare ourselves and you know comparison is the thief of joy and anytime we compare ourselves to anyone we're just likely to either feel superior which bad but also if we compare ourselves to people who have more than us we're likely to feel inferior and I think just keeping that in mind and just you know not letting ourselves make these comparisons is generally the way forward and so for me I find that if I'm speaking to someone who's got like a $10 million business I would feel tempted to feel a little bit jealous of that be like oh you know that must be that must feel really cool but then I have to consciously remind myself no no no this whole comparison thing is bad there's no point doing any comparisons because it's just not good and actually for me over the last few months I've interviewed a lot of people who have like huge businesses and who are very kind of monetarily successful but I've also interviewed people who could have big businesses but are actively choosing to keep things a little bit more small and manageable and this is something I talked about with my friend John O'Nolan who is the CEO of Ghost which is the company that I used to host my website about why he's deliberately kept Ghost Small and isn't really optimizing for growth at all costs. I value it people based on how happy they are more than how much they make I think I know a lot of rich unhappy people okay I know a lot of people who sold their companies and became very financially successful and they're very very depressed because the company was something they loved and they sold it and they got rid of it and now they've lots of money but they played the game they bought the Lamborghini and sure enough the thrill of that war off a lot faster than they expected and now they would left with the existential question which has gone unaddressed which is what do you do now and I've seen that pattern play out so many different times so for me I care more about the freedom I have that's what I really optimized for so I would say do you know try not to compare yourself go for the goals that feel meaningful to you versus the goals you see other people going for because the worst thing you could possibly do in life is strive to achieve someone else's definition of success and only to arrive there and realize that it's not yours yeah that would be my take so those are a few things that I'm constantly reminding myself to keep in mind when I'm thinking about you know do I want to try and make more money or do I want to optimize for happiness instead actually it was this book your money or your life by Vicky Robin that really helped me change my own relationship with money and stop focusing so much on making more of it and instead thinking about things like meaning and fulfillment instead if you want to see my summary of this where I talk about my thoughts and feelings about this book that changed my relationship with money I think the link over here that'll be my book club episode if you don't want to read the book you know I have to you can just watch that video thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next one bye bye
