# My Favourite iPad Productivity Apps (2021)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dbN2Zvn0npw
Check out which iPad you should buy in 2021 here - https://youtu.be/Wg3VWhu_M6Q

In this video I'll be going over my 10 favourite productivity apps in 2021. 

📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
📚 Get a free trial of Shortform here: https://shortform.com/ali
📃 Check out Ugmonk Analog https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk
Proko's figure drawing course: https://www.proko.com/figure-drawing-fundamentals-course/

00:00 Intro
00:05 Unread
01:33 Instapaper
02:53 Drafts
03:57 Shortform
05:53 Things 3
07:27 Notability
09:09 Procreate
10:18 Day One
11:42 Kindle
12:39 Notion

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
📚  How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
What I Use For Analytics - https://go.aliabdaal.com/tubebuddy
🌐  My website platform (Ghost) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost
🎤  My podcast hosting platform (Transistor) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/transistor

OTHER RECOMMENDED COURSES
📔 Effortless Output with Roam Research - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/roam
📓 Building a Second Brain - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/basb

🎙 MY WEEKLY PODCAST - https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCdXpN-Z7LyTgc3OLo_Zw2Pg
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app. And we post clips + full episodes on the YouTube channel, so please subscribe to that!  

BE MY FRIEND:
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮  Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, favorite apps, best ipad pro apps, what's on my ipad 2021, what's on my ipad, best apps for ipad, productivity apps, best productivity apps, best writing apps, best apps for students, best apps for professionals, apps for writing, best reader app, best app for ipad pro 2020, how to use notion, notion setup, notion on ipad, ipad pro apps, ipad apps, digital notetaking, ipad notes, ali abdaal, iphone apps, apps i use in a day, shortform review, 
**Date:** 2021-01-24

## Transcript
 Hey friends welcome back to the channel. Today we're talking through my top 10 productivity apps for the iPad. Let's get into it. Number 10 on the list we've got the app on red. Now on red is an RSS feed reader for the iPad. What is an RSS feed? Well, if you follow blogs like I do, then they all have this thing called an RSS feed attached to them. And if you want you can subscribe to the RSS feed for the blog. It's sort of like subscribing to their email newsletter. And so anytime a new blog post gets released on the blog, you get like an update in your RSS feed. This is good because you can use an app called feedly like I do to subscribe to these RSS feeds. And then you can use the app on red on the iPad or a reader on macOS and on iPhone to then read your feedly stuff. So basically what this means is that any blog that I like, I can it's like I'm getting a daily digest of all of the stuff that they're publishing. One of the cool things about feedly is that you can categorize the blogs that you're subscribed to into different categories. So I've got creator, design, doctors, fans, friends, management, ethics, minimalism, newsletters, product productivity. And then if you click on one of those categories, you can see updates from all the blogs that you follow. So for example, on Cal Newports blogs, study hacks, we've got David, Melinkoff's productivity, productive lack of productivity, which is a blog post that I can read. And then when I'm done with it, I can just swipe up and it'll take me to the next one. And this is on Tim Ferriss or I can swipe to the side. And then I can just kind of go through and decide which blog posts I actually want to read. And this is a great way of keeping in touch with the blogs that I want to follow without my email inbox being inundated by subscribing to their newsletters. The other cool thing about on red is that if you're on a blog post and you don't want to read it right now, I can swipe to the side. And that gives me the option to read it later, or I prefer to do to share it into another app, which is InstaPaper. An InstaPaper is my 9th favorite productivity app for the iPad, because InstaPaper is a great read it later app. So essentially, any time I stumble across an article on the internet or in my email or on on red on the iPad, I just use the iOS share feature to share it into InstaPaper. Now this is really useful because now on InstaPaper I have a digest of everything that I have saved onto it. So usually if I come across an article on the internet, it's when I'm procrastinating from doing something. And I find that this improves my productivity because then I'm not wasting time reading the article if I actually don't want to read it, I just save it into InstaPaper. And I know it's going to be there for me when I next actually want to read it. And this is cool because since I've been using InstaPaper since June of 2019, I've got all of my highlights for all my different articles saved here on the app. So if I go to the sidebar and I hit notes, it brings up all of the highlights from everything I've read that I've highlighted since the June of 2019. So we've got loads of blog posts here. And so if I want to revisit ideas that I've already saved in the past, I can do it on the app directly. And even better, InstaPaper also syncs with readwise, which also syncs to notion. And so I've got my InstaPaper highlights in my notion database. So if for example I click on this article from Roy and Holiday, how does it feel to get everything you wanted, which I read on November the 8th, 2020, I can look through my highlights of the article. And if I want, I can read the full article again, but I've got just my highlights saved here in notion if I have any to access them. Again, in position number 8 we have the app drafts. Now draft is what I use for quick capturing any notes that I need to take on my iPad or on my iPhone or on my Mac or on my Apple Watch. It's very cross-platform. It sinks seamlessly across all these different things. And it's basically just a very quick note taking out. And I prefer drafts to any other note taking out just because of its speed. And because it's got an Apple Watch widget, which means if I'm driving or if I'm walking and I want to take a note, I can just tap the widget on the home screen of my Apple Watch. And then I can dictate whatever I want into it as I'm on the go and then it'll automatically sync up with everything. So if for example I'm listening to a book on audible and I want to sort of take note of something that that's happened. Or if I'm listening to a podcast episode and I've got some thoughts on it and I want to write something down, drafts is my go to app for this. And ultimately the stuff that I have in my draft inbox ends up being saved either to notion or to room depending on what personal use case I've got for it. But I find that both notion and Rome are too slow in terms of quick capture. Everything goes into drafts. If I need to take a note of it very quickly and then it'll go onto one of these other apps depending on how I'm using it. Moving on to number seven, we have a fantastic app called Shortform, which is what I've started using. I only discovered this a few weeks ago and it's absolutely fantastic. So Shortform gives you really good summaries of loads and loads of popular books. It's sort of like a blinkest, but I think it's a bit better than blinkest because blinkest summaries of books are usually quite surface level and you can get through them in like 20 minutes and that's fine if you want to get through a book in 20 minutes and if you want to get these surface level insights. But the thing I like about Shortform is that the insights are a lot deeper than they are on any other app that I've seen. And so if for example I look at the summary for the righteous mind by Jonathan Hight, which was one of my favorite books of 2020 more in that video. There's some way. All of the books on Shortform have a very detailed sort of one-page summary so you can get everything in a single page if you want. And the length of the one-page summary is very similar to Blinkest's 13 Blinks about a book. But the reason I like Shortform so much is that they also have form or detailed full summaries of every book on their library. And so you've got, you know, every basically every chapter in the book will have its own detailed summary and they'll have exercises and you can type stuff out for the different exercises if you want to do the exercises yourself. And it's just a generally deep away of going into a book summary. Now book summaries are not a substitute for actually reading the book, but given that we all have found too many books and are to be readless and certainly I do as well. I quite like reading the summary to decide a if I actually want to read the full book and often I do. Or if I've read a book already then I'll look at the summary just to remind myself of the highlights. Or in the third case, a lot of books have one central idea and then they just pat out the rest of the book for about 300 pages because then it becomes a book. And in that sense you don't really need to read the whole book to get the idea that you can just read a summary. So short form is a fantastic app for that. I am in the process of trying to get a partnership with them. So if by the time this video out it's done there will be an link or a coupon or an affiliate link in the video description and you'll get some freebies if you click on it. Maybe at one in which case I'll just put a link to the website. So yeah, short form amazing app for book summaries. Coming in at point number six, we have the to-do list manager, things three. Now things three is one of my favorite apps that I've had and for iPhone and I think it's gone Apple Watch budget as well, Apple Mac. Mostly because it's just really pretty and nice to use. It's quite expensive and it's iOS only. And to be honest, you don't need a fancy-to-do list manager to be used to do this. Well, in fact, a lot of the time today I use a paper-to-do list. This is the analog-to-do list thing. By Admonke, I think in the video description if you want to check it out. It's like a cool sort of physical thing in a physical keycard. But if I'm using a digital-to-do list, then things three is the one that I normally use. And the way things work is that it splits things up into three different hierarchies. So you've got areas, you've got projects and then you've got tasks within those. And so the way you can use areas, you could do it like health people, videos, business, courses, writing, so you could have the different areas of your life. I used to organize my to-do list like that. But these days, I tend to just organize it by project in order of priority. And so, for example, the book that I'm writing is number one on the list. And as you'll see, I've got these tasks to reach out to various people related to the book. I've got this project that I want to do 30 days of meditation. And I've got areas for my different team members so that I can keep a rough track of what these guys are getting up to. And the reason I like things three is that it's just nicely designed and it's a pleasure to use. And all of the sort of animations and interactions are just like really nice. And when you take something off, it's a nice sort of like a nice little animation that ticks it off for you. And it's just like the most beautiful to do list app I've ever used, which is why I like it so much. And it's great because they've got an iPad widget as well. And so I can just click on it. And I can see all of the different things that I'm trying to do today. In position number five, we have the app no-tability, which is my favorite way of taking handwritten notes on the iPad Pro. I've got a video up there, which is the one hit wonder that caused my channel to explode, called how I take notes on my iPad Pro in medical school. That goes in much more detail about exactly how I use no-tability to take handwritten notes. To be honest, these days I don't take a lot of handwritten notes on the iPad. If I'm taking handwritten notes, I use an actual pad, pen, pad, or use my analog to do list thing. But the reason I like no-tability is because if it's simplicity and because it kind of looks pretty and because of the way that it handles kind of apple pencil writing. So one of the issues that I have with good notes is that if you're trying to write with the apple pencil, it doesn't quite feel like writing on paper because it the good notes kind of smooths out your pencil strokes, which means you don't you feel like you're writing on a screen. Whereas the nice thing about no-tability is that it genuinely feels like I'm actually writing on paper and of course I've got the paper-like screen protector on top of my iPad Pro. I've been using the paper-like screen protector since 2018 and it's never let me down and it's fantastic so there'll be a link in the video description if you want to check that out as well and that is sort of a matte screen protector that means if I'm writing on the iPad it genuinely does sort of feel like writing on paper rather than writing on a shiny surface. The cool thing with no-tability is that you can import PDFs and you can annotate stuff and you can highlight things and it's got like a search feature as well where you can search through your handwritten text which is kind of cool and yeah I've just been using no-tability for such a long time. I've got all my medical notes, my obstetrics and gynecology notes, stuff from six mad at my company, YouTube channel related things, books, random PDFs of books that I've procured on the internet, various things related to medicine, various things related to my part time, YouTube or Academy is basically my go-to place for any handwritten notes that I need to take on the iPad. In position number four we have the app Procreate. Now you might be wondering, why is this on my list of productivity apps? And the reason it's on my list of productivity apps is because I define productivity as making progress towards the goals that I find meaningful in an efficient way while having fun along the way. And one of my goals for 2021 is to become a concept artist. I need to be able to illustrate scenes from some of my favorite fantasy books. And so with my art teacher Alessandro we've been using Procreate because when we're on a zoom call I can share my screen on the iPad and I can kind of draw stuff. And so recently the thing we've been working on is human anatomy. So firstly I'm doing an online course by ProCo. I think I'm going to be interviewing on this channel at some point. An online course about gesture drawing that'll be linked in the video description if you want to check it out. And then with my art teacher Alessandro we're working on things like human proportions and understanding the underlying anatomy which is a good for a back to first year anatomy revision. And just trying to get to a point where I can competently draw people because like my dream for this concept art is to be able to illustrate a scene from Mistborn for example where Kelsey or is like writing the winds or you know a scene from the store my archive where a caladin is holding his spear and all of that needs a good knowledge of being able to draw people. So that's what we've been using Procreate for. At point number three we have the app day one which is what I've been using since like 2014 or something stupid like that as my journaling app of choice. And again day one is amazing because it's beautifully designed and it sinks across my Mac, my iPhone and my iPad. And so in my journal journal I have 251 different entries. Now I don't use day one as often as I should so you know I'm pretty on and off with my journaling habits you'll see see the blue sections here are the ones where I actually did some journaling. So I have periods of doing it quite regularly, periods of not doing it very much at all. Oh there was a period of a year where I did it very regularly. But it's always really nice looking back through my journal from like three, four years ago and be like oh you know what was I thinking what my thoughts and feelings back then. And the other cool thing I do a day one is that I've got a special journal for nice comments. And so if I get a really nice heartwarming comment from one of you guys on Instagram or Twitter or YouTube I screenshot it on my phone usually and I share it into my nice comments journal on day one. And so it was in 2017 that I first started putting myself out there and you can see these are the pink days where I posted a nice comment into the journal. And the other cool thing about day one is that for each journal you get a special private email address. And so for example if I get a nice comment through email all I have to do is forward the email to my special day one email address and then it will automatically get added to my nice comments journal. And so that's like a nice frictionless way of putting nice comments into my journal. So that if I'm having a bad day I can read through some of the comments and it can give me a little bit of a lift. Coming in at point number two we have the Kindle app. Kindle is one of my most used apps on the iPad because even though I have a physical Kindle and I read books on the physical Kindle in bed often it's easier to take notes from a book and to flick through a book when I'm on my iPad. And so I've got a library with lots and lots of books on Kindle and usually I'm reading them on Kindle highlighting them on a bed but if I want to take notes and then properly I'll use the app and yeah it's pretty good. And the really cool thing about the Kindle app is that it works really nicely with split screen. And so if I'm reading through a book to take notes on it or to do a book review of it that I post on my website and email newsletter I can just sort of flick through the book nicely on the Kindle app on the iPad and then I can be writing in my notes usually on notion using my book notes template. The other cool feature of the Kindle app is that you can see your highlights on Kindle very easily. So it's got the notebook feature and so with this book making of a manager I've got loads and loads of highlights and I can flick through them nicely and easily on Kindle and then I can use those highlights to build my own book notes around in notion. And that brings us to my number one productivity app for the iPad which unsurprisingly is notion itself. No they are not sponsoring this video unfortunately in fact no one is sponsoring this video so I hope you guys enjoy the ad free experience but I use notion for almost everything in my life especially all the stuff that relates to creation and website and YouTube content and ideas and courses and helping my team helping out with things. It's just the ultimate half of everything thought of you got video ideas, my book, readwise, the part on YouTube I had to mean my life operating system, sponsored videos, video schedule, team home, projects, task list, SOPs and video pages, channel hub courses, not of a thinking my podcast books. And yeah this just a zillions of things to go over with notion but this video has gone on long enough. If you haven't seen how I use notion for various things I've put together a short playlist for you over here which has all of my notion specific videos about how I use notion to supercharge my productivity. Thank you so much for watching and I'll see you in the next video. Bye bye.
