# Answering Uncomfortable Questions With My Personal Assistant
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dlKBmzQbiyU
In this video my ex-personal assistant Elizabeth and I will be answering some of your questions. Here's the second half of the video: https://youtu.be/XAxrRK1hAeo

Check out @elizabethfilips 

📚 Overlap by Sean McCabe: https://geni.us/lvyrbp5
📚 The 4 Hour Work Week by Tim Ferriss: https://geni.us/hM7R
📚 So Good They Can't Ignore You by Cal Newport: https://geni.us/akZEnN

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

PART-TIME YOUTUBER ACADEMY:
🍿 My 6-week live online course - https://academy.aliabdaal.com

MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
✍️ The best summaries of books (Shortform) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
📚  How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound

🎙 My weekly podcast - https://www.notoverthinking.com
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/friendzone/
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮  Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.notoverthinking.com), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://email.aliabdaal.com).

🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, elizabeth filips, Q&A, ali abdaal Q&A, ali abdaal personal life, ali abdaal questions, ali abdaal vlog, ali abdaal life, ali abdaal tips, productivity tips, q and a, ali abdaal productivity, elizabeth phillips books, ali abdaal personal questions, ali abdaal interview questions, ali abdaal qna, ali abdaal life advice, ali abdaal wife, ali abdaal dating, ali abdaal elizabeth filips, ali abdaal personal assistant, 
**Date:** 2021-07-18

## Transcript
 What is the most awkward thing that Ali has ever asked you to do for him? Hey friends, welcome back to the channel. Today I'm joined by my I was going to say lovely assistant, but that sounds like crass. Bye bye. Bye my personal assistant, Elizabeth, linked to a YouTube channel down below. We're going to be answering some of the questions that you, that you guys sent in via Instagram, you dirty dogs. All right, before we get started, do you want to introduce yourself to the friends? Yes, hi, so I'm Elizabeth. I'm Ali Abdullah's ex personal assistant. I'm also a fourth-year medical student and I have a YouTube channel too. Great. Why are you my ex personal assistant? Yes, or my role kind of changed recently. So, get out with your personal assistant for a bit over a year. I think the last few months, I'm not doing that anymore. So, actually, luckily, thankfully. Okay, right. So, question number one, are you gay since you have no wife? I think that's dark. It's a bit too dark. Oh, that was directed to me. I think I would be gay if I had a wife. That's not that's quite funny. What do you think about her YouTube channel? It has towards you. Oh, yes. What do I think about a YouTube channel? I think it's cool. I watch all of the videos. It has an absolute life. I comment on all of the videos. Hi, my name is Elizabeth, and I'm a medical student living in London. Oh, sorry, medical student and our test living in London. And today, I want to talk to you about why I just love, love, love, why I love notion and taking notes from all of the books that I read. That's anything right, you're trying to do. You've nearly watched just one of these videos. I'm counting. I haven't done my intro in a month. Oh, like, so I don't know how to say this, but I'm leaving medical school. That's good, isn't it? Okay, cool. I think it's great. I think it's good. You started during the first cohort of a part-time YouTuber at Calmed. I think Elizabeth is a shining example of a success story from what happens with consistency and putting in the work and stuff like that. Oh, you worried Elizabeth might become a better YouTuber than you. Yes, genuinely. Honestly, this is like really worries me all the time. The thing that worries me about this is that, like Elizabeth is just grown so ridiculously fast. Like it took me six months and 52 videos to hit my first thousand subscribers. And then, like, it was, it was pretty fast growth, but it was like painfully slow to compare to where you are, like, six months of how long you've been doing YouTube, like six months? Eight months? Eight months? Eight months? Eight months and, like, 80k subs, something like that. Not quite there yet. Not quite there, so many 5k subs. It's pretty ridiculous. I worry about this all the time. Is this something you worry about? Oh, no. I guess you won't worry about it, I feel like more. I do think it's going to happen. I still think there's anything to worry about. Okay. Question 5, how did you guys meet? You want to tell the story? Oh, yes, that's two story. So we met over text, Instagram DMs. I slid into your DMs. You did? That's the wrong story, yes. So basically, okay, this is a long story. So Ali was the first celebrity that I ever followed. Because I don't actually use Instagram that much. And I, sorry, YouTube videos, when I followed you on Instagram, because he seemed cool. That, this is what I thought at the time that it's just weekly. And then you were doing an Instagram live in your house. This is peak lockdown, something like March 2020. And you were doing put ups, which is when I almost shuts off the Instagram life. But I glad that I, I was, I'm glad that I didn't because then you announced that you were looking for a PA. And I just left my job at suffrags because of the lockdown. So I was looking for a job at the time. So then I wrote you a DM. This is like 3 a.m. Something like that. I wrote you a DM saying that you still have it. You've appointed to have it. Find the DM. Okay, you have it. I'll find it while you keep it in the store. So then I just wrote, oh, hey, Ali, heard that you're looking for a PA. I'm looking for a job. Let's do it. And then I woke up kind of the next morning, realizing how utterly embarrassing that was. So I sent you an additional email with my CV and details about why I would be a potentially a good person for the role. And then you called me that night, I think. Um, so yeah, a few hours later, Ali wrote me a DM saying that. Yep, that's chat. And then you called me and I got hired on this spot basically. It was the same evening. Yeah, it was the same evening. Yeah, so, so, okay, so this is the message that you sent. Oh, hey, Ali, med student at KCL here, saw your live and you mentioning you were planning on getting a PA. Don't know how seriously were, or if you read your message of a request for that matter, but just wanted to drop a line in the slim chance that you see this. Hit me up if you want to discuss it, thanks an advance and if necessary. I replied like the same day. Hey, saw your email, you free for a quick call tonight. Oh, this must have been after midnight. Yes, yeah, yeah. So the next morning, I was like, hey, saw your email, you free for a quick call tonight. Ah, the perks of quarantine. Absolutely, let's do it. Let me know when. It's okay. Now, oh yeah, sure, phone slash video call. And then video call started 21 10. Is that how long it lasted? I think it was like nine PM. Yeah, it was a must have been like nine PM. And then you sent me a bunch of like your medical illustration. Yeah, that came up in the call. Oh, yes. Then I sent you a list of things I wanted to pay to do. Yep. And you said, yep, that's all fine. Oh, I told you that I do it. Then you were hired for a bunch of you said. That was, that was in our call. And I was like, oh, Ali, you don't need to pay me for this by the way, inside get used to it. At the same time, you were saying that, oh, this is going to be your salary. I don't know what's on the message. You said it was on the message. Also, money wise, no pressure in the beginning. If it works out good, if not, then let's say this is on me until I'm worth it. Okay. But you sent that, like, as I was typing and was like, oh, yeah, money wise, I can offer a hundred pounds per day. That's what the other guy started on. And then we can do it one month trial to begin with one day a week if that works for you. Yeah. And then you were like, oh, okay, I should have stayed quiet. That would be perfect. Thanks, honey. I'll go through your list. It's up. Oh, that's how we met. Yeah. So, you said into my DM's, I replied, we had a DM conversation in that an Instagram video call. Yes. And then... I don't email. There was a email involved. Was this a email involved? No, I said you're an email on your account. And that's all the email. Yes. That was not my job. Your email said you'd see the attached to it. Yes. That's the one. She didn't know it right. It's still home. Okay, next question. Why do you need an assistant? I was both, why do you need an assistant? Oh, what me? No, it's for you. Okay. It's obvious what I need an assistant, right? Look, I'm kind of a big deal. You've recently hired an assistant as well, though. So... I don't have an assistant at the moment. Okay, but like, why does one need an assistant? I think it's to take care of these small administrative tasks answering emails. For you, I think it's mostly emails and ban mail and organizing things and getting you to the right place at the right time. You can't be quite forgetful. Okay, what about you? Me. Why did you decide you wanted to pay? It was kind of the same thing. I think once you get started having a social media presence, there's so many emails, sponsor requests. People want to have you on their channel or having their podcast or kind of connect. And I think organizing all that just takes a huge amount of time, especially because I love to spend the time that I have kind of answering my YouTube comments, for example, while I don't necessarily want to give the same amount of attention to my sponsors or people who want to talk to me. But email, so I think that's why I would like a PA. Okay, honestly, I think everyone, if you make money, you have a job by you and all the student, and you feel like, you know, anxious, stressed overworked, busy, you feel like you're spending a lot of time on your email, you feel like you're a bit like having got much time, you feel like you're often doing like admin things that you don't really enjoy filling out forms, sorting out bookings, arranging logistics or travel. If you ever find yourself in that position, even if you're not like an internet creator or an entrepreneur and stuff, I think everyone would benefit from having at least a part-time PA, even like someone that you pay for like four hours a week to just go through your inbox and file all of the random crap and flag up anything that's particularly interesting. I think that's incredibly high ROI return on investment, and basically anyone would benefit from it. This is something we're actually potentially working on, of course, about more details about that later, but genuinely, I think this course is going to be called the life-changing magic of a personal assistant, and it's basically going to be like, how and why everyone should have a personal assistant part-time for it, for around about four hours a week to begin with, and then you can ramp it up over time if you need to. What have you learned while working with Ali and how has it helped you? Um, I've learned a lot. I think I didn't know almost anything about social media when I first started working for you, so I think that was a huge thing that I learned. I learned to put myself out there, um, I had to talk to people, um, I learned all the wrong ways for yourself out there, and how not to talk to people. Um, I think you've helped with, definitely with not caring about what people think, um, that's been a huge thing that I think I've learned from you, and yeah, just two ship things before you're ready. I think that's been one of the most life-changing things for me. Just to shit things before you're ready. Ship will pee, sorry. Okay, well, okay fine. Okay. What is Ali's most annoying trait? Why did we begin? To have to just pick one, um, there's quite a few. Okay, top three. That's going to be hard to narrow down. Top five. Okay. Um, you're fidgeting? My bot? You're fidgeting. My fidgeting? Yes, you never sit straight. You're always like shaking, even when you're filming, like now I'm sure your legs always like doing the jumping thing. I always have a song playing in my head. If you can multitask, I think so. Wow, okay. Okay, so fidgeting is number one. Fidgeting is number one. You're a sponsorate to emails, texts, or anything like that, is absolutely horrendous, inexcusable. Um, fine. How much do you request names? How much have you requested names? Yes. Wow. Do you have any plans? It's all coming out now. That's fine. Um, how quickly you say yes to very certain things? You're, I think you get into like a range ofments very, very soon, without actually thinking about it. And then rangements? Yes, with like people or things, or, um, yeah. It's left to everyone else to kind of sort. The mess out after? Okay, sure. Fine. Um, guilty of charge? Yeah, I think this is very helpful for us. What are you going to say? I'm going to try for it. Propensity to change my mind. Oh, that's the top main thing. Sorry, sorry, sorry. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. This is the main thing that I absolutely kills me about you. I remember when you decided, okay, okay. So, when you first decided you're going to the US, and then I had to, you don't know how many emails I put together, how much I was looking to get you like into the US and many stuff, and where you're going to move in America, and all the people contacting you and arranging calls about it, and just like organizing your life in the US. And then, like two weeks later, you decided you were going to Australia. So then we got all the emails from Australia, and preparing where in Australia, contacting the like entrance methods and to get into different kind of hospitals, and what kind of training you would need, and how you would need to transfer things, and visas, and all of that stuff. Um, lawyers, so then you decided you were going to travel the world. So when we went through the stage of, oh, what are countries that would like to go to, and contacting people in those different countries, and there were in boxes about all of these things, and, um, yeah, organizing all that. Then you decided you're going to move to Dubai, which was, thank God, this was around the time I was not your personal PA, so this did not directly happen to you anyway. If I was to show it, that I'm speaking up there. They can join in Slack. Um, so yeah, then you decided you're going to move to Dubai, which then got canceled. So now you're supposed to be moving to London, let's see how that goes. But I think that is what kills me, is that you'll decide on these huge projects, and I will do all of the work for it. And then next time I tell you about it, you don't even realize that you don't remember what you've said, we're at the moment, you're dead serious. So I think this is why I told that, when you got hired, and I think this is what I realized, is that whenever you use, but give a big project. My first question is, is this happening? The answer to that is always a flat, yeah, of course, it's happening. It's serious. And then I give it 48 hours before I invest my time. Because in the beginning, I wasn't even logging these hours that I was working for you. Like, if you didn't use the work, then I wouldn't get paid. You didn't know about this, this is my fault. But that's kind of why I was very frustrated. So, in fairness, most of the reasons for the mind-changing work, somewhat COVID-related. Sure. Um, Australia closed the borders because of COVID. America became a myth because of COVID, although that wasn't really the main reason. But I'll try buying and do that. Fine. Fine. What is something you've learned from your assistant? Hmm. What have I learned from you? Let's take a time. I think too much time. Wow. Well, I literally listed these six things. Wow. I think you're very good at making people feel, oh, Dan, you're here as well. Hi. I think you're very good at making people feel at ease and comfortable. And I really admire the way that you lead some of the sessions of a part-time YouTuber Academy. You can very much relate to the struggles that people are having on like an emotional level. And that's something that I struggle with at times. Maybe, you know, one or two times a year, a struggle to relate to people on an emotional level. I think you do a really good job of that. And so, I like, and I also like really admire your positivity and enthusiasm and stuff. And generally, when you enter a room or when you enter a Zoom call, the whole vibe is just a little bit uplifted. And so, I try and model part of that off of you. Oh, that's really nice. It's good to not know that. Wow. Thank you. Anyway, it's all good. How is Ali like a boss? It depends. At the start, you were very different. And now I think you're very different. I think, as you've grown, you've got to know not worse. Oh. Yes. Awesome. I think, I got the start when you were a boss. As in, like, you were just, it was very small team. Or there was just kind of four of us. And you're kind of figuring out how things were going. I think you were, I think, more kind of open. And you were communicating, I think, in a better way than you do now. I feel like now, maybe because there's more of us. There is more of a hierarchy. And I think that, yeah, things are a bit more corporate now. I would say. And yes, fun, then they were at the start. Okay. I mean, yeah, the start when you're sort of like three-slashful people figuring out, as you go along versus when you're a 12, four-time staff, who, you know, payroll is reliant on not on the business going well. Yeah, I know, you know, structures. Yeah, as a boss, you're more like a boss now than you were at the beginning. At the beginning of your, like, a friend. You said, I'm a boss. A funniest moment when working together. I don't know. You're all that funny. I mean, we laugh a lot. All the time. We'll just be laughing at you. You have to make sense. You're doing things. That are funny. I'm sorry. I'm joking. I'm joking. I'm joking. I'm joking. I'm joking. You know, I'm joking. So funnier this moment when working together. Well, I think I can't think of anything. Right, stay. Okay, great. Let's get that one. Top three tips for someone looking to leave the nine to five. Oh, isn't this your feels of expertise? You've just left the nine to five. Well, a scriptman's quote. Yeah, true. Um, I have a quick method. I'm going to call school. I've been an interruption. I think the easiest way would be to start a YouTube channel, which I know is not for everyone, perhaps. But at least in my experience, and in the experience of a lot of people that I know that has been a very easy way to leave the nine to five. But does that make sense at all? I mean, it does, but I don't think. Sorting to channel is easy. It's not. It's not going to be easy. It's not starting a YouTube channel. Okay, absolutely not the part that I would go down. If I was interested in leaving the nine to five. I think you and a few other people that we know had a very good combination of luck, working on very advantages to make that work. But that certainly is not advice that would apply to people across the board. I think it's a good start. Because to leave the nine to five, you presumably want to make a passive income. Sure. And leverage would help with that. And I think YouTube is a great platform to create leverage. And then you can start. So the average YouTube channel takes 152 videos to hit thousands of subscribers. Okay. You'd recommend people. Okay. Okay. Okay. I think your impression of how easy to grow on YouTube is massively skewed. And is absolutely not representative. Okay. Okay, that's true. Actually, no, no, no, that's true. Hmm. How would I recommend that someone leave the nine to five? Okay. Let's scratch the first answer. Um, I think what I would recommend is perhaps this is also quite cheesy, but just skills. Um, let me think about this actually. I'm going to answer it. Top three tips of someone looking to leave the nine to five. I think really the way you leave the nine to five is by making money outside of the nine to five. That will sustain your living. And how do you make money outside of the nine to five? Well, I've got a video over there called how to make money on the internet. The three levels. Uh, basically you can learn a skill and then sell that skill to people who will pay for that skill. For example, you could decide to learn video editing and then offer your skills to YouTubers who will want to pay for video editing to be done. And then if you can make enough money through freelancing, that particular service, then you can make enough money to leave the nine to five. I'd recommend reading Tim Ferrisses, the four hour workweek, which talks all about their deal approach, delegate, eliminate, automate, and then leverage. Well, something like that, uh, which is sort of like a fairly, you know, step by step playbook on how to get enough career capital to leave the nine to five. Another great good book is Cal Newport so good. They can't ignore you. His basic skill is that if you can just get really good at your job, then you acquire career capital and then you can cash in that career capital to, for example, work remotely or, for example, get a job doing something else. Potentially, but really the key is to be able to sustain your living and then take that job. Generally, my advice would be to try and do the side hustle thing. While you've got a full time job, the nine to five. You've got plenty of time in the weekends and evenings to learn skills, try and sell them potentially make products, loads of more details in that video. You shouldn't quit the job and then figure out how to make money. It should be figure out how to make money. So you end up in this overlap stage, friend of mine called Sean is written a book called Overlap, linked in the video description as well, which is all about this. You overlap, you're nine to five with your ability to make money online and then, generally online and then you can leave the nine to five once you've sustained your living. Can I give you some answer for this, too? Please. Okay, so I think my issue with this is I read this tweet, I was really, really funny, and said, oh, I left my nine to five to create my own kind of company or start my own business, and instead of being stressed from nine to five, now I get to work 100 hours a week. I hate my life, but I've generated all of this, I've designed to help the stress. So do you think there's a slight rematch? There's a how many hours of work do you work? Right, week, do you work? Now a lot more than you did as a doctor, I think. Oh, yeah, but it's not about that. I think, but I didn't, I didn't leave the nine to five so that I could work less. I agree, but I didn't have five so that I could work in things that I cared about. And that ends up meaning I work more, but I care more about this things. I agree, I just don't know how realistic that is for everyone, and I also think that we tend to kind of, for a man's eyes. If you, if you can make money outside of your nine to five, and it's a standstill living, what's stopping you from quitting? I think, okay, okay, I will agree with that that everyone in two some extent can potentially design something that is similar to that, but I do think there is an issue within the nine to five in itself. I think we remind to size the fact that work is bad and resting is good, or working at a nine to five is bad within itself, and if you're feeling unhappy in general, does it have to be because of your job? Can you not, before designing to quit the nine to five and doing something else? Maybe there's other things that you can generate outside of that nine to five, or change your mindset about your work in itself, or change some small things about your job that would make you like it, rather than deciding to quit it, and other things would be better. Okay, I see that. So one of your tips for someone looking to leave the nine to five is to reconsider looking to leave the nine to five. Yes, and I would say that it might look very cool on the outside to see people doing their own thing and traveling and working, or having these huge businesses, but I would question that perhaps the things that they dislike about their nine to five are things that happen to those people too. So long work hours, stress, pressure, things that are next. Well, I would just want to question that person a bit further. Like why do they want to be five? What do they not like about it? Because perhaps those easier ways to feel happier in the end, which surely is the aim rather than having a nine to five. Okay, sure. Yeah, I agree. I feel it's less about the nine to five in particular, and more about like the feelings around the nine to five. We can address in different ways. Yeah, cool. Why did you and Elizabeth want to work with Ali? At the time, I thought you were quite cool. I did a respect to YouTube channel a lot. You did. Yes, I'd watch two videos of yours. One of them was Kendall versus iPad. I think one of them was a study video or something like that. I thought you were very genuine. I thought you came across quite honest. I loved your editing, which I appreciate. I love the past tense of all of these. Do you want to say that you're very careful with your own present tense of yours? I love your editing. Bye. Sorry. I'm joking. I'm joking. I'm joking. And yeah, sorry, I'll also chain of thoughts. So yeah, I saw all of these things. I thought, oh, this guy's quite cool. And you are obviously a medic and a doctor. I thought it would be cool to work with you. Great. What is the most awkward thing that Ali has ever asked you to do for him? It's shit. Let me think. Oh, can I be honest? Sure. Well, okay. One awkward thing that you asked me to do for you is get you a heart balloon for Valentine's Day for yourself. That was supposed to be for someone else. Yep. For your YouTube channel? That was quite awkward. It wasn't too awkward. Like in the in the context of you, that was perfectly normal. But I'm thinking from like an outsider what's a awkward thing that I've had to do for you. I think that that would that's what I would have thought. I would have thought the marriage in box is fairly high on the list. Oh, like why? Why is there's not a question? Oh, I, I've lost it. I've lost it. Oh, I don't believe you forgot. It's done. So I'm from now. Yeah, I think the marriage in box is the most awkward annoying, frustrating thing about you. What is the marriage in box for the uninitiated? I apologize so much if this is the first time that you're hearing about this. But I need decided to get married. And one of his, the way that he thought that the way that he thought that he would approach this was to announce on this channel and on every other social media platform that he was looking to get married. And any interested party may contact him via email also sending a photographic proof of their existence and what they look like and he would get back to them. Um, what was that email address? Married at alio.com. Cool to check. Yes. It's still open. It's still open. He can still apply. That was very, very frustrating. Why was it frustrating? Where do I begin? Um, I do think that you set up false expectations. Um, I do, there's a lot of things that I have issues with. One is the false expectations. How many emails did you respond to? Uh, I didn't say I'd respond to people. Oh, okay. So, but I don't think you made it clear in the beginning. What would happen? Because I think some girls took this very, very seriously. They sent like videos of themselves. Really? Yes, YouTube videos that they've edited are like applying for you. Why are you telling us these? They're all in your marriage tab. Oh, I needed to do some of these on Slack. I need to look at this more often. Yep. So people take it very, very seriously. Okay. And then they follow up with four emails like Ali, why aren't you answering? Because they think the way that you say it is not that oh, I have this email book inbox that my personal system will see. And maybe I'll check these once in a while. And I'm going to probably ignore all of her Slack messages with links to your videos, and ignore her promise of for these emails. And chances are one in a million that will actually see this, but if you want to apply, before you saying, oh, I have a marriage email email me. It sounds as though you're opening a contact with you, a path to contact you, which actually doesn't exist. And that can be very hurtful for people. If you're saying that why did you not like me? What is wrong with me? I sent me all of this while you're not following up. And that very, very much frustrated me. I was extremely awkward. Also, I think there's a power dynamic in being a celebrity and wanting to opening yourself up to dating other people. I think there's perhaps things that you should consider that come into play, where in people think that they know you or perhaps know a lot more, definitely know a lot more about you than you know about them. And I think that needs to be navigated with a bit more delicacy, then perhaps you give the topic at all. So I think it's very like casual about it, which I guess is fine, but when other just feelings are involved, then I get frustrated with you. So what do you mean by navigate with delicacy? I think if we were getting on a date with anyone and they were to Google me, they could find out a lot about me. That's slightly different. But you're announcing it on this platform. So it's guaranteed that everyone knows that you have 2 million subscribers, that you are and like binge watch all of your videos and a lot more about you. So what's the, like, how would, what's a more delicate way of approaching this? I don't think social media is the way. I don't think that it's impossible to find a wife through that means. I just don't think for the collateral damage that it causes, it's a very efficient way to do it and it can perhaps put you at a position where you meet people who are perhaps not in it for the right intentions or who are misled towards thinking that they know you and on the other hand, it, I did do things a bit bizarre to like go on first date with someone who knows so much about you, but you know nothing about them. Um, it's what you sound like for like, most people Google their partner before first date or so have heard and so that that risk is always going to be there. That's true, but yeah, that's how I find it awkward. Okay, happy. Wow, you're really winning. Great. Um, why did Elizabeth get her job and what made her stand out? Oh, okay. Elizabeth got the job because she deemed me in a sort of friendly way and it, like, immediately after I settled on Instagram live that I wanted to hire a personal assistant, and then he followed up with an email that had a CV and he seemed pretty like on it and you're a medical student and I have worked in medical students and I wasn't medical student so I knew that that means you have like a baseline level of trustworthiness and knowing what to do about stuff and also like the fact, I think a big part of what made me trust you with all of my like email and card details and all that stuff, it made like from day one is that I know you have a number with a general medical council and so like if you were to do something really bad, I can make your life however that works and then you were going to make mine and so I was like great. This is actually a perfect way to trial having a personal assistant and then you were responsive to messages and you came across recently well in that like 9 p.m. Instagram video call that we had not to cooperate and I think the thing that you said that sold me on this because I was very unsure, I was like, I'm not sure, you were like, look, what's the worst that can happen? It's trying out for a month. If I'm really bad, you can fire me, no questions asked and it's fine, but at least you've tried it out. How I was like, that's actually a very good point. Yeah, okay, you're hired. So that's what made you stand up. All right, so we've answered 16 questions so far. We have another 20 questions to answer. Those are going to be in the Q&A over at Elizabeth's channel so click that video over there if you want to find it and subscribe to her channel and stuff and we'll see you in the next video. Bye-bye.
