# Dating, Regrets and Boxing - 2 Million Subscriber Q&A
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dxRmw5ZumU0
It's been 4 years, 395 videos + 131 million views since I uploaded my first video so here's a Q&A to celebrate hitting 2 million subs! Enjoy :)

Links
2 Million Subscriber Giveaway - https://aliabdaal.com/giveaway/
Science of Harry Potter: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YF00S6U_C1g
How to spin an Apple pen: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TvytweSNkiE
Wanna work with us? Apply here https://apply.workable.com/aliabdaal/?lng=en
How I Type Really Fast: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1ArVtCQqQRE
Skillshare Typing Class: https://www.skillshare.com/classes/Triple-Your-Typing-Speed-The-Ultimate-Guide-to-Keyboard-Mastery/855773348/projects?via=teaching

Timestamps
00:00 Intro
00:34 What’s the biggest lesson you’ve learned on the journey to 2 million subs?
01:03 Would you still recommend starting a YT channel in 2021?
01:32 An update on how much your channel makes with 2M subs?
01:54 If I asked 15 year old Ali what his biggest dream was what would he say?
02:26 Your favourite YT video you’ve uploaded and why?
02:46 What do you think is the hardest thing about being a YouTuber?
03:15 Do you see yourself making more casual videos like vlogs?
03:33 Is there any new type of content you want to delve into?
04:04 Do you like being called productivity guru?
04:55 When are you boxing another YouTuber?
05:08 Are you planning on hiring more members to the team?
05:30 What’s been your favourite moment since starting YT?
06:00 What’s your view on authenticity?
07:34 You and Ben Francis, what’s going on there?
07:55 What’s the one tech device you want but don’t have yet?
08:11 Would you rather have 5 Sheens or one 5 year old Sheen?
08:24 What should I do to increase my typing speed?
08:36 What’s the one thing you wanted to achieve but couldn’t?
09:04 If you could collab with anyone right now, who would it be?
09:16 What’s the best advice you’ve received?
10:12 How do you want to leave a legacy/impact on the world?
10:49 If you could start again, what’s the one thing you’d do differently?
11:16 If you could have one takeaway for the rest of your life which would it be?
11:29 What challenges are you facing from managing 11 people?
12:17 What’s your biggest goal in life?
12:31 Name three goals you’re currently working on
12:59 What was your biggest growth factor?
13:33 What’s been the biggest challenge when you’ve felt like you’ve needed to course correct?
14:38 What was your worst moment as a YouTuber?
15:16 If you weren’t a YouTuber what would you be in your active or passive income?
15:42 What would you do differently if you were to start again from zero?
16:26 What’s the one thing you really wanted at 0 subs?
17:00 If you could change your first video on YT what would you change it to?
17:19 If you had to choose would you give up your med profession for YT and vice versa?
19:22 How many more years do you see yourself doing this?
19:54 How do you visualise yourself in 5 years?
20:37 Who’s your favourite employee?
20:57 Everyone has a role model, who’s yours?
21:14 One quote that stuck with you when you read it?
21:25 What advice do you have for entrepreneurs starting out?
21:50 After setting up various passive income sources, what are your next plans?
22:17 How much is your stock portfolio worth now?
22:26 How is your book writing process going?
23:03 Did your friends/family start to behave differently around you since becoming famous on YT?
23:26 Choosing a major
24:07 What advice would you give to someone who’s struggling to start YT due to family’s and friends’ opinions?
24:43 Share something you’re sad about, something you regret and something you’re anxious about

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

PART-TIME YOUTUBER ACADEMY:
🍿 My 6-week live online course - https://academy.aliabdaal.com

MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
✍️ The best summaries of books (Shortform) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
📚  How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound

BE MY FRIEND:
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, 1 million subscribers, 2 million, 1 million subscribers how much money, ali abdaal productivity, ali abdaal typing, ali abdaal kindle, ali abdaal day in the life, ali abdaal investing, ali abdaal keyboard, ali abdaal study, ali abdaal books, ali abdaal notion, ali abdaal Q&A, ali abdaal questions, Ali abdaal personal life, ali abdaal q&a, ali abdaal q n a, ali abdaal assistant, ali abdaal channel, ali abdaal work, working for youtubers, 
**Date:** 2021-08-08

## Transcript
 Can you share something you're sad about? Something you're anxious about and something you regret. Or I'll land a button with his fake account, Pink Paper Planner. Okay, something I'm sad about. Hey everyone, welcome back to the channel. This is the commemorative 2 million subscribers Q&A. That's what one does, one one hits a subscriber milestone. So firstly, thank you to everyone who as who is and has been a supporter and subscriber of this channel. And if you stay tuned to the end of the video, there'll be some details about a juicy giveaway. I'm going to be giving away a lot of interesting things. Anyway, we've got 27 questions from Instagram 11 from Twitter and 12 from YouTube. So in this video, I'm going to be answering 50 questions. Let's go for it. Firstly, SCF 464 says, what's the biggest lesson you've learned over the journey to 2 million subscribers? Honestly, biggest lesson I've learned is that the journey is more important than the destination. You know, if you can find ways to enjoy the thing that you're doing, are you making YouTube videos or making a blog or making a website or having a business? If you can find ways to enjoy it, then it just makes everything more fun. It makes life more fun. And it means you're much more likely to actually stick to it. I don't think there's any way I would have stuck to making YouTube videos for the last four years if I didn't find ways to make it fun. We've got Huma's maybe who says, would you still recommend starting a YouTube channel in 2021? Yes, 100% absolutely. It is easier than ever, easier than ever to grow on YouTube these days. The algorithm is very refined. The issue is that your content has to be good. Like good content rises to the top much quicker than it did back in the day. And so it is very possible to grow really well on YouTube in 2021, 2022. But your content actually has to be good. And you can check out my part-time YouTuber Academy for more info on that front. Brick Will's one, an update on how much your YouTube channel makes with 2 million subscribers. I think these days were at sense on YouTube is making somewhere between $30,000 and $40,000 a month, which is pretty good. But that only makes up maybe 10-15% of the overall revenue of the business. Probably 15% of the overall revenue of the business. Most of our revenue comes in through Skillshare classes and through our online courses. Nina Trejo says, if I asked 15 year old Ali, what his biggest dream was, what would he say? I think when I was 15, I was in the midst of being addicted to World of Warcraft. And so one of my biggest dreams would have been to join a high-end rating guild where I wasn't going to be interrupted every half an hour with my mom calling me down for food. And probably like at the time, I was also super into web design and trying to make money on the internet through some kind of web app. And so my biggest dream would have been to be able to make a living by kind of having an online internet business type thing. Okay Ashwet says, your favorite YouTube video you've uploaded so far and why. I think the favorite video that I've uploaded is probably still my kind of the science of Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone reviewed. I think that was a great video. No one really watched the video, but that's fine. That was it. It was fun one to do. I quite enjoyed doing my how to spin an Apple Pencil video. I'll put things to both those in the video description if you want to check those out. I have says, what do you think is the hardest thing about being a YouTuber? I think the hardest thing about being a YouTuber is actually just sticking to it consistently. And I think it's a lot harder in the early stages where you're not seeing that like immediate feedback and that immediate return on investment. Like right now it's pretty easy being a YouTuber, but probably the hardest thing I have to deal with is coming up with ideas consistently and dealing with hate comments. And the hardest thing is for being a YouTuber is to keep going when you're not seeing much growth. But you have to stick at it for long enough to actually experience the compounding effects of growth. And so I'd say that's probably the hardest thing. Giovanni says, do you see yourself making more casual videos like vlogs, et cetera? I actually do on my second channel. It's called Ali's Appendix. I make vlogs maybe every other week. We do like a day in the life vlog. Those are pretty casual. And we're in the process of hiring like a videographer to follow me around so that we can make vlogs about my life. And I'd like to put some of those on the main channel as well if they're interesting. Nana says, is there any new type of content you want to delve into? Yes, I'm very interested in like the whole kind of health and well-nessy type stuff. Like how do we take care of ourselves? How do we take care of our brains? I've been dabbling with things like meditation and looking into a little bit into things like spirituality, side of things and they're being mindful and making sure what we're working on is meaningful. That's the sort of stuff where I don't have much personal experience of it in that I haven't really bothered doing that stuff so far. But it's definitely an area I'm interested in an area I want to talk more about on the channel. The visual says, do you like being called productivity guru? It kind of like it's sort of a tongue-in-cheek thing. I kind of consider being a productivity guru as a little bit of a joke. To me productivity is a very all-encompassing thing. I don't see productivity as just being efficiency. I see productivity as being a combination of meaning and enjoyment and sort of the meaning and fulfillment are you working on things that we find meaningful and efficiency and enjoyment or joy or having fun. And so if someone considers me a productivity guru with that definition, that kind of helping people do more of what's meaningful to them and have fun along the way and he has to be efficient doing it. Then I think that's totally cool. I think what I don't like is when people view productivity as being the same thing as efficiency and see me as like, I'm all about efficiency at all costs. Because my whole spiel to be honest is that optimised for enjoyment, journey before destination. If you have fun doing the things that you're doing, you're just as a side effect to be more productive and you won't need to watch productivity videos. Our coup says, when are you boxing another YouTube or electromagnetic? I'm actually moving to London in about two weeks and I'm planning to take boxing slash kick boxing lessons. So once I've gotten good at that, then I might challenge a fellow youtuber to a boxing slash. Ken says, as your channel continues to grow, are you planning on hiring more members to the team? Yes, in fact, at the moment, as we speak, we are looking to hire another eight to ten members of the team. I'll put a link in the video description. If you want to check out our jobs page, most of those are based in London. We have a graphic design and position that's remote and we have a free-for-all position that's available to anyone in the world to do anything really. But you can check out the link in the video description to see what jobs are currently hiring for. Okay, Adia says, once been your most favorite moment since you started YouTube, probably when I meet up with other youtubers in real life. So like yesterday, I was, two days ago, I was hanging out with my friend Olior, Olior has a YouTube channel. We hang out met Jack Edwards, hanging out with Karma Medik, these sort of people that I got to know online and then became friends with in real life. That's always been like a really nice part about being a youtuber, Simon Clark, Ibsmo, and there's a bit of a thought-up to an extent, although, you know, we didn't meet because she was a YouTuber initially, but yeah. Okay, Milton says, chiming in some today to what's your view on authenticity and being a certain way for others versus yourself? Here's the thing, right? I think authenticity, there's an extent to which anytime someone is putting themselves out there on the internet, they are putting on a persona. And I think that's, that's actually fine. It's like, how we are, like, if I was, if I was teaching a class of people, I wouldn't be myself in the same way that I am with a group of three friends who have known since childhood. Like, that's a different version of myself than the more like, present-reversion that I would present on camera or when teaching stuff. I think authenticity is also a tricky one because, and this is something I talk about with Karma Medik and Elizabeth of Fairbite, which is like, it's authentic for me to be so absorbed in my work because it's fun. That ice, I do it from like eight o'clock in the morning to 12 midnight without taking a break, maybe having lunch at my desk and not really so that's like the authentic me a lot of the time. But if I show that authentic me online, then people get annoyed because it's like promoting toxic productivity and all that kind of stuff. And in my head it's like, well, I mean, I'm just genuinely enjoying myself and having a great time and the stuff that I'm working on just happens to be really fun. And I actually prefer to do YouTube videos or like do business stuff than I do playing PlayStation for the most part or like watching TV. But there's that element of like, you know, the the internet wants you to be authentic, but only authentic in a way that like is socially acceptable or something like that. So I don't know, I think I think the authenticity part is always a little bit of a little bit of a gray area and it kind of depends what's the sort of persona you want to portray online because we are or ultimately portraying some kind of persona. So I mean, you and Ben Francis, what's going on there? Oh, Ben Francis, yes, he's a great guy. I'm launching a podcast actually, soon. It's going to be a separate YouTube channel. It's going to be a separate podcast and it's going to interview, uh, be interviewing kind of entrepreneurs, creators and other inspiring people about their journeys and how they find fulfillment in work and in life. That's like the spiel. Um, so Ben Francis is probably going to be episode one of that podcast. Hirsch 20 says, what's the one tech device you badly want, but still don't have it currently? I kind of want one of those fancy Dyson hairdryers. I've only recently started to drive my hair like blow dry my hair and I've used this sort of like medium-end one, but like the Dyson one looks really cool. So I kind of want that, but I don't have one yet. Angie says, would you rather have five sheens or one five year old sheen? Probably five sheens. It'd be pretty good. Sheen is a very, like, is, is great to consult with for like anything business related or anything emotional support related and so five of them would be like five times the value. I hope Shamal Fido says, what should I do to increase my typing speed? It's really annoying me when I'm typing so slowly, please help. I have like a whole skill track loss about this link in the video description. I also have a whole YouTube video about it. Link in the video description so you can check those out. Memory on Moose says, what's the one thing you wanted to achieve but couldn't? I mean, I've got a video talking about all my failures in life. Well, up until about the age of 21, but when I was around 21, 22, I applied for this program to go to Harvard for a year and that would have been like an exchange program where I go there for a year and I didn't get it. You know, I got rejected from the application and some other friends of mine got it and they had a great time. So that was like a thing I wanted to do, but I didn't get, I didn't get into it at the time, but you know, space to watch for the future. I have said, if you could collab with anyone right now, who would it be? I think probably my dream collab would be Peter McKinnon. You know, I've said many times Peter McKinnon is probably the most person who's most inspired this YouTube channel and said that would be a cool collab to be able to do. That's not till what says, what do you think is the best advice you've received that's had a big impact on your life? I think a bunch of it is probably from this book, anything you want by Derek Sivers, and there is a quote from here, which is, never forget why you're really doing what you're doing. Are you helping people? Are they happy? Are you happy? Are you profitable? Isn't that enough? When you're growing a business, when you're growing a YouTube channel, when you're doing this sort of stuff, even like when you're when you're growing a career, or when you're trying to get better grades in school, and very easy to continue to chase that next rung of the ladder, hoping that the thing is going to bring happiness, that, oh, once my business is of this size, then I'll be happy, or once I'm a consultant, then I'll be happy, or once I get that first class degree, then I'll be happy. I always kind of remind myself of this piece of advice from Derek Sivers, who's one of the, one of the books that we're giving away in the giveaway. That piece of advice that like never forget why you're actually doing it, like the reason we do stuff is to make ourselves happy and to help other people, and if you're making yourself happy and you're also helping other people, then actually that's enough, and that's totally cool, so I often remind myself of that. Ritzen says, how do you want to leave a legacy slash impact in the world? I don't really care about leaving a legacy, like I'm not, I'm not that first, like we're all going to die, and we're going to be forgotten within like a few years of us dying, so I think that's less significant less important to me. In terms of impact, I think the way I think of it is, you know, people like Tim Ferriss, also the four hour work week, how about a huge impact on my life through the stuff that they've put out there on the internet, in their books and podcasts and videos, and I would like to be able to have that impact on other people, the same as the impact that Tim Ferriss and those sorts of folks had on me. So that's really the thing that I care about, like how can I, yeah, be that inspiring slash teacher or a teacher, character to people who are interested in doing more of what matters to them. Right now says, if you could start again, what's the one thing you would do differently? So there's two things that come to mind. Well, you said one, oh, one thing you would do differently. I think one thing I do differently is just pay more attention to titles and thumbnails, it's very specifically for YouTube. But more generally, I kind of wish I did more journaling. Like I'm, I've been doing daily journaling now for a couple of weeks, and it's really nice, and when I look back at my journal, I've had phases where I've done journaling regularly, and it's really cool looking back at that kind of stuff. And so I would be doing a lot more journaling, and that's what I'm now doing, kind of moving forward. Here and says, if you could only have one takeaway for the rest of your life, which one would it be? These days, I really like Pookie, Pookie Balls from a place called, are he Pookie or although you think they've recently changed their name. But that's like healthy, it's wholesome, it's nice, it's tasty, I freaking love it. Absolutely. It says, what challenges are you now facing from managing 11 people as opposed to being a solar printer? Oh, good question, I'm so. I think mainly, the challenges around managing 11 people is around getting people aligned, all working towards the same goal, people get sort of people having clarity on exactly what their job is, and it's more like the people side of it, the human side of it, like, you know, wanting people to feel appreciated and like that work is valuable, and it's that sort of stuff that you just don't have to think about when you're a solar printer, and you can just kind of do everything yourself. I think another challenge is that as a solar printer, you can move as fast as you want, and you can change direction whenever you want. Whereas when you're managing a team of 11, it's like, if I want to change direction or something, then suddenly, you know, it's actually slower for the team as a whole to change direction or to do something different, which has been a little bit of a challenge. Pulling, what's your biggest goal in life? Probably, if I bought it down to it, my biggest goal in life is to help people while having fun, and my version of helping people is generally around teaching, so if I could be a teacher, like, forever, while enjoying it, I think that would be that would be pretty good. And my liturotastic life, name three goals you're currently working on. Well, one goal is that we're trying to grow the business, where the process of hiring loads more people, then can the video description if you want to apply for a job, working with us. Another goal is I'm trying to become a gym shock athlete and get six pack abs. There's bubble tea, which is very sugar, reasonably helping, but I'm hoping that will happen at some point soon. And another goal is that I'm in the process of writing a book, which has been ongoing for a while, and it's hard, but that's very much a very concrete goal that I'm working towards. All right, now we turn to 12 questions from Twitter, so we've got Don, who says, what was your biggest growth factor? I he wasn't releasing more videos per week, first thing I'm focusing on a topic, hiring a team, all of the above, etc. I think when it comes to YouTube, like consistency gives you that background level of growth, but accelerated growth comes from getting viral videos. And so by chance for the most part, like, because we've just put out so many videos, one or two or three of them will go viral each year, and then that, like, significantly accelerates the growth of the channel. And I think certainly when I started to hire people and could free up my own time, there was more of an inflection point in the channel's growth, because now I was not spending 20 hours a week editing my own videos, or like 30 hours a week writing my own videos, and I could focus on the bigger picture kind of stuff. Adam says, what's been the biggest challenge you've felt you've needed to course correct what you were doing? I think when it comes to the YouTube stuff, there are moments I have where I feel like the channel is getting a little bit stale, and we've been doing the same stuff for too long, and at that point I feel like, okay, now we need to kind of change course and go in a slightly different direction. So initially it was like the medical stuff, which I think ran its course, then it was like the studying stuff, which I feel at some point, it was like, okay, I've made so many study videos now, how many more study videos can you really make? And now I think we're on the verge of like, becoming a bit stale on the productivity front, especially because a lot of people seem to take productivity at face value, whereas I view productivity is being a deeper thing around, like, meaning an enjoyment and appreciating the journey before destination and that kind of stuff. And I feel like that maybe doesn't really come across in some of the videos where certainly people just read the title, they'll have an image of me as being some sort of efficient Seattle costs kind of machine, whereas that's not really my vibe, and so I kind of do want to shift things more towards the kind of healthy, mindful way of living life. But yeah, certainly as I feel the channel is becoming stale and we're doing too much of the same stuff, at that point I think, okay, what's the next frontier of content? Sure, says what was your worst moment as a YouTuber? Oh, there was a moment, I remember this vividly, I was about to get on a train and I got an email from the medical staffing department at my hospital where I was working, saying that there had been a complaint about me, about my YouTube channel made to the hospital, and I had to see the deputy medical director talk about it, and my heart absolutely sank. It was like the worst feeling ever I was like, oh my god, this is awful. So I stood with that feeling for a few days. In the end, me and the medical director had a chat, and it was all fine, and we sort of out, but that those few days of anxiety around, oh my god, why someone complained about my channel, what the hell's going on? That was really scary. Sorry, says if you were not a YouTuber, what would you be in your active or passive income? If I wasn't a YouTuber, my active income would be being a doctor, and my passive income would be making some kind of software startup. I built like these question banks when I was in med school called UCAT and BMAT Ninja, which were like software products where me and my brother coded them, and they were making passive income. So those were pretty good. I would probably would have continued with those and looked to do something else in the medical tech field, potentially where I could do the whole passive income from software. Okay, Brehan says knowing what you know now, what would you differently if you were to start again from zero? I think if I were to start again from zero, I would go really, really, really specific and really, really, really niche when it comes to content on YouTube. When I was doing it, it was pretty specific, pretty niche four years ago, making videos about how to get into med school, but now that's that field is saturated. So many people are doing that. And so I would find an area that I just really enjoy researching and try and make literally the best videos in the world at that thing. Kind of James Johnny levels of editing, like putting and tons and tons of effort into each video. And I think within probably within a handful of videos, probably within a few dozen videos, then the channel would be successful, provided I kind of tried to make every single video as high quality as videos by James Johnny, for example. Trevoran says, what's the one thing you really wanted to zero subs, but became habituated to a two million subs. I think when I was in zero subs, the one thing I really wanted was to be able to say, hey guys, I'm doing a Q&A, someone asked me questions. And it was around 5,000 subscribers where I felt really felt that, okay, cool, I will now never run out of content because I can always just do a Q&A, and people will always ask questions. And so now a two million subs, it's like, I always take it for granted. Or rather, I don't think for granted, I've become habituated to the fact that I can just post an Instagram story or post on Twitter, and people will reply, and that's like a really nice thing, because it means that I can have more conversations, and I can do more videos like this on three questions, which is just kind of cool. Countess, if you could change your first video on YouTube, what would you change it to? My first video was actually some kind of singing type thing, but I would love to have made a YouTube video in like 2008, 2009, 2010, when I was quite young, just talking about my feelings and thoughts and what I was struggling with and what I was going through, and documenting more of the journey of what it was like to be a teenager in 2009. I think that would have been cool. If you had to choose, would you give up your medical profession for YouTube and vice versa? Oh, if I had to choose then yeah, probably, I would give up medicine for YouTube. There's lots of reasons for that. It's not a very like socially acceptable thing to say that I wouldn't stop being a doctor and be a YouTuber, because medicine is held in such high esteem by the world, and by people, that like, I saw, I saw Q&A the doctor might get it the other day, where he was asked this is the same question, and he said he would not leave medicine, he would never leave medicine, because he genuinely enjoys it, he feels it can really help people, and also kind of the stuff he's talking about on YouTube is medical related. For me, as much as I enjoy medicine, it's just not as fun as running your own business, and I always kind of knew that. Like, I never went into medical school thinking that, oh, this is going to be a great full-time gig. I went into med school thinking, okay, medicine seems fun. I'd like to be a doctor, I'd like to do it part-time, and I'd like to have some kind of text start up on the side, which maybe is not the best reason to go into med school, and, you know, again, people will have issues with that. Really, when I think about, is like, I have a very utilitarian view when it comes to impact, especially in terms of counterfactual impact, which basically means like, what is the impact that I have as an individual, and if I'm a doctor, then my counterfactual impact is actually fairly minimal, because if I wasn't a doctor, the next person down the list would have gotten into med school and would have been a doctor in my place, and I'm not so special as a doctor, so as to be significantly more valuable, than that next person who would have been a doctor in my position. Whereas being a YouTuber is more of a counterfactual impact, because if I wasn't a YouTuber, it's not like someone else would have been doing the same thing, and at least judging from the comments I get, and the emails I get, and the Instagram DMs I get, from people saying, oh my god, you've changed my life because of ABCDE. I think the counterfactual impact of being a YouTuber is so much higher, at least for me, than the counterfactual impact, specifically of being a doctor. Again, people will get, like, butt-hurt by this, because generally, I don't know, it's considered a little bit weird to judge impact in, like, utilitarian terms in that kind of way, but that's generally how I think about it, and so I would give up medicine for YouTube as well, like, a very long-winded way of answering that question. How many more years do you see yourself doing this? Oh, forever. I think Seth Gordon is a great example here, he's been blogging every day since, like, 1990, and he's, like, 30 years, and he's still going strong. Like, I don't really see myself as being a full-time YouTuber. I don't really identify with that kind of title. I see myself as being a part-time YouTuber, and doing lots of other things part-time, and I think YouTube is great because it's a great, I mean, video is the medium, and YouTube is the platform. I can't imagine wanting to move away from video just because it's such a powerful medium of, like, teaching, because teaching is the ultimate thing that I care about. Friends, let's go, how do you visualize yourself five years from now in personal and professional aspects? All I mean, so personally, five years from now, I'd be 32, I'd like to be married, like to maybe have a kid, maybe a second one on the way. That would be cool. I'd like to have a fairly healthy, balanced life. I'd like to do sports every day, pretty much. I'd like to hang out with friends. I'd like to host dinner parties once a twice a week. I'd like to have kind of a team of people working with me, working with me in real life. I'd like to host monthly retreats for me and my friends to, like, go to cool places and do cool stuff. That's, like, what I visualize on the personal front. On the professional front, I see myself as doing medicine maybe one day a week. I feel like that would be quite fun. Doing YouTube type stuff, maybe one day a week, and spending the rest of my time reading writing, hanging out with a farm, kind of doing other stuff that interests me. Coro, who's your favorite employee? I don't have a favorite employee. I also don't think of them as employees. I think of them as team members. I don't like the word employee. And YouTube creators, hello, what a great word to celebrate, congrats. Thanks. Thanks, YouTube creators. It's very kind of easy to say. And finally, we have 11 questions coming from YouTube community posts. So, Dion says, everyone has a role model, I guess, who is yours? Yeah, role model is, I think, two stronger words, but probably Tim Ferriss is the closest one that comes to mind, just because I think the way that he's built his brand off of delivering really like large amounts of really good value over a 15 year long period. That's like really inspirational. And that's like the sort of thing that I'd like to aspire to. One quote that stuck with you when you read it. Yeah, it's got to be the the first ideals of the of the night's radiant from Brandon Sanderson Stormlight archive, which is life before death, strength before weakness journey before destination. Gladstone, what grace it great advice do you have for young entrepreneurs starting out? Oh, I don't know if it's great advice, but I'd recommend find a way to enjoy the journey because journey before destination and find a way to make it fun because if it's fun, then you'll enjoy it more and you'll do more of it and then you'll have a happier life as well. But I think also document your journey. I wish I'd documented my journey more. I wish I had earlier on. I wish I had shown my work more than I actually did because I think that would have been really interesting to look back on in a few years time. Pernaura, now of us says, after setting up various passive income sources worth $3 million, what are your next plans going to start up or anything else? These days, my plans are not so much around making money and more around how can I teach people slash inspired people slash, how can I have some sort of impact? It sounds very like airy fairy like I've been up in the air to say, but it's like what I said earlier in the video, it's like, I want to be able to have that impact on people that Tim Ferriss had on me and so that's the sort of thing that I'm optimizing for these days rather than how do I make more money? I want to just talk portfolio worth now, like 300k, something like that. I actually have a video about it that's coming out like in a couple of weeks from now, but yeah, we'll see, we'll see more details there. Mank says, how is your bookwriting going? What do you do to stay motivated and consistently write regularly? Oh gosh, the bookwriting is going very slowly. We're still on the book proposal stage. I am struggling to motivate myself to actually write consistently. It's less about motivation and more about actually just not having space in my calendar to do that, because I don't have it as a priority because it's something that it's important but not urgent, and I'm very bad at giving attention to the things that are important but not urgent, because it seems like every hour of every day there is something new urgent that comes up that needs my attention. And so I need to get better at delegating that to my team and being okay with them handling it so that I can focus on doing the thing like writing the book. All right, Hessi says, did your friends and family start to behave communicate differently around you in a negative or positive way when you became wealthy and popular on YouTube? No, not really. Since the YouTube channel started to take off, for example, there's been a while since I've seen a friend like maybe six months, then they might joke, be like, oh, you know, you're too famous for us now. That kind of thing. But that's only happened once twice for the most part, like everyone has stayed exactly the same, which is good. Virginia says, do you choose a major that has job opportunities, but you don't like it? Do you choose a major that you like, but that does not have job opportunities? Unfortunately, this is the reality in my country, I love engineering and hate medicine. So are you saying that there are no job opportunities in engineering and all of the job opportunities are in medicine? I don't know, like I can't speak for which country you're in, because I don't know which country you're in, but generally, I think, especially given the internet, like, you actually can create your own job. This is much more doable if you do engineering than if you do medicine. If you do medicine, your only real option is to get a job as a doctor. If you do engineering, and especially if you don't have a code, you can create your own startup from whichever country you're in in the world, and do stuff with that. Optimize for enjoyment and things will work out. Sinder says, what advice would you give to someone who's struggling to aspire on YouTube due to family and friends opinions? Ah, yeah, it's really hard. I have a whole video where I talk about this, like 10 tips for starting on YouTube. It'll be linked somewhere there and in the video description, but basically, what you have to recognize is that no one actually cares. You might think that your friends and family will laugh at you, and maybe they'll laugh at you for a week, but it gets a bit boring laughing at someone after a week or two weeks or three weeks of it. So you kind of have to just do it, and, you know, they'll laugh at you for a little while, but then they'll see that you're serious about it, and being a YouTuber now is like actually a thing, like, you know, it's not going to make you a social pariah or an outcast or anything, so just give it a go and see what happens. Can you share something you're sad about, something you're anxious about, and something you regret or I learned about song with his fake account, pink paper planner. Okay, something I'm sad about. I'm kind of sad about leaving Cambridge. I'm going to be leaving Cambridge in about about 10 days from now because I'm moving to London, Ish. So it won't be around Cambridge very much. And I've been here for nine years now, so that feels kind of sad. Something you're anxious about. I mean, if we're being honest, you know, I'm kind of a sadist, this girl that I've been on a few dates with, and I'm like, I quite like her, and I'm kind of anxious about, you know, just like me back, it's like, it's like the standard stuff associated with when you're in the dating world. And finally, something you regret. Yeah, really, the only things I regret are when I've been accidentally or in purpose, like mean to people without realizing it, usually without realizing it. And I always regret those moments. I regret that, yeah, sometimes they cause hurt to people. Obviously, when my intention is not to cause hurt because that's almost never anyone's intention, but yeah, if I could take those back, I probably would, but then I probably want to learn from them. So, you know, there's that as well. Anyway, that brings us to the end of our Q&A. If you want to find out about the giveaway that we're doing, we're going to be giving away a bunch of books that have changed my life. So Austin Cleans, uh, still like an artist collection, Tim Ferrisses, the four hour work week, and Derek Sivers, anything you want, and hell yeah, or no, these are all going to be given away along with an iPad Air, a Kindle Paper White, and some AirPods Pros. And those are all going to be for one lucky winner. They'll be a link in the video description to the giveaway. So if you want to check it out, that's just like a little thank you to someone of some random person in the world. As the thanks for being a subscriber. And we had quite a few questions in here around like starting on YouTube. I actually have a great video about this, like 10 lessons for starting on YouTube stuff. I wish I didn't want to go to start it. That'll be right over here. Thank you so much for watching. Thank you so much for being a subscriber to the channel. Do hit the subscribe button if you want to ready, and I'll hopefully see you in the next video. Bye.
