# Cambridge International Mental Health Conference - Cambridge University medical student VLOG #08
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ecKHOHmPq1g
A 3-day highlight reel of the Cambridge International Mental Health Conference that we attended and presented our paper at. We had a great time over the 3 days, had some wonderful food, and ended up winning 2nd prize for our presentation. It was even dubbed 'the most amusing presentation of the day', high praise from the organisers of the conference. Enjoy xx

Shoutout to our favourite food Instagram account - https://www.instagram.com/cambridge.foodie/

Who am I:

I'm Ali, a final year medical student at Emmanuel College, Cambridge. This vlogging thing seems quite fun so I'll be vlogging life and other things throughout the year. I'm pretty into music and coding as well, so maybe there'll be some of that on this channel.

Follow me plssss:
- Snapchat: aliabdaal
- Twitter - https://twitter.com/AliAbdaal
- Instagram - https://instagram.com/AliAbdaal
- Website - www.aliabdaal.com
**Keywords:** Cambridge medicine, Cambridge medical student, Cambridge medicine vlog, Cambridge medical student vlog, medical student, medicine vlog, medicine, medical student vlog, Oxbridge, Oxford, Cambridge, cambridge medicine, oxford medicine, med student vlog, med student, oxbridge medicine, oxbridge medicine vlog, life of a medical student, 
**Date:** 2017-09-30

## Transcript
 Hey guys, welcome back to the channel. It's going to be an exciting three days for us because we are attendees and presenters at the Cambridge International Mental Health Conference. And at the moment we are in the grounds of the beautiful clear college where we've been invited to a drink reception followed by dinner in the great hall. This is a three day conference. We're going to be presenting our paper on Friday. But today we're just going to enjoy the sites, enjoy each other's company, and say hello to people who've come from all over Europe actually to attend this conference. All right, so we just finished the day. We've just had dinner. It was a lovely three course meal in the great hall of clear college. I was sat opposite some guy who directed the medical service of Malta. My vlogs is like now, so we're now commemorated in history. So it's famous now. We've got two more days of the conference left. We're really looking forward to it. And then we're presenting on day three. See you tomorrow. Day two. Good morning. It's day two of the conference. We're back in clear college for lunch. We skipped the morning. We'll head a bit of a lion. But we're going to grab some lunch and then there seem to be some quite interesting talks. A famous footballer is giving a talk and there's also going to be a talk about Islamophobia and mental health and stuff like that which should be quite interesting. Okay, so this lunch set is pretty great. We've got these all you can eat buffet, including these food bowls which are pretty nice. And everyone's kind of burning around. We're taking other posters on this day. Yeah. And the best bit is this walking TV free of charge for us. Oh, it's quite exciting. We're about to line up for a photo with everyone in the conference. All right. Time for the main conference. It's a crying baby in the background. Let's go. Most of the perceptions of British compactries. That's very interesting. One eternity later. Okay, so there's some pretty interesting talks this now. There was really good one about Islamophobia and attitudes of British Muslims towards the armed forces. And one on the cards. How those eye movements relate to cognitive deficits in children, which, if I'm honest, probably flew over most of our heads. Oh, we're going to head home, chill, practice our presentation for tomorrow. Yeah, everyone. Just getting excited for tomorrow. Present our seminal work. And just look forward to articulating myself on the global stage, really. Three, two, one. Good morning ladies and gentlemen. I'm Paul. This is Ali and this is Jake and today we're presenting about the card set to sign some bipolar disorder. Although if we are able to crystallize this relapse signature, we can correlate it with early interventions and favorable outcomes. Time to first recurrence. That's not a good thing, is it? Yeah. To be some recurrence. The increased time to manic hypomanic episodes. That means they have episodes sooner. It's bat day three. This is our presentation day. So we will suit it and boot it. We're going to get in have some lunch and then we're going to be watching loads of presentations because I was just like number 20 on the list. But I can forward to it. We've got a powerpoint and we're rehearsed. Should be all right. Thank you. Thank you. Hello. So good afternoon, everyone. My name is Paul. I'm the East McLean, Ali and Jake. So because we know that that medical students view audience and made some of your preclinicals but decided to dump it down by the devices. So one is five hundred. So yeah. Five hundred. So it's compatible. It's compatible. Many access to the press. The press. The press. I'm actually useful in reducing the risk of the real episode. We'll see you in the next episode. Thank you. Thanks very much, Felicity. Great. Adi, I'm... I think we need to do another thing. Yeah, I think we're going to do another thing. I thought the most amusing presentation today. I've particularly enjoyed the bit where I learned what I was about. I learned what I was about to say in a presentation, as well. I learned to be where you corrected our entire presentation. At the end, that was another highlight. I'm very excited that we've also been invited to present our presentation in Poland. So we'll see if we can rust off the funding to fly to Poland for Christmas. I've got basically played ball, but you'll only miss the international nowadays. I don't get that wrong. That's a shame. You need to expand your opinions to a horizon. Overall, great experience at the conference. We managed to take three days off a placement, a tent at a fun site conference. I've had some interesting talks. The food was amazing. The food was free. Our presentation won second prize. We've been invited to present in Poland. It's a good life. Thank you very much for watching. If you enjoyed it, please do the video thumbs up. If you haven't subscribed yet, please consider doing so. If you want to see some more vlogs about life as medical students. And yeah, we'll see you next time. Bye. It's exciting. Bye. Bye everyone.
