# My Favorite Mechanical Keyboard - IQUnix F96 Coral
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eGXbCUXAKYs
Hey guys, today I'm going over all the features of my IQUnix keyboard. Since a lot of you have asked about it in almost every video, you can get one for yourself by using the link below. 

Get your own IQUnix keyboard here: https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard

How I Type REALLY Fast (156 Words per Minute) Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1ArVtCQqQRE&feature=youtu.be

Timestamps
01:16 Upfront conclusion
02:19 Design
03:53 Sound
05:15 RGB options
07:24 The Feel
08:57 Charging
11:03 Compatibility
11:47 Price

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
😃  How to be Happier - Stoicism Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/stoicism

MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️ My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝 My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
📚 How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵 Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
🌐 My website platform (Ghost) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost
🎤 My podcast hosting platform (Transistor) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/transistor

OTHER RECOMMENDED COURSES
📔 Effortless Output with Roam Research - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/roam
📓 Building a Second Brain - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/basb

🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/friendzone
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/friendzone).

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, mechanical keyboard review, mechanical keyboard, iqunix keyboard, iqunix f96 review, iqunix f96, mechanical keyboard for typing, mechanical keyboard for mac, mechanical keyboard for gaming, best mechanical keyboards 2020, favorite mechanical keyboard, iqunix review, iqunix f96 keyboard, good mechanical keyboard, is mechanical keyboard worth it, best mechanical keyboard, top mechanical keyboards 2020, cherry mx red, cherry red sound, 
**Date:** 2020-06-07

## Transcript
 So I've been using this really cool, pretty looking sexy mechanical wireless keyboard for the last few months and I've had literally hundreds of comments from people being like, bro, what keyboard are you using? I want one. So today I am finally revealing the mystery. This is a comprehensive review of the IQ Unix F96. Hey friends, welcome back to the channel. If you knew here, my name is Aliya. I'm a doctor working in the UK and on this channel we explore the strategies and tools to help us their healthier, happier, more productive lives. Now, the keyboard is one of the most important tools in our productivity arsenal and if you're anything like me, I eat a massive nerd. You probably spend more time interacting with your keyboard than you do with your friends and family. So, it's kind of a big deal that we get the right keyboard because it's really important for our physical, mental, spiritual, and emotional health. I've been using this IQ Unix F96 wireless mechanical keyboard for the last few months. They sent it to me for review purposes and I liked it so much that I emailed them being like, hey, you know, can we do some kind of deal arrangement thing here? So if you click the link in the video description, you can get a 5% discount on their website and I'll get a bit of a kickback as well. So if you want to spend a load of money on a fancy ass, wireless mechanical keyboard, this is one option out of many. It's the one that I've been using personally. Anyway, in this video, I'm going to talk about these various things. And as usual, we'll start with the upfront conclusion to save you time if that's all you want to hear. And then we've got timestamps in the video description and the pinned comments. You can skip around the video if you feel like it. So upfront conclusion, I love this thing. It sounds really good. It looks really pretty. I've had hundreds of comments from people being like, oh, that keyboard looks amazing. Where do you get it? Like, what is it? So I think you just add such a nice colorful splash of personality vibe to my otherwise somewhat sterile desk setup. And actually, I've also got the Apple Magic Keyboard, which I still sometimes use if I want to, if I'm on a zoom call or something and I don't, I want to not make noise or if my house mate Molly is asleep from a night shift, then I will kind of be a bit a bit considerate and not do this kind of, but like the sound is just like the thing that sells it for me. It just makes an absolute joy to type on. And yeah, it's expensive. Check that link in the video description. 5% discount vote of luck. But I think it's worth it. Personally, because a keyboard is like the one thing that we interact like. I interact with like keyboard more than I interact with my mouse. Because obviously, I'm not a clicker because you know, you know, only news are clickers as they say. So I just use the keyboard for everything. And so if it's a nice and that's like good for me. So yeah, I love it. That was my upfront conclusion for whatever that's worth. Let's not talk about the design now. So this is it's a full size keyboard. We've got the numpad. We've got I've I've gone for the coral the coral version, which is sort of this blue with this orange kind of fluorescent orange type pink thing. And yeah, as you can see, there's a slight gray to the color of the keys, except the keys that a blue have the accent color as like the text color, and it's kind of the other way around. I don't think it's it's a very kind of classy aesthetic. And before I was all about, you know, let's have like a, you know, a sterile minimalistic apple style keyboard. But then what I started using this thing and started saying, like, it just it just looks really cool on everything. Like, you know, have a look at the overhead chart. Like, you know, these days in my thumbnails, I just have the keyboard off to the side. I would have the product in the middle. And look at that, like, that scene just looks really cool because we've got this colorful keyboard adding personality, whereas we didn't have it. It would just be a bit sterile. So honestly, like, the looks, the looks really set up for me. So I just I just love the design of this thing. In terms of weight, it's, it's quite bulky. Like, like, it, it, it feels really, really beefy. And what I'm typing, like, it never sort of moves around. Like, it just, it just never moves. It's, it's, it's a, it's a, it's a very kind of solid product. And so, yeah, I just, I just, I just love everything about the design. We've got this USB-C charging port thingy at the back. We've got these feet at the bottom, and we've got the kind of brand name of 96 archaea unix. And it's got these kind of feet that stick out from the bottom that sort of rested at this nice, slightly elevated angle, which just makes it really comfortable for a type-on for extended periods of time. Let's talk about the sound now. Now, like, for this closure, I know absolutely nothing about the kind of booky boards. So I didn't really know anything about the cherry red cherry blue versus brown colour switches. This is the cherry red version, because I thought cherry red or cherry pink, whatever it's called. I thought that sounded cool. And here is what it sounds like. In fact, you know what? I'm just going to do a typing test on 10 fast fingers. Like, for my screen. Alright, let's go for it. Oh, 150 words per minute. Not too bad. It's not my best. Like, I think objectively, my typing speed is very slightly slower on this. Then it is, on, for example, the Apple Magic Keyboard, or my iPad Pro Magic Keyboard. This is because I think that the fact that this has more key travel, and you have to kind of press it a little bit harder, means that you are shaving, at least I am. I'm shaving a few words per minute of my typing speed. Like, on the iPad and Magic Keyboard, the first time I did the typing test, it got 154 words per minute, but still 150 words per minute. I don't think anyone's going to say no to that. I'll be doing a video later on where I talk about tips for how to type fast and, like, an absolute productivity grease monkey. But that should hopefully give you an idea of what this sounds like. It's really annoying over Zoom calls. It's really annoying for other people in the house. But right now, it's locked down. I'm on my own. It's great. I freaking love the sound of this thing. Okay, next, let's talk about the lights. And to really show you the lights, I'm going to turn off the lights. And I'm going to draw the curtains. And so hopefully everything's kind of gone dark. But basically, this has some really cool RGB color options. You don't have to go for the RGB kind of lighting version. It's a bit more expensive if you do. I've gone for it because it's kind of cool. So let's turn the back light on. And now, we're going to get the manual out because this is the manual. It tells you sort of what, essentially, what key combinations you have to press to get from different lighting settings. So I just always have that to hand. So let's see. So this is mode number one. If I type. So you see the lighting. It sort of comes out. And from whatever key that you type on. So that's kind of cool. We can also change the color of the keys. So we can make it yellow, green, blue, purple, pink. Oh, we've got a multicolored one as well. So yeah, whatever sort of color you want for yourself, let's go with blue for now. Let's see what else have we got. FN shift to change the mode. Oh, hello. Okay, so this is an entirely bad backlit mode. So that's another thing that we could do. If you were inclined to be this tacky when it comes to keyboards. What's the next one? Oh, hello. Look at that. Now that's the lighting of running. Is it? And if I press something. Now we've got the rainbow effect going all throughout the keyboard. Now we've got this sort of ripple kind of wavy kind of effect. If you're into that sort of thing. Now we've got this subtle kind of glowy type effect, which again is not influenced by the keys that I type. Now we've got this sort of thing. Where the wave kind of the wave of lighting, the wave of depolarization goes across the keyboard and back again. And it sort of is a changing color. No, but if I wanted to, I could change the color of it. Ooh. If I were to have it on, I usually have a completely off because it kind of drains a bit of battery. It was kind of annoying. But if I were to have it on this one, be how I've had it on my pink random stuff. Because now like when you when you hit the key, it sort of lights out from from that. And this is just like really freaking cool. This was like a big reason why I got this, you know, I got the RGB version of this keyboard on the email maker. I was like, oh, I would love to be able to have these kind of lights. It's kind of cool at night time. I'll be honest. I don't usually have them on because they do drain battery. Let's talk about the feel of the keys now. So it's sort of hard to say. So if I compare it against the magic keyboard, which is I suppose the other people that I use, these, there's this very little key travel. And you can hear what this sounds like. Where is this? There's significantly more key travel. And that is I suppose sort of the main thing when it comes to the feel of the keys. They feel very like when you when you hit a key, it just like feels really good. And I apologize that I'm not an official review of mechanical keyboards. So I don't know how, I don't know what terminology you're supposed to use to describe the feel of keys. But the main thing I would say is that when I need to, for example, plan a video or type out long emails or do anything that involves lots of typing, this is the keyboard that I go to. I could go to this one. I could go to my iPad Prim Magic Keyboard. I also have the old Apple keyboard somewhere. But this is the one that I go to, just because the feel of the keys just makes me more, it encourages me more to write stuff to type out stuff. And I think that's valuable because most of the stuff I do on the internet and making money on the internet revolves around typing low to stuff, like planning videos and things. So that is sort of what the keys feel like. Let's talk about charging now. And only they can't actually find the cable that comes with this, but it's a USB-C cable because this is a USB-C port. It's a braided sort of nylon-y feeling cable. It feels like bulletin stuff. The really annoying thing about, you know, this is one of my gripes with it. It's that you can't charge it with a USB-C data cable. You can only charge it with a USB-C power cable. So my charger for the iPad and for the MacBook doesn't work on this, annoyingly, you have to use a specific power thingy. And so I've got this random red one from Amazon. Oh, this is like, this is like some Amazon basics one. And this one would work to charge it because it's just a power cable and I connect this to the power cord. If I were to connect this to my laptop, it wouldn't work, because it's not a, it can't be charged over a data connection. So I'm just stupid like that. It's kind of annoying to me while to figure that out, but I guess it's a small price to pay and I just kind of plug this into the mains, and then plug it into the keyboard and then it works. So any USB-C cable will work for it. It's just, it can't be, it can't be data that that goes through has to be power only. I'm not really sure why that is. I'm sure they could have changed it, but yeah, that's the slightly annoying thing about the charging. In terms of battery life, like, if I have the lights enabled, then I had to charge it every, every three or four days. Which is quite annoying. It was actively annoying to have to charge this every three or four days, switching to this. And then I realized, like, two months into owning this keyboard, that I could just disable the backlight. And now, like, I disabled the backlight, like, I don't know, three months ago, and I haven't had to charge it, since it's just because it's not run out of battery. So I don't know what the actual battery life is, but in like three months I haven't had to charge it once I disabled RGB lighting. So if you're a fan of these, like, fancy RGB colors, then you'll have to charge it a little bit more often, but I don't usually have them enabled, therefore I don't charge it very often. Final few things, so I've got the version that does have a numpad. I'm not sure they have a version without, but to be honest, I never released the numpad. It's kind of helpful if I'm typing in a lot of numbers, or if I'm doing a lot of data entry. I don't really do that anymore. I've got a team of people who kind of worked me who can now do data entry funny. So honestly, I don't really use the numpad for a lot, but I don't know, it just makes it look a bit more beefy having an numpad than not having an numpad. Then in terms of Windows and Mac compatibility, so this is control, Windows, and Alt. So this is kind of the design is for Windows keyboards, but when you have a Mac, Alt becomes command, which makes sense because that is where command would be, and the Windows key becomes Alt. So like it's a, it's super easy to use as a Mac user, but it is a keyboard that's designed more for Windows, so you won't see a command key, you will see the Windows Alt setup. But if you've got the muscle memory of how to operate in Mac keyboard, you just kind of know, you've got command, you've got Alt and then you've got control, you've got shift in control, but it works absolutely fine. You don't have an FN key on that side. You have an FN key on this side. So that's something that you might want to keep in mind if you need to look down and see where command is on the Mac, then maybe this keyboard is not for you, but if you've got the muscle memory then it's absolutely fine. And finally let's talk about the price. Very mind, if you click the link in the video description and you'll use the coupon code, I'll get checkout, you'll get a 5% discount for whatever that's worth. But, that's like it's a price thing. So the basic wired version is $199. If you go wireless, it's $229. 100% if you're spending $200 on a keyboard, please spend the extra $30 to get it wireless, because it's just so nice having a wireless keyboard. Absolutely sick. I cannot imagine going back to a wired keyboard. If you want the backlight, it's another $20. I mean, I went for it, because then we're getting it to me for free. But to be honest, even if I was buying this, I would have gone for the backlight, just because my old magic keyboard, I was using from the age of 14, up until the age of 25. I went 11 years with a single keyboard, and like, you know, this is spending $250 over 11 year period. I mean, I really can care less personally, but you might have different preferences. And I, as I said, I went for the cherry red. I'm not really sure what cherry brown and cherry blue is, but to sound like, but I thought cherry red sounded cool, so that was the one that I went for. So yes, it's a bit steep. For me, I think the expense is justified. Well, I spent $250 on keyboard. Yes, well, I spent $500 on keyboard. $500 would be the price point for me, where I would think, okay, this is better be a very compelling keyboard. Whereas $250, I think, ah, well, you know, my AirPods, or $250, and I use my keyboard, 10 times more often than to use my AirPods. So personally, I think it's worth it, but I totally get, like, you really do not need to spend $250 on a keyboard. Like, it's not going to make you any happier in life. It just makes you feel more like a badass when you're typing on it, and it annoys people that you live with. So that is all I'm going to say on price. So yeah, that's the IQ Unix F96 keyboard. If you want to buy it, please do use the link in the video description. You get a 5% discount, and I get some kind of kickback as well. So if you want to support my coffee addiction, then this is great. If you enjoyed this video, I'm going to make a video about how I type so fast, and that'll appear over there once I film it, or if I haven't filmed it yet, then click here for a playlist about my favorite apps, and I'll be more productive on a Mac on a piece of whatever. Thank you for watching. See you in the next video. Bye-bye.
