# How to Study for Exams - My NEW Masterclass // Behind the Scenes
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=epF2SYpWtos
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

This is a behind-the-scenes video showing how we filmed an entire online class in a single, intensive day. We'd been planning out the content of the class over several months, and it was finally time to put everything together. 

Check it out on Skillshare - https://skl.sh/aliabdaal10 for a free trial. 

--------

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
😃  How to be Happier - Stoicism Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/stoicism

TOOLS OF THE TRADE:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk
📚  How I remember what I read - Readwise - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali
What I Use For Analytics - https://go.aliabdaal.com/tubebuddy
🌐 My website platform (Ghost) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost

OTHER RECOMMENDED COURSES
📔 Effortless Output with Roam Research - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/roam
📓 Building a Second Brain - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/basb

🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** how to study, how to study effectively, study tips, courses on studying, best resources for students, active recall, feynman technique, studying for exams, studying tips, spaced repetition, revision timetable, study with me, how to revise, study techniques, exam revision, college study tips, how to study for exams, revision tips, best way to study, how to get good grades, how i study, study hacks, memory palace, how to memorize, study course, skillshare studying, 
**Date:** 2020-03-31

## Transcript
 Hey friends welcome back to the vlog in this episode which was filmed at the end of February 2020 before the coronavirus decided to take over the UK. I'm embarking on a quest to create the world's best most in-depth online class on how to study for exams. The class has just launched on Skillshare who are kindly sponsoring this video so you can check it out for free by clicking on the link in the video description if you like. But this is the behind the scenes of log of how we put it together. So the day starts at 8am when I get up and spend an hour generally screwing around on my iPad which I made the mistake of parking next to my bed before going to sleep. At 10 past 9 I finally negotiate myself out of bed, drop off my hour of smart ring on its charging dock, put on my Apple Watch series 4 and head into the shower. I end up singing something just like this by cold play and the chainsmookers on repeat for like half an hour for some reason not really sure why. Then after changing into semi fresh clothing I mindfully empty the dishwasher, wash the dishes, clean the kitchen a bit and make my morning cup of offie with the error press. At 930 I procrastinate a bit more by sorting out the living room and setting up the camera ready to film the class. At 10am, Angus, one of my new team members arrives and we spend some time going over the structure of the class and making sure the videos we've already planned make sense within that structure. We're using the app notion to plan everything as usual so here you can see us without list of lessons and juggling things around to try and come up with a structure and eventually we decide to split the class into three parts. Firstly how to understand what we're studying, secondly how to remember what we're studying, and thirdly how to maintain motivation and focus for studying. At 11am, filming begins with videos about how to understand anything with the Feynman technique, some stuff about active recall of course and then an in-depth discussion about weather and how to take notes during class and after class. All right so it's 1pm and so far we've filmed seven videos of the class, the three steps of effective studying, understanding anything, active recall, active recall, how to take notes, how to take notes and scooping the subject and we've got a little funky set of going on. So it's only 873 back up microphone, video of a road video, my pro plus, it's more like demonetar, proper microphone, road NTG4 plus I think up here, which is hopefully slightly out of frame and then aperture 120d with the space light over there and that's Angus over there. Angus has been helping out with the course, it's really cool and then in a bit I'm going to order some takeaway and then try and bash through the rest of these like 20 videos that we have to do in the next few hours before the physiology supervision this evening. So exciting times. All right so welcome to the second segment of the course which is about remembering. So segment number one will step one will understand. Step two is remember and as a reminder step three is focus. So we'll talk a lot more about kind of distractions and motivations and pro-cracks donation all that kind of stuff in the focus segment but now we're going to be diving into all of the evidence-based tips for remembering slash memorizing things but again just to reiterate, understanding is the most important part. I continue filming videos in this vein for the next 45 minutes until lunch arrives from pizza express to motivate myself to continue filming these videos I tell myself. Right I'm allowed to give myself one slice of pizza after every video. So hopefully 16 slices, 16 videos, this is classical Pavlovian conditioning in action ladies and gentlemen. For the next few hours I film more and more videos for this, rewarding myself with a slice of pizza sometimes too in between each one. Yeah some using scissors. Don't judge. This is actually the best way of kind of pizza. It's just so easy. Oh look at that. It's so clean, so effortless and overheatens would judge someone using scissors to cut a pizza. At 3pm having done another five or so videos I take a break to make a cheeky cup of coffee with the error press and then continue doing more and more videos. All right so what's the time? So it's 10 minutes to four and we've just this is where we're at so far. So we've got how to study for exams. We've done all the understand videos. We've done most of the remember videos and I've actually just done the video about the peg system which is one of these fancy memory techniques that I used to use in my second year and I've dug up thanks to Evernote. I've dug up the document that I wrote. Oh here we go. In August 2012 this was just before my first year of university when I decided that I wanted to become a memory champion and become really good at memorizing stuff because that's where you did med school. But it's basically like the peg system is about converting numbers into words and so this system means that a one becomes a T or a D and two becomes an N or three becomes an M. And this is what I used in my second year of med school to memorise loads of references with papers that we had to put in our essays because that that was the way at the time to get a high mark in essays by showing you had external evidence and that you don't why you're reading. So I got some papers of the internet that I could put into each essay and then I used this peg system to like memorise what like what the reference was and that like worked great for remembering these random obscure references that I could then put into my essays and in my second year I have to go to first and I think part of that was down to the extra extra little spicy bits that I put in my essays from using the peg technique to memorise just to hold this to reference it. But yeah just on the video about that for the class. Now I'll do a couple more and then take a quick break to eat a bit more pizza and then then we'll continue it. Right so it is half past five just about and I'm now need to head over to the ghost and college which is one of the colleges of the University of Cambridge to do my physiology supervision. So we're going to be talking about the kidneys because they've just finished off the fluids and electrolytes lecture series which is all about the kidneys, both the iPad and so we'll just run the session based around that. Yeah, right? Anything else? Or when you're to buy food on the way there, snacks for the session and cool, let's go. So then I drive over to Goat and College, grabs and snacks from a petrol station along the way and run the supervision from 6 to 10 pm. Right so that's the kidney supervision done on the physiology of the kidneys. It's really, really freaking cold right now. We went over basically the kidneys. So there's a group of five, a group of two and then a group of three, lasted about an hour each and so we went over basic functions of the kidneys. So I filtration in reabsorption and then we talked a little bit about acid based homeostasis and serum hospitality homeostasis and then we kind of planned a few essays as a class talked about how we'd go about answering certain questions of the essays. So one of the fun ones was the idea that a single kind of coke contains more hydrogen ions than the entire body put together or something like that. So how does the response, how does the body respond to such a large amount of phosphoric acid when you drink a kind of coke and that was all about the different sort of buffer systems. So there's five main buffers in the blood and in the kidney field rate that the body can use to buffer hydrogen ions and then we talked about medium-term compensation for the respiratory system. Now I'm heading over to the station to pick up my cousin who is visiting the UK from Pakistan and he's going to stay with me in Cambridge for a few days which is going to be exciting so say hello to him. So here we have Jeha Zep because I say hello. Hi. Yes, there is a visiting from Pakistan. It's in the process of taking his plaves to come and to come to the UK as a doctor and we have just ordered some food from that kabab and burger stall which I'm ashamed to say is like the fifth time this week that I'm getting a chicken wrap from there. But hey, what can you do? We drive home with the chicken wraps in tote. Have a quick chat and then I leave my cousin to his own devices while I continue filming the rest of the videos in this class and everything gets wrapped up at around 11 30 pm. All right, so all these videos are finally finished. I've done about 28 videos today and I think that's pretty good going. So this is the SD card that has all the audio in it and this is the SD card that has all the video in it and I'll show you the setup. So down the hallway, this is like the extra computer that I have just to upload files. So I'm going to chuck the files from the SD card onto the external hard drive and then I'll upload them to Google Drive overnight so that Christian might edit her can get the files in Romania and then he'll be able to edit them hopefully. So he's got his work cut out for him. Sorry about that, Christian. But hey, it's got to be done. Am I right? And then after transferring all of these files over, I set up the airbed in the living room and we call it a day. I am pleased to report that this class on how to study for exams is now live on Skillshare. In total, it's over 35 videos covering evidence-based techniques around everything you could want to know about how to study for exams in a structure that's hopefully easy to follow and hopefully make sense. The reason I like putting stuff on Skillshare is because firstly Skillshare is amazing for less than $10 a month. You get access to thousands of online classes including now two of my own. And secondly, Skillshare is very generous in that they've got a two month free trial in which you can watch as many of the classes as you like including my own. So if you're subscribed to Skillshare like I am, you can click the link in the video description to access all of these videos in my new class or if you're not yet subscribed to Skillshare, you can click the link in the video description to sign up to the two month free trial which you can use to watch the class and a load of others and others I'd recommend initially are my friend Thomas Frank's classes on building your own productivity system and he's got a new one as well about building habits and I found both of these really helpful personally. Anyway, that's the end of the video. Hopefully, it gave you an idea of what the behind-the-scenes process looks like of putting an online class together. Thank you so much for watching and see you in the next video. Goodbye.
