# The Most PRODUCTIVE Thing I Do Each Year
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ERGbgvvCJ8o
👉  Sign up to Notion here: https://bit.ly/notionali
👉  Get the template here: https://www.notion.so/aliabdaal/Ali-s-2020-Annual-Review-Template-3d47f8fdebba4e35a4208a68380d097d

In this video I'll be sharing my annual review for 2020 using Notion. 

Elizabeth's channel: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCUFFHXvzAMRSD8Bq4bJppxQ
My art teacher, Alessandro: https://www.instagram.com/alepirrelli/?hl=en

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
📚  How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali
What I Use For Analytics - https://go.aliabdaal.com/tubebuddy
🌐  My website platform (Ghost) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost
🎤  My podcast hosting platform (Transistor) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/transistor

OTHER RECOMMENDED COURSES
📔 Effortless Output with Roam Research - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/roam
📓 Building a Second Brain - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/basb

🎙 My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮  Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, 2020 review, 2020 yearly review, notion yearly review, notion year goals, notion year plan, annual review, anual review, annual review in notion, annual review using notion, how to use notion, organizing life in notion, how to use notion as a planner, notion tutorial, ali abdaal vlog, notion app, notion, notion annual review, productivity, notion productivity, notion for beginners, how i use notion, notion tour, ali abdaal notion, 
**Date:** 2021-01-03

## Transcript
 So the most important thing that I do every year is my annual review. And in this video I'm going to take you through the three important steps of that annual review, which is step one, reflect, step two plan, and step three execute. And I'm going to introduce you to my famous patented anti waste man system. So there are three main reasons why I think doing an annual review is for me the best thing ever and why I recommend it for everyone. Firstly, it's really useful for setting goals. We all want to set these new years resolutions. We all want 2021 to be better than 2020 for various I think doing an annual review is the first step towards setting effect of goals for the new year. Secondly, when you do an annual review, time just goes slower. Like there's so much stuff that's happened in 2020 this year that I've just completely forgotten and through doing my annual review process over a few hours. It actually reminded me of a lot that I've done this year and that I've experienced and that I'm grateful for, which is just nice. And thirdly, I think for most of us, we are so focused on like the day-to-day and like the urgent things that we have to do in our life that I think having an annual review, having that one time a year where for me, I take a step back and take stock of my life as a whole and ask myself important big questions. It's nice having that space to do that and those are the three reasons why I love doing an annual review. Let's talk about my annual review system now. And as I said, this is in three parts. Step one, reflect, step two plan and step three execute and I'm going to give you a quick overview of all of those different steps. So unsurprisingly, I'm using Notion for my annual review. You don't have to use Notion if you don't want to, but it's free and it's great and they're very kindly sponsoring this video, which is awesome and they also sponsored my 2019 annual review video. So this is a nice, like full circle thing and I've actually got this template, my annual review template with some of my answers linked in the video description. So if you like this and you want to copy it for your own annual review, then hit the link in the video description. You can download the template. You can duplicate it into your own workspace or if you just don't want to use Notion, you can still just copy and paste the questions into whatever app or pen and paper or whatever system you want to use for your own annual review. So this is what my annual review for 2020 looks like and I'll talk you through the process for how I'm doing it. So step one is reflect and we've got four sections in reflect. We've got the stuff I'm grateful for, what happened this year? Cool stuff I discovered this year and then various reflective questions. Now the stuff that I'm grateful for, I like to split up into five parts. That's people, experiences, accomplishments, things and game changes. And this is fairly arbitrary categorization, but I find that it's helpful. So under people this year, I've separated it out into three different categories of work, life and associates and only a write the name of the person and then write a few words about why I'm grateful for that person in my life. And then actually usually when I do this, it reminds me to send that person a little thank you email or a thank you text message or just something like that to let them know that I'm thinking of them and I'm grateful for them and that always makes me feel warm and fuzzy inside. Next we have experiences that I'm grateful for and I've actually had a lot fewer experiences in 2020 and I didn't 2019 for kind of pandemic related reasons, but you know these are some of the experiences that I've been particularly grateful for. Then we have a accomplishment for them grateful for and here are some of mine. Usually I'm not a fan of thinking too much about accomplishments, but I feel like once a year I give myself license to just actually think about it a little bit. Because I feel like usually in my life when I kind of do something, I just don't really appreciate it and don't think about it and I'm just like onto the next thing. So once a year I give myself permission. Next we have things. Now be the usually like physical products and stuff that I'm grateful for that I discovered this year or any interesting new things in my life. So my awesome desk setup, video about that coming soon, all the Apple products are used on the regular and actually it's quite nice having a PS5 that I've been using recently as well. Another thing I've liked actually is this remarkable tablet thing which a review coming in a little while of course my airport pros. Usually I have a long list of things that I'm grateful for here and then the final thing is game changes so things that have really moved the needle for me and so the three that I've got here are listening to audiobooks and speed multiples. I discovered that in 2020. Secondly, the power of coaches, I've had a lot of coaches for a lot of different things and actually today I started art lessons and started tennis lessons as well and that's been fun. And thirdly my amazing team of people who work at me on this YouTube channel and on the business that surrounds it is having a team has been an absolute game changer in terms of it not just being me now who is kind of making these videos and helping build the business. So those are the things I'm grateful for for. Next we're talking about what happened this year and I think this is quite useful because generally like I don't know especially for stuff that happened between like January and June of 2020. I just didn't kind of forgot most of it. And so what I do is that I kind of write off the talk my head like a big picture of what's going on in my life. But then I also like to have this timeline view where I'll just go through my calendar every month and then just talk about engine and just write down the interesting one note word that you're highlight or just like anything any experience that happened that I maybe want to remember. And so you know there's quite a lot of stuff on here. So yeah it's just a fun little way of space repetition reminding myself when I've done that year and in a way it helps time slow down for me. Next we have cool stuff that I discovered this year. So I've added this category of working with people because I've worked with lots of coaches. This was the year when I realized even more that working with people makes everything more fun and also accelerates results. So personal trainer and assistant, social media consultant at YouTube growth coach and all these various, in fact, art teacher and tennis lessons as well. We're going to add to this list. Next we have physical stuff which is a bit of an overlap with the grateful thing but it's usually new stuff that I discovered this year. So firstly, the power of using face towels previously I used to dry my face with my bath towel which I've heard is now a bad thing to do. So face towels having a water bottle with a straw. Where is my one of these things? It's just like a water bottle with a straw. I can love this only discovered that in 2020. So that's been fun. Having a portable laptop previously my laptop was powering this whole desk setup and I could pretty much never unplug it because it would just require too much effort. But now I have an actual laptop and I use the Mac mini on my desk and that's been a real game changer. It's actually quite nice having a TV and it's quite nice having a PS4 and later a PS5 cheeky flex there. I also like to have lists of articles, podcasts, books and YouTube channels that I discovered this year that I found particularly memorable. Now for me this is very easy to collate because every week I send an email called Sunday Snippets where on Sundays I send an email to my mailing list which is currently 62,000 people. So if you not sign up for that you should sign up link in the video description and every Sunday I send an email with a few thoughts about just stuff I've been thinking about that week but then I also have links to interesting articles or podcasts or books or YouTube videos or anything like that that I've discovered that week. And so when I do my annual review it's very easy for me to think about oh what were the interesting things I discovered? I just looked through my email and newsletter Sunday Snippets archive and then I hand-pick a few and this is quite nice because I don't know if you've had this experience but for me when I read an article about something that gives me an interesting new mental model or a concept that changes the way that I think. Then often I actually forget where it came from and I forget that I didn't know about the thing. And so I read a blog post and then the following day someone would say something and I'd be like oh obviously there's that idea about about this thing and I just wouldn't appreciate the position I was in before I heard about that idea and so I find that when I go through this list every year of the articles and the videos it really reminds me that oh yeah I didn't know about this thing until I read this blog post from Ryan Holiday with this blog post from Morgan Housel of this blog post from the Harvard Business Review I really like this one as well one line that resonated people who are driven to Excel have this unconscious propensity to underinvest in their families and overinvest in their careers even though intimate and loving relationships with their families are the most powerful and enduring source of happiness that was like damn this is like this is really calling me out and I'll put links to all this stuff in the notion template down below so if you want to check out links to these articles you'll find them there. podcast as well we've got like a handful of things like 10 of them that I particularly enjoyed this year loads of books I also have a video about the 15 favorite books of 2020 that will be linked up there somewhere right now and a few different YouTube channels that I really enjoyed this year so bingeing with Babish yes yes theory a few viral videos Tom Scott then we have the reflective questions now this is something that I've newly done this year and it's actually my assistant who kind of sent me this list of questions saying that you should answer these for your annual review she's recently started a YouTube channel link in the video description anyway there's loads of questions here feel free to do some of them feel free to do all of them if you like I sent a lot of these out to my newsletter Sunday snippets in the video description and a lot of people replied saying that these were just really really really helpful in helping them get more clarity about where they want to go this year and also in life so you know one of these if you had to teach one thing you learned the zero what would it be and I talk about the power of accountability and other one is what kept you up at night with excitement this year and I talk about my course the part time YouTube Academy and also kind of this whole building a team stuff that I've been really excited about recently how did you have fun differently in 2020 and then I talk about kind of how video gaming has been a source of joy in my life especially listening to audiobooks while playing video games that is like absolute pure peak pleasure and again my answers to all of these are also linked down below if you do want to have a little bit more of a gander in a bit more detail but now let's move on to step two which is plan now this is where we make a plan for the new year and there's a few visualization exercises that you can do I'm not very good at doing these visualization exercises but you know I know it's something that I need to make time for and I'm planning to do it at some point but one is called the ideal ordinary week which is that five years from now you write down in great detail what your ideal ordinary week looks like so ideal as in this is like a good week for you an ordinary in that it's a week where you're just doing normal stuff you're not like on vacation or something and if you take the time to do this five years from now ideal ordinary week that gives us a way of figuring out okay what do I need to be doing for the next few years to get to this five year vision and then we come to ideal ordinary week for this time next year for example like I said I'm not very good with these visualizations because a I struggled to think very far ahead and b I don't know maybe I just suck at imagining imagining the future but the idea is that you're considering describing it describing how you're feeling describing what you're doing what you're working on and something that my executive performance coach tells me is that you know you really want to be really really really really specific with describing these things and a lot of us have this idea of I want to do the same but more of it and so for me the example is oh well we're doing one video week this year great let's do two videos a week next year and that's a very easy trap to fall into and so when we find us self-thinking in that kind of way of the same but more we really want to question that and also like the most important thing to come out of this is actually what are you not doing what are you not doing in this vision what is no longer a priority and then why you still doing that thing right now then after the visualization exercises we have a few different areas so the ones that I have are life medicine and business because I feel like there's like the three aspects of my life and within life we've got health relationships happiness and so I just write some general thoughts about what I might want to do about all of these things next year and then I'll come to setting proper goals for them later on so for me you know I kind of want to do workouts three times a week I want to have regular tennis sessions I want to join a squash club I want to have some kind of daily mobility and stretching routine because I know that will probably be good for my life and good for my posture on the relationships front I want to take dating more seriously post lockdown maybe get a dating coach who knows might be interesting might might even make for a good video and I want to be more intentional about keeping in touch with friends and then under happiness you know I've got a few thoughts here then we come to my favorite part of the annual review and that is writing out the bucket list this is always fun so I've got my 2020 bucket list here the one that I did this time last year but usually I write it out from scratch and then I look at the 2020 list of the year before and see is there anything here that I've forgotten but usually if I've got on to write it down it's usually because that thing is no longer necessarily a priority for me and so I've got this like bucket list of 20 items of which seven I have put on the this is the stuff that I want to do in 2021 and the rest of it is like someday maybe maybe kind of long term but it's stuff that I don't want to necessarily actively focus on in 2021 so on my list of 2021 is writing a book nothing to draw busking singing on the London Underground hosting a productivity retreat living in a few different cities for one to two months at a time getting six pack abs at some point next year and learning how to snowboard those are like the few items on my 2021 bucket list and I think this is just like a useful exercise to do because anytime I want a bit of inspiration or I'm thinking oh you know I don't know what to do in my life I look at the bucket list and think oh okay yeah I can I can make some headway towards kind of working towards these items now finally we've got step three which is execute now this is where it starts to get fun and this is where I talk about my anti waste man system now this is a little bit involved but all of the questions in this table again linked in the video description my template these are all really really useful questions to do and the reason we have step three execute is because it's very easy when doing something like an annual review to just purely have it as an exercise in introspection and reflection which is fine but I am also a big fan of execution rather than just reflection and so this section is here to make me stop being a waste man and actually stop making progress to work stuff and so I've got this table that asks loads of different questions so the first one is dream like what is the dream and like for me the difference between a dream and a goal is that a dream is like emotionally resonant and my make what was Bradley calls this a value goal or which is so something like learn to draw would be a dream but if I kind of make make that even more specific learn to draw like a concept artist because I'm really into concept art then the next question is why why do I want to do the thing and it's really important to have a very strong why behind the things that we're going to do because if we don't then we're just not going to get and so for me my wife learning to draw like concept artists is like it's really cool I love concept art and I love the idea of illustrating scenes from my favorite fantasy books plus it's a good content plus learning in these skills is always fun our next thing is that we are going to convert this into a smart goal now this is a bit controversial but smart stands for specific measurable achievable of realistic and time bound and so how do we make this more specific so no draw like concept artist I think the thing for me for this one is going to be that by the end of 2021 I will have illustrated a scene from real of time or missed one or a strong light archive which are three of my favorite fantasy series and I'll upload a speed painting of it to YouTube maybe as a short to YouTube and Instagram so that is like a very specific smart goal that I've set myself that is very easy for me to know how I hit this goal or not whereas learn to draw like a concept artist is a bit vague but it's important to have that because that's like you know the emotionally resonant dream whereas this is the more like specific goal this is a good question then and this question is how surprised would I be if I failed and I've got this as a number so from on a scale of one to ten that's why this scale of one to ten so how surprised would I be if I actually didn't end up doing this thing by this time next year so if I actually think about it what I'd be surprised if I didn't I have this speed painting illustration type thing honestly I wouldn't be surprised realistically I know myself and this feels like you know I've wanted to learn to draw for a while but I've never done it and so my surprise let's say would be a two out of ten and that I eat not very surprised if I didn't manage to hit this goal now this is fun next question is what are your top three reasons why you might fail at doing the thing and this takes something about this takes some introspection some actually like self awareness to figure out why you're going to be a wasteman about the thing so for me my top three reasons for not becoming a good concept artist would be number one that I don't practice enough that's nice and easy number two that is too technically difficult and number three that sort of not knowing how to actually practice that's what the roadmap towards becoming a concept artist here is so those would be my top three reasons and then you know the top one not practicing enough is probably the main one on that list next we have a set of two questions which is firstly who can help me achieve this goal and secondly how can I stack the deck in my favor to succeed so the both sort of asking the same question but I think who comes first because often when it comes to achieving our goals it's about who not how and that's actually a really good book I read recently by guy called Ben Hardy and Dan Sullivan who not how about how well how like actual success from high performers is always based around who can you enlist to to join your team to help you with this thing rather than how can I kind of personally do it myself and so in terms of who can help actually in that sense it makes a lot of sense even like having art teacher maybe remote resume art lessons and to find online courses where someone's teaching it I think but I think really finding an art teacher would make make a lot of sense I think also potentially for the art thing having an accountability body and an accountability sort of a body is like usually a friend who holds you accountable for doing the thing so for example my brother is my accountability body and we've made a pledge to each other that every day he's going to spend 15 minutes doing improvisational practice on the piano and I'm going to spend 15 minutes doing drawing and if we don't on any day we have to give the other person a hundred pounds and this is a pretty strong motivation for both of us to keep on doing the thing and we check in with each other regularly when we do our weekly podcast link in the video description if you're not subscribed to not everything so that's the who of who can help and then how can I stack the deck in my favor so one of my favorite techniques for this is time blocking and that's actively making space on my calendar for art practice so for example what I should what I should do is I should create a recurring calendar event on my calendar where at at around time maybe like 1145 a.m. for 15 minutes I have on my calendar do art practice and that will remind me to do the thing secondly signing up for some sort of online course on concept art or art basics or something because I've recognized that not knowing what the roadmap would be in becoming a good artist is going to stop me from doing it and therefore if I sign up to of course then that will give me the roadmap and that would make sense and I've also identified that you know one and like my second reason for failing at this would be that this concept art thing is too technically difficult but really that's not a valid reason because all I have to do is reduce my perfectionism and post the video of me doing the concept art painting anyway right like you know at the very least I will know that I have made progress by this time next year if I just do it and not worry about whether it's good or not so I know that that is the way I can stack the deck in my favor and now this is the most important one on the list which is that take action right now so what is the action step that you're going to do right now when you're doing your annual review that will help you go on that path and I did this a couple of days ago and so what I did was I signed up to an online art course in finger drawing on procode.com I think and I posted it on Instagram to kind of have some accountability and because I was just trying to see how crap my drawings were but then someone actually reached out to me via Instagram DM who is himself a concept artist and said that he would he would love to mentor me and be in my art teacher so that was six we had a chat on Instagram that day and he's now my art teacher in this morning at eight o'clock in the morning I had my very first online art lesson I put a link to his profile his name is Alessandro he's very he's very nice and friendly and we're planning to do art lessons three times a week and so you got an art mentor so I need to teach you and like honestly none of this stuff would have happened if I hadn't just taken the time to do my anti waste man system and take action right now and just actively think about why might I fail at doing this thing that I claim to want and what are the reasons I might combat that and then who can help me do it and then all right let's let's do it right now and in fact let me show you my sketchbook and so this was my first attempt at doing just gesture sketching this was of a reference image I'll put the reference image here if you want to have a look and see how bad this is this was my second attempt this was my third attempt this is how how badly I suffer these this was my attempt to draw someone holding a gun this was my attempt to do another kind of gesture and so now this is like day three of my art journey and it's only happened because I took the time to do this execution step in the annual review I got my pencils lots of more pencils over here so I also bought the very supplies I need but crucially one thing I didn't do is I actually didn't have any pencils in the house and as you'll see over here I started doing the sketching I started going through this gesture sketching course just using a fine liner pen because they didn't have any pencils so I bought the pencils off Amazon Prime but instead of waiting for them to arrive and thinking oh once I have the equipment then I can get started I realise that no that is a dangerous way to think and it's never true for example if you want to start a YouTube channel you should just take out your phone and film the video like I did rather than wait to get the best camera equipment because we all struggle with this thing where we feel like we need equipment to get started with doing stuff which is almost never the case anyway all right that was my annual review thank you so much for watching if you like this video you should definitely check out this very short playlist that I've made specially for you over here which is three of my videos themed around reflecting on the year so that's my favorite books it is my 20 life lessons that I learned in 2020 and it's also my new years resolutions goals for 2021 thank you so much for watching happy new year and I'll see you in the next video bye bye
