# How To Build A Life You Love
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EwSD4uCSX_M
This video is sponsored by Curiosity Stream. Get access to my bonus content on Nebula when you sign up for Curiosity Stream using this link - http://curiositystream.com/ali

How do we build a life that we love? In this video which I recorded during a live stream, we're going to look into the principles, strategies and tools that we can use to genuinely build a life that we love. Enjoy x

🎙 Check out my weekly podcast, Deep Dive - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/ - It's also available on all podcast platforms, including Spotify, Apple Podcasts etc.

⏱ Timestamps
00:00 Intro
00:28 Step 1 - Identify
03:27 The Fast-Forward Test
05:49 The Odyssey Plan
09:55 Step 2 - Experiment
13:15 Step 3 - Iterate
17:42 Tips

💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://go.aliabdaal.com/subscribe-sundaysnippets

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - 
 https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

🎬 YouTube for Beginners - Everything You Need To Know To Start  - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/YouTube-for-Beginners

MY CREATOR COURSES
🎬 Part-Time YouTuber Academy - My 6-week live online course on becoming a part-time YouTuber → https://go.aliabdaal.com/parttimeyoutuberacademy
🏆 Creatorpreneur - My flagship course for scaling up your creative side-hustle → https://creatorpreneur.academy/course
🗣 Camera Confidence - My self-paced course on how to improve your creativity, career, or communication skills → https://cameraconfidence.aliabdaal.com/

MY FAVOURITE GEAR
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) -https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE TOOLS
🚀 VidIQ - How I optimise my YouTube videos - https://go.aliabdaal.com/vidiq

✍️ Shortform - The BEST summaries of books - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform

📚  Readwise - How I remember what I read - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise

🎵  Epidemic Sound - Where I get my music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound

MY KEY LINKS
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com/
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I’m Ali, a YouTuber, podcaster, soon-to-be author and ex-Doctor working in London, UK. I make videos that explore the strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. I also have a weekly podcast called Deep Dive (https://www.youtube.com/channel/UChfo46ZNOV-vtehDc25A1Ug), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://go.aliabdaal.com/subscribe-sundaysnippets).

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, 
**Date:** 2022-11-04

## Transcript
 What are the principles, strategies, and tools that we can learn from the world of evidence about how to genuinely answer the question of how do I build a life that I love, how do I know what to do in my life? And that's take like a product designer kind of design thinking approach to this and actually figure it out. So I have got three steps for you. Step one, step two, and step three. Step one, we're going to call identify, or we can also call that kind of get clarity. And then we will talk about step two in just one. Step one is to basically identify. How do we identify? Basically, what we need to do there is figure out like what is actually the problem on a scale of 0 to 10 to what extent are you living a life that you love? If you're anything other than a 10, but also if you're a 10 out of 10, it's worth figuring out like what actually is the problem like in what areas of life. Do you actually want to be doing something like like what is this gap between where you want to be and where you currently are? And what does that look like in the different areas of life? So let's think about this. How do we split up life into into a thing that makes sense? For me, this like sort of four or three, I sort of think of it in three, three parts, sometimes four, sometimes I'm just going to give you my like the the framework I use and you can kind of pick and choose whatever works for you here. But essentially, like what are the aspects of life that we care about? So the first one is health. The second one is like work slash money slash career, you know, all that kind of stuff, you know, let's call it work, such wealth, that whole bucket of things bucket of things. The third one is relationship chips slash love slash friends slash family, like all that kind of stuff, that's like one big bucket, you know what, let's just focus on these three. Like there are other things that you can do, like there are some people that would put play in here or like purpose slash mission or like spirituality or like learning. Like this all, there's dozens and dozens of ways of splitting up what like a good life is, but just for the sake of simplicity, we're just going to split it up into health work in relationships. Nice and easy, very few people would disagree with the idea that health work and relationships are like the three main three of the main key areas of life. And if you can live a life that you love in terms of health physical health mental health and stuff work and relationships, then you're winning. Essentially all we want to do when it comes to building a life that we love is we just want to start taking steps in the right direction across each of these three realms health work and relationships. A question you want to ask yourself is when it comes to my physical and mental health what what is one step that I can take to get closer to where I want to be or to get closer to building a life that I love when it comes to my physical health. For me it's I know when it comes to my physical health I want to eat more I want to take my diet more seriously and I want to take exercise more seriously. And I've got a goal that I kind of want to be a gym shark athlete and I kind of want to body like Sam colder like that's like to me a cool goal to aim towards. So it's like cool now I have identified what I think a life that I love would be in terms of health doesn't want to say I'm not currently living a life I love and it's like oh cool it would be cool to go on that journey to get to that point and I've identified with the goal is. Similarly when it comes to work like how do I ideally want to be spending my time what are the things I actually want to be doing and in particular like. Is the way that I'm currently spending my time does that energize me and I often think about this is like if I look at my calendar if I look at the things that I actually do with my time how many of those energize me and how many of those drain me. And another question I think about I'm just going to give you all the different frameworks that I use for this is it's it's what I call the the fast forward test where are we so it's like. The fast forward. Test. The fast forward test is basically let's take an standard day in your life and and let's say you know with each with each thing that you do you have the option to fast forward to the end of the thing. Do you press the button like where you don't experience the thing that you're doing you just fast forward to the end and get the result at the end like for example let's say you have a day job do you choose to fast forward meetings. And just so you can get to the end of them if you could fast forward to the end of your work day would you choose to fast forward to the end of your work day now back when I was working as a doctor. I actually would if you'd offered me a fast forward bus and I would have pressed it because even though it was kind of fun. There were still better things I would have wanted to be doing and if I'd been given a fast forward button I would have pressed that button almost every work day. I wouldn't have pressed that button if I was teaching medical students because I genuinely enjoyed teaching medical students and I got a lot of energy out of it. I wouldn't press the fast forward forward button doing this live stream right now because it's quite fun and I feel like your energy from it. And so I find that that fast forward test is a way of figuring out like am I actually living a life I love because to me like my definition of a life that I love is one where I wouldn't fast forward very many things in my life because I want to actually want to experience the things that I'm doing. And then finally when it comes to relationships we talk about health work in relationships basically what we're trying to do is just figure out like where do we want to be and where are we currently at and just generate some ideas it's all about generating ideas and again coming back to this idea that we talked about at the beginning. There's sort of design thinking thing like let's say you want to create something like an iPhone. The way the iPhone is created it's not like someone has an idea for like the iPhone is gonna happen and then they invent the iPhone. It's like they figure out what is the problem they identify they get clarity on what's wrong with what's on the market right now. And then they throw a lot of ideas it's like throwing a lot of spaghetti at the wall and seeing what sticks. And using that spaghetti and those ideas throwing like taking steps in different directions and getting data over time. So this whole thing of building a life that you love like the mistake I find that people make with this is that it's it's too easy to think of it as being a one and done thing. But actually it's a very long process over the course of our entire life. We're constantly striving to build a life that we love while enjoying the journey of on the way. So design thinking and identify get get get clarity more this what this actually looks like. One way of doing that. So we've talked about the fast forward test that's what we're doing that the other way of doing that is something called the Odyssey plan. Now I first came across this in 2019 and it's a sick this exercise has changed the life of in both me and so many other people that I know. The Odyssey plan is an exercise that's from designing your life the Stanford business school thing about how to design life that you love. And it's basically the idea that you ask yourself three questions number one you ask yourself five years from now. What does my current life look like like if I were to fast forward five years what would a day in my life look like. Then number two you're like all right cool scrap that if I were to take a completely different path. Five years from now what does my life look like cool and you scrap that and then you think okay number three five years from now. What does my life look like if I take a different path. But where I don't have to worry about money and I don't have to worry about what other people expect of me or societal expectations or societal obligations or if I want the lottery. Like and what what you essentially do is that with the Odyssey plan you map out what are those three paths. Now the point of this is not to commit to any one of those paths. But it's just to systematically try and answer the question what does it mean to me to build a life that I love and in back in 2019 I was still working full time as a doctor. And my whole life plan was that I was going to do training and anesthetics. I was going to become a physiology supervisor in Cambridge. I was going to become a fellow of Emmanuel College, which is a college I went to and I was going to do like I don't know four days a week training and anesthetics and become an anesthetist or anesthesiologist if you're in the US. That was my whole plan and I kind of wrote out in pretty reasonable detail what that looks like five years from now. And then I asked myself I looked at that I was like this is just not very exciting. The thought of this being my life five years from now does not actually energize me it does not excite me. And that was a massive thing for me of like oh crap like this path that I've been going on is not actually a path that I want to be on. And so that resulted in me basically kind of re evaluating my life and changing up where I ended up and that's how I actually ended up here today speaking to you on this livestream. Because I decided that actually this YouTube stuff and the teaching stuff and the writing stuff and writing a book and all of that seemed to me at the time to be more exciting and more energizing. And this is the thing that I did about three years ago. And I think like are you doing it every few years or even every year depending on how quickly your life is changing is like helpful because again it just generate some ideas and really it just comes down to this thing of like. How do you identify what living a life you love means to feed means for you? A big part of it is to generate ideas of what it could look like because you're never going to know unless you try things out. You can kind of analysis paralysis yourself with this or you like until you actually try things out you're never going to know what a life that you love actually means. And for me I recognized when I was in medical school that like if I become a full-time doctor that to me is not really a life that I love. Cool what are some other things I can do how can I dip my toes into a bunch of different things. How can I you know I try it starting a met tech app I start joined lives of societies I start try it starting a business. And the business stuff was fun the met tech stuff was fun the teaching stuff was really fun. So it was like cool I'm enjoying this thing I'm taking steps to what's this thing. Still not fully enjoying medicine itself, but like I really enjoy teaching medical students maybe I could take some steps down the teaching route and I take some steps down that path. And some more done on entrepreneurship path. And eventually landed on this YouTube channel where I was like oh hello there's something here let's take some more steps. And it's a constant stage of like just putting building blocks down over time and eventually building to a point where I can comfortably say that I'm a 10 out of 10 on the I currently live a life that I love scale. But I'm still over time trying to kind of increase increase that as well and try it and I think increase that. I guess I'm still over time trying to continuously put down blocks which is why I have goals in the realm of health and relationships and work and all this kind of stuff. So anyway all that to say that that is. I'm doing a big quiet round here step one of this method. How to build a life that you love step one is you identify some options ideas and options what are some things you could try. It's all about trying to find things that we can try and then step two is experiment. And I love the word experiment. I love the word experiment because it's kind of sciencey and it makes me think of myself as a bit of a science bro. But I also love the word experiment because it just it takes the pressure off. That when I started my YouTube channel it was not a case of I'm going to start a YouTube channel. It's going to be successful and I know what I'm doing. It was a case of I have an idea identify that hey maybe I can put a building block down towards building a life I love by starting a YouTube channel. Cool now let's turn this into an experiment. Let's give it a go. Let's see what happens. I made a video on my bed being like hey I'm just going to start a vlog. So for the past few days I've kind of had the idea that it would be really cool to start vlogging. And I was like cool let's just put it up there. Edited in Premiere, washed a few tutorials. I was like cool I'm going to just put some stuff out there. I'm going to throw a spaghetti at the wall and see what sticks. Now I was like you know what I'm going to make some beam at tutorial videos because I had a business helping people get into med school. Why don't I make some videos teaching people how to get into med school. And then people started asking me do some vlogs of life as a medical student. I was like cool I'll do some vlogs about life as a medical student. See what happens. Then people started asking me hey how do you study for exams? You seem intelligent like teachers how to study. I was like all right cool I'll do that. And every step I didn't have a plan. I had no idea what I was doing. But I was just taking some small steps along the path. Putting the blocks down towards just exploring this avenue. And there are loads of people I know who study YouTube channel. For whom they realize six months in you know what this isn't for me. I've tried the experiment. I don't enjoy it. I don't want to do this thing. But for me I tried the experiment. And it went well. I was like okay this is actually kind of fun. It's energizing. It's good. I like the idea of being a YouTuber. Let's continue down this path. And so that's that's where this idea of experimenting comes in. And you know there's another way of thinking of it is you know prototypes. Like if we go back to our sort of design thinking thinking example. Let's say you're trying to design the design the iPhone from scratch. And people have no idea what's going on. They worked with like hundreds thousands of different prototypes. That what would it look like if the touchscreen was like this. What would it look like if the button was in the middle or on the top or on the side. If we had a back button they tried out so many of these things. And they were just trying out experiments to see what works. And they were getting data from those experiments in their internal testing to see. Is this actually the thing that we want to make? It's just all about experimentation. You get an idea and then you try it out. And then mistake the people make. Like you know this is a massive issue that I see. Is that over here. They kind of don't do anything. They have an idea. I was like oh I reckon it would be cool to start a podcast or to start a YouTube channel. And they don't take action. They let the fear of getting started. They've got them from just even experimenting. But the point is it's all about having this sort of experimental and prototype attitude to, I guess, life. And really the way I think of it is what is the smallest step that I can take. It's all about the smallest step. This is another area where I see a lot of at least in the contactive YouTube and the context of my part time. YouTube wrote how to me. People make mistakes. But it's like oh I don't know if I should completely change my niche. It's like I don't want to do makeup content anymore. Let's see different. I don't want to do productivity content anymore. I want to do finance content now. And they start thinking oh my god my whole channel is going to become a finance channel. How do I do this once a plan? I'm like oh no. Okay. Your idea is maybe like the idea of making finance content. What is the smallest step you can take? Can you put out a community post being like hey thinking is making a finance video? What do you think? Can you just put out a single video? Can you do a livestream where you talk about finance? Like what is the smallest step you can take to experiment with this idea and see if you actually enjoy the thing? And then we come to the tip number three or kind of number step number three, which is to iterate. And this is another thing that they do in startups in product design and anything like that. You have an idea, you make the thing, you prototype, you do an experiment and then you iterate. You see how it felt to do the thing and then you improve based on that thing that you've done. And it always becomes this like sort of constant experimentation feedback loop, where you identify, you experiment and then you iterate and then you go back to identifying. So again, like to use an example like I know I identified I want to have a body like sandcorder, or whatever for whatever that's worth. And so now I'm experimenting. And like you know what I'm going to hire personal trainer, I'm going to try going to the gym. Personal trainer A didn't quite enjoy the sessions too many high reps. The volume was too high. Cool. Let's try another method. And so I downloaded Jeff Neepard's guide to the minimalist workout routine the other day. And I found another personal trainer who's and then I'm going to say to him, look man, I don't like doing like 20 reps of stuff. And I just want to do the sort of 5 to 8 rep range. Can we try that? Because I want to get a body like sandcorder. There's like these are trivial examples. But it's the idea of step one, identify an area in which you can try and experiment. Step two, run that experiment and step three, use the data to then feed back into identifying what you want to do next. And as long as you're continuing to take small steps, then eventually you just, you would answer yes to the question of am I building a life that I love? Because you're taking small intentional steps in each of these different areas to build towards a life that you think you want. But you won't actually know you want it until you get there and then you're trying to experiment and iterating. And it becomes like a really fun loop where every day you're taking some actions. But really the key thing here is that it is it is all about that sort of action taking. It's it's all well and good analyzing the hell out of things and stuff. But really unless it comes on a foundation of action and a foundation of actually doing stuff, taking the steps. You know, there's no use reading about how to get six pack arms. What actually gets you six pack arms or gets you in shape is doing the exercises. It's not reading about doing the exercises. And it's so easy for nerds like you and me, you know, if you're watching this life, if you're probably a nerd to the next step, I'm definitely an nerd. It's so easy for nerds like you can't stabilize the hell out of things and just not take any action. I'll take any steps. Thinking, I get mistake that loads of people make on my part-time youtuber Academy. It's like a five week live course. And what they say is, you know what, I'm going to watch all 660 hours of content first. And once I've watched all the content, then I will start my YouTube channel. And I always say, no, don't do that. That is like the worst thing you can do. The thing you should do is, start your YouTube channel right now, upload a crappy video with your phone right now. And then watch the live sessions and then do the homework each week. And as long as you're taking action, then it's okay to analyze. But it's not okay to analyze if you're not taking action. And that's what this whole idea of designing a life is kind of based around. Identify, experiment, take action. Have a good time. Now, if you're interested in taking this idea of building a life that you love seriously, you might like to check out some of my other exclusive content that I've got available on Nebula. If you haven't heard, Nebula is an independent streaming platform that's built by me and a bunch of other creators. And on Nebula, we get to put long-form exclusive stuff that we wouldn't necessarily put on YouTube because we'd be worried about the YouTube algorithm. And so on Nebula, I've got a series of videos where I've done live stream interviews with thinkers from all around the world, whose work I've admired for years. There's an interview with Ryan Holliday, who's written a lot about stoicism and that's cooler philosophy. We've got an interview with Justin Khan, who was the co-founder of Twitch, which he then sold to Amazon for a billion dollars and how he's trying to build a life that he loves after that like major success. We've got an interview with Derek Sifers, who's one of the people on the internet who have admired for a long time. And a bunch of other people who I managed to interview during the pandemic to ask basically this question of, like, how do you actually build a life that you love? If you want to get access to Nebula, the best way is to sign up to CuriosityStream, who are very kindly sponsoring this video. CuriosityStream is the world's leading documentary streaming subscription platform that's founded by John Hendrix as the founder of the Discovery Channel. Don't CuriosityStream, they've got thousands of really high budget high quality documentaries from all sorts of topics like science and technology to history, to politics, to food, to neuroscience and how the brain works. And because CuriosityStream love independent creators, we've actually got a bundle deal with Nebula. So, if you sign up for CuriosityStream, which is less than $15 for the whole year, you also get completely free access to Nebula bundled with that. And so, on top of getting access to all of these high quality documentaries, you also get access to the exclusive content posted by me and other creators that you might be familiar with. Like Thomas Frank and legal eagle in Lindsay Ellis, Window of a Productions. If that sounds up your street and you want to sign up to the best deal in the streaming world right now, then head over to curiositystream.com forward slash alley. And if you sign up there, then your Nebula details will be emailed to you. And you can check out the exclusive stuff I have on Nebula to your heart's content. So, thank you so much CuriosityStream for sponsoring this video. So, we've got the three part method. I just want to share a few tips that I found really useful. It's like a handful of things to help me build a life that I love. Number one is the team of builders. Basically, you want to have people around you who are also trying to build a life that they love. And you want to support each other along in the process. It's kind of lonely being on the personal development journey if you're just doing it by yourself. If you have other people around you who are motivating you and who are also trying to do the thing, then it's great. Again, just using up part-time YouTuber Academy as an example, because I think it just is just a microcosm of like a lot of different things that people are trying to do. People are trying to be YouTubers, they're trying to get over their fear, they're trying to make money, all of these things. But to use that as an example, the people that stick to YouTube consistently tend to be the ones who form accountability groups. And essentially one accountability group is this like, you get a couple of people together, usually like two or three. And you decide every week we're going to have a Zoom call where we hold each other accountable to the things that we're going to do. People in my team do this. Tintin, Alice, Angus and Bob have a little accountability group that meets every Monday at 5pm. In fact, they didn't like it, yeah, a few days ago. They meet every Monday at 5pm. And each of them has the floor for like five minutes and they say, okay, here's what I'm working on this week. And then they check in the following week to be like, did I actually do the thing? And this is the idea of having a team of builders around you. You probably have some friends in your life, some colleagues, some family members, even people in the internet you can find. A lot of these accountability groups are online, where you can find people who are also trying to do the same thing. And it's so much easier to work towards building a life that you love if you can find a team of builders to do it with you. Even just a friend, even just two friends, I think three is like an ideal size of a WhatsApp group. You can do that, find a team of builders around you. Tip number two is something I've started doing recently, but I've got a lot of mileage out. Is essentially a method called the three alarms. What are the three alarms? Well, the philosophy behind this method, the three alarm method, is the idea that actions tend to follow from identity. So it's like, if I think of myself as someone who is a healthy person, someone who is a gym shock athlete, I'm more likely to make healthy life choices when it comes to eating well and when it comes to exercising. If I think of myself as someone who cares a lot about relationships, I'm then more likely to take the actions that mean I care a lot about relationships. It tends not to be action-first. It's not like, I'll go to the gym X amount of times and then I'll start to think of myself as a healthy person. It's more like, when I start thinking of myself as a healthy person, I then start to go to the gym more often. And the three alarms method is a method that my coach Eric Partaker came up with and he's got a book about this called the three alarms. I will literally show you what is currently on my phone. It's a bit cringe, but that's okay. I'm getting the feeling, getting over the fear of being cringe over here. This is it. Let me show you my phone. This is like, no word of a lie. This is, this is what's on my phone right now. I basically have three alarms on my phone. The first alarm says, humble and inspiring teacher. Loll, cringe. The second alarm says, gym shock athlete. And the third alarm says, relationships sustainer. So basically, every day at 9am, this alarm goes off. And it just goes, blah, blah, blah, blah. And it says, humble and inspiring teacher. Because that is the identity that I want to embody in my work. Yeah, I mean, I start like, I cringe a bit as I say this. I hope you'll forgive me. But just that reminder that comes up on my other watch, a little product placement and on my phone. It's enough to remind me that, yeah, those are the things I want to approach my life with. Then at 5pm, which is, as you can see, 16 minutes from now, because it's 1644, the alarm is going to go off and it's going to say gym shock athlete. Because that's the identity I want to embody. And that means I'm decided I'm going to go to the gym. And it says, reminder, oh, yeah, I'm now a gym shock athlete mode. I should give the gym. And then at 630, relationships sustainer, again, another bit cringe. But like, that's the alarm that's going to go off at 630. And I've got some friends coming over for dinner at 630. Because I decided I want to be the sort of person that sustained relationships and builds new ones. And therefore, that's the alarm. And it's just nice. It is nice to have. I've been doing this. I've had these alarms on my phone for the last several weeks. And I have genuinely found it helpful. And you have to pay anything for it. Free. You can just decide in the realm of work, health, and relationships that either three big realms of life. What's the identity you want to embody? And just make an alarm on your phone that encourages you to actually do the thing. The final tip for building a life you love is also from the book Three Alarm. And that's, um, I mean, he calls it like champion proofs or something like that. And basically, the idea there is every day. You want to prove to yourself that in the three realms of life that you care about, in my case, you know, health, work, and relationships. In those three realms of life, you want to prove to yourself that, like, you are taking a small action to build a life that you love every day. And so you can plan that at the start of your day. Each morning, I look at my book, I don't want to do my planning. I'm just thinking to myself, okay, these are the three identities I want to have. Humberland's power and teacher. Well, gym shark athlete and relationship of the standard. What is an action I'm going to take across each of those? And it might be something small. And the realm of health, it's today I'm going to go to the gym. Or today I'm going to go for a walk or today I'm going to go for a run. That reminds me that I am kind of embodying my identity of being a gym shark athlete. In the realm of work, Humberland's bar and teacher, I might think, you know what? Like earlier today, I decided I was going to do this live stream, because I want to experiment with the idea of trying to come across as a Humberland's bar and teacher, a little cringe on something like a live stream, which might be kind of fun and might be kind of cool. And I get to interact with the chat and it's been super fun. So that's it. And then in the relationships front, what am I doing today? Well, I need to call my grandma, that's something I still have to do. She's in Pakistan right now. But I've also got this dinner with my guy friends who haven't seen in a while. So I'm going to use the dinner a couple weeks ago. When I decided I wanted to be a relationship sustainer. So that method of like, just a few tips that I found super super helpful in the last few weeks that I genuinely use every day. Thinking about having a team of builders, setting these three alarms on my phone, and kind of sort of reminding myself, what are these championship proofs? Well, how will I prove to myself that I actually am putting down building blocks to build a life that I love? That's what I find helpful, hopefully you find it helpful as well. So that brings us to the end of this somewhat experimental video about how to kind of design a build a life that you love. If you enjoyed this, you might like to check out that video over there, which is my video around how I manage my time, and my favorite productivity tips for squeezing most out of my time, while having fun and well learning out. So thanks for watching, and I'll see you later. Bye. You
