# How my friend ranked 1st at Medical School - The Active Recall Framework
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fDbxPVn02VU
To improve your thinking and learning skills with active recall, visit https://brilliant.org/ali and sign up for free. The first 200 people will get 20% off the annual Premium subscription :)

In this video, we're taking a look at the method that my friend Osaid used to rank 1st at Cambridge University Medical School. He was consistently in the top 3 overall, and ranked 1st in several subjects using this method. It involves taking Active Recall to its logical extreme (the most efficient study technique, backed by decades of evidence). 

Timestamps
0:00:38 - The Method in a Nutshell
0:03:51 - Why it works - The power of Active Recall
0:09:00 - How it works - A detailed look 

Links
1. My main video about active recall (1M+ views) - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ukLnPbIffxE
2. My video about spaced repetition - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z-zNHHpXoMM
3. How I ranked 1st at Cambridge University - The Essay Memorisation Framework - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-46Vyiwat_Y

💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://go.aliabdaal.com/subscribe-sundaysnippets

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - 
 https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
🎬 YouTube for Beginners - Everything You Need To Know To Start  - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/YouTube-for-Beginners

MY CREATOR COURSES
🎬 Check out my free 7 day email course on how to become a part-time YouTuber: https://aliabdaal.com/part-time-youtuber-crash-course/
🏆 Creatorpreneur - My flagship course for scaling up your creative side-hustle → https://creatorpreneur.academy/course
🗣 Camera Confidence - My self-paced course on how to improve your creativity, career, or communication skills → https://cameraconfidence.aliabdaal.com/

MY FAVOURITE GEAR
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) -https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

🎙 Check out my weekly podcast, Deep Dive - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/ - It's also available on all podcast platforms, including Spotify, Apple Podcasts etc.

MY FAVOURITE TOOLS
🚀 VidIQ - How I optimise my YouTube videos - https://go.aliabdaal.com/vidiq
✍️ Shortform - The BEST summaries of books - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
📚  Readwise - How I remember what I read - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise
🎵  Epidemic Sound - Where I get my music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound

MY KEY LINKS
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com/
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I’m Ali, a YouTuber, podcaster, soon-to-be author and ex-Doctor working in London, UK. I make videos that explore the strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. I also have a weekly podcast called Deep Dive (https://www.youtube.com/channel/UChfo46ZNOV-vtehDc25A1Ug), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://go.aliabdaal.com/subscribe-sundaysnippets).

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** how to study for exams, how to study, ali abdaal, ali abdal, study tips, study motivation, how to study in college, cambridge university, cambridge, medical school, how to revise, how to revise for exams, study with me, exam revision, cambridge uni, med student, study, how to study effectively, revision tips, active recall, spaced repetition, how to study for a test, how to learn, exam tips, studying, medical student, studytube, exam prep, 
**Date:** 2019-11-26

## Transcript
 Hey friends, welcome back to the channel. If you're new here, my name is Ali. I'm a doctor working in Cambridge. And in this video, I want to share with you the study method, the study framework that one of my closest friends used to rank consistently in the top three in medical school, and sometimes even rank one in certain subjects. And he's a medical student at Cambridge University, which is one of the most competitive medical schools in the world. We're going to split this video up into three parts. Firstly, I'll talk about what the method is and how it works. Then we'll talk a little bit about the evidence behind it, like why it works, the learning theory behind why this method is amazing. And finally, we'll go into the method in much more detail, and I'll be showing you using some examples on different apps about how you can incorporate this method into your own study life. Okay, so the method is as follows. Basically, instead of ever writing any notes, instead of ever trying to summarize content from lectures or textbooks, what my friend, Asay did, is that all he did was just write a ton of questions for himself. And then when he was revising, he would just go over this question over and over again. And after a handful, maybe like three or four repetitions of these questions, he pretty much knew everything in every subject inside out. So how does this work? Let's hop into the laptop, as they say, and I'll show you these, these were the documents that he made for each of the subjects. So we've got home, which is physiology. We've got mimms, which is biochemistry, and we've got anatomy, which is anatomy. So let's start with home, which is physiology. So essentially, he's gone through the lecture notes and through a textbook alongside, and he's basically converted everything into questions. So the first lecture was about Sol membranes and stuff. So his question is, what are some roles of the Sol membrane? Then it was about control systems. When is ballistic control good and what's an example? Let's scroll down a bit to what's another topic. So we've got muscles as another topic. What does the size of a motor unit determine? What is the kinetic state diagram for this? Why is there a constant isometric force below 2.2 to 2.0 microns? Basically, a ton of questions, so 60 questions for muscles for cardiology. We've got how many questions is this? Wow, this is a lot of questions. Oh my god. This is how you rank first in medical school. Whoa, 216 questions for cardiology. He was a bit of a cardiology note, so he kind of fleshed out the lecture notes with some information from textbooks. But again, never made any notes from the textbooks. All he did was just write questions for himself. More staff, respiratory questions from the lecture notes, 100 plus 158, quick questions about the kidneys. And as you can see, he's basically got an entire like 37 page Google docs that were a dog literally just filled with questions. He hasn't wasted any time in making notes and in summarizing. All he's done is just write questions for himself. And the idea is that he's done this for every subject and then when he's sitting down to study, he decides in advance or like on the day, what subject he wants to study that day? So let's say he's doing an anatomy and he wants to revise the upper limb. Then what he's going to do is going to open up his upper limb document. And all he's going to do is he's going to go through the questions one by one and ask himself if he can feasibly answer those questions in his head. He doesn't really write anything down. He just sort of tries to answer them out loud or in his head. So how does the median cubitimate run? Oh god, I can't remember that at all. What did the lucid himself contain and where are they for and found? No idea. I don't even know those are a thing which two layers make up the dermis. Oh, I probably should know that but I really can't remember anyway. This is essentially like all of the stuff for anatomy again 34 pages of just questions. And that's basically it. The method is going through the lecture notes, going through textbooks. But like what we all like to do by default is we like to highlight and like make notes. For some reason we think it's useful to summarize our lecture notes or summarise a textbook or summarise a revision guide. And then I don't know. I think the theory is that we will read over our summaries and maybe highlight stuff and maybe ask ourselves questions. But this is a purely active recal-based method. All he's literally doing is just asking questions and answering them. So let's move on to why this method works. And this whole method is based around the principle of active recal. I have been preaching about active recal for the literally the last two years and actually even longer than that since before I got this YouTube channel just like in talks and lectures and stuff that I would give. I'd be like active recal is literally the best thing ever. It's the best thing ever because active recal is the single most efficient study technique that's ever been discovered. There is a mountain of evidence supporting it. I've got a 25 minute long video that I'll link in the video description and I'm going to card up there somewhere where I go through the evidence in much more detail. But essentially what active recal means is testing yourself. And the reason testing ourselves is so amazing valuable is because the way the brain works it's all based around how many times and how how much you retrieve information from your brain. So we all have this misconception that in order to study we have to put stuff into our brains. But actually it's it's flipped on its head if you look at the evidence. The the actual way to remember anything to make anything stick is by retrieving information from our brains rather than trying to put it back in. So let's see we read something once and we've understood a topic. At that point the most effective thing we can do with our time is ask ourselves questions about that topic and they've done loads of studies whereby they've taken a group of of college students or high school students or whatever and they split them up into different groups and they'll teach all the groups exactly the same topic. But for one of the groups they'll get them to reread it, for one of the groups they'll get them to make a mind map, for one of the groups they'll tell them to read it four times for another group they'll tell them to make notes. And for one of the groups they'll just give them a test on the subject. And then if you look at the results afterwards like when they get tested maybe a week later you'll find that the people that get tested the people who did the active recall who actively tried to retrieve the information rather than just reread it or make notes on it. Those are the people that perform significantly better in their exams and again much more evidence in my legit evidence-based revision tips video. This is just kind of an introduction. So I don't think this can be stated enough. I recently set up a discord server. I'll put a link down if you want to hang out with me in the evenings on discord and we've got like a little study tips chat thing on there. And it baffles me as to just how many people still ask the question, how should I be studying for my exams? It's just the only like it's such a good revision technique to just test yourself on stuff that it's it's still baffles me that despite even like watching watching some of my videos maybe reading a book called Make It Stick really good book to how to effectively learn or watching any of my friends Thomas Frank's videos like all of the evidence around study tips is basically that active recall is the way forward and I'm waxing on about this for absolutely ages because you know they say that on average it takes about seven repetitions like seven times hearing the same concept to really fully internalize it and I think like the more people in the world hear about active recall and kind of hear about the good news of active recall the better human productivity as a whole would be and the better our lives as students would be because we'd have to spend less time studying and more time doing the things that actually matter to us. But yeah that's basically how the method works I'll stop running on about this now let's now talk about the method in a bit more detail and I'll show you how you can use various different apps to achieve the same effects. Before we do so I just want to tell you a little bit about this video sponsor and that is brilliant. Brilliant is an amazing active learning problem-solving community with online courses and daily challenges for things like maths, science, physics, computer science, that sort of stuff. They've got a lot of courses that you can take to help understand concepts like computer science fundamentals programming the Python data structures algorithm search engines neural networks machine learning so that's in the computer science segment and we've also got things like probability how casinos work the fundamentals of statistics and just like a load of really really well produced courses and the nice thing about these courses is that it's not just a passively educational video like this one what it does is that they guide you through the concepts and then it forces you to use active recall to apply those concepts to certain problems and recently they've introduced this new daily challenges feature where it only takes about five or ten minutes but every day there's a new challenge but it's based on maths or physics or computer science and what they do is that they teach you a little bit about the topic and then they throw you into a problem and then you try and grapple with the concepts in the topic and then you solve the problem and this is actually a similar format to how the education system works at universities like Oxford and Cambridge and as part of the interviews what the supervisor or the professor does is that they would give you a little snippet of information sort of introduce you to a topic and then they'll ask you a question about it and then you have to kind of use your brain to figure out and sort of actively go from step A to B it's not the case that you just kind of get spoon-fed information and then you have to re-go to take it back out so I really like Brilliant I've been going through their computer science fundamentals course because I can sort of code myself and I've been coding since I was very young since that was about 11 but I've never really taken the time to actually understand how algorithms work or like the real basics of how computers work and there's a lot of stuff these days about like neural networks and machine learning and AI and Brilliant gives a really good accessible introduction to all of those topics so if any of that sounds up your street and you're interested in kind of actively supplementing your learning with these interesting problem solving courses you should go to brilliant.org forward slash alley and the first 200 people to visit that link will be getting 20% off at annual subscription a few of the courses of free you can check them out you can see what you like but yeah brilliant.org thanks for sponsoring this video and let's move on all right so let's talk about this method in a bit more detail and one of the common questions about this method is you know what you do if you don't know the answer to one of the questions that you've written so at the start we've gone through our lectures and we've just converted everything into just questions we've gone through our text book and we've just written questions for ourselves but then when we're going through the questions obviously there's going to be stuff that we don't remember the answer to so for example if I read what is the capacitance of bio membranes you know I might not remember that from the lecture notes but the key thing of it says method is that he never writes down the answer to these questions he trusts that he'll be able to find the information in the lecture notes or in the textbook or on Google and therefore he doesn't have to waste the time to actually write down the answer for all of these and that's obviously a benefit because it means we save time and it's a bit more efficient but obviously the drawback is that then when we're going through stuff it does take a little bit of time to then find that information in the right place but this isn't necessarily a bad thing it's not necessarily a bad thing they're in order to get information we have to go back to our lecture notes because at least for us in Cambridge the lecture notes are usually quite well structured and quite well organized and so the act of finding information in a lecture notes means that we'll be able to see what section the information is in we like okay that's the capacitance of bio membranes and we'll see where it fits into the bigger picture equally if we're having to go into a textbook textbooks are usually very well recent because you know they've been around for years and they're written by clever people and stuff and so for finding information in a textbook again we're going to be getting that information in context in the context of the rest of the subject and then maybe instead of just reading about the capacitance of bio membranes we'll read a little bit more about bio membranes and kind of understand the subject a little bit better and so what I say is doing is like number one the first part through the lecture is just converting into questions and then the second time he comes around to revise the subject he's going to go through the questions ask himself one by one and then what he does is that he's color coding in red for example over here the questions that he didn't know the answer to so that the next time around if he's short on time he won't go through every single question he'll just go through the questions that he's marked red and then let's say the third time around if there are questions that he didn't get in the second time he'll mark them as blue and then the third time around he'll just go over the blue questions so this becomes a very efficient way of only doing the questions that we know we got wrong previously and obviously before the exam and at some point we want to be going through every single question because one of the other concepts in effective studying is called spaced repetition and again I'll link my video about that down here and in a card up there and you can check it out more but basically the idea is that cramming is ineffective it obviously works in the short term we've all done cramming for exams but actually if we want information to stick over a very long term period we want to be repeating that information at spaced intervals to overcome what's called the forgetting effect or the forgetting curve that was discovered by a guy called Ebinghausen like the 1800s I think but yeah more information in my spaced repetition video basically it's all about active recall and spaced repetition and this method really works in that sense and we can see here he's even color-coded some of them in purple and I suspect those are the questions that he was a little bit struggling with on his fourth pass of doing these doing these questions this isn't the sort of method that you can just kind of do once then forget about and then be like oh well I haven't done any work for a year therefore I'm gonna cram this in two days before the exam you probably could but it would be cramming it wouldn't be long term knowledge that would stick whereas doing this and applying spaced repetition to it would really be magical and I'll just show you how I would apply this method personally so I've you know active recall as the best thing ever so I've been using variants of this method for a few years now I just haven't used them as well as I say it has because I feel I you know I get lazy and I'm not great but he is really good at kind of actually doing the work anyway the other day I was preparing for a supervision where I'm teaching physiology and so I was going through the heart and circulation lecture notes and I would basically doing a say it's method of going through them and writing out questions for myself so again here I'm using the app notion like below I'll link to a few of my videos on that if you if you care but I think notion is really good because they've got this toggle feature which means what I can do is I can for example if I go into fetal circulation what I've done is I've written questions for myself what why does the fetal circulation need to be special what does the oxygen disassociation curve look like various adaptations fetal shunts I've written these questions for myself but if I were a say I would just write the questions and not the answer but because like at the moment I'm not really in the market for just memorizing information I've written the answer down to some of these as well again through a toggle box so actually I haven't written down the answer to that because this kind of weird but like what I do is that fuck for questions that I know I know the answer to or that I know I can figure out the answer to or I know I can find the answer easy in the lecture notes or then I won't bother writing it down so why does the fetal circulation need to be special clearly that's because we need to overcome the problem that when you're a fetus I inside your mum you don't have any lungs that work therefore you need to get your oxygen from the mother's placental blood flow and all that stuff therefore you need to be adapted and your hemoglobin needs to be adapted and your circulation needs to be adapted to try and get oxygen out of the mother's blood and I know this so I've written the question for myself but I don't need to waste the time writing the answer because I know I know and if I ever get to the point where I read that question and think oh I don't know what the answer is then I will go back to the lecture notes but I'm just trying to be efficient in minimizing the amount of information I'm having to put into my notes because as we've said and as all the evidence shows summarizing information taking notes with the book open is just not a very effective way of studying anyway this one what is the oxygen dissociation curve for hemoglobin to click comparing maternal versus fetal I know what it looks like in my head and so when I see that question I'll be drawing it out in my head maybe I'll draw out in paper if I feel like it but crucially I have actually included the oxygen dissociation curve in this toggle box and this is very easy to do so here is a screencast of myself making these notes because I'd screen record myself just in case I was going to make one of these videos and you can see that on the left hand side of go the lecture notes open and on the right hand side I'm creating this document in notion and what I'm doing is that for a lot of the stuff I'm just screen grabbing bits from the lecture notes I'm not copying and pasting I'm rarely writing it out myself I'm just kind of using the screenshot screen grab shortcut on the mark to select a particular area of the screen shoving it into notion and then that makes it easier for me to find this graph when I need to see it so yeah I can immediately look at this graph now and think okay that's what I thought this dissociation curve in hemoglobin look like and then I can untogled this and move on what are the various adaptations of the fetal circulation so number one two and three so these are stuff that I wrote down because in the lecture notes this was in a few different sections and so I just thought you know what I'm going to take 10 seconds to just type out what these answers are but for example if I looked at fetal hemoglobin relinquishes that oxygen at lower oxygen tensions if that sentence didn't make sense to me I wouldn't just take it at face value I would obviously go back to the lecture notes or go back to my textbook and figure out what I'm struggling with why this sentence doesn't make sense to me and work out what like so try and understand what's going on and this all comes back to like it's all very well doing active recoil it's all very well doing space repetition and doing all of this stuff but really the thing that trumps all of these things is to understand the content there is literally no point in just memorizing facts if we don't understand the broad principles that underlie them and so as I'm going through these questions as any of my friends who do affect a studying as we're going through our questions we're trying to understand the topic and if we ever get to a point where we're like oh I'm not quite sure what that means we will take the time to look it up because especially with effective learning like this is again this is misconception that learning should be easy that you know the best way to learn is by finding a really condensed set of notes and just reading it and getting that information into our heads but again it's sort of the other way around it's the more effortful the more hard it feels to be learning something the more we're actually going to be learning it and there's again so much evidence where people have done studies on students where they rate how hard they found the subject and how hard it was to learn about it and you find that those students perform better on the exam and learn more consistently and and have that knowledge for a longer period of time because as we're grappling with stuff as we're putting effort into learning our brain is forming these connections and the way I think of it is sort of like going to the gym and it's like you know if I can bench press 80 kilograms I can't I wish I can probably bench press about 70 kilograms but you know when I bench 70 kilograms that is effortful that is when my muscles are going to grow whereas when I bench 20 kilograms then you know basically nothing is going to happen because it's easy so it's kind of the same with studying like when it's difficult we are actively forming connections on our brain and then we sleep and then those connections get solidified when it feels easy when we're just like oh yeah reading like reading and highlighting and making notes is really easy that's why we love doing it because it feels really productive we kind of go through pretty colors and we write down stuff but we're not actually using our brains and the more we use our brains the more effortful learning is the more it's information is going to stick anyway next one what are fetal shunts and what do they do again I kind of wrote some brief notes here you know for him and I've already already because fetal lungs don't work and this information like makes perfect sense to me but for example if you were a first-year medical student studying this for the first time and looking at my notes you'd see our A to L A because fetal lungs don't work like what the hell does that mean you know it's it's a sort of information that requires more context and note taking again I'm going to make a video about this it's sort of a balance of compression versus context textbooks and lecture notes have a lot of context they're very long very broad but they but they give you the context they help you understand the topic whereas when we take notes we have compressed all that information down and so when I see R A to L A because fetal lungs don't work I know immediately exactly what that means I could explain it to a five year old if I wanted to but if a first-year medical who never done the subject before what to see that they wouldn't understand it and so that would be a case of going into the textbook and actually understanding what's going on going back to this idea of understanding and then I've just kind of done this for all of the stuff within cardiology so far so cardiac cycle ever in the bad phases intrinsic regulation what were frank installings famous experiments so at this point I'd read the question I think huh okay something about a dog heart preparation and then yeah experiment one increased preload experiment two there is something there should be something there but yeah I've just literally screened grab stuff from the lecture notes and a diagram just to save me a little bit of time but I think if I were actually studying the subject if I were actually taking exams I probably wouldn't even write down the answer I'd force myself to go into the lecture notes or go into the textbook and find the answer so long story short basically this is a SAID's magical method for active recall and the reason he actually came about this method was that in 2015 I gave a talk at the university about how to study for exams because in 2015 I was studying psychology for my third year and I've been actively looking into all of this evidence based study tips and all that stuff and initially I was I was supposed to be giving a talk at the Islamic society pre-room for like five people because no one turns up but we made a Facebook event of it and suddenly like people started sharing it amongst other members of the university and then I think at the end of it like 20,000 people had viewed that event according to the analytics instead of like seven and like 100 and something people turned up to the event and so we had to kind of like expand the venue and kind of doing one of the colleges but in this talk I basically talked about the magic of active recall the magical space repetition and when my friend has said heard that he was like all right we're done and from that point onwards like for the next two months all he did was create these questions for himself and the cool thing is that he didn't do that much like that much anal work for the rest of the year and sounds weird he kind of kept up with his essays and he kind of understood the subject and and read a few textbooks and the lecture notes just to keep on top of things but it was only two months before the exam in the Easter term that he discovered this this magic of active recall and spent the rest of the two months making these questions and answering them and so if he were to have started that method from day one I suspect you know and wanted to put in the effort of a very long term period of time for the whole year I suspect that would have been even more efficient and he would have even spent even less time studying anyway yeah this has been a very long very ramey video basically explaining this concept of you know if you want to do very well in your exams is really all about testing yourself and this is sort of testing yourself this is the concept of active recall taken to its logical extreme where you're not spending any time at all writing notes because that's a waste of time you're spending 100% of your time writing questions for yourself and then answering those questions bridging up the information and then sort of solidifying those connections so thank you so much for watching if you like the video please give it a thumbs up if you haven't subscribed to the channel please consider doing so links over here to some other of my evidence based study tips videos if you like this stuff please leave any questions in the comments and I'll ask a said and he'll kind of get back to you on that front thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video bye bye my mom always tells me when I'm drinking coffee I shouldn't slurp he says that is really audible if you slurp so this is me sloping and this is me actively trying not to slurp I don't know let me know in the comments if you're with this far and then maybe instead of just reading about the capacitance of bi membranes will read a little bit more about my brim bed but I'd been actively looking into all of this evidence based like the weird thing was that he didn't actually do that much work kind of throughout the year beyond whoops
