# 9 Lessons From My Favourite YouTuber
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FiRp3GEebms
Sign up for a new and improved version of my free 7-day email course where I'll teach you how to get started with YouTube here - https://aliabdaal.com/part-time-youtuber-crash-course/

In this video I'll be going over some of the lessons I've learned from that YouTuber that most influenced my development on YouTube... 

00:00 Intro
00:38 You are the story
02:12 Be your unapologetically weird self
04:12 Share what you love
05:32 You don't have to be typecast
08:26 How to film
09:39 Aesthetics matter
10:23 The power of building an audience
11:53 Good stuff takes effort
13:27 Enjoy the journey

@PeterMcKinnon - Check out his channel here: https://www.youtube.com/c/PeterMcKinnon/featured

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

PART-TIME YOUTUBER ACADEMY:
🍿 My 6-week live online course - https://academy.aliabdaal.com

MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
✍️ The best summaries of books (Shortform) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
📚  How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound

🎙 My weekly podcast - https://www.notoverthinking.com
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://email.aliabdaal.com
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮  Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I’m Ali, a YouTuber, podcaster, soon-to-be author and ex-Doctor working in London, UK. I make videos that explore the strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://email.aliabdaal.com).

🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, peter mckinnon, lightroom, how to film, lighting, youtube studio setup, ali abdaal peter mckinnon, ali abdaal youtube, youtube studio setup at home, peter mckinnon photography, peter mckinnon tutorials, ali abdaal vlog, learn video, learn photography, cinematography, video tutorials, lightroom tips, lightroom editing, learn cameras, peter mckinnon office, peter mckinnon b roll, peter mckinnon studio, 
**Date:** 2021-04-04

## Transcript
 Okay, so here's the thing with how to make a vlog. There's no definitive guide. There's no rule book. There's no blanket statements. There's no do these things and you will make successful vlogs that everybody loves that are tons of fun. That doesn't exist. It solely depends on you. Four years ago, when I first started my YouTube channel, there was one channel in particular that I took a lot of education and inspiration and entertainment from as well. And that was Peter McKinnon. And so in this video, I'm going to share the nine lessons that I've learned from Peter McKinnon and the YouTube channel over the last four years. Let's get into it. When I was first starting out my YouTube channel and I was thinking about the idea of vlogging, I kind of thought that, okay, well, maybe my life is an interesting enough. Like, you know, I'm a medical student right now and it's all a bit same. And maybe I can make a vlog here and there, but why would anyone really care what I'm doing with my life? It's not like I'm doing exciting things all the time. And I had this thought process for quite a while until I saw Peter McKinnon's video called How to Vlog. And this is where he said in that video. Your personality is more important than doing fun things like jumping out of a plane or doing fun things like ripping a Lamborghini around a race track in Monaco. Those are all awesome things to do and they make great vlog content. But you take the person out of that situation that is the vlogger. You take the vlogger out of those fun scenarios and all you have is just an emotionless commercial that you just flip through on TV. So the giant misconception that I feel is people don't want to start vlogs because they think to themselves, I don't have an interesting enough life to vlog. I don't do fun things like that. I don't travel. I live in the middle of nowhere. But those are all things that do not matter because you are the story. That's point number one. You're the story. And I've returned to this video many, many times each year because any time I'm having a bit of like impulsive syndrome around YouTube or thinking, Oh, you know, I'm not interesting enough to make videos about myself. I just go back to that video and I think, yeah, you know what, you're right. You are the story and I'm, it kind of makes me more okay with putting myself out there. So thank you Peter for that one. Lesson number two is to be your unapologetically weird self. Whenever I watch any of Peter's videos, like one of the things that's really obvious is just how much personality and charisma he exudes. In the early days, he would have his like cannon throws like pots up everyone. Peter McKinney here. Welcome back to another video. What's up, everybody? Today we're talking about how to make objects look like they're floating. You know, including coffee. He would just do silly kind of fun things on camera. And it was just a sort of approach to YouTube that I hadn't really seen because I've been watching the occasional like photo video tutorial YouTube channel for a few years at that point. But none of them really had like personality. And they were all just like, you know, playing it straight up the line rather than just being weird. And seeing how Peter's weirdness was like, you know, you know, accepted and loved by the audience. Made me more okay with being weird on camera. And so when I started my YouTube channel in my first few videos, I was very still to the very formal and thinking that I had to give a presentation. But then over time, as I got more comfortable with it, I started being more okay with just being weird on camera. And I found that anytime I would present or exaggerate one of my own personality quirks. The audience, like you guys, would pick up on that. And that I think was part of what made this channel go well in the early days. And hopefully what continues to make it go reasonably okay. And the other thing as well is that seeing Peter's channel and the amount of charisma he exuded on camera made me kind of internally think that I want to be the Peter McKinnon of medical school. That was my kind of thought process. I want to be the Peter McKinnon of medical school. And one thing that Austin Cleon says in this book, Steel Like an Artist, which is very good, is that when you're first learning a craft like YouTube, for example, you actually learn by imitating other people in the first instance. The way I think of it is that my failure to become like Peter McKinnon or to be like Peter McKinnon is what made me evolve into the kind of personality like camera personality that I now have. It's like my way of trying to be the Peter McKinnon medical school, which is what the aim was for years ago. Share what you love. Aside the fact that you're making your life the story, you've got to share the things that you love because those become integral parts to the story that you're telling through your vlog. I'm just trying to get you guys over that hump that a lot of people don't even begin to vlog because of that barrier of I don't have an interesting life, but you do your the story share what you love. And that was another excerpt from his how to vlog video, but that's another thing that I've really taken away from Peter, not just from that video, but his channel as a whole is that he's very open with sharing the things that he loves. Whether that's his tattoos, recently or like what's in his pocket, so what's in his wallet or like what I phone apps uses or what editing techniques he uses or what coffee he likes or camera gear uses is like. You can really tell that he is sharing the stuff that he loves and that like love kind of comes across on camera. And so this is something that I've been trying to do with my stuff as well over the last four years just to kind of unapologetically share the things that I love. Whether it's my love of notion or my love of listening to things that double speed regardless of what people say or these are the sort of desk accessories that I like. This is the fancy keyboard that I like using. This is the stuff that I personally love and so I try my best to share it on the channel. And these days when I coach other youtubers and my part-time youtuber academy, that's a thing that we always try and help them to remember is that the point of making youtube videos is to share what you love. So yeah, go for it. Lesson number four is that you don't have to be what other people are telling you to be, you can be who you want. And like with me when I kind of started youtube, I was very much a kind of medical school desk based youtuber where basically all the questions I'd be getting were how do I get into med school and you know how does this work in med school and that sort of stuff. And then over time I sort of branched out into being like study content and then productivity content. And in a way, over time I sort of felt, felt confined in this box of being, I don't know, productivity or like effective studying type person. And if I'd make a vlog that was just about my life or a video about something else, I would get comments being like, okay, this is cool. But where's the study stuff? I want more study related content. And in my head, I was thinking that, oh crap, you know, what if the only thing people are following my channel for is for study theme content and I've made this. I've been making this content for two years and I've got like two five hour long classes on Skillshare where I explain study techniques in depth. What more do people want? And I was really worried that what if the only content I'm allowed to make from now and forever is like study theme content. But then around 18 months ago, another Peter McKinnon video came out and this is what he had to say. But one of the things I love doing is uploading a myriad of different types of videos. You'll notice we just put out a video about wallets. A lot of people might say like, dude, you are talking about EDC stuff a lot. You're talking about what's in your pockets and pocket knives. And while it's like, where the tutorials go man, like what's I thought this was a photo channel. And it still is, there's hundreds of photo tutorials that you can go back and look through and it's my roots. And I'm never going to stop doing that. But I think to clear it not to clear things up, but just to, I don't know, maybe you can give permission to other people that are going through the same thing that I go through. You create whatever you want. This is the Peter McKinnon channel. So sometimes they're going to find stuff about wallets. You're going to find a tutorial on how to make a coffee here. It's going to be a tutorial on how to do a cinematography. It's going to be a vlog with Casey, a vlog with Maddie, a vlog with holiday, snowboarding, jet ski, walking my dogs, cleaning my garage. It's just going to be a myriad of things that are me. Because this is my channel. This is what I do here. And I don't think you should ever put a limit on your creativity. I don't think you should ever just set parameters, set rules, saying, I can only make this. I've tried to live by that my entire life. And I can remember first watching this video where Peter said all that stuff. And I was like, oh my god, he's like articulating all the things that I've been feeling with my own channel. And in a way, that video really gave me permission to be okay with exploring other themes on this channel. That aren't necessarily related to productivity. And that video made me more okay with just doing videos where I just sit down and talk about my feelings. And that kind of stuff. And some people seem to like those videos. Some people don't, but that's fine. The point is, it's my channel. I could do what I want. And I'm going to make the stuff that I like. So thanks Peter for, in a way, giving me permission to do that. Lesson number five is like all the basic videography, photography, lighting, sound, camera type stuff. I basically learned from Peter McKinnon and other videos that I saw suggested videos from his. And when I first got started, I had absolutely no idea what the lighting in particular. But I remember there was this one video that Peter made, like, I don't know, three, four years ago, where he converted his, like, terrible lighting setup into like something that looked pretty good for less than fifty dollars. And that taught me so much about the principles of lighting. And then I applied that to my channel and moving forward. Talking about this horrible lighting situation and how to make it look like this for less than fifty bucks. My entire YouTube filming setup as well, like with his light, the camera, the microphone, everything is all kind of based on his earlier videos, where he talked about his YouTube filming setup. And it's one of those weird things whereby, you know, just as a creator, like, like, Peter McKinnon, just like documenting the thing that he was doing, like millions of people have now seen those videos. And we've all based our YouTube setups off of what he was doing. And now I see other kind of other YouTubers, especially, like, medical school YouTubers, who seem to be basing a lot of their stuff around what I've been doing and what I've been documenting. And it's kind of nice, that this sort of cycle continues and, you know, you learn from people than you do the thing and then other people learn from you. And it's just all very nice and awesome all around. This number six is in terms of aesthetics. Now, I really like the aesthetics on Peter McKinnon's channel, but I think around two years ago, he did a collaboration with Becky and Chris, which fast became one of my favorite YouTube channels. And they're branding and aesthetics is just absolutely amazing. They're a really great channel that I still follow to this day. Becky is like a photographer and an interior designer. Chris is actually an interventional radiologist, so, like, a real life doctor who works as a doctor. So that was kind of cool. But, just, everything about their videos is so professionally done and the interior design is amazing and the lighting and the design. It's just so cool. And so, anytime I need, like, aesthetic design inspiration, partly I like to be the McKinnon, but mostly I look towards Becky and Chris for being, like, the gold standard of production value, at least in my eyes. Less than number seven is that building an audience who note like and trust you is an incredible thing. And I remember, I think this was over a year ago. When Peter dropped his $500 camera bag, like, he released this camera bag in collaboration with no magic, I think. And I remember as soon as I saw that video where I was like, oh my god, Peter McKinnon has made a camera bag. I immediately backed it on Kickstarter, and just dropped like $600 on it. And it was a really weird feeling because, in a way, I felt grateful to him for giving me the opportunity to support him by buying something from him. That was just completely bizarre. I've never had that feeling with anyone before where, you know, I just have so much good will and love towards a creator for helping me out so much, that when they release a product, I'm like, oh my god, you know, you're doing me a favor by letting me buy this from you. And, you know, since COVID, I haven't used that bag once, but it's, you know, under my bed. And, you know, I'm really glad that I have it. I've got his, you know, ND special polar mist ND filters as well, which again, I rarely use because I rarely go out. Thanks to the pandemic. But again, it's nice to be able to support a kind of fellow creator and someone that I look up to. And I often think about that feeling whenever I worry about selling stuff, like if I'm selling a course or putting a class in Skillshare, I wonder that, oh, you know, whatever. Well, well, people think I'm a set out for, like, charging money for something. Then I think back to how I felt when Peter McKinnon was charging money for something. And, sure, maybe some people will think he's a set out for doing it, but I didn't, and that's what matters. And so, yeah, the power of building an audience that know, like, and trust you. What's the number eight is that good stuff takes a lot of effort. And I remember, like, anytime I watch one of Peter's Instagram videos, where he talks about kind of how he shoots and edits things for Instagram, I'm always completely amazed as to just the amount of effort that goes into all of these individual photos, where he'll spend, like, half an hour shooting hundreds of shots for a single, filatly image for Instagram, and then editing it for another half an hour to make it perfect, adding in elements. And I think when you're scrolling through, at least for me, when I'm scrolling through a photographer's Instagram account, it's really hard to appreciate the amount of effort that goes into each of those photos. I think of those, I look at those photos and I think, wow, that's a great photo. But seeing the behind the scenes of the amount of effort that went into it, made me appreciate that every good thing in life takes a lot of effort. And so, rather than trying to find shortcuts, like, hey, how can I streamline my YouTube production process so much that it becomes so easy to make videos? You know, as tempted as I am to go down that route. Instead, I think about that and think, okay, how can I put even more effort into my videos to make them as good as they can possibly be? If we had to make a fourth point overall, I would say, forget everything else and just remember to have a good time. Right, sharing should be fun. Sharing the skills you have to help other people, sharing your own passions, sharing the relationships that you have in your life, and comedy, and humor, and sad moments, and fun moments, and taking people on a ride, just like a movie or a TV show. It should be fun. It should be fun to make. It should be fun to shoot. It should be fun to share. And if any of those things are not happening, something is not working and you need to correct it. So with the image that I have among some people that are being some kind of productivity group, I always get asked a question, you know, how are you so productive? And the real answer to that question is just that I enjoy what I'm doing for the most part. I try my very best to enjoy the journey in anything that I'm doing, whether it's studying for an exam or getting through med school or working as a doctor, or putting in a cannula or making YouTube videos or doing my website. I try my best to enjoy the journey. And I think this is a really, really, really, really important point. Because for me, I've occasionally had moments where I've forgotten to enjoy the journey. I've forgotten that this is supposed to be fun. Writing my book, for example, these days, like, you know, I had a period a few, a few weeks ago where I'd forgotten that it was supposed to be fun, and so I let all the stress and anxiety and pressure around expectations. And outcomes and let that all build up in my head. And I just really wasn't enjoying the process. And then when my housemate reminded me that, you know, you're supposed to be having fun doing this. That was when I was like, oh my god, yeah, you're right. This is supposed to be fun. And I often find that any time I feel like I'm not enjoying something, or I feel like I'm stressed out, or that something feels like a chore, or that, you know, I've got this goal that I'm struggling to reach. If I remind myself that, you know, just remember to have fun. Remember that this is supposed to be fun. Remember that the only reason I'm doing this is because it's fun. Remember to enjoy the journey. And the cool thing is that, at least for me, when I'm having fun doing something, I'm actually just more productive by default. So yeah, thanks Peter for this lesson as well. Remember to enjoy the journey. It's all about having fun. Making videos is supposed to be fun, and if it becomes not fun for very long, then you know that something is wrong. If you like this video and you're thinking of starting on your own, YouTube journey, or maybe leveling up, whatever hobby you're trying to do, check out this video over here, which is my 10 top tips for aspiring YouTubers. Huge thank you again to Peter for being an ongoing inspiration for us all. And thank you guys for watching, and I'll see you next time. Bye bye.
