# One Simple Habit that Changed My Life
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Fk3csAdegBI
Hey guys, today I'm going to tell you about how speed listening to content vastly improved my life and why you should also give it a go. 

Get Speechify here and use coupon code ALI for 15% off: https://www.getspeechify.com/ (affiliate link)

iPhone - https://apps.apple.com/us/app/speechify-text-reader-news-pdf/id1209815023
Android - https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=com.cliffweitzman.speechify

Check out Cliff here:
https://www.instagram.com/cliffweitzman
https://twitter.com/cliffweitzman

Watch the Freshly Grounded episode here: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yQ5MjRNypi0

Use my Audible link to sign up https://geni.us/AudibleAli It helps support the channel. Thank you!

00:00 Intro
00:36 The benefits
04:07 The drawbacks
09:03 Getting started

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
😃  How to be Happier - Stoicism Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/stoicism

MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️ My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝 My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
📚 How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵 Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
🌐 My website platform (Ghost) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost
🎤 My podcast hosting platform (Transistor) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/transistor

OTHER RECOMMENDED COURSES
📔 Effortless Output with Roam Research - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/roam
📓 Building a Second Brain - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/basb

🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, speed listening, listening at 2x, advantages of speed listening, how to speed listen, cliff weitzman, speechify, cliff weitzman ali abdaal, listening at 1.5x, best podcasts, how to listen fast, how to improve listening, how to listen to audiobooks on audible, speed listening to audiobooks, 
**Date:** 2020-07-12

## Transcript
 I don't really have very many strong beliefs in life, but if there's one hill I'm going to die on, it's that speed listening to podcast and audio books is the best way forward. I've been listening to podcasts that double speed for the last few years and recently I've started listening to audio books that run about 2.5x speed and I'm slowly working to bump that up. And so in this video, I'm going to start by talking about why it's the best thing ever and what the benefits are. Secondly, we'll talk about some of the drawbacks, the common objections to speed listening as a way of being and why those objections are wrong in my opinion. And finally, I'll give you some tips on how you can start improving increasing your listening speed to make speed listening a part of your life as well. So let's start with the benefits and there's basically two main benefits of speed listening. The first one is pretty obvious. It's that when you speed listen to podcasts and audio books, for example, it means you can just consume more stuff. Now, I know this is controversial, especially because I always mindfulness and all this like, you know, taking life easy. But to be honest, listening to more stuff is a good thing. I have been able to listen to twice as many audio books over the last few years because of speed listening. I've been able to listen to twice to three times as many podcasts as I would otherwise been able to because of speed listening. And overall, the value that I've derived from the increase in content, just being able to consume more stuff has been so much greater than the value I would have derived from listening to half as much stuff, but at one speed or maybe slightly higher than one speed. Like, it's so much better to read two books than to read one book slowly. In my opinion, just like I think it's better to listen to three podcasts than one and a half podcasts, again, in my opinion. Secondly, and more importantly, I think the main benefit of speed listening is that it ultimately reduces the time cost to listening to a book or listening to a podcast. At this point, I'm going to cut to a conversation that me and my friend Cliff Whitesman had a few weeks ago on a YouTube deep dive live stream. Cliff is the founder of an app called Speechify, which converts text to speech for people, more details in the video description, and we connected over our shared love of listening to stuff at like fast speeds. When it comes to listening to stuff at our high multiples, it also reduces the cost of a book in the sense that the time cost of a book, because if you're the sort of person that reads three books a year, they better be pretty freaking good books. Like, you can't just pick up, right? I read Harry Potter in the Philosopher's Stone just for fun, because it's going to take you four months to read that book. Or read this random book on the floor or work read this. It's like a scammy title, I will teach you to be rich. Like, who is this guy? I'm not going to read that book. It's a scarcity in your ability to read. You can pick and choose and actually, that's when you're enjoying the flowers, because if you can only read three books a year, the only thing that you will look at is like Picasso and Van Gogh, and that's it. But if you can afford to read a hundred books a year, you will take a moment to stop and look at every piece of art. I'm saying, we'll go through. Yes. And so to give a concrete example, a few weeks ago, I was interviewed on a podcast called Freshly Grounded Link in the Video description, and fess all the host recommended a book called The Right of a Lifetime, which is the autobiography of Disney's CEO Bob Eiger, which I first came across in the Tim Ferriss Show, and I was like, okay, cool. But as soon as you recommended it, I knew that, okay, I was just going to get it on audible. And I got it on audible, and within a day and a half, I finished listening to it. Like, I listened to it that day at double speed at 2.5x speed, while I was doing my workout, then I listened to it in the car on the way to work and the way back. And then I was done listening to the book, and it was an amazing book that made me tear up in so many different places, and I wrote about it in my email newsletter link in the description. This is a very plucky video. Sorry. But the point is that if I'd been listening at one x speed, it would have taken me, I don't know, 12 hours in total, to get through that book. But because I was listening at 2.5x speed, it took me, I don't know, four hours, how well, like, whatever the math works out for that. And that meant I was able to finish it within two days. And just that reduced mental cost to listening to a new book. This meant that I was able to listen to it, whereas if it was going to take 12 hours, it would have been much more an actual decision, like, do I actually want to waste 12 hours of my life? I spent 12 hours of my life listening to this book. So that is the main benefit of speed listening. Equally, as Cliff and I mentioned in the video, when you can read things fast, but listen to things fast, it means you just discover stuff that you, that can completely change your life. Like, you know, before I work week, anything you want, show you work, like these these books I've made videos on them and how they've changed my life. And if I wasn't such a fast reader, I might not have discovered them because I would have had more of a bar to actually read a book because it would just take me a lot longer. So those were the two main benefits. First that you consume more stuff for whatever that's worth. And secondly, it reduces the cost to consuming more stuff for whatever that's worth. The main drawback that people seem to have about speed listening is that firstly people say, well, I don't think you'll enjoy something as much if you speed listen to it. And I used to think this was true. So with with podcasts, I've been listening at double speed because, you know, I don't need to enjoy a podcast. I mostly listen to kind of get the insights to hear the conversation. It doesn't really need to be slowly, hey guys, today in this podcast, we're going to interview Sam Harris. Oh, it doesn't need to be slow. But when it came to fantasy audiobooks on audiobooks, I came to video description. When it came to fantasy audiobooks, I was a one-ex speed purist. I was thinking, well, you know, Michael Kramer and Kate Rating are fantastic narrators. And I want to hear them narrate it as they would in real life because then I'll enjoy it more. And for about two and a bit years, maybe longer, I was listening to audiobooks at one-ex speed. And a few months ago, I discovered the power of listening to them at two and a half-ex speed. And my mind was blown like, I can't believe I didn't discover it sooner because I think I actually enjoy the more now that I listen to it fast. Because especially when it comes to kind of long, long fantasy series, but which are like sort of tens, if not hundreds of hours in total, most of the book is kind of build up for the climaxes. And so most of the book, you actually don't need to listen to it at one-ex speed to enjoy the book properly. You kind of speed through it. And then if you want in the climax bits, like sometimes what I do, I put it back down to like 1.5-ex speed, so I can kind of save with a climax a little bit more. And so I actually enjoy fantasy audiobooks more now that I listen to them at double speed or to it to 2.5-ex speed, then I use to it one-ex speed. And I really wish I'd discovered the sooner. So for me personally, the listening to stuff at double speed does not detract from the enjoyment of it. And I think, as I said, overall, I gain more value in my life, net, utilitarian-wise, by being able to listen to twice as many, I have to see audiobooks, a double speed rather than half as many at single speed. So that's the main drawback. The other drawback that people sometimes say, sort of a philosophical thing that, well, you know, life isn't meant to be lived at double speed. You know, you want to enjoy life. You want to take things slow. And here is again, Cliff, responding to that particular criticism. Huge fallacy. And it's the type of thing that you would say if you just didn't try it. So here's the best explanation. Movies used to be much slower in pace than they are today. When God with the wind came out the movie, in like the 1950s, it was smashing a box after the hit, but God with the wind is so slow. If you look at the dialogue, frankly, my dear, I don't give it up. It is so slow. If you watch God with the wind now, unless you're a real movie fanatic, you would stop in the middle. Because movies today are oriented to be so much faster. And the reason they have to be is because we spend our time on Instagram and Facebook and YouTube. And we're used to fast, bad applications. Our minds have gotten faster. So we need to move faster. And so movies are written to be quicker now. But it's also the case that if I made you sit and watch TV show, but I made you watch the 50% speed. So the characters were speaking like this. You would stop. There's no way you'd keep going. It will be torture. For me, listening to a normal show is like that because my brain has just adjusted to being so fast. So I use an app called the video speed controller. It's a Chrome extension that plays every video at two and a half X speed by default. And it lets me increment speed by point one. It increments up and down. And it's a lifesaver. And so it's the type of thing where you would say, oh, you know, why are you reading so fast? You're reading it's 500 worth per minute. Are you kidding me? No. Enjoy life. Read it 200. So as Kavsad, our brains are evolving kind of in this modern world to consume stuff at a fast to rate. And like we wouldn't enjoy a very, very slow-paced movie. I think like the more you start speed listening, the more you, it does not detract from your enjoyment of it. And it's kind of like saying, like, I don't really buy this off a cogument, right? Because it would be like saying, well, why are you driving at 60 miles per hour to get to a destination? Why not drive at 30 instead? And then you can appreciate the scenery. You can appreciate the color of the sky and the singing of the birds while you're driving at 30 miles per hour, even though you're at a drive at 60. Like, it just doesn't make sense. Equally, it'll be a sound like, oh, you know, if you naturally read it, let's hit 200 worth a minute, which is a pretty normal reading speed. If you read it 200 worth per minute, then it'll be like saying, well, you know, that's a little bit fast. Why don't you read it 100 worth per minute instead? Because then you can really take in the words. And I think if you have a philosophical objection to live speed listening, then and you don't have a philosophical objection to driving at the speed limit, then, I don't know. That's kind of why I don't buy it. And like, for me, I haven't noticed any negative effects of speed listening in my life. It's not like I don't appreciate life. I feel like I actually appreciate life even more because now I've got the ability to, I don't know, watch and listen to and read so many more things, because I'm kind of doing them at double triple speed. Anyway, so those are some of the benefits in drawbacks. Let's say you're sold on this or at least you want to give it a go. I would suggest you at least give it a go and maybe for like a few weeks and see what happened. How do we actually do it? Basically, the key is to do it slowly. And in this context, it's sort of about kind of mindfully practicing your listening speed. And here is Cliff again, talking a little bit about this. The key to listening is always challenge yourself to listen at the fastest speed that you can listen at, well, still comprehending and not being 100% comfortable. Just be, seek this comfort. Just be 10% uncomfortable if there is. In that way, you will just let it's unbelievable the impact on your life that you will have if you just do that little thing. It's like, we type on our keyboards every day, but we usually do not increase our typing speed. And it's because we're not mindfully practicing typing. The same thing is true for listening. However, you don't need to mindfully practice listening faster because the computer is doing the work. So yeah, we want to be challenging ourselves to listen to the thing at the fastest speed that we can comprehend and maybe a little bit faster because then our brain will sort of adapt to those speed changes. And it's kind of like typing really fast. Like, I'm going to do a video in a bit about how I type at 150 plus words per minute. And mostly, it's a matter of just kind of doing a little bit of deliberate practice with typing fast. And then when you can type really fast, everything you do in a computer just becomes so much quicker. And it becomes more of a pleasure to use a computer. You're sort of playing it like an instrument, more in that kind of video. But the point is, it's quite hard to practice typing fast. You have to put a lot of effort into it. Whereas it's very easy to learn how to speed listen because the apps will do all of the work for you. So for all your books, obviously, I use audible. It's the best subscription. Like, it's an absolute no brain subscription. Like, all of my friends who messes me being like, you know, I see you plugged the audible in a video do you actually believe it? I'm like, literally, if there is one subscription service, I could have in the world, it would be audible. Even though they're no longer sponsoring my channel because they're marketing budget has been slashed away anyway. It's just so good. Anyway, the nice thing about audible is that you can set the speed multiples. So you can set any multiple from like 0.1 all the way to like 4.0 in increments of 0.1. So again, for most non-fiction audio books, I listen to them in between 2 and 3x speed. So you can set it to 2.5, 2.6, 2.7. So initially, I started listening at 2x and then I bumped it up to 2.3 and then 2.5. And then last week I was in 2.6 and this week I'm listening at 2.7. And I'm just kind of slowly bumping up my comfort level with listening to stuff on audible. Equally with podcast apps, the ones that I've used most often are Castro and overcast and they have speed settings and you can always change those. You can even change them for specific episodes. So for example, some podcast I listen to it 3x speed, like the video creator's podcast, which is about how to grow a YouTube channel. Often there's a loaded chit chat and talk quite slowly so I can understand it 3x speed. But if I'm listening to something that's particularly information dense and there was a great episode of most episodes of Ezra Klein's show, actually a very information dense and required a lot of thinking. I bumped it down to 1x, like this is not something it's not a permanent life decision. You can always change the numbers around. So the point of making is that the app does all of the work for you and actually in cliffs app, speechify, you know, it's not quite as good as audible for listening to audio books because audible is actually narrated by real people. This is speechify is a sort of machine learning AI type narration so it's sounds a little bit robotic but they do a good job of making it sound a little bit more human-humanized. But if you're using speechify to read like PDFs and stuff that don't have a narrator who's been paid to narrate the audio book a bit, then what speechify does is that they've got this sort of adaptive speed setting where every 1000 words or so it'll slightly bump up your listening speed and then slightly and then slightly to the point where you don't really notice that it's increasing and then after a while you be like, oh I've actually been listening a lot faster than I thought I could and now you realize that you've better at speed listening so that's another way of doing it and actually I want to cut once again to cliff over here because one, like any time I talk about this a lot of people in my livestreams and stuff when they see me watching stuff at double speed they think they say well English isn't my native language I'm not very good at this but here is the cliff talking about his experience of learning English through listening to audio books. I started reading reading with my eyes, I would try to read Harry Potter and I would fall asleep every time in the public, in the public library. It's because it's my answer to that, I would probably probably have a number four visit drive work front. They'd refer to me, they would laugh, they would react to being more panicked, they'd train in a period because they just didn't hold it, there's nonsense. I'm in my first girlfriend because we both had that chapter memory, they would have lied by life. And I would fall asleep because my brain moved fast but the inputs was too slow and when I started to listen it was faster and then I got good at listening and initially I didn't speak English. I would understand maybe like two out of every 10 words but I knew the storyline so I knew what Harry was and what like Snape was and what wand was and what magic was and what Hogwarts was so I could put it in context and little by little I filled in the words so when I started I didn't listen up one excuse and it was on 2x speed. I listened at 0.75x speed to Harry Potter and I did that for the first like three times of listening to the book and I started to fill in the blanks and then I started to listen at 1x speed and then I listened to 1.25 and then I 1.75 and then I 1.75 and 2x et cetera and now speechified this really magical thing it has an algorithm built into it called automatic speed ramping algorithm and if you turn it on it will increase your listening speed by three words per minute every thousand words so you don't notice that your speed is increasing it's like a lobster sitting in the pot and the pot increases in temperature you don't notice it's increasing but you are getting better at listening faster so that's another benefit of speed listening like if English is not united language or even if it is and you struggle to listen to things at 2 to 3x speed if you practice and slowly increase your listening speed over time then you'll just get better at it and then you can instead of listening to 10 books a year you can listen to 25 books a year and that's that's just great like it's just like the best thing ever so that is the hill that I'm going to die on that is why speed listening is the best thing ever few links in the video description there'll be an affiliate link for all the ball whatever that's worth you know if you sign up with that link you sign up to a free trial I make like five dollars or something like that I'll also put a link with a discount code to speechify if you want to check that out it's quite good it was mostly aimed at dyslexic people initially but now like 85% of the people who use it on not dyslexic and just use it to consume information in listening format when they're out and about or driving or at the gym or whatever that tends to be when I'm most listened to stuff because I like ultimately for me I still read a lot faster than I listen but I can't read while I'm driving or I'm at the gym so that is kind of where listening fits into my life and I'll put links to the episode of the freshly grounded if you like the idea of listening to books and getting insights from them you might like to check out my book club series which will be linked in a little playlist over there you can listen to that at double speed and so far there are four three or four videos in it and you can get a lot of insights from a lot of good books thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video. Bye bye.
