# BMAT Section 1 - Everything you need to know | BMAT Tips series
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fVkc5hr_FhA
My online BMAT video course (75+ videos) = https://courses.aliabdaal.com/bmat-crash-course-online

Hey guys! This is the first in a series of 'BMAT Tips' videos where I'll be going over some BMAT strategy and preparation tips. In this video, we go over how to prepare for section 1.

TL;DR - practice lots of questions, and learn some strategy for the Critical Thinking questions.

Useful Links:

https://bmat.ninja - BMAT Ninja - 1,200+ free practice questions taken from past BMAT and TSA papers, along with questions we've written ourselves.

https://6med.co.uk/bmat-crash-course - BMAT Crash Course - Our classroom course that's been running for the last 5 years in the UK, Amsterdam, Singapore and Hong Kong.

http://www.ocr.org.uk/qualifications/as-a-level-gce-critical-thinking-h052-h452/ - OCR Critical Thinking.
**Keywords:** bmat, bmat preparation, bmat crash course, bmat ninja, uk medicine, uk medical school, cambridge medicine, oxford medicine, oxbridge medicine, 
**Date:** 2017-06-20

## Transcript
 Hello everyone, my name is Ali and I'm a 50 medical student at Cambridge University. I'm also the co-founder of Sixmet, a small company that runs courses for medical school applicants and I've been teaching the B-Mart crash course for the last five years. Me and my friends are currently on our medical elective in Cambodia, which is very exciting. And we thought it would be cool to make the series of videos where we give you tips for the B-Mart and how to do well in it. In today's video we're going to be talking about how to prepare for section one of the B-Mart. We'll start with a very brief overview of what section one's actually about and then we'll go to some tactics on how to prepare for it. So what is section one? Uh, section one is 35 questions and you get 60 minutes to do them. This comes out to about one minute and 42 seconds per question, which is quite a lot of time. Time is not usually an issue in section one. Time becomes an issue in section two. Section one has a mixture of critical thinking and problem solving questions. There are just under a half critical thinking and just over a half of the of the section is problem solving. The critical thinking questions are quite formulaic. They usually give you a passage of text about four or five lines long. Uh, followed by a question like what's the conclusion of this passage? What's the assumption? What's a floor? That sort of thing. There is a very specific strategy for tackling each one. Uh, and it's very prepareable. Problem solving is a little bit less formulaic than critical thinking is problem solving just involves basic data interpretation and calculations. So you might get things like a table or graph and have to interpret it, have to work out a percentage of that sort of thing. With problem solving there are a few questions types that do come up time and time again. Uh, and those are the ones that we want to be getting this strategy down for. So how do we actually prepare for section one? Well, section one is essentially about two things. Firstly, strategy and secondly, practice. Uh, and of those two practice is by far the most important. So let's start by talking about how to practice section one. By far the best way of preparing for section one is by doing loads and loads and loads of practice questions. There are about 14 or 15 years worth of beam out papers at the time of this recording. You can do all of the section ones of those. And there are also at least 10 years worth of TSA Oxford papers. TSA Oxford is very, very similar to beam out section one. So if you do all of those questions, you'll be very well prepared for section one. There are two main ways for doing all these questions. Firstly, you can find the PDFs on the official admissions testing service website. Alternatively, you can go on a website that I help make called beam out ninja. I'll put a link in the description. And absolutely free of charge. You can do all of these questions in our beautiful online interface where you can do it on your laptop, on your tablet, on your phone, wherever you like. So that's the practice bit covered. Let's talk about strategy now. And strategy varies depending on whether we're talking about critical thinking or problem solving. For some people, this strategy for critical thinking questions does come quite naturally. Like for some people, it's obvious where the conclusion is and where the floor the argument is in which statements bring things a particular argument. If you're one of those people, you don't really need to learn much strategy for critical thinking, you just do lots of practice. If you find critical thinking a little bit more difficult, you might find it useful to go over an A level critical thinking textbook. The OCR exam board has some good ones, and they give you sort of a load down on how to do the good solution questions, the assumption questions, the floor question. Alternatively, and again, a shameless plug for beam out ninja, we've got loads of online notes on how to do critical thinking questions. Alternatively, you can attend our beam out crash course if you're in the UK, which is an in-person course that takes you through the strategy of critical thinking. And if neither of those float your boats, I'll be uploading some more tutorials in the next few weeks about how to go over the critical thinking questions. You don't need to worry about that. The nice thing about critical thinking is that it is very formulae. There are only these seven question types that come up each year. So if you can get the strategy down for answering each of these seven questions, you'll essentially be able to get almost full marks in the critical thinking questions. Now for problem solving, problem solving, sadly there's no formulae way to prepare for it. The questions do vary from year to year quite significantly. Although there are a few different types of questions that do keep coming up, like repeating patterns, spatial awareness, that sort of thing. Again, we've got loads of information about problem solving questions on beam out ninja and at the beam out crash course, but to be honest, it's nothing you can't find the mean to that. And I'll put some links in the description to resources that would help you with problem solving preparation. Also for problem solving, there are a few useful things to be able to do. Firstly, it's very useful to know your times tables up to 12 inside out. I know it sounds silly to say, but there are a huge number of questions where sort of being quick at arithmetic would really really help you. And while I did say that time is not normally an issue in section one, we don't want to be spending absolutely ages on simple calculations, so we want to be learning at 12 times tables inside out. Secondly, estimation is a really important part of problem solving. So being able to look at the answers and work out whether you can round to the nearest 10 round to the nearest 100, if the answers are 1 million, 2 million, 3 million, you know you've got a good scope for rounding if the answers are £1.41, £1.42, you know you've got less of a scope for rounding. Also, with estimation, it's important to know which way you've estimated, whether you've rounded up whether you've rounded down, because that does change your answer. For example, if you're estimated answer is 50, but the options are £48.52, you do want to remember which way around you estimated, if that makes sense. Finally, for problem solving, it's really useful to be able to easily convert between fractions, decimals, and percentages. Now, I know this sounds like a lot of maths, but happily, most of the problem solving is related to maths, so if you can get these skills down, you'll be very well placed to doing these questions very well, and then all you have to do is practice. So that's how you prepare for section 1. Practice is by far the most important thing. You can do loads of practice by doing all 15 past B-MAT papers and 10 to 15 TSA Oxford papers. That gives you a few hundred questions that you can work through in your own time as you prepare for the B-MAT. Alternatively, as I mentioned, you can do them all for free on B-MAT and enjoy to make an account and you can do them all on the online interface. As we've discussed, the strategy is also important. It's useful to have a strategy for critical thinking questions just because they are so formulaic, and it's useful to be brushed up on your basic arithmetic skills, your times tables, your fractions, decimal percentages, and your estimation to do well in the problem solving. So that concludes this short video on how to prepare for section 1. Stay tuned over the next few days, we'll be talking more about how to prepare for section 2, how to prepare for section 3, and giving you more specific breakdowns of the content to be sectioned to give you the best chance of doing well in the B-MAT. So thanks for watching. If you liked it, give it a big thumbs up. If you would like to see more of the same thing hit the subscribe button and I'll see you in the next video. Bye!
