# How to Invest for Beginners
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gFQNPmLKj1k
Hey friends, in this video I'll give you a complete breakdown of how to get started with investing your hard earned cash, what various terms mean in the financial world and how to avoid taking high risks.

You can watch an ad-free version of this video on Nebula - https://nebula.tv/videos/ali-abdaal-how-to-get-started-with-investing-2020

🍿WATCH NEXT
The Book that Changed My Financial Life: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Gg8_TA7U0Uw&t=213s
7 Side Hustles You Can Start: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4V2ZwgJw62I&t=331s
The Best Book I've Ever Read about Making Money: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Gx2vyi4JcV0&t=513s

Additional resources: 
Graham Stephan - https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCV6KDgJskWaEckne5aPA0aQ
Andrei Jikh - https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCGy7SkBjcIAgTiwkXEtPnYg
Mr Money Mustache - https://www.mrmoneymustache.com/
JL Collins Stock Series - https://jlcollinsnh.com/stock-series/
Ramit Sethi - I Will Teach You To Be Rich - https://geni.us/YkKIk
Your Money or Your Life - Book Club - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TgOmBWdK84k

00:00 Intro
00:56 - What happens to my money over time?
02:00 - Stop money from losing value over time.
02:35 - How do I make money?
03:52 - What is an investment?
05:34 - What are shares?
07:09 - How do I buy a share?
08:17 - How do I decide which shares to buy?
09:34 - What's an index fund?
15:12 - Isn't investing risky?
20:55 - When should I get started?
23:39 - How much money do I need to get started?
25:39 - How do I begin?

💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://go.aliabdaal.com/subscribe-sundaysnippets

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - 
 https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
🎬 YouTube for Beginners - Everything You Need To Know To Start  - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/YouTube-for-Beginners

MY CREATOR COURSES
🎬 Part-Time YouTuber Academy - My 6-week live online course on becoming a part-time YouTuber → https://go.aliabdaal.com/parttimeyoutuberacademy
🏆 Creatorpreneur - My flagship course for scaling up your creative side-hustle → https://creatorpreneur.academy/course
🗣 Camera Confidence - My self-paced course on how to improve your creativity, career, or communication skills → https://cameraconfidence.aliabdaal.com/

MY FAVOURITE GEAR
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) -https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

🎙 Check out my weekly podcast, Deep Dive - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/ - It's also available on all podcast platforms, including Spotify, Apple Podcasts etc.

MY FAVOURITE TOOLS
🚀 VidIQ - How I optimise my YouTube videos - https://go.aliabdaal.com/vidiq
✍️ Shortform - The BEST summaries of books - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
📚  Readwise - How I remember what I read - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise
🎵  Epidemic Sound - Where I get my music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound

MY KEY LINKS
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com/
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I’m Ali, a YouTuber, podcaster, soon-to-be author and ex-Doctor working in London, UK. I make videos that explore the strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. I also have a weekly podcast called Deep Dive (https://www.youtube.com/channel/UChfo46ZNOV-vtehDc25A1Ug), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://go.aliabdaal.com/subscribe-sundaysnippets).

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, how to get started with investing, how to invest, stock market, get started with stock market, how to invest money, how to invest in stocks, online brokers, S&P 500, S&P 500 explained, index funds, how to invest in index funds, 401k, financial terms explained, investing explained, how to invest money in stock market, how to invest in 2020, investing in the stock market, stock market investing, stock market for beginners, index funds for beginners, 
**Date:** 2020-10-11

## Transcript
 Right, so let's say you want to get started with this investing thing. You might have a bit of money saved. It's probably not enough for a house, but you reckon I should probably invest this in something. Maybe you've heard on the news about Tesla or Netflix or Amazon and how if you'd invested 10 years ago in Tesla, then you'd be a millionaire by now or things like that. But if you're new to the game, this whole investment thing can seem like a really complicated black box. Like, how do you even buy a stock or even is a stock? Do you just go on Tesla.com and buy some Tesla? Like, how does it work? And if you try and look into this, you get all these acronyms being thrown around like Roth IRAs and 401Ks in America or like ISIS and ISIS in the UK. And on top of that, there is the anxiety that we all have that I know investing is risky and I don't want to lose all of my money. So in light of all of that, this is the ultimate guide on how to get started with investing. It is the video I wish I would have had five years ago when I first started investing in stocks and shares. And we're going to cover this by thinking about investing in 10 different bite-sized steps. So the first one is forgetting about investing completely and just thinking what happens to my money over time by default. And if you've studied economics, you will know that your money loses its value over time. Thanks to something called inflation. Inflation is generally around about the 2% 2.5% mark. And so that means that every year, stuff costs about 2% more than it did the year before. For example, in 1970 in America, a cup of coffee costs 25 cents. But in 2019, that same cup of coffee costs $1.59. That is inflation in action. And so let's say you've got a thousand pounds in your hand right now. And for the next 10 years, you just stash it under your mattress and you never look at it again. In 10 years time, your thousand pounds is not going to be worth a thousand pounds anymore because everything would have increased by 2% each every year. So the value of your money will fall it. And so if you put your thousand pounds under your mattress for 10 years, you will lose money over time. And this is obviously not good. Even if you put your money in a savings account like these days, a savings account will give you like 0.2% interest, which means your money goes up by 0.2% every year. But because inflation is up by 2% you're still losing money over time. And again, this is not good. Okay, so that begs the question, which is key point number two, which is how do we stop our money from losing value over time? And the answer is that if we had a hypothetical savings account, one that was, let's say, an interest rate of 2.5%. That would match roughly the rate of inflation. So inflation means everything goes up by 2.5% in terms of price. But our money in our savings account also goes up by 2.5% each year. Therefore, we're technically not losing money over time. If you're watching this and you have an issue with the word interest, and don't worry, stick to it for now. Investment is not the same as interest, but we'll come back to that a bit later. But the point here is that we don't just want to not lose money, which is what happens at our 2.5% rate. We actually want to make money. And that brings us on to question number three, which is, well, how do we actually make money? Now let's go back to our hypothetical savings account. If hypothetically we could have a savings account that was giving us a 10% interest rate. This would never happen because that's just way too high. But hypothetically, if it did, that means that every year we'd be making 10% of the value of the money in our savings account. So for example, if I were to put 100 pounds in a savings account right now, the next year it would be worth 110. And then the year after it would be 121 because it's 10% of then the 110. And then it would be 130 something. And this would very quickly compound so that in 10 years time, my 100 pounds will have become 259 pounds. And if we adjust for inflation, then our money is still worth 206 pounds in 10 years time. This is pretty good. We have more than doubled our money, but just putting it in this hypothetical 10% interest savings account. And it really doesn't seem like you would do that because 10% feels like a small amount of money. But if you extrapolate 10% of the 10 years, you actually double your money, which is pretty awesome. Sadly, these hypothetical 10% saving accounts don't really exist because it's just way too high and real life is not that nice. These days, most savings accounts in the UK and I imagine around the rest of the world as well offer less than a 1% savings rate, which means you're actually still losing money over time. But we do have other options to try and get us to this magical Nirvana of like, you know, this 10% saving thingy. And that is where investments come in. So point number four is what is an investment. And the answer is that an investment is something that puts money in your pocket. For example, let's say you buy a house for 100,000 pounds and you want to rent it out to people. There are two ways. That's an investment. There are two ways you're making money from it. Firstly, let's say you're charging some rent to the people living in your house. Let's say you're charging them 830 pounds a month. That becomes 10,000 pounds a year. And so every year you are making 10,000 pounds in rental income, which is 10% of what you originally paid for the house. That means that in 10 years time you'll have paid off the 100,000 pounds that you put in because you're making 10k a year and beyond that every year you're just making 10,000 pounds in pure profit. So that's pretty good. But secondly, it's an investment because the value of the house itself would probably rise over time. In general, there is a trend in most developed countries that house prices tend to rise over the long term. And so your house will probably be worth more than 100,000 pounds in 10 years time. And in fact, in the UK historically, in the past, some people have said that house prices have doubled every 10 years. So maybe your house is worth close to 200,000 pounds. And so you've made money off of the rental income, but you've also made money off of the capital gains, which is what we call it when an asset increases in value over time. But the problem is that buying a house is a little bit annoying. You need to have quite a large amount of money for a deposit, you need to get a mortgage, you need to actually have the house, you need to sort out the rental management, rent it out to people, all of that kind of stuff. If only there were a way of investing without a having a large amount of money to start with, and be without having to put that much effort into managing the asset as well. And that brings us on to investing in shares. And for me, basically 100% of my investment portfolio is entirely shares. I have a tiny percentage in Bitcoin and I own this house, but I don't consider this house investment. I'll talk about that in a different video. Therefore, point number five is what are shares and how do they work? So buying shares is probably as close as we're ever going to get to this magical savings account that just returns some amount of money each year. And the ideas that when you buy a share, you are buying a part ownership of the company that you've got the share in. For example, let's say that Apple have a particularly profitable year because lots of people have bought iPads as per my recommendations. And because Apple are feeling kind, they are choosing to pay out a dividend to their shareholders. So for example, they might say that they're going to issue a dividend of a million pounds and that's going to be split evenly amongst whoever owns shares in Apple based on how many shares they are. So for example, if you happen to own 1% of Apple, you would get 1% of that dividend that they've issued. So 1% of a million pounds, which is 10,000 pounds. Obviously, no one watching this actually owns 1% of Apple unless Tim Cook you're watching. I don't even know if you're on that much because that would make you an extremely rich person because Apple is a very valuable company. But that's basically how the dividend thing works. A company decides to issue a dividend as a way of returning some of its profit back to the people who have invested in the company and therefore you make money through dividends. The second way of making money from shares is sort of like with houses in that you get the capital gains over time. So for example, let's say you bought 10 shares in Apple in 2010. At the time, those shares were selling for $9 each, so you spent $90 on buying 10 shares in Apple. As of October 2020, Apple shares sell for $115. So your 10 shares are now worth $1,150. Despite the fact that you only paid $90 for them 10 years ago. Okay, so we've talked about what a share is and how you make money from them. And at this point, you've probably got a few questions like how much money you need to get started or how risky as buying shares in the company. And I promise we're going to get to that but point number six is how the hell do you buy a share in the first place? And this is where I can kind of get complicated because it's not as simple as going on Apple.com forward slash by and just buying a share in Apple. It doesn't quite work like that. Instead, you have to go through what's called a broker and back in the day, a stock broker was a physical person, usually a dude who you would call on the phone and say, hey, Bob, I want to place an order for some shares in Apple and then Bob would type some stuff into his computer or place like a paper order and then you would own shares in Apple. Thankfully these days, we don't really have to talk to Bob because there's loads and loads of online brokers instead. And so you make an account on an online broker and then you can buy shares in a company through that. A bit annoyingly, every different country has the own different brokers to operate in that country because to be an online broker in a country, you have to abide by like a zillion different laws. And so in the UK, the system is different to the US, which is different to Canada and Germany and so on. In the UK, for example, most banks do have the own online broker eat type things. So with most bank accounts, you can also open an investment account with them and then invest online. But usually that interface is a bit clunky, it's a bit old fashioned and so you usually better off going with an online broker. In the UK, the two that I use are Charles Stanley Direct and Vanguard. But before we get ahead of ourselves and make an account on Vanguard or whatever, we need to understand a few more things. And so question number seven is how the hell do I decide which shares to buy? And the easy answer to that is that you actually don't want to figure out which shares to buy. You do not want to buy individual shares. And I'm going to tell you a little bit more about that. Once I've had a haircut, so see you shortly. All right, so new hair. I've got my invisalone braces on, so I'm going to sound a little bit different. But where are we? Oh yeah, we were talking about why it's not a good idea. Generally speaking, to invest in individual stocks. And I'm going to do a video about this some other time, but essentially the issue with investing in individual stocks is it's kind of risky, like yes, if you invest in something like Apple, chances are it's going to be around 10 years from now. But historically there have been quite a few companies that people were like, oh my god, this is amazing, this is the thing to invest in and then that company went bust. So you're automatically exposing yourself to more risk if you're investing in individual stocks. Also in general, like it's easy to say, hey, Amazon grew 10 eggs in the last 10 years. Therefore it's going to continue to do the same for the next 10 years. But that's trying to predict the future. And the past is no real indication of future performance. And so the advice that most people would give for beginners is that you should not invest in individual stocks. You should invest in index funds. And this is what Graham Stephan, one of my favorite YouTubers also says as well. He says that index funds are the best safest and easiest long-term investment strategy for most people, which begs the question, point number eight, what the hell is an index fund? So there's basically two bits to understand here. There's the index bit and the fund bit. Let's start with the fund bit. And a fund is basically where investors will pull their money. So multiple investors would invest in the same fund. And then that fund would have a fund manager and the fund manager decides which companies the fund is going to invest in. For example, let's say I were managing a fund and I called it Gringots and let's say 100 people from my audience decided to invest in my Gringots fund, I as the fund manager can say, the Gringots fund, now that we have 100 people's money, let's say it's 100 million. So everyone's invested one million each. I've now got a hundred million. I'm going to put 20% of that in Apple, 10% in Facebook, 10% in Amazon, 10% in Tesla, 10% in Netflix, 10% in Johnson and Johnson, all of that sort of stuff. And so you the investor don't have to worry about this because you trust me and my fund of Gringots to manage your money. And as the fund performs well, because the prices of these stocks and shares increases, you get the returns and I take a one or two percent management fee. So I make a load of money because I'm earning one or two percent off of this a hundred million that I'm managing and you're not worrying about having to pick stocks yourself. You trust me as a season professional to do that for you. So that's what a fund is. Now the index bit refers to a stock market index. And so a stock market index would for example be the FTSE 100, which is the 100 biggest companies in the UK or the SNP 500, which is the 500 biggest companies in the US or the NASDAQ or the DAO and these are all different indices of the stock market. And if we use the SNP 500 for example, these are the components of the SNP 500. So we said it's the 500 biggest companies in the US. So number one is Apple and Apple makes up 6.5 percent of the SNP. Microsoft makes up 5.5 Amazon makes up 4.7 Facebook is 2.2. Also bet, which is Google makes 1.5 and 1.5 so about 3% of the total SNP 500. And essentially we've got these 500 companies, you get all the way down. Oh, Ralph Lauren is 496, but chances are you've not really heard of many of the other ones at the bottom of the list. But chances are you've heard of most of the companies towards the top of the list. So the SNP 500 is an index of the US stock market. And if you look at the performance as a whole of the SNP 500, you get a general idea of how the US economy is going as a whole. So this is currently with the SNP 500 looks like and if we do a 5 year time horizon, in fact let's go max. So you can see the SNP 500 started in 1980. And since that time this is what the US stock market has been doing. So as you can see there is a general trend upwards, but for example in 2000, there was a bit of a crash in 2008, famously there was a bit of a crash. And earlier this year, when Corona was first starting to be a thing, there was a bit of a crash, but then the market basically immediately recovered after that. Okay, so we know what our fund is, I eat away with pooling money and we know what the index is, like something like the SNP 500. When you combine those, you get an index fund, which is a fund that automatically invests in all of the companies in the index. And so with me, for example, basically all of my investments, all of my money is in the SNP 500, which effectively means that 6.5% of my investments are in Apple, 5.5 and Microsoft, 4.7 and Amazon, 2.2 and Facebook, 3% in Google, 1.5 and Google, and so on. So why is this good? Well, it's good for a lot of reasons. So firstly, index funds are really, really easy to invest in. A big problem that beginners have to invest in, it's like, well, how the hell do I know which company to invest in? How do I read a balance sheet? How do I do any of this stuff? If you invest in an index fund, you actually don't have to worry about any of that. Secondly, index funds give you a decent amount of diversification. There are all sorts of companies in the SNP 500, so you're not entirely reliant on the tech sector or the oil sector or the clothing sector or anything to make the bulk of your money. You are very nicely diversified across all these US companies. Thirdly, index funds have very low fees. So because it's not a real person who is deciding, you know, what to invest in and doing all this research and trying to make loads of money is essentially a computer algorithm that automatically allocates your money, you know, based on the components of the index fund. The fees for those are really low. And one of the main things about investing for the long-term is that even a slight increase in your fees is going to massively impact your financial upside. And so for example, an index fund with a 0.1% fee is so much better for you than an actively managed fund where a fund manager is charging you even 1%. Because the long-term difference between 0.1% fees and 1% fees is sort of absolutely astronomical over the long-term. And finally, if you look historically and, you know, technically historical performance is not the same thing as a future performance, but if you look historically, very few funds have managed to actually consistently beat the market, I eat outperform the index. And in fact, someone like Warren Buffett famously says that if you gave him 100,000 pounds and asked him to invest it right now, he would just invest in an index fund like the S&P 500. And in fact, in 2008 Warren Buffett challenged the hedge fund industry to try and beat the market. He said that hedge funds are a bit pointless because they charge way too high fees and they don't actually get the sort of returns they claim to get. And so he set up this 10 year bet which this company called protege partners LLC accepted where Buffett said that he was going to bet that the index fund outperformed the actively managed fund and he ended up winning that bet and gave lots of money to charity or something like that. But that just sort of goes to show that it's really hard to beat the market with an actively managed fund. Basically, no one can predict what the market is going to do in the future. And therefore, if you hit a ride on an index, I eat your gambling on the entire market rather than thinking, you know, what, I've got some kind of amazing insight that I'll know exactly which 10 stocks to pick that are going to beat the market. You might as well hit a ride with the whole market rather than individual stocks. Okay, so we've sorted out the problem of which stocks to invest in by completely circumventing the problem and instead just investing in index funds. The next big question people usually have about investing in stocks and shares is the amount of risk and that brings us to point number nine. And the argument usually goes as follows, that hey, okay, cool, this investing in stocks and shares stuff sounds kind of interesting. But my uncle Tom Kobley invested lots of money in the stock market and he lost a load of money and my parents have told me that investing in the stock market is a really risky thing and I shouldn't do it and I should instead invest in real estate because real estate is safe. That is usually the sort of thing, the sort of idea that people have about investing in stocks. And naturally there is the anxiety of what if I lose all my money. So let's talk about that now. So if we take a step back, the only way to lose money in anything is if you buy a thing and then you sell it for less than you actually bought it. Like, let's say you bought a house for 300,000 pounds and then Brexit happens the next day and the house prices plummet and now your house is only worth 250,000. At that point, if you decide to sell your house, then yes, you are losing money and you've lost 50,000 pounds. Equally, the only way to really lose money in stocks is if you buy a stock at a certain price and then you sell it for less than that price. So for example, let's say you bought shares an apple on the 18th of February 2020 and let's say you bought one share at which other time was $79.75 and because this is your first time investing, you keep on looking at the price of the apple stock because every day you're thinking, oh, have I made money? Have I made money? And really annoying you for you, you see that over the next kind of few days, a few weeks apple stock is actually going down and then on the 18th of March 2020, you decide to screw it. I'm going to sell my one share an apple because I don't want to lose all my money and you sell it for a measly price of $61 and $67 and so you technically lost $18 because you bought it at $79 in February and you sold it for $61 in March. Then you think, damn, I've lost 20% of my investment. This stock market thing is BS, I'm never going to invest in the stock market again and you call it a day. This would be a very bad thing to do because for example, if we look at apple stock price in March, it was $57.31 but if you just held onto your one apple share in that time, what is it today? It's the eighth of October, apple is now trading at $114.96. So if you just held on for a few months, you would have made a lot of money, you would have bought it at $79 and within, I don't know, eight months, it would now be worth $115. That's a pretty good game. And so the real lesson here is that when you're investing in stocks and shares and also when you're investing in real estate, these are long-term investments. Ideally, you shouldn't be putting any money into stocks and shares that you need to access within the next five years and actually a lot of people would extend that to 10 years. And it's exactly like that with house prices, it's like if you buy a house as an investment and then the house price would go down, it would be completely stupid of you to sell the house unless you are absolutely desperate for the money because something major has happened. And instead, if you just held onto the house, then you would have made more money in the long run because in the long-term house prices always go up. And in the long-term, basically, the stock market always goes up. And that's a bit of a, it can be a controversial statement. It is true, but I'm going to make a video at some other point explaining why it's true. But for now, take my word for it that over the long-term, the stock market always goes up. But having said that, again, this is a long-term thing. And so, for example, if we look at the S&P 500 and look at how it was in 2008 at the financial crash, right, in 2007, it's $1500, you know, per bit of the S&P 500. And then the crash happens and then buy, what is it? January 2009, it's down to $735. So basically, 50% of the value has been wiped off out of the S&P 500. Now, if you bought it in 2007 and you saw it, you know, you're crashing and crashing and crashing. And then you sold when it was $800. Now, you've lost a lot of money because you've bought high and you've sold low. But if you just held on, it took, so, you know, let's say, due to 2007, it's at $1,500. It takes about, up until 2013. So it takes about five years for it to get back to its normal level. And even if you'd invested, like just before the crash, and then your investment plummeted by 50%. If you would just held on, you'd have bought in the S&P 500 at $1,500 and right now, it would be $3,445. So since 2008, 2007, when you first invested over the last 13 years, the S&P 500 has more than doubled. So you would have more than doubled to money, provided you did not panic sell when the market crashed. Now, hypothetically, could the market crash down to zero? And therefore, you will actually lose all your money. Yes, it could. But if the US stock market crashed literally to zero, I.e. all the top 500 companies, including Apple Google, Microsoft Facebook, but I like literally every company in the S&P 500. All of those got destroyed overnight and the stock market crashed to zero. The world would be in some sort of mega apocalypse and you'd have a lot more serious problems to worry about, rather than the value of your portfolio of stock market indices on Vanguard. In that scenario, in that doomsday scenario, money would stop meaning anything and you'd be using money to wipe your bum because money has no value because the stock market is completely crashed. It's basically unfathomable that the global economy could be so completely wrecked, such that every single company goes down to zero. In my opinion, and again, I'm not a financial advisor, this is technically not financial advice, whatever that means. But in my opinion, it's unrealistic to think that if I put my money in stocks and shares, I could lose all of it. There's basically no way you're ever going to lose all of it, provided you're diversified. If you invested in, I don't know, my space in 2001 ever it was. And then my space crashes and then you've lost all your money because, you know, they have no money. But if you invest in the top 500 companies in the US or, you know, the top 500 companies in the world or the top 100 companies in the UK, it is so vanishingly unlikely that you'll ever lose your money that I don't think that is a risk that we should even be thinking about. So, realistic worst-case scenario. Yes, investing in the stock market is risky in the short term. But if you're investing in the long term, the market will always go up and you will always end up more money making more money in the long run, provided, you don't have to take money out in opportune times. Okay, so at this point, we've established that investing in stocks is very good and investing in index funds is a relatively safe way of doing this. The next question is usually when should you get started? Like, how old do you have to be? Is it ever too soon to start? Is it ever too late to start? And here, the answer is pretty simple and basically all investment advice agrees with me on this front. There's a very good website called the MotleyFool at full.com and they have a nice article explaining this. Basically, you should start investing as soon as possible. It doesn't matter how old you are. It doesn't matter how young you are. The earlier you start investing, the better. There are three caveats though for like sensible financial advice. Firstly, you want to make sure that all of your high interest are a credit card debt is paid off because when it comes to compounding, even though games compound losses compound as well. And so if you've got like a 6% credit card debt, that's eating into your bottom line every single month. You want to pay that off as soon as possible. Point number two is that you want to make some sort of emergency fund and people usually say that your emergency fund should have in cash basically three to six months of living expenses, so that if you lose your job or if you hit with some kind of incredible medical emergency and you're not in the UK where a medical care is free or you're in the US or something like that, then you've got money to do that and you don't have to take money out of your investments. And caveat number three is that you don't want to put any money into stocks that you think you might need to use in the next three to five years. So let's say you're 24 and you've just landed your first job and you're thinking of getting a mortgage and buying a house and you need money for the deposit. Do not put that money into the S&P 500 or into any kind of stocks and shares because no one can time the market and no one knows whether we might, you know, there might be a market crash tomorrow. All we know is that in the long term the stock market goes up. But if you need to buy a house next year, there is absolutely no guarantee that that money will still be worth exactly the same or worth more this time next year. So provided those two conditions amount like firstly you have no high interest credit card debt and secondly you've already got your emergency fund and thirdly you're not planning to be going to have a major expense in the next few years. At that point, you're going to absolutely everyone should be investing something into the stock market in my opinion, whether you're 12 or 20 or 21 or 22 or 50, it doesn't matter and as they say on the market full, there is almost no way your future self will regret making the decision to invest. And as you know, at this point, this is because of compounding the more time you leave your money in the stock market, the more it compounds and there is a huge difference. There's like lots of interesting numbers about this on the internet that people have calculated that if you start investing at the age of 20 versus if you start investing at the age of 25 or 30, it makes such a huge difference to your bottom line that basically as soon as you watch this video and hear about investing, you should start investing, provided those three conditions that we talked about are meant. All right, so we're nearly there. Now we're 0.11 out of 12 where we said, okay, you sold me on this idea of investing in index funds, all of these three conditions are meant, I don't have high interest credit card debt, I've got my emergency fund or I'm a student and therefore my parents are my emergency fund and I'm not planning to buy a house or you're a big thing in the next three years. The next question is usually how much money do I need to get started with investing? And I know a lot of students watch my channel and I had a lot of comments on Instagram saying, I'm 14 years old and I don't have any money, how do I get started with investing? And the answer here is it again quite easy, basically start with whatever you can. So some of these websites and some of these apps that you can use to invest in stock market indices, you can start with as little as $5 or 10 pounds, depending on the website you might need to start with the 100 pounds or 1000 pounds, you can research this and it kind of depends on which country you're in, but basically you want to start investing as soon as possible and it doesn't matter if it's a tiny amount of money to begin with. Firstly, it's useful to invest a small small amount of money because compounding is always good, but secondly and more importantly, the sooner you start investing, the sooner it becomes a habit. And so for me, for example, I started investing in 2015 and you absolutely nothing about it before then, but I really wish I'd started investing in like 2009 when I first had my first part-time job, because a that would have encouraged good financial habits within me, I would have kept aside maybe 10% or 20% from the top line to put into my investments. Secondly, it would have meant that investing became a habit. And so I would have known about the fact that stock market indices exist, I would have done the research, I would have watched videos like this, although these weren't really a thing in 2009. And what I'm really annoyed about with myself is I started making actual money in like 2012 when my first business started to do very well. And between 2012 and 2015, I did not invest any money just because I didn't know that you could and I didn't know how when I always kind of thought that hard, I'm making money now. It's just sort of silly sitting in my bank account, and I know that inflation's a thing, so I know my money's losing value, but I just didn't think about investing and didn't realise how easy it is and that it's a thing. And so I really wish I'd started investing my real money in 2012. But the only way I would have done that is if I had started investing from 2009 when I first started making, I don't have six pounds an hour during my part-time job. So again, and I can't state this infastically enough, like it doesn't matter if all you have is a small amount to invest, even if it's one pound, even if it's 10p, the process of making the account and researching online stock brokers in your country and figuring out how to actually do this stuff is like the most valuable thing that you could be doing with your time immediately after watching this video. And finally, point number 12 is okay, I'm sold, I've got £100 gear, and I want to put it inside the stock market index fund. How do I actually do that? And the answer here is you want to find an online broker, so this will vary massively depending on which country you're in because these online brokers, as I said, have like billions of laws that have to comply with and financial regulations and all this stuff. In the US, most people that I know use the van guard as well, and my favorite blog at Mr. Money Mustache recommends that as well, although in the US there are also other services like betterment, which I've got a few friends who use that as well. Again, depending on which country you're in, like literally all you have to do is Google the phrase best online broker, Germany, or best online broker Pakistan, or best online broker India, whichever country you're in, and you'll find something, read some reviews. Basically, the thing you're looking for is you want to be able to invest in index funds, and you want the fees to be as low as possible. I think Charles Danny direct the fees 0.25%, which was the lowest at the time when I made my account, and I think is still pretty competitive. So you want the fee to be like a really, really, really small fraction of a percentage. Then once you've made your account and verified your identity and gone through all the hoops and stuff, which you sometimes takes a few days, and they send you lettering the post to verify your address, like depending on what the regulations are. Once you've done that, then you can start just putting money in here and there. And all the friends that I've spoken to about this stuff over the last like four years since I first started knowing about investing in things, they've all started making accounts and sort of making these investment accounts for themselves. For the first few weeks, they all sort of compulsively check their phones to see what the stock market is doing, but then very quickly you realize that actually I'm investing for the long-term here. I actually don't give a toss what the stock market is doing the short term. I'm going to check my port, like I check my portfolio once every six months, just because sometimes I'm curious, I don't even bother looking at it. This is very much a set it and forget its strategy. You're investing for the long-term. Your money will magically grow over time, provided you don't touch it, and think, oh crap, stock market's going down a bit. I'm going to take my money because I can't handle these losses. There's loads more to say about investing in finance, but hopefully this was a reasonably concise, not very concise. This is going to be a long video for a while. Hopefully this was a reasonable introduction to how to get started with investing in index funds. If you have more questions about exactly what to do or anything else about money, do leave a comment in the video description area thing. I'm sort of trying to think of a name for this series. I was thinking, I personally don't Instagram. There were a few options, money talks. It was quite a popular one, but that's already a film. One that I really liked was Penny Siddon. Thing I might call the series, Penny Siddon. I was kind of cool. A lot of people said, like, finance, she, Ali, and actually Ali, my name's Ali, get it financially. A few different options. Let me know what you think. Have any ideas for what this entire series about money and stuff should be called. And final piece of advice. If you're in the UK, if you're in the UK, you're just going to start with investing. Basically, go on a hog leaves lands down and make a lifetime isa. The lifetime is a very good deal. You can read more about it on moneysavingexpert.com. Within the lifetime isa, as of 2020, you can put up to £4,000 a year into it, and then you can invest that in the S&P 500, which is what I would do. If you have more than £4,000 a year to invest, you can then put another 16,000 into a stocks and shares ISO, which I'd recommend doing on Vanguard Investor.co.uk. And if you have more than 20,000 pounds to invest in a year, and you're doing really well, then just open a general investment account with Vanguard. This is what I do. I think it works great. Loads more links in the video description to other resources and bloggers and books and other videos that I would recommend. Grame Stephan, amazing YouTube channel. Andre Jick does a good job with YouTube channels as well. Mr. Money must start, amazing, amazing blog. JL Collins, amazing blog with the fantastic stock series that you should definitely read. There's so much to explore in this area, and it's a really fascinating topic, but thank you so much for watching this video. Hit the video here if you want to learn about how I make the money that I used to invest, it's my video about how to make money online. Thank you so much for watching. Good luck with investing. Make sure you're new to invest in a stock market index fund. Hopefully, I'll see you in the next video. Bye-bye.
