# The 5 Key Principles of Productivity
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gtRqbbiWU30
👉 Get a free 2-week trial of Skillshare here: https://skl.sh/aliabdaal10201

Hey friends, in this video I'll be featuring a clip from my newly launched Skillshare class on productivity, namely the Getting Things Done methodology, based on David Allen's best-selling book. Click the link above to get a free trial of Skillshare and watch the class. 

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
📚  How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali
What I Use For Analytics - https://go.aliabdaal.com/tubebuddy
🌐  My website platform (Ghost) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost
🎤  My podcast hosting platform (Transistor) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/transistor

OTHER RECOMMENDED COURSES
📔 Effortless Output with Roam Research - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/roam
📓 Building a Second Brain - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/basb

🎙 MY WEEKLY PODCAST - https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCdXpN-Z7LyTgc3OLo_Zw2Pg
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app. And we post clips + full episodes on the YouTube channel, so please subscribe to that!  

BE MY FRIEND:
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮  Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, productivity tips, getting things done, productivity, gtd david allen, getting things done david allen, productivity apps, increase productivity, productivity hacks, david allen getting things done, productivity 2020, how to be productive, how to be more productive, productivity tips and tricks, productivity habits, getting things done book summary, how to increase productivity, getting things done by david allen, getting things done review, productivity tricks, 
**Date:** 2020-10-21

## Transcript
 In this video, we're going to be talking about the five key principles of productivity, C, C, O, R, and E. That when I discovered them a few years ago, pretty much overnight, they just immediately made me more productive and made my life a lot less stressful. Hey friends, welcome back to the channel. If you're new here, my name is Ali. I'm a doctor based in the UK and on this channel, we explore the strategies and tools that help us live healthier, happier, more productive lives. And this video is going to be one of the 25 lessons in my brand new Skillshare class about productivity. We're going to be looking at David Allen's amazing book called Getting Things Done, which is literally the Bible of productivity. And when I discovered this book a few years ago, it completely changed the game for me and my own productivity system. As of today, that class is now available on Skillshare, who are very kindly sponsoring this video. So what that means is that the first 1,000 people to hit the link in the video description will get a free trial of Skillshare. During that trial, you can watch like the other five classes of also got on Skillshare. I've got two about productivity, two about how to study for exams, one about stoicism, kind of techniques that made me happier and one about how to edit videos exactly like this one using Final Cut Pro. If you haven't heard by now, Skillshare is an amazing platform that has thousands of classes on all sorts of topics from creativity to entrepreneurship, illustration to graphic design to cooking. But you should definitely watch all of my classes first, and then you can watch other people like my friend Thomas Frank, who has his own productivity classes. And once you're trying to over the annual premium subscription is less than $10 a month, it is totally worth it. I pay for it even though they sponsor my videos and I'll use Skillshare as my first go-to place whenever I need to learn anything. But yeah, first thousand people, please hit the link in the video description. You can watch the entirety of my 25 part class about productivity if you want. And if you don't, then here is this excerpt, which is I think like nine minutes long, talking about the five key principles of productivity from David Allen's Getting Things Done, I hope you enjoy it. All right, so the first thing in our engineer section, and remember the job of the engineer's speed, efficiency and organization. The first thing I want to talk about is Getting Things Done, which is a sort of productivity methodology, named after a book written by a guy called David Allen, and Getting Things Done is seen as the Bible on productivity. We're just going to do a very quick introduction to it here. I recommend you read the book. It's an amazing book. It is the single book that has most transformed my own productivity, and there are millions of people around the world who have, who say exactly the same thing. Like, if you're into productivity, you have to read Getting Things Done. There is just no substitute for it. I'll do a dedicated Skillshare class about it if people are interested because I think it's very, very interesting. But there is a five step process to getting things done, which we're going to talk about now. Firstly, what's the point? Well, the idea behind Getting Things Done is that we all have, and the more you get into the world of work, like actual work, the more you realize you have, we all have all of these different kind of commitments. We have these different to-dos. We have all these things on our calendar. We have all these areas of our life that we want to kind of sustain. We also don't just want to be effective at work. We want to be effective at home in at school and at university with our friends. We've got all of these things in our life to track and organize. And often, we're storing all of these things in our head. And therefore, we get frazzled and we become overwhelmed with the amount of stuff we have to do. And so, getting things done or GTD for short, gives us a system for organizing all of these commitments in our life, and of getting them done effectively. And David Allen's main point is that there's sort of two realms in which we want to organize this. We want to organize them horizontally and also vertically. A horizontally means that across all of the things that were involved in, we kind of want to keep them fairly tidy. Like, we want our work life to be fairly tidy, where we know we have to do. We want our home life to be fairly tidy. We want our relationships to be fairly tidy. We want our kids to be fairly tidy. And we want to appreciate kind of all the stuff. We don't want to have like work or work life, which is super super organized. And then suddenly we're at home and we're kind of utterly listed all over the place and we don't know what's going on. We want to maintain horizontal coherence across the board. But also we want to be thinking vertically and keep things tidy vertically. Vertically means within a given project or given area, we want to efficiently and effectively get stuff done that moves us towards particular goals for those. So that's a little bit abstract initially. There's a lot more in the book about it if you read it. But there's basically a five-step process to GTD. And that's capture, clarify, organize, reflect, and engage. CCORE, capture, clarify, organize, reflect, and engage. Let's start with capture. Basically, the main idea from getting things done is that our mind is for having ideas, not for storing them. And a big reason is to why lots of us are. Let's productive or feeling overwhelmed or feeling stressed is because we are using our brain as a to do list. We don't really have a dedicated system in which to offload ideas and offload things that we have to do. So the main point in step one capture is that any open loop in our mind, anything we have to do, anything that's on our mind, we've write it down and put it somewhere. And so with me, for example, I'm completely obsessed with capture. I think for me, it's been the single most important thing that's made me more productive and less stressed in general, which is that the instant I have an idea for something I need to do or something I need to remember, or something, you know, just an idea. I will write it down somewhere. Now usually I use the app things on my iPhone to write this down. It doesn't really matter what app you use. You can use it to do list. If it's an idea for a video, I'll put it in Notion. If I'm driving, I'll put it in drafts. I've got lots of videos on my YouTube channel where I talk more about the capture habit. But essentially the way it works is that anytime I'm finding my brain trying to remember something that, oh yeah, I should reply to that person's email, which is an idea I might have well, you know, doing the groceries. I kind of have a bit of an allergic reaction because I think none of it. There is no way this is staying in my head because I'm just going to forget about it because I'm a total dumbass and I don't trust my brain to remember anything. And so I will always write it down. And that's kind of the first step. My David Hans says that a big part is of why we're all very stressed about everything and we have overwhelmed by all this stuff we have to do is because we don't have a centralized trustworthy system. We might use it to do list, but often we don't use our to do list for 100% of the things we actually have to do. We were maybe used our to do list for 70% of them, but when it comes to, oh, I should, you know, it's, it's my mum's birthday next week and I should get her birthday card in a present. We would, information like that, we would just store in our heads. Whereas what David Allen is saying is that every single thing in your life, you want to capture and you want to offload into an external system, an app or a note paper or kind of whatever you want to do. And once you, once you have 100% coverage, that means you can now trust your system rather than relying on system plus brain. So capture is number one of the process. Number two is clarifying. Clarifies really interesting and again, we can go on a bit up, but by the way, the ages have got so much to say about GTD, but that's for a future scale share class. The idea behind clarify is that often procrastination and lack of productivity comes from not having a clearly defined next step. And when it comes to writing to do lists, we are all notoriously bad at actually clarifying what each step means. So for example, on my to do list, if I was doing this not well, like how I used to do it, I'd probably have website redesign on my to do list. Like, what the hell does that mean? Or, for example, scale share class of our productivity. What the hell does that mean? Like, when I come to looking at that project or that task, it's, it's, it's not very well defined. And so the idea of clarifies is we want to convert all about to do lists into action words. So for example, website redesign is a multi step process where the first part is probably develop mood board on Pinterest using website inspiration, where I kind of collect all my website inspiration stick in a Pinterest board. Step two would probably be create mock up in sketch, which is a web design app showing structure of website. So there's a very, very specific things which are within the general project of website redesign, which is the sort of thing you can't really work with. So step one, capture everything, but step two clarify and make sure we've got a specifically defined next action that we want to be doing. Then we have step three, which is organized and the idea is basically we want to put stuff where it needs to go. So if we have reference materials for an email, we want to put it in the right folder and ever note or notion of whatever you want to use or use notion personally. And if we've got these items in our to do this, we want to organize them into projects and areas and then we probably want to organize them by kind of priority and deadlines. We want to add these kinds of bits of metadata like due date and who it involves and what the deadline is and stuff like that. We want to add those things. It takes a little bit longer, but it keeps a whole system organized as a whole, and that is one of the most important jobs of the engineer. Step number four in GTD is reflect or review. And that's when we come into doing things like weekly reviews, monthly reviews and stuff like that, more on that in a later video in this class. And finally step five is engage, which is to actually do the thing, kind of look through our list, which is now 100% covered across the board. We don't have any information in our heads that is kind of keeping us up at night. Everything is in our system and then we're choosing to do the things that are going to make us the most effective. So that's just a very quick whistle stop tour through the five step structure of GTD. Capture Clarify, Organise, Reflect, and Engage. 100% recommend you should read the book. I'm going to do loads of more videos about it. We're going to do a more skill to class about it. Depending on when you're watching this, it might already be out. So looking at my profile and look at that class, genuinely discovering GTD has been the single biggest change to my productivity, like in my life. I think I first read it in my first or second year of university and I thought, I've been hearing about this book for so long. I can't believe I hadn't read it before. And literally everyone I know who's into productivity also swears by GTD because it's literally the Bible. You've got to read the book if you care about productivity. As an actionable point, honestly, I think the single biggest thing you can do right now is to take out a piece of paper or go on your to-do-do-dist Apple, you know, on the computer or Apple notes or whatever you want to use. And literally just write down a list of every single thing that is on your mind as like a to-do-dist. So it can be anything like, you know, figure out furniture for my balcony or figure out website, re-architecture or buy flowers for my mum or send a thank you card to friend for dinner or anything like anything that you've got on your mind. Really trying to capture and put on this piece of paper or on this list. Like most people will have between 30 and 100 things if you're a normal person. And every time I do this, any time I do like an online course about productivity, this is something that you always talk about and I was about, okay, I'm going to do it. And then I find, I've got, even though I'm obsessed with the capture, I still have so many open loops, so many kind of things that I've been thinking about that have just been weighing on my mind. And as soon as I get them onto my system, suddenly I feel a sense of relief. So that is your homework from this video. Make a list. Capture every single thing that's on your mind right now, stick it into an external system to do this manager or a notes app of your choice. It really doesn't matter which one. And I promise you, you will feel a sense of relief. And that is kind of step number one of our engineer doing its job. So thank you for watching and I'll see you in the next video. All right. So that was a preview of what's in the class. We have another 24 videos available in the class as I said at the start. First, thousand people are hit a link in the video description. You can sign up to a free two month trial of Skillshare where you can check the class out to your heart's content. That's it. Yeah. Thanks for watching. If you like this video and you want to see more stuff that's on YouTube, you should check out the video here, which is all about the productivity equation. And that's where I talk about the amazing equation for productivity that you can use to target specific interventions at to help you leave a healthier happy and more productive life or something like that. Thank you so much for watching and I'll see you in the next video. Bye bye.
