# What's on my iPhone - Favourite iPhone Apps ft. @KharmaMedic
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gWFCy-pWeDo
Hey friends, in this special episode of Appy Hour, @Kharma Medic and I go over our favorite iPhone apps for managing everything from email to music. 

Check out our video on Kharma's channel - https://youtu.be/48qgyXXwwj0

SUBSCRIBE to Kharma Medic:
https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCeoU2maQX8JiQ9DTuhOVz5g
https://www.instagram.com/kharmamedic/?hl=en

00:00 Intro
00:24 Spark
01:36 Superhuman
02:37 Fantastical
03:07 Lightroom/VSCO
03:32 Sleepwatch
04:11 Day One
04:51 Tick Tick
05:00 Notion
05:35 Things 3
06:38 Spark Post
06:49 Tabs
07:58 Filmic Pro
08:29 Books
09:24 YTCount
09:53 Frame
10:06 Readwise
11:26 Spotify

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
😃  How to be Happier - Stoicism Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/stoicism

MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
📚  How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali
What I Use For Analytics - https://go.aliabdaal.com/tubebuddy
🌐  My website platform (Ghost) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost
🎤  My podcast hosting platform (Transistor) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/transistor

OTHER RECOMMENDED COURSES
📔 Effortless Output with Roam Research - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/roam
📓 Building a Second Brain - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/basb

🎙 MY WEEKLY PODCAST - https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCdXpN-Z7LyTgc3OLo_Zw2Pg
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app. And we post clips + full episodes on the YouTube channel, so please subscribe to that!  

BE MY FRIEND:
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮  Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, app review, best apps for productivity, apps for doctors, apps for productivity iphone, best iphone apps, iphone switch, best iphone apps 2020, iphone apps must have, cool iphone apps, spark email, superhuman email, notion app, top iphone apps 2020, kharma medic, kharma medic apps, kharma medic iphone apps, ali abdaal iphone apps, best iphone apps for doctors, doctor vlog, iphone apps for photography, 
**Date:** 2020-10-01

## Transcript
 Hey friends, welcome back to the channel into this episode of Appie Hour featuring my friend, Homer Medik, who is also a YouTuber. Link in the video description below below. Basically, we're going to be having a chat about our favorite apps. We're going to be going through each other's home screen. We'll just be having a general chit chat about what's going on. And we'll stick time stamps in the video description to all of their apps mentioned. So maybe you'll find something that resonates with you as well. Does that sound right? Sounds good? Sick. That's good. It's started. So let me have a look at your screen. All right, so the first thing I see is that you're using Spark is your email client of choice, can I click on it? Yeah, go for it. Why do you use Spark as your email? Primarily, because I dislike the default Apple email app. Spark for me just makes things colorful. It has like quick replies. It has a couple of shortcuts as well that I can use on the laptop. And so it just sort of streamlines the email process for me. Okay. It does make it a more pleasurable to use. And I think that's the most important thing for me. I'm going to invoke zero kind of guy. Yes, I'm a huge inbox zero kind of guy. So for example, you've got stuff in your inbox right now. How would you process it? Can you like how do you all kind of do you delete? Have to have the work. So I do have a couple of folders and I move things into there. Okay. But generally, if it's something that I don't need to reply to right now, I will just automatically read it like this. And then it's gone and I don't have to think about it in my head. This over here, which looks like a collaboration proposition from a company. I will leave unread so that I know that I still have something to do in the future. And then when I go to my home screen and I see that I have three notifications up here, I know that there's three things I have to attend to. So I guess this is kind of like an extended part of my to-do list. Okay. So these three things are three to-do list items that I need to do. So you use the unread counter as a marker of okay. I need to attend to this email at some point. Exactly. Exactly. What do you use very email? Are you superhuman? Oh, I have heard you talk about this before. Yeah. Superhuman? I don't know anything about it. This is superhuman. Superhuman is the app that allows you to pay 30 dollars a month to check your Gmail. Whoa. Yeah. Okay. They're going to be sponsoring a video soon. So then it is worth it. Yeah, I think I think it is worth it. What does it do when I'm excited? Like what's its perk? So their setting point is that they help you get through your email twice as fast. Hah. So for example, if I were kind of kind of going through my email in realtime, uh, that's loud. I'll kinda this one I'm gonna forward to instead pay for. So I can read this news later. Boom. And then I'll kind of close my, I'll kind of close my, I'll kind of open. What's archive? Like I'm Gmail, there's the archive person. So, it's a store, it stores all your emails, but you give them out of your inbox. That's how you get to inbox here. Like having zero emails in your inbox. And so I've never deleted an email since like 2007 when I started using Gmail. So I can go through my whole emails and I can be like, yeah, but they're not taking up space in my inbox. I see. So I try and get to inbox here whenever I can. But um, yeah, I totally knew that. Superhuman is, it's pretty solid. Okay. So I see you use fantastic help for your calendar just like I do. Yes. Can I just be heard about it from you? It's a little nice. That's right. I write down everything in there. Yeah, same. Um, yeah. If it's not in my calendar, it doesn't exist. It's not in my calendar. Yeah, it didn't happen. It's not going to happen. Yeah. In my first year, I walked by someone or a friend in the library. And she was showing me that she had even her like socializing events, scheduled and terror calendar. And I told her like, you're crazy. Like why would you micromanage your time so much even socializing? And now it's something that I do. So yeah, I've gone one 80 on that. Excellent. Oh, do you use Lightroom to edit photos? Oh, god. Yeah. I love, love, love is sick. You know what I use? I use VCO. Like the simplest editing thing possible. All right. Let's see what else. Let's see what else we got over here. I see what's up Twitter Instagram. Oh, I see. I see you have your infinity pools on page number two. Yes. I like where you would dedicate a lot of time to. Yeah. Just Studio. Oh, I'm not going to click on that. That likes TikTok Reddit. Primeety Watch Fitness. Sleep Watch. What's Sleep Watch? Sleep Watch? I actually downloaded on the train here. It's supposed to be an app for your app for which it helps track your sleep. So do you wear your app for what's up? Well, sleeping. So I got this yesterday for disclosure. I wore it when I was sleeping. Yes. My plan is to track my fitness more at my sleep. So yeah. Hey, if you tried one of those arrow smart rings, no, I saw you have one. Yeah, I don't really get it. I'm not sure. I'm not sure how much I buy the data that it gives me. Yeah, about my sleep. Even this brand, you can take an EKG on it. Oh, yeah. ECG. Yeah. Which idea? I don't know how much I trust it. I'm assuming it's pretty comfortable. It's just like a lead one or like lead two or something. It's a single, single lead. OK. Yeah, I'm sure it has some benefit. Please. Yeah, go ahead. Oh, let's get the way team platform. What's day one? Oh, day one is a journaling app. Day one is amazing. Day one is an absolutely sick. Like I write in day one. I have this nice comments journal. Oh, this is such a nice idea. Where I say all of my kind of, has the data as well? Got the data. Yeah, so for example, the first nice comment I got was October. The first one. Every nice comment from what I thought I think this is. All right, I true. October 20th. I think I started my channel in July 2017. It's such a good idea. And also the cool thing about day one is that you can automatically even it down the road. Is it, is that you can forward emails into it? And so if I get an email that's really nice, if I see it on my assistant sees it, she'll just forward it into the day one address. And it's nice. Be rocks up. So you can see a lot of these are forwards. Nice, so I wouldn't recommend today one. Is this tick tick? Yeah, is this what you used for you to do? That's what I used to use before I started using motion. Oh, okay, now you know. I said, okay, how do you, how do you, how do you capture stuff into notion? That's right, that's right. How do you create capture into notion? Anything that I think of, then I need to write down. I open notion, and I just navigate to the page and write it down. Usually it'll go in my life to do this, which is here. Right at the beginning, so it's like a nice to see. From a key video or so guard. Catholicization sign off, so whatever. And it's to do this. And then every now and again, I'll just like delete them. So it's just as simple today. It's nothing fancy with databases and all that from now. No, but that's something I want to ask you about today. So after, after it's audio, it's quite a little pixel. Like for example, yeah, how come you do any faster? Click on the motion to wait for it to load, you have to go on your thing. Do you have a better way of doing it? I mean, so I use things. But like, tick tick is a dedicated to do this stuff. So for example, for me, for things, I've opened up things. And just write it, and then you have to sort these ones. That's what bothers me. And rather, just sort it at the time. So then I'm doing the same number of clicks. Oh, okay. Um, so that you've not read getting things done, but David Ellen. Did you read that book? That, that's what I've taken about batching things, right? No, but he, so he talks about how capture, um, capture, terrifying, organized, are different steps. Okay. And when it comes to capture, you want to minimize the friction to capture. Yeah. So literally, like, if you refuse clicks from thingy to chat to, uh, not to chat chat to X about Y. So, for example, and things, I've got my inbox of stuff. And then I can sort through my inbox. And then I can process stuff. So I'm separating capture from the terrifying, organized. You're 100% right. Like, I could not agree more. And the same with emails. Yeah. I should just do emails at the end of the day. Just once. But instead, every time an email comes up, I just have this need to, like, sort it in. What do you think of the red list? Okay. So, yeah. I know you're right. And you're right. Spark post for thumbnails? Um, you know, I used to. I don't, and yeah, I don't anymore. That was when I used to put text on thumbnails. Yeah. I'm slowly excluding text from thumbnails. Yeah. So you get sign in my sign in your studio. Tabs. What's that? Oh, it's my favorite open stabs. Uh, no. So this is a guitar tab, that. Ah, okay. So you can type into any song you want. Okay. So if we search for a hotline bling, you can find the chords for it. Okay. And so you can be like, can you read this easily? Yeah, probably. That was sketchy. Oh, but you could obviously do this with a good guitar on piano, as well as this. See, partner. Keep liner. Call me on myself. Oh, pimp, pimp, pimp, pimp, pimp. Na na na na na na na na na na na. Call me on myself. Oh, pimp, pimp, pimp, pimp, pimp, pimp. Play not when you need my love. Call me on myself. Hahaha. I don't read that, I love me. I can only be one thing. I don't read that, I don't read that, I don't read that. That can only mean one thing. Why are you sorry? So it's just smashed it. Hey, also make a song to have. It's absolutely safe. Would recommend. But I was great. 10 out of 10. Thank you. Nice one, honey. What were we? Oh, wait. Okay. I think it's having your abs. So she'll film me pro back when we used to film on our phones. Yeah, good old days. I mean, I still film my phone quite a lot. Really? It's just like, like, a lot of like, time-laps and stuff. But like, film a pro, even though I like it, it's just too much friction compared to just using the camera up. It takes so much to set up. And the iPhone is really good anyway. Yeah. So you almost don't need it. Yeah. You only need it if you're like using it as your main, like, filming camera in your room. Yeah. So just exposure. I think at iOS 14 now, you can even set frame rates. So you can set it to like my camera. Yeah, so you can do that in your camera up. Which is very handy because it's a 30-year-old looks. How often do you use blinkers? I guess not very often. I mean, everything has been offloaded recently. But also not that often. Because once I discovered all your books and started listening to all your books, that's like taking over my life as a commute. Where's your own book? I use books. Use books? Yes. Books has all your books. Yeah. Hold. So basically, at first, I needed to install your books. And so I was like, okay, let me download all the books. But then I realized that I don't read more than one book a month. Um, okay. And so I was like, this isn't worth it for me at the moment. But now that I have some things on 1.5C speed, really, justly. Yeah. It might be a bad thing. So yeah, it might be the next thing I get. Oh, mate, you've got to check out my little library. It's like, I've got so many recommendations. So the things that you'll absolutely. African love. So what do we do? We'll just go. Awesome. Okay, so. I'm reading through the Red Market. And so it is a book about the world wide trade of like human body parts and flesh organs, uh, ovaries and things like that. Yeah. Med life crisis made a video on it. Oh, okay. That's right. But if you watch that video, what's a YT count? Um, it shows me like how many YouTube subscribers I have in like a nice way. And that's what I have. Congratulations. Yeah, thanks man. So the only thing I don't like about this is it takes so long to load. Yeah. But like if you click on it and then wait, it will load. And I just like him more than the YouTube studio app. It's like not. Doesn't like look nice. Yeah, and with YouTube studio, so you go recent analytics that kind of in your face. Yeah, I don't want to take it every second. You know, I've seen my frame. It's something I would like to say. Oh, frame is sick. Frame is great when you work on the team. In terms of collaborating on videos and stuff. Forrest, I used to use all the time in first and second year. Yeah, I used to see it in the middle of the game. Oh, for another. Readwise. This is where you store things that you've seen online. Yeah, so readwise is kind of integrates to Kindle. It integrates with InstaPaper and integrates with air, which is my podcast app. And so for example, for every book I've read that I've highlighted, it will show me from make it stick, for example, it will just show me all my highlights. And readwise, the service, what it does is that every day, email you five random highlights from stuff that you've read, watch to listen to that you highlighted, and it also connects to Notion. And so, have you gone equivalent of this for audiobooks? No, it's really hard to take those from audiobooks. There's no good way of doing this. It's really, it retates me all the time. Because reading is so much slower than listening. Yeah. And so, yeah, I'm always looking for a way to capture a segment of audio that I just wanted. But, why is reading so much? Usually reading faster than this. Oh, you don't have 1.5 times speed? Yeah, you don't even have 3x speed. Oh, faster than this, no, for me, no. Like, when I read, I need to think about what information I'm taking in. Okay, when I listen, it's like, a lot quicker. Oh, okay, but I feel like you're like, doubting me, you're like, that's what I can tell you. No, I'm just thinking, like, I feel like, like, reading takes a lot more effort for me. Okay, and so, it takes more time. Okay. Whereas listening, I can do passively while walking around, while looking at other things. Yeah, I think that's the thing with listening. Like, it can be passive. Whereas reading has to be active, you have to kind of actively devote the time to it. And you can do anything else. Yeah, it's like stuck in one place. Okay. I try and keep the apps on my phone to the bare minimum that I need. Yeah, because I feel like I already spend a lot of time on my phone. And especially now with this whole YouTube thing, I spend even more time on my phone. Yeah. So I try and minimize how many opportunities I have to open my phone and check something. Mate, the amount of explicit and you're like songs. What sort of songs do you think? It's all rap. Mate, have a look at my, have a look at my like songs Spotify. See how few of those are explicit. You can judge my, judge my music texts. You only got four and nine. Do you use Apple Music or no? Where do you listen to music? What's Spotify? You listen to the same four and nine songs. Yeah. What? I'd share on tell us with one direction. But I'm, wow. Okay. I've got playlists from each year each year of university like first, so you should see the other places. Okay. Anyway, that brings us to the end of this special edition of Happy Hour. Thank you for watching. You enjoyed, subscribe to him. We did a video. We did two videos on your channel. Those will be linked in the video description under here somewhere. Thanks for watching and see you next time. Bye guys. See you next time.
