# The Best Book I've Ever Read about Making Money
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Gx2vyi4JcV0
This video is an overview of one of the best books I've read that tackles creating a profitable business and getting out of the rat race—The Millionaire Fastlane by MJ DeMarco. 

Get the book here: https://geni.us/o1uBB

🍿WATCH NEXT:
9 Passive Income Ideas: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M5y69v1RbU0&t=617s
How to Invest for Beginners: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gFQNPmLKj1k&t=1418s
The Book that Changed My Financial Life: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Gg8_TA7U0Uw&t=285s
How Much Money I Make as a YouTuber (2021): https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Toz7XEsSH_o&t=370s

00:00 Intro
00:33 Avoid the slow lane
04:10 Work the process
05:04 Build money trees
10:27 Switch from being a consumer to a producer
12:01 Show commitment, don't just show interest
14:46 1. The commandment of need 
15:09 2. The commandment of entry
16:18 3. The commandment of control
17:06 4. The commandment of scale
18:01 5. The commandment of time

💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://go.aliabdaal.com/subscribe-sundaysnippets

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - 
 https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
🎬 YouTube for Beginners - Everything You Need To Know To Start  - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/YouTube-for-Beginners

MY CREATOR COURSES
🎬 Check out my free 7 day email course on how to become a part-time YouTuber: https://aliabdaal.com/part-time-youtuber-crash-course/
🏆 Creatorpreneur - My flagship course for scaling up your creative side-hustle → https://creatorpreneur.academy/course
🗣 Camera Confidence - My self-paced course on how to improve your creativity, career, or communication skills → https://cameraconfidence.aliabdaal.com/

MY FAVOURITE GEAR
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) -https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

🎙 Check out my weekly podcast, Deep Dive - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/ - It's also available on all podcast platforms, including Spotify, Apple Podcasts etc.

MY FAVOURITE TOOLS
🚀 VidIQ - How I optimise my YouTube videos - https://go.aliabdaal.com/vidiq
✍️ Shortform - The BEST summaries of books - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
📚  Readwise - How I remember what I read - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise
🎵  Epidemic Sound - Where I get my music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound

MY KEY LINKS
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com/
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I’m Ali, a YouTuber, podcaster, soon-to-be author and ex-Doctor working in London, UK. I make videos that explore the strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. I also have a weekly podcast called Deep Dive (https://www.youtube.com/channel/UChfo46ZNOV-vtehDc25A1Ug), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://go.aliabdaal.com/subscribe-sundaysnippets).

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, how to become a millionaire, the millionaire fastlane, millionaire fastlane, mj demarco, how to make money, how to get rich, book review, financial freedom, get rich fast, how to be a millionaire, the millionaire fastlane summary, the millionaire fastlane by mj demarco, make money, get rich, how to build wealth, become a millionaire, book summary, personal finance, the millionaire fastlane audiobook, how to become rich, how to make a million dollars, 
**Date:** 2021-10-08

## Transcript
 Alright so in this video I'm going to summarize some of the insights from this book the Millionaire Fastlane. I thought that this was going to be really bad when a friend recommended it to me. And then this friend said no, trust me, ignore the click-baity title the Millionaire Fastlane and read the book because it's genuinely really good. And it is genuinely really good. This is probably the single best book I have ever read on how to build a business that makes money. And so in this episode of Book Club, which is the series where we still and discuss highlights from some of my favorite books, they're going to be breaking down five key lessons from the book. And also the five commandments of building a business that MJD Marker talks about how to get rich quick. Now the first important lesson in the book is that we want to avoid the slow lane. And the point that our friend MJ makes in the book is that get rich quick is like, is often seen as like a scammy thing. Oh, it's a get rich quick scheme. But actually it's not get rich quick. That's a problem. It is get rich easy. Like it is very possible to get rich quick. And that is why we're talking about the Millionaire Fastlane. It's very possible to get rich quick. But it's not at all possible to get rich easy. And so if someone is trying to sell you that it is easy to get rich, that is a scam. And you should avoid it. And one of the interesting things that he talks about in the book is the idea that there are three paths through life. There's path number one, which is the sidewalk. There's path two, the slow lane and path number three, the fast lane. The sidewalk is basically where people who are living paycheck to paycheck live, people who don't have a lot of money. I'm not going to talk about it too much. It's a bit disparaging. It's very like American style of sort of very brash way of describing it that he does like, you know, if you're living on the sidewalk, then you're living paycheck to paycheck and you're like your life is screwed because you believe that like, you know, the government is screwing you over all that kind of stuff. Well, I'm going to talk about that too much. There are a few bits like that in the book where you have to kind of read or listen to it with a little bit, little pinch of salt. But I think the second path through life, the slow lane is interesting because if you follow the slow lane, you can still get rich. And the slow lane is generally, if you're watching this, probably your parents generation stood by the slow lane. The idea of the slow lane is that, you know, you go to school, you get good grades, you get a decent job, you work your way up, the ladder in your job, whatever your job is, you save some percentage of your paycheck, you put that into investments, maybe in the stock market if you're particularly rogue, but probably, you know, you should invest in property and real estate because properties are good investment. And over time, eventually, you will have enough of the nest eggs such that when you retire, then you will be rich and you can enjoy your retirement at the age of 65 when you have osteoarthritis in both of your knees. That is basically the idea of the slow lane. And he talks about how there are three traps that we can fall into, which will end up keeping us on the slow lane. The first trap is that life in the slow lane looks like it's pretty safe. Like, you can think that, okay, once I get this job, then my life is pretty safe and I'm pretty sorted. But if the pandemic has taught us anything, and if, you know, the way the world is at the moment, hey, it's actually not that safe. You actually could lose your job. If you're fine, if you're a doctor or something like that, where you're on life, you'd lose your job. That's still pretty safe. But even so, what he says is that there are a ton of other unexpected events that happen in life. Like, if there's a market crash, like there was in 2008, or if you have kids, or if you get divorced, or if you have an health, if you have a health problem, and you live in a stupid country like America, where that could potentially bankrupt you, there are all of these fairly common unexpected events that can happen in life that make life in the slow lane, not actually as safe and option, as it might have been for a parent's generation. The second trap that slow lane is can fall into is this idea that if we build our intrinsic market value enough, then we will get rich. So, for example, these are the people who think, okay, I've worked my job for two years. Now, I'm going to go and get an MBA and pay, like, however many tens of thousands of dollars to get an MBA, because then once I have that degree, then I will be worth more to my future employer. But the problem with that start of thinking is that it's not really the fast lane approach to building wealth. It is still ultimately trading your time for money. And yes, fine, if you get you that extra degree, if you get the extra qualification, your time will be worth more, a little bit more, maybe even significantly more, but ultimately, you're still just trading your time for money, and that is a very slow, way to approach building wealth. And the third trap that slow lane is falling into is just not even believing it's possible to get rich quick, unless you're super lucky or super talented. But, as MJ says, even if you can't get rich easy, which is not a thing, you can get rich relatively quick. If quick is 10 years, 10 years is a definition of quick, which to be honest is pretty quick, but a lot of us, when we think get rich quick, we think in a few weeks, like that is not a thing. What he's arguing for is a process that will take probably around 10 years to get rich quick, and that is actually quick in his book. And that brings us on to lesson number two, which is to work the process. Now, in the book, he talks a lot about how wealth is not an event. Like getting rich is not this sort of binary thing where one day you're living paycheck to paycheck, and the next day, something you've got millions in the bank. It is a long, withdrawn-out process that takes usually many years to do, but the problem is that the media often reports wealth as being an event, and those are the stories we latch on to. One of the stories he talks about is this guy, a John Darrier's a big off, who founded Glassio, Vitamin Water in 1996, and 11 years later, he sold the company to Coca-Cola for $4.1 billion. And in that 11 year long story, the thing that people remember is the event, but what they forget is the process of 11 years that took so long to get to that point, therefore wealth-building is not an event, it's a process. And it's exactly the same thing with building a creator business, being a building a YouTube channel. Like, you know, it's easy to see creators, and they're overnight successes in all that jazz, but you don't see the five years they spent making videos that no one was watching, to get to the point where they could then have the event of the overnight success. All right, so lesson number three is to build money trees. Now, we've all heard that phrase that money doesn't grow on trees, but what he says in the book is money does actually grow on trees, provided you build a tree that grows money. So what does this mean? But he says in the book that money trees are business systems that survive on their own, they require periodic support and nurturing, but they survive on their own, creating a surrogate for your time for money trade. Basically what we're doing is we're building a business, we're building this money tree, where the amount of wealth we can generate is not directly tied to the amount of time that we're putting into it. This brings us on to the next question, which is, how do we actually build a money tree? And he talks about that there's like four or five different types of money trees that we could potentially build. The first one is that we could build a rental system, and a rental system is basically anything that involves renting out something that you already own. So if you have a bunch of real estate properties and you rent them out, that is a rental system, the problem is it's very hard to get to the point where you have a bunch of properties to rent out, because you're already probably rich at that point. The other way of building a rental system is by licensing, for example, if you're a musician, and you want to license your audio, that other people can use in a way that paying you rent for this thing that you own. Secondly, what you could do is you could build a distribution system. Now, there's basically a system that connects people who want something with the people who are supplying that thing. So, for example, Amazon is a distribution system, it connect buyers with sellers, and Amazon is the middle man, and therefore, if you build the middle man, if you build the distribution system, you can get really, really, really rich. Now, interestingly, one really great distribution system is a company like AppSumo, who are completely coincidentally sponsoring this video. AppSumo is run by my friend Noah Kagan, it's a ridiculously great company, and what they do is that they give you the best deals in software, and their model connect people who want software, people like me and you, probably, if you're watching this, you're interested in software, just as much as I am, with the people that want a cell software that have software that has software that want a cell, and they give you that software in a way that's either free or just like amazingly well priced. Every week, this new deals add to the website, and it's not just software, it's also online courses, it's also education, and so if you want to learn anything in this how to build a business fair, AppSumo probably has it covered, and the whole vibe of AppSumo is that it's very like indie hackers, startupy kind of vibes, like they do have a couple of tools that are suitive enterprises, mostly it's aimed at individuals and small businesses, which is probably the type of business you want to make if you want to get rich quick using the millionaire fast lane, and I'm even recording this to you from the future to tell you all about their black Friday giveaway. So last year on Black Friday, they gave a way a Tesla, which was pretty cool, but this year they're giving away a million dollars worth of stuff, two entrepreneurs, not who buy their product, but who list their own products on the AppSumo marketplace. So if you have a product that you want to sell on the AppSumo marketplace, and you list it somewhere between now and November 17th 2021, then the first 400 people just to list a product will get a thousand dollars of free money from the AppSumo team, and the next 2000 people to list a product are going to get $250 completely for free. You don't even have to make any sales for your product, you would just get that free money in return for just listing your product on the marketplace. That's pretty cool, and then everyone who enters of those 10 people will be lucky dipped to get $10,000, which is also pretty sick. So if you've got any kind of digital product and you want to stick it on AppSumo, you can check out the marketplace to see what things you want to buy, because they're all discounted, but you can also sell your thing on AppSumo, and it's pretty easy, you just submit your product, you go live with it, and then you get paid. So again, if you list your product on AppSumo marketplace up until November 17th 2021, then you can grab your share of the $1 million giveaway fund, and you might be one of 10 people lucky enough to win a church check for $10,000. If that's on the free street, hit the link in the video description, you can check out all the products, and you can potentially sell your own things. So thank you, absolutely, for sponsoring this video. All right, thirdly, when it comes to building a money tree, we have a software system, but it is five o'clock and have a zoom call to attend, so I will be right back. All right, we're back. We've got a slight change to the lighting, but the third type of system that you can make to make this money tree. I'm so glad, I'm so glad that work. All right, I really hope this is going to work in, in the area anyway. The third type of money tree we want to create is a software system. Now, that's pretty standard. You make the software once, and then you can charge people for the software or for the digital product, and then you can make money multiple times because the cost of distribution and the cost of replication is effectively zero. I've made a bunch of software products in my time when I was in med school, I built something called B-Matte and UKat Ninja, which was like a software platform that helped people get into med school by helping them prepare for the med school admissions exams. One of my YouTube friends, Oliro, managed to make $9,000 in a single week by selling icons that he designed, so that's a digital asset. He puts the work into creating it once, and it's sort of like a software system whereby other people end up buying the thing because it is ultimately software. And the fourth system that our friend Emily talks about is my favorite kind, and that is the content money tree, the content system, where basically the ideas you create content. So if you write a book or make a YouTube video or write a blog post or make an online course that you can sell ultimately this is all content. It takes a investment of time and effort to write the book or create the content once, but then you can sell it to multiple people further than online, and similar to the digital stuff, it has a basically zero cost of replication and distribution, assuming it's on the internet, and if it's a book, well, then there are some cost associated with it, but it's still broadly a way of making money that's not tied to your own time. For example, a like two years ago now, a year ago, or something, I made a Skillshare class about how to study for exams, and that class brings in about $10,000 every single month in pure passive income, and I don't do a basically do nothing to promote it by the way. If you have exams to come coming up, check out my Skillshare class. It'll be linked for free in the video description if you want to check it out, but it's amazing how you can do the work to make something once, although in fairness, I was creating study theme content on YouTube for two years before I made that class, so again, it wasn't a get rich quick scheme, it wasn't a get rich easy scheme, but it was like a money tree that built up over time, and has now helped pay the mortgage on my house. So we've talked about the four different types of money tree, but what MJ says in the book, is that, and what's obviously true, is that it's not that easy to build one of these, you don't just like magically have the ability to do that, and one of the ways that you can is lesson number four, which is switch from being a consumer to being a producer. Now, from a young age, society broadly teaches us that we should be consumers, and we should be thinking about what to buy, you know, our parents like, you know, Johnny, what do you want for your birthday? What are you going to buy when you get that? Or, you know, what would you buy if you had a million dollars if you won the lottery? It's all very much based on being a consumer. But as MJ tells us in the book, this consumer mindset is never going to help us to actually build wealth. Instead, we need to think to a producer mindset, and this genuinely changes the way that you approach the world. Like, if you think in the eyes of a consumer and you see like some cool product, I was in Samsung store earlier today, it's fairly close to where I live, it's really cool. I think as a consumer, like bloody hell, there's all these phones and watches and gadgets and fridges and microwaves and all this cool stuff, and the store is really nice, and I want a fancy new sofa, because that's a fancy new sofa. But if you have more of a producer mindset, then you start thinking, you could kind of ignore the fact that there's all this stuff out there you can buy. Instead, you start thinking, oh, this is an interesting, interesting marketing play that they're doing. I wonder how much a cost to put the store together. Oh, I wonder if I could make a video where I've switched from iPhone to Samsung, because there's so many Samsung phones here, so I could make a video where I talk about it and switch and then teach people what it's like to switch from an iPhone to Android and all that kind of jazz. And so the way I'm thinking there is, hopefully, as a producer rather than a consumer. And if you want a practical tip for how this works, like, I think really do the key as to just think about what's going on on the business side of stuff when you are out and about. For example, next time you're in McDonald's and instead of thinking how tasty your fellow average burger is, think, huh, I wonder how it is that McDonald's created a system whereby every single fish burger and every single McDonald's basically tastes the same. How do they do that? That's pretty incredible. And then you can read a book like the E-Mith revisited, which is again one of my favorite business books of all time, that talks about exactly how McDonald's built the sort of franchise system. And lesson number five, show commitment, don't just show interest. And this is a message that MJ talks about throughout the book. Basically, you know, there's a difference between interest and commitment. And if you want to get rich, quick, but not easy. If you want to get rich, quick, you have to do things that other people are not willing to do or are not able to do. And usually that shows commitment rather than just interest. And there's a nice quote from the book where he says that interest works in your business one hour a day, Monday through Friday. Commitment works in your business seven days a week whenever time permits. Now, while I was first growing this YouTube channel in the personal brand and the business and everything, I would spend basically every waking moment where I wasn't at work or at university or in lectures and stuff, thinking and planning videos and planning content and figuring out the business strategy and doing a lot of stuff. And yes, someone might look at that and think, oh my god, toxic productivity, hustle culture and all that jazz. But like, you know, you don't get to a point where you build a successful business or a successful YouTube channel or this you don't get to that point without putting in the hard work. And my point is that the hard work does not have to be suffering. It's hard, but it doesn't have to, it doesn't have to be painful, it can be fun. And I find ways to make it fun and that's like the subject of the book that I'm writing, how to make things fun. But it does take work and it is hard. It's not like an easy process. And I think a lot of the kind of anti productivity, toxic, hustle culture, kind of zealots are, they're sort of campaigning for like an easy chilled out life. And that's totally fine. If you want an easy chilled out life, 100%, I'm not like, I'm not going to argue with you. You do what you want. But what MJ says and what like, you know, these sorts of people are like, like, if you care about building wealth in a short amount of time, you can't take the easy route and have like a chilled out life. You do have to start being committed to the stuff that you're doing rather than just interested in it. And there's so many people I know who've started YouTube channels with business says that I like, oh, you know, I just want to do it for half an hour a day. Okay, that's fine. You can do it for half an hour a day as a hobby. But if you just do it for half an hour a day, you are very unlikely to be successful, which guy, I mean, in fairness, it kind of depends on what your goals are. If you don't want to become millionaire through this business, whatever, that's totally fine. Be chill that about it. But if you do, if you want to follow the millionaire fast-night approach, you have to be committed rather than just interested. Okay, so we've talked about five of the different lessons. And in fact, like, there's tons more, like, this is a very, very dense book. It looks, I actually read this on listen to this on audibles. So I didn't know how dense it was. But it actually, it reads more like a sort of textbook rather than like a storybook, which is kind of nice. It's really, really good, would recommend. I was in link in the video description. But so we talked about five of the key lessons that I learned from this. There's so many more. But I want to talk about his five commandments for building a business now. And his overall point on the book is that if you want to be on the millionaire fast-lane, you have to follow all five of these commandments. You don't have to follow all five. Like, dropping one or two could still make you rich. But it's just so much more likely for you to become a millionaire quickly. I eat under 10 years, which is isn't that quick. But quickly, if you follow all five of these commandments. The first one is the commandment of need. And he says that 90% of businesses fail within the first five years, because they don't satisfy the commandment of need. And the commandment of need is that people actually need to your the thing that you are offering. Like, we have to create a business that provides value or solves people's needs or wants in some way. And if we're not, it's really, really hard to build a business based on something that tries to solve a problem that people don't actually have. Secondly, we have the commandment of entry. And the idea here is that you ideally want to build a business in a zone where the barrier for entry is high rather than low. And the reason you want this is because a high barrier to entry means that it's very difficult for someone else to copy your business. Like, for example, if you were me decided we wanted to start the next Amazon, that's really freaking hard. There is a very high barrier to entry to starting the next Amazon. But if there's a business that looks easy to other people to start and there is a low barrier to entry, like, for example, starting a YouTube channel where the barrier to entry is low or starting a podcast where it's even lower, starting a blog where it's even lower than that or starting a TikTok where it's even lower than that. The lower the barriers to entry, the more competitive the landscape becomes. And actually, one of the nice things I like about YouTube is that in this creative sphere, YouTube is still the thing that has the highest barrier to entry. There is now, like, every year, the bar for production value and quality and all this stuff rises. And so, for a new comment to get into the YouTube sphere, they kind of need to have decent gear and decent equipment and it's like, oh, and this takes us into a whole controversial territory, which I talk a lot about in my course, the part of YouTube Academy. So I'm not going to go into it here, but basically, I like YouTube because it has a higher barrier to entry than starting a TikTok or starting an Instagram page, for example. The third one is the commandment of control and that's the idea that at every step of the process, we want to be in control of the thing that we're trying to sell. And if we don't control things like the price or the way it's managed or the way that's being sold, then it's hard to build a business on that. This is partly why building a business of just a YouTube channel is very scary because it does not fulfill the commandment of control because, ultimately, my business lives and dies by this YouTube channel. That's really scary. That's really bad. I am not fulfilling the commandment of control in this business that I've got around the YouTube channel. And that's why when I make courses like my part-time YouTuber Academy, I try and fulfill the commandment of control by being in control of as much of that process as possible. This is also why MLM multi-level marketing schemes don't work because, like, if you're selling someone else's product, who's also trying to get you to sell someone else's product, you ultimately don't really have the control over that process. And therefore, if stuff goes wrong or stuff is bad, you personally can't really influence it and that's a very scary way to build a business. Commandment number four is the commandment of scale. And that's the idea that we ideally, if you want to grow rich, quick, the idea is you want to build a business that has the potential to scale up. For example, starting a barber shop and cutting people's hair for 10 pounds of pop is not a business that has very much potential to scale, unless you try and build that more and more barber shops and a change of barber shops, but then that costs loads money, whereas a software business or a content business really does have the potential to scale. So ideally, you want to build a business that satisfies the commandment of scale. And there's another thing that he talks about in the book that we haven't talked about in this video, which is the law of affection. Basically, the law is that to make millions, you have to impact millions. And it is pretty simple. Like if you want to make millions of a YouTube channel, you have to be impacting millions of people. If you want to make millions of business, you have to be impacting millions of people, or impacting fewer people, but like with a very large amount of impact. And so the commandment of scale kind of relates to that, you can't get rich quick off of selling lemonade in your local neighborhood. You have to build a business that has the potential at least for scale. And finally, we have the commandment of time that the idea here, as we talked about before, is that you want to build a business where the value of the business is disconnected from your personal time input. Like if you have to show up every single day, nine to five, or whatever many hours to make your money, then that's not really true wealth. And that is actually one of the problems with this YouTube business. As great as the content business in, I have to keep showing up time and time again to record videos like this one. It's kind of fun. I'm having a great time. And I would like to build this sort of business in the future, one where I really don't have to show up at all to continue to do the work. This is why writing a book is great because once you've written the book, it would buy it. Assuming it's marked well and it's seeming it's a good book, of course, or that, or that fun stuff. So that was a very, very long summary of some of the lessons in this enormous, really, really good book, millionaire Fastlane, would recommend. If you're interested in more ideas on how to build, how to make money, how to build passive income, check out this video over here, which is nine passive income ideas. And it talks about how at the time I was making $27,000 a week from these passive income sources. Thank you so much for watching. Do hit the subscribe button if you aren't already and I'll see you in the next video. Bye bye.
