# How I Built 9 Streams of Income By 23
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GY9lNl3EO1I
In this video I'll be going over the 9 streams of income I built between the ages of 13 and 23, along with the various challenges and hurdles I encountered along the way. 

00:00 Intro
00:53 Chapter 1 - Trading time for money
01:05 Freelance web dev
02:02 Tutoring
03:53 Close-up magic
06:04 Chapter 2 - Productised services
06:46 App design
07:47 BMAT Crash Course
09:00 6Med
09:50 Chapter 3 - Digital Products
10:49 Ebooks
11:42 BMAT & UCAT Ninja

Books mentioned:
Millionaire Fastlane - https://geni.us/o1uBB
Take Your Shot - https://geni.us/ggmcCw
Four Hour Work Week - https://geni.us/hM7R

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

PART-TIME YOUTUBER ACADEMY:
🍿 My 6-week live online course - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ptya_aliabdaal
CREATORPRENEUR
💰 My flag-ship course for scaling up your creative side-hustle - https://creatorpreneur.academy/course


YOUTUBE FOR BEGINNERS COURSE
📸 This is for anyone who'd like to start a YouTube channel. You'll learn everything you need to get started as a YouTuber including how to script, shoot, and edit your first video - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/YouTube-for-Beginners



MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
✍️ The best summaries of books (Shortform) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
📚  How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
Deep Dive Podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/
The podcast that delves into the minds of entrepreneurs, creators and other inspiring people to uncover the philosophies, strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. You can find it by searching “Deep Dive with Ali Abdaal” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc).
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali

🎙 Deep Dive podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/
The podcast that delves into the minds of entrepreneurs, creators and other inspiring people to uncover the philosophies, strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. You can find it by searching “Deep Dive” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮  Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I’m Ali, a YouTuber, podcaster, soon-to-be author and ex-Doctor working in London, UK. I make videos that explore the strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, streams of income, how to build passive incom, how to build passive income, passive income 2021, my streams of income, how to make passive income, passive income ideas, passive income, how to make money, passive income ideas 2021, make money online, make passive income, make money online 2021, how to make passive income online, multiple streams of income, how to create passive income, smart passive income, passive income streams, passive income online, 
**Date:** 2021-06-06

## Transcript
 Right, so as you guys know, I'm a huge fan of multiple streams of income. Especially in this last year, a lot of people have noticed that if you're reliant on your job as your only source of income and you lose that job for whatever reason or global pandemic or anything else, then that's quite an unsafe and unsatisfying position to be an overall. And so the idea of building multiple income streams is that if you lose any of them, then you still got other ways of adding money to your life and when you money to survive. And even if you've got a job that's pretty safe, like being a doctor for example, and having multiple streams of income, it gives you the freedom and flexibility to do things like go part-time if that's what you want to do. But chances are you already knew that and you might have seen mine and other people's videos around our current streams of passive income. The problem with those is that when someone's quite a head of you in the journey, it can be very hard to relate to it. And so in this video, I want to take you back to my school and university years, where I first started building up my streams of income from zero. And I'm going to show you the nine different streams of income I had by the age of 23 in three different categories that let's get into it. Now, there's nothing wrong with trading time for money. It's how a lot of jobs work. You put in the hours and you get paid as a result of it. And when I was growing up, I had four different ways that I was trading my own time for money. I was providing services and getting paid for them. The first one I started to do around the age of 13, and that was freelance web development. So I learned how to code by following free tutorials on the internet. At the time, there was a website called W3 schools. Nowadays, there are dozens of hundreds of other sources, better sources to learn how to code for free on the internet. But then, once I was reasonably okay at coding, within a few months of doubling of my own personal projects, I started doing freelance web development on a website called getacoder.com. These days, fiber and upwork and people per hour are the sort of freelance marketplaces, where if you're good at something, you can advertise your services, and then people will hire you to do the thing. And so at what I was in school between the ages of 13 and 17, I did a handful of these coding projects. Some of them were quite long and took absolutely ages, and my hourly rate was probably really, really, really low. But I think in that period, I made about $1,000 in total, which at the time was quite a lot of money for me, because I was a kid. I didn't have any other streams of income, so I was like, oh my god, I'm making money by designing websites with people on the internet. Then we move on to stream number two of income, and that was when I was 14, I got a job as a part-time tutor at this maths and English study centre called Cumon. I was pretty good at maths, not going to lie hashtag flex. And so I asked the instructor, and he was at a certain, I was like, hey Alison, I'm 14 now, so I'm legally allowed to work part-time. Can I get a job? It's like a, you know, a helper at the study centre. And so I got a job, where my salary was initially four pounds per hour, and then after two years I got a pair raised to five pounds an hour, and then when I was 18, I got a pair raised to six pounds an hour. So every week for between two and four hours, I'd be doing this thing. And again, that was a lot of money for me, because I'd be getting like between 20 and 30 pounds a week, and I was like, oh my god, I'm rich. I'm making so much money. This is so good. And that was my first real experience of like actually having a job where I had to turn up and actually had to have proper hours. And it was one of those things like, it was quite fun when stuff was going on. Like, I really enjoyed teaching people when they came to me for maths help, but I didn't enjoy marking work and doing the grunt work that came with a job. And at the time I kind of realized that, hmm, this is the problem with a job, right? Like, some bits of it are going to be fun, but the other bits of it are going to be boring. And often it was just the banter I had with the other tutors who were there that made the job much more fun, but that was stream number two of income. And so with these two examples, like, there's nothing particularly fancy about these streams of income. I had a skill, which I learned on the internet, or I just had in Italy thanks to schooling and stuff, I e-coating and maths. And I sought out jobs where people were literally paying me to do that service for them. This is just how the world of jobs works. And I get so many messages from people being like, hey, how do I build passive income? It's like, you know, it's quite hard to build streams of income. They're a completely passive. And if you don't currently have streams of income starting out with active income, are you trading your time for money? It's a very reasonable starting point, because it makes you build up the skills and it helps you appreciate what it's actually like to work for a paycheck outside of your kind of standard job. And that brings us on to stream number three, which was close up magic. So when I was 17, I decided I wanted to be a magician for various reasons. And then when I got to university in my first three or four years, I was performing close up magic and getting paid for it to do it at balls and parties and dinners and stuff. And that was kind of cool, because I was being paid sometimes between 50 and 150 pounds per hour to like go around tables and go around people at a bowl and like be like, hey guys, do you want to see a magic trick? And again, in the grand scheme of things, this wasn't a lot of money, but it was a decent amount of pocket money back in the day where when it would get to the ball season and be like, oh, I've got a few hundred pounds in the bank that I didn't have before this. And again, it's a sort of thing that literally anyone can learn. Like, there was nothing special about me. I just found free tutorials on YouTube and random PDFs on the internet. I learned how to do like a few tricks. And if you're a professional magician, you actually don't need to learn that many tricks. All you need is like nine things, like three sets of three and you just walk around doing them. And you can get paid for it. And there were a lot of people on you at university who were also vaguely into magic and knew the same tricks as I did. They didn't take that extra step to stop putting themselves out there and start trying to make money from the craft. And this is just a general attitude I have towards life that if you enjoy something for me at least, if I enjoy something, then I will often try and find a way to make money from it. Because when you find a way to monetize your hobbies, then it's kind of cool because you're doing the hobby which is fun. And then you're making money from it, which is also fun. But you're doing the hobby in a way that adds market value that's useful to other people. Like with magicians, a big problem that magicians have is that like if you're learning magic, it's very easy to just sit in front of your camera or your web camera to do some contracts and learn these moves and stuff. But it's really when you go out into the real world and actually affect people that you can start making money from the thing. So I think becoming a sort of semi-professional sort of paid amateur close-up magician really taught me the idea that if you want to make money, you do have to add value to other people. No one actually cares about my magic or they cared about was the experience I was giving them. And I've taken that and applied it to all the other streams of income as well. And there's a great book I'm reading at the moment called The Millionaire Fastlane where he says, uh, to make millions, you have to impact millions. It's called he calls it the law of affection. And I think that's like a pretty nice way of doing it. To make money, you just have to impact people whether it's doing trivial card tricks or doing something a little bit more meaningful than that. No offense to any magicians out there. Chapter two product-times to services. Now the problem with trading time for money is that it's not particularly scalable and if you're working on an hourly basis, you're valying your time on an hourly basis. And if you can get into the point where you're product-tizing your services, IE, you're doing a service, but instead of charging per hour, you're packaging it up and turning it into a little package that you can then sell to people, then it becomes a lot easier to make more money from basically doing the same stuff. And there's an amazing book by my friend Robin White, called Take Your Shot, which is literally all about this thing of like how to go from being someone who earns per hour to becoming the sort of person who earns large amounts of money for product-times to services. And there were three main ways that I did this when I was at university, so between the ages of about 19 and 23. The first one was Apple Design. I had a bit of a web design portfolio at this point and I was, you know, often meeting people who were creating medical technology startups and they would see that my design skills were legit because I was going to hackathons and like showing my services and that kind of stuff and they'd hire me to do kind of Apple Design for them. And some of these people I worked for hourly on an hourly rate, but I tried my best to turn it into a package where instead of me saying that, hey, you know, I'll do this for a certain number of hours and you'll pay me this amount per hour. Instead, I was saying, hey, I will design the first draft of your app and I will give you all the files and you can have two revisions and I will charge you 800 pounds for that. And I was quite surprised when people said yes to that because that wasn't going to take me very long for what I could charge a premium for that. Equally, if someone said they wanted a website built, I would be like, I'd give them a quote for the whole website design package rather than a, hey, this is actually only going to take me about half an hour to set a WordPress theme, therefore I'm going to charge you from a half an hour of my time. Instead, I was thinking about like the value that I'm giving to them, packaging it up and charging for the whole package rather than per hour. So that was number four, screen number five, that again, used as concept of product eye services was a course that I set up when I was 19 years old called the B-MAT crash course. Now, the B-MAT is an exam that's some medical schools in the UK require if you want to apply to medical school. And before I packaged it up as the B-MAT crash course, I was helping people with B-MAT like tutoring one on one for like 20 pounds an hour. But then in the summer of my first year of med school, I had the idea that, hey, why don't I turn this into a product? Why don't I turn it into a product-ized service? And I packaged up everything I knew about how to teach the B-MAT into a one day course, which we called the B-MAT crash course. And I think in our first year, we were charging 69 pounds for the whole day course, which was like really cheap as an hourly rate. But it meant that I could get 30 people in a classroom, because they were signing up for this product. They were signing up for this course. And it was a thing rather than me just being a private tutor, trading my time for money. And the nice thing about product-ized services is that they do let you scale. Often, if you're charging per hour, you can't have 30 people in a class. But if you're charging for a course, you can suddenly have 30 people in a class. And so we were making like 2,000 pounds for a day of work for teaching people. And the teaching was quite fun, and we got really good reviews, and we're making really good money. And so the B-MAT crash course became this thing that me and my friends would run every year. And it was quite nice, because it ended up being a huge like injection of funds into my life when I was at university. And then, streamed number six of income, again, based on product-ized services, is a company called SixMAT that I founded while I was at university. That's still going to this day. And SixMAT was basically a combination of the B-MAT crash course, the UK cat crash course, and our interview crash course, along with like help for personal statements. And basically, everything we could do to help people get into med school. But again, we were never charging by the hour. We were never saying, hey, we're going to charge you x-mount per hour to do private tutoring. Instead, it was all based on creating products, these different courses, that multiple people could sign up for. And that let us do this product-ized service thing at scale. And so, while I was at university every year, I was making around about 40,000 pounds, which is about $50,000, which is more than I was making one of my first two years of actually being a doctor. And I was making that money through med school on the side, while teaching these courses on weekends. And it was pretty sick. And it was all based around the principle of product-ized services. Chapter number three, digital products. So, at this point, I'm like 21 years old, I've got these product-ized services that are making decent amounts of money. But the problem with all this kind of stuff, as I recognized it, you know, at this point, I had these like five streams of income. The problem was that a lot of it was tied to my time, and it was a lot of effort. Like, I was going through med school at Cambridge University, it was supposed to be quite hard. It was quite hard to find us. And on the weekends, I'd be being basically staying up, being like, oh my god, or course manuals. You know, we had these physical books that we would get delivered to the different venues all around the country. Have they been delivered on time? Have Jake and Katherine made it to Manchester safely, and have they checked into their hotels so they can check book, book things, the next day, has all of our conference room bookings gone. There was a lot of logistical headache around running these physical courses. And so, while I was doing that, I knew that the next step up would be digital products. Because the great thing about digital products is that you make it once, and then you can sell it a zillion times, and it doesn't take any more effort to sell a million copies of a digital product, as it does to sell one copy of a digital product. And so, also, magically, you have this idea of scale built into it. And so, stream number seven of income was when I decided that, hey, hang on, we had more students than we could handle wanting to sign up for our courses. And we also had students from all around the world. Like, there were some people in Australia and Singapore who knew people in the UK who'd gone to our courses, this is that they were very good. And they were like, can we have the access to your course materials? And so, I thought, hang on, this is interesting. And so, what I did was that I turned our course manual that I wrote a few years ago for the course itself. I just turned it into an ebook. I just sold it on the website for, like, I think, 29 pounds or something like that. And people would buy it, and I'd send them a PDF, and that was that. And that was a way of like selling a digital product that didn't take any effort other than me manually emiling it to them. And I was just making money, and it really felt like free money at this point. The course is never felt like free money because there was a lot of work to run them. But selling digital products on the internet to people around the world would never met me. That really was like free money. And then we had the culmination of digital products, which was streamed number eight and nine. And that was when I was 21, my brother and I decided that we needed to make an online question bank for medical applicants, for the B-MAT, and for the UK cat, these are two different medical school entrance exams. And we called them B-MAT Ninja, and UK cat Ninja, because the dot Ninja domain name, I had for a while. I was like, oh, this is kind of fun. And so, I coated the back in design. He coated the front end design of these two websites. And the way it was, it was like, it was a bank of questions. And students could sign up and they could subscribe to the question bank for like 29 pounds or whatever. And then they'd have access to all the questions and all of the answers and all that kind of stuff. And then as they'd be doing the question, it would sort of track their progress and it would give them like an experience board to fill out. And so, this was like the dream digital product. This is called in the business SASS, SAAS software as a service. We were basically selling software. We were selling access to this bank of questions. And the software that we had put together from scratch to create this bank of questions. And again, this is a sort of thing that really felt like free money. Like, it was so much work putting these questions back together. Like, I think we did it over the summer of 2015 for the P-MAT Ninja. And it was loads of work. We were basically working all day, every day, for many months to actually put this together. But hey, it was really fun, because coating and stuff is cool and made my brother both enjoy it. And we were like hanging out and working together and we'd be sitting on the dining table together. I'd be doing my back-in stuff, he'd be doing his front-in stuff and he was kind of cute. But then when students started to using it, every time we'd get a sale, again, that felt like free money, because it doesn't take any more effort on our pot to sell a zillion copies or a zillion subscriptions or two B-MAT Ninja compared to selling one or two subscriptions to B-MAT Ninja. And so that really is the power of digital products. And that was an area in which it was very difficult for other people to compete. And there's a principle of building businesses like this one, which is that you kind of want the cost of entry to for someone else to be quite high. Like, it's very easy for a random first year medical student to think, hey, let me run a course. It's not that hard, anyone can do it. It's very difficult for a random medical student to think, you know what, let me create a coded question back completely from scratch. That takes a lot of work, it takes a lot of knowledge, it takes a lot of expertise. And my brother and I taught ourselves this through like years while we were in school. And so we had this unfair advantage of knowing how to code, while I was a medical student as well, so I knew what medical students wanted. And so by the time I was 23, these different streams have income, I think we're making me in the region of 40 to 50,000 pounds a year, which was really, really solid, given that I was still a medical student at the time. If you want to learn more about this streams of income approach, there are three books that I'd recommend. Number one, the four hour work week, number two, the millionaire fast lane, and number three, take your shot by Robin White. Or if you're looking for something else to watch on YouTube, you might like to check out this video here, which is my top 10 tips for entrepreneurs, the stuff I wish I'd known when I started out on this entrepreneurship journey. And you can click here to check out part two of this video where I talk about my next nine streams of income that I built by the age of 26. So thank you so much for watching, do hit the subscribe button if you aren't ready, and I'll see you in the next video. Bye bye.
