# 8 Evidence-Based Tips to Help You Find Love
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=h-mxesCotgs
Thanks to Curiosity Stream for sponsoring this video. Get access to my bonus content on Nebula when you sign up for Curiosity Stream using this link - http://curiositystream.com/ali

One of the biggest predictors of life satisfaction is the quality of our relationships and there are studies which show that it's specifically your romantic relationships which correlate with these health and happiness outcomes. So in this video, I'll be sharing some tips from that I picked up from talking to behavioural scientist Logan Ury who's written the fantastic book How To Not Die Alone. Enjoy x

Check out my interview with Logan here - https://youtu.be/CTLWzzmfOxQ

🎙 Subscribe to podcast, Deep Dive - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://go.aliabdaal.com/subscribe-sundaysnippets

⏱ Timestamps
01:17 Tip #1 - Throw away the checklist
03:03 Tip #2 - Overcome the hesitater mindset
04:47 Tip #3 - Don't fall into the interview trap
06:34 Tip #4 - The peak end rule
07:45 Tip #5 - The second date rule
09:15 Tip #6 - The experiential mindset
13:18 Tip #7 - Basement person vs penthouse person
14:02 Tip #8 - Treat it like an experiment

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - 
 https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

🎬 YouTube for Beginners - Everything You Need To Know To Start  - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/YouTube-for-Beginners

MY CREATOR COURSES
🎬 Part-Time YouTuber Academy - My 6-week live online course on becoming a part-time YouTuber → https://go.aliabdaal.com/parttimeyoutuberacademy
🏆 Creatorpreneur - My flag-ship course for scaling up your creative side-hustle → https://creatorpreneur.academy/course
🗣 Camera Confidence - My self-paced course on how to improve your creativity, career, or communication skills → https://cameraconfidence.aliabdaal.com/

MY FAVOURITE GEAR
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) -https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE TOOLS
🚀 VidIQ - How I optimise my YouTube videos - https://go.aliabdaal.com/vidiq

✍️ Shortform - The BEST summaries of books - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform

📚  Readwise - How I remember what I read - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise

🎵  Epidemic Sound - Where I get my music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound

MY KEY LINKS
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com/
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🎮  Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I’m Ali, a YouTuber, podcaster, soon-to-be author and ex-Doctor working in London, UK. I make videos that explore the strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. I also have a weekly podcast called Deep Dive (https://www.youtube.com/channel/UChfo46ZNOV-vtehDc25A1Ug), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://email.aliabdaal.com/).

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but feel free to email me at (mailto:hi@aliabdaal.com). I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, 
**Date:** 2022-10-17

## Transcript
 Hey friends, welcome back to the channel and to love club with the ongoing series where we're going to be exploring principles, strategies and tools that can help us build, long lasting, and more fulfilling relationships in all areas of life. Now, one of the biggest predictors of our health and happiness in life is the quality of our relationships. And there's a bunch of studies that show that it's really the quality of your single romantic relationship that correlates with all of these positive health and happiness outcomes. But developing these sorts of relationships is not necessarily easy, especially in a world where we've got so much choice and we have seemingly so little time. Now, while ago, I had a great conversation with a behavioral scientist who specializes in the field of dating and relationships, a name is Logan Yuri. She's currently head of behavioral science at Hinge, the dating up, and she's written a fantastic book called How to Not Die Alone, which I first read over a year ago and it completely changed the way that I approached dating and my own love life. Now, one of the things that I really love about Logan's work is that she really kind of fights against this attitude that we a lot of us have by default, which is that love is this special natural thing that should not be analyzed. And one of the things she says throughout her book is that okay, love might be natural, but dating certainly is not. And so in this video, I want to share eight of Logan's top tips from the field of behavioral science that we can apply to our dating lives. These are the ones that I've found particularly helpful when it comes to my dating life, so I hope you'll find them helpful as well. Tip number one is to throw away the checklist. So often people come to me and they say, Logan, I know exactly what I want. I just need your help finding that person. Then they go through this list of, he must be over six feet tall, he must make at least six figures, he must love travel, he must have parents who are not divorced and they go on and on and on with this list. Now, the issue with checklists, which is what Logan talks about in the book, is that we generally make a checklist that optimizes for the wrong things. And generally, when we make the checklist, we are optimizing for a prom date rather than a life partner. Now, the prom date is the one who is like fun and exciting and stuff in the short term, but who ultimately does not properly, probably won't make for a good long-term partner. Whereas the life partner is someone who like stay with you through thick and thin and through the ups and downs of life. What you think you want is not what's actually going to make you happy long-term. And so my husband is a five foot eight red-headed vegan engineer. Do you think that if I made a checklist, those would be all the things on my list? No, that wouldn't have been on my list, but he is brilliant. He is hilarious. He understands me better than I understand myself. We have the most fun together. We see the world in a similar way. I couldn't have made a list to find my husband. And so, take your checklist, take your so-called type, rip it up, be willing to say, I mean, a date different types of people and see what side of me they bring out. So be strict about how you want your partner to make you feel and the life you want and be flexible about how they show up in the world and what qualities they have. And generally when it comes to finding a life partner, we want someone who's loyal, who's kind, who's emotionally stable, who knows how to communicate well. Someone who's got a growth mindset, someone that you can personally grow with, someone that you can make hard decisions with. But these aren't really the sorts of things that we tend to have in our checklist. Tip number two is to overcome the hesitator mindset. In behavioral science, there is this thing called the Intention Action Gap, which is a fancy way of saying that we have things that we want to do, but that we end up not doing. So there's a gap between our Intention and our Action. And this is really common in the field of dating. Like you always hear people say, oh, I'll start dating when I lose X amount of weight or I'll start dating when I have my life more together or I'll start dating when dot dot dot. And there's a bunch of tips that Logan gives in her book, how to not die alone for how to overcome the hesitator mindset if you're one of those people. For example, you could set deadlines if you want, like for example, three weeks from now, I am going to have made my hinge profile and I'm going to have gone on X number of dates. There's often a bunch of prep work that's needed and doing the prep work is often actually easier than going on the dates. So you could, for example, if you're doing the online dating thing, download the dating apps, try and find some decent photos of yourself, ask a friend to take some decent photos of you, all of that kind of stuff you can absolutely do in advance. You can tell other people about your Intention to start dating and that all ultimately helps to reinforce the identity to yourself, which she talks about in the book quite a lot. Like it sounds kind of weird to say, but even if you, for example, stand in front of a mirror and say, I am the sort of person that goes on dates. I am looking for a life partner. It sounds super corny, but apparently there's some evidence from behavioral science that suggests that that changes the way that we think of our own identities. And generally, people who are hesitating, don't have that identity in their mind of I am the sort of person that goes on dates. And so we kind of want to change that. And then another tip is to just start small. Like you're talking to the book about how people are often like over-optimizing when it comes to dating. They're like, yeah, I'm going to go on five dates a week. And because I don't have time to go on five dates a week, there's no point doing it at all. But generally, when you find yourself stuck procrastinating from something, if you just lower the bar, maybe one day to week. Maybe just on a Thursday night, that's going to be my date night. Maybe even one date a month. That's far better than nothing. If you're trying to find this hypothetical and not imaginary life partner. Tip number three, don't fall into the interview trap. I think this one's really good. So I actually read this tip in the book before having the conversation with Logan. And I was reading it around the same time as I was going on the first several dates with my future wife. And on our second date, we went to play Top Golf, which is this thing where you're sort of like 10-pen bowling needs golf. And there was something about doing the experience rather than just sort of sitting across from each one from each other over dinner. That helped us bond a lot more than we would have done over just like a fairly dry and boring meal, for example. The next thing is, what are you actually doing on the date? So many dates are these job interviews where I sit across from you and I say, what did you study and why and how many siblings do you have? And what's your five-year plan? And you know what? Who cares? That doesn't really affect our ability to be in a relationship together. It's dry, it's boring. Coffee dates that feel a job interviews all fade into the same. Why can't we do an activity together? Why can't we meet up in a park and run around and try to pet five dogs? Why can't we go to a street with a lot of dumpling places and create our own dumpling tour and figure out our best one? And the nice thing about this is that even if you don't end up wiping, then at least you've had a bit of a fun experience doing this experience type thing. And it's also good because generally when we're doing something, when our mind is occupied by doing a thing, it sort of helps us let our own guard down. And so if you personally are the sort of person that struggles with anxiety or something when it comes to a date, by doing something while on the date, it helps you not think about it too much. But it also helps the other person that you're dating relax into it and so you get more of an idea of what they're really like. And actually on that note, one of the things I often do when I'm filming videos is I like to have a thing in my hand and just having a thing in my hand. And a cup of tea to sip on helps me feel a lot more comfortable than from the camera. And I think it's that same concept applied to the world of dating to go for experiences rather than job interviews. Tip number four, the peak end rule. Now this is concept in behavioral science called the peak end rule, which is the thing that's been replicated a lot in these psychology studies. And that's basically the idea that when it comes to the memory that we have of an experience, we're way more likely somewhat unsurprisingly to remember the peak bits so they're really intensely positive or negative bits. And also the end of the experience. Now when it comes to being on a date, there's not a lot that we can do about the peak positive negative experiences, but what we can do is try and make sure the ending is pretty solid. And on a high note, there's amazing research from the behavioral economist, Daniel Kahneman, which found that when people are getting colonoscopies, they'd actually rather get a colonoscopy that's slightly longer but ends in a less painful way because we disproportionately remember things based on how they end. So even if you have a mediocre date, you can save it by ending on a high note. You can ask someone for a kiss and give them a great kiss. You can order dessert. You can give them a meaningful compliment. You can show them a surprise mural that they've never seen before. And so really think about how can I end this date in a meaningful and fun and memorable way. Tip number five is the second date rule. Some of the best people I know do not perform well in first dates. They are awkward. They are not comfortable. They are not good at small talk. They are more introverted. This is harder for them. But these are people who would make great long-term partners. And so how can we actually take the pressure off the first date and say, first dates are almost a warm-up round. Do I like the sound of your voice? Am I attracted to you? Do we have something to talk about? And I'm going to assume that we're going to go on the second date, pending that nothing crazy or terrible or unsafe happens on the first date. And that way, if you go in assuming you'll go on the second date, you're giving people more of a shy and it's easier to find those diamond in a rough people who get better over time. Now in the book Logan talks about this idea of the spark versus the slow burn. And a lot of us optimize for feeling the spark on the first date feeling that intense chemistry. And if we don't feel it, then we might think, uh, I don't really know if I like this person. But if you ensure you go on the second date, like that's just a general rule. That unless the first date goes disastrously wrong, you'll always at least offer it to go on a second date with a person, assuming they consent to that. Obviously. And that might just mean that maybe if you go on a second date with someone, where you didn't quite feel the sparks of the chemistry or the fireworks on the first date, but you might actually feel it on the second date. And that's when, you know, that, oh, okay, this is actually kind of interesting, because maybe that God was down, maybe you're both a little bit more comfortable with each other. And so I've applied this role to my life. Anytime I go on a first date, assuming it's not a complete disaster, I'd always be like, hey, do you want to do this again? And then I'll make a proper decision after the second date. Tip number six is the experiential rather than the evaluative mindset. Now, I found this to be super helpful in my life. Like, there are some friends I know who go on dates and who almost treat it as if it's a job interview, where they've got their checklist in the mind and they're like, oh, is this person taking all these boxes? Whereas the friends I know who succeed when it comes to dating have a bit more of an experiential approach of like, I'm just going to see if I vibe with this person. And certainly in the past when I've been on dates feeling a bit evaluative about it. Oh, I wonder what this person like, I'm kind of in my head. I'm not actually fully in the present moment, whereas I'm just focusing on the experiential approach to it that like, how do I feel, how did this person make me feel, or that kind of stuff? It just feels a lot more natural and it feels like I'm just thinking about it less. And I think with with dating it's one of those things where even though there's videos like this and if you've gone to this point, then you clearly care about kind of an evidence-based approach to dating and relationships and stuff. But there's this fine line between thinking about it and planning it and being intentional about it. And then not going so overboard that it sort of takes the joy and the experience out of the thing. And so I find that like keeping that in mind. There's always there's always a middle way, a useful thing to keep in mind. The evaluative mindset is, are you good enough for me? Where did you go to uni? What are your table manners? I'm constantly judging you against this rubric in my head and saying, are you good enough? The experiential mindset is I am going to be in the moment with you. I am going to be looking at cues for how I feel and if I'm having fun and I'm laughing, but I'm not judging you. I think we just do so much better when we are in the moment having fun, letting time pass versus when we are constantly evaluating someone. And even what you said before about having a job description and measuring somebody against this, I feel like as a culture, one of the biggest mistakes that we're making is we're saying, let's take what works at work and let's apply that to dating. And that's a mistake. This is a date. This is not a job interview. If you are showing up with the corporate mindset and a spreadsheet and you're giving me 15 minutes to give your investor pitch, you're going to go in 100 dates and it's not going to work out because that is not what leads to connection. And so yes, it's great that you are killing it at your job. But if you are applying all of what you do at your jobs dating, you're probably not having the connection that you're looking for. Fast forwarding to me in the future, this interview that I did with Logan Yuri is part of DeepDive, which is the weekly podcast that I do where I interview cool people. And that podcast has been going on for a whole year and you can find it in all the different podcast platforms. But actually for a whole year before then, I did a whole other host of interviews with a bunch of entrepreneurs and authors and creators. And that was overlooked out and I did that as live streams on my YouTube channel. Now, the only place that you can find those live streams along with a bunch of other exclusive content is over a nebula, which if you haven't heard by now is a streaming platform that's built by me and a bunch of other creators. And the point of nebula is that it serves as a place where we can upload videos without having to worry about things like the YouTube algorithm. And where I can upload a whole kind of series of two-hour long interviews with people who I admire from all around the world. Without worrying that, you know, the watch time on YouTube means that this isn't going to be a good video. Now, the best way to access nebula is actually by signing up to curiosity stream, who are very kindly sponsoring this video. Curiosity stream is the world's leading documentary streaming subscription platform founded by John Hendrick, the founder of the Discovery Channel. And on curiosity stream, that got thousands of high budget, high quality documentaries from all sorts of topics, science and technology, history, geography, nature that you can choose from. And because curiosity stream love independent creators, they've partnered up with us to offer a bundle deal. So for less than $15 for the whole year, you get one year's access to all these incredible documentaries on curiosity stream, but you also get completely free access to nebula, which includes all of the archives for my deep dive interviews, along with my exclusive workflow series, where I take you through my workflow using an app called Room Research and using notion on how I kind of get these videos together. And you also get exclusive videos from other educational-ish creators that you might be familiar with, like, window of productions and legal eagle and Lindsay Ellis and Thomas Frank, and all of that bundle is for under $15 a year. So if that sounds good, then head over to curiositystream.com for with slash alley. And if you sign up there, you'll get your nebula details email to you. So thank you so much curiosity stream for sponsoring this video. Tip number seven is basement person versus penthouse person. There's an activity called a penthouse in a basement person. You think in your life, not even in a romantic setting, who is my penthouse person? Who when I'm with them, should they bring my energy up? Do I feel creative? Do I feel inspired? This is another solid tip where, like, we've all had that feeling where there are some people that super energize us, and there are some people that when we hang out with them, it completely drains our energy. And I think in the world of dating, speaking about this idea of an experiential mindset, we want to be mindful of the experience of, does hanging out with this person energize me? Do I feel, do I leave the date feeling energized and feeling motivated and stuff? Or does hanging out with this person potentially drain my energy? And generally, you probably don't want to go beyond the second date with someone who drains your energy. And tip number eight is to have the humility to treat it like an experiment. And really, dating is a lot about learning about yourself rather than just learning about the other person. And I think approaching it with this attitude of like, hey, I'm just going to try it out is just a bit of an experiment, helps us to avoid the hesitate to mindset, helps us to avoid overthinking about this potential date that we may or may not be going on. Dating in the modern sense was invented at the end of around 1890. So this is a relatively new concept in terms of the span of human history. And then dating on apps is around a decade old with swiping and all of that being extremely new. And so part of it is just having humility around the fact that a lot of us are just making this up as we go along. This is not something that we know how to do. And thinking about it as an experiment means that you learn something from every failure because it's an ever-really failure because it was learned from it. And to be honest, you're on very unlikely to find a love for your life on the first date. Like, there's a rule, the 37% rule, which I elaborate in the book club video about this, which will be linked over there and down there, which is essentially that we have to do quite a lot of dating usually before we can find that, quote, perfect person. Even if even if we buy into this idea, which is not true that there exists a perfect person out there. Generally, it's about finding someone who, according to Logan anyway, because I'm not an expert on this, finding someone who you feel like you can build that kind of future with and then working together to build that future together. Anyway, thank you so much for watching this video. If you've got into the end, you're going to love the interview with Logan. If you haven't heard it yet, it's on my deep dive podcast. That will be over there. You can also find it on Spotify, Apple Podcast, Google Podcasts, any podcast player of your choice. But that is the video version if you want to check it out. Thank you so much for watching and I'll see you in the next video. Bye.
