# Smart Passive Income + The Third Door - Monthly Favourites #11
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H2_WC2bcKE8
In this video, we talk about (1) The Third Door, an amazing book by Alex Banayan, (2) The Smart Passive Income Podcast by Pat Flynn, (3) an incredible Shiatsu massage electronic device thing, and (4) a blogger I started following recently called Tynan who famously bought an island. Enjoy xx

💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking 

📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

TIMESTAMPS
00:22 - The Third Door - Alex Banayan
03:31 - Smart Passive Income - Pat Flynn
05:17 - Shatsu Massage Device
07:00 - Tynan

MAIN LINKS
1. The Third Door - https://geni.us/thethirddoor
2. Smart Passive Income - https://www.smartpassiveincome.com/podcasts/
3. Shaitsu Back Massager - https://geni.us/backmassager
4. Tynan - http://tynan.com/about

OTHER LINKS
1. Alex Bunayan on The Ground Up Show - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qdSMbUi6Ct8
2. Tribe of Mentors - https://geni.us/TribeOfMentorsTF
3. I Will Teach You To Be Rich - https://geni.us/iwtytbr-book
4. The 4-Hour Work Week - https://geni.us/4hwwali
5. Tynan on Noah Kagan's podcast - https://castro.fm/episode/bOOnsv
6. Tynan on Noah Kagan's podcast Part 2 - https://castro.fm/episode/uEUifo
7. Forever Nomad: The Ultimate Guide to Work Travel (Tynan) - https://geni.us/forevernomad
8. Superhuman Social Skills (Tynan) - https://geni.us/superhumansocialskills

📝My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://paperlike.com/ali
🎶 Where I get my music from (amazing for YouTubers) - http://share.epidemicsound.com/ali

🎬 My online course on video editing - https://skl.sh/32TpEvm
🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal

Who am I:

I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

My most popular videos:

- How I take notes on my iPad Pro in medical school - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=waR3x...
- How to study for exams - Evidence based revision tips - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ukLnP...
- How I ranked 1st at Cambridge University - The Essay Memorisation Framework - https://youtu.be/-46Vyiwat_Y
- My productivity desk setup - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rApxW...



If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭
**Keywords:** monthly favourites, ali abdaal, monthly favorites, third door, alex banayan, tynan, smart passive income, pat flynn, july favourites, july favorites, ali, 
**Date:** 2019-08-06

## Transcript
 Hey guys, welcome back to the channel. In this episode of the monthly favorite series, we're going to be talking about a book, a podcast, a physical product, and a new blog slash author, I've discovered. Let's just get into it. Okay, so the book I want to talk about this month is the third door by Alex Banyan. Before I talk about this, I just want to say a big congratulations to Katarina Stoy-SavLevic, sorry for butchering that pronunciation, who won last month's book, which is Shudog by Phil Knight. So Katarina, I'm going to message you on Instagram and I will ask for your address and then I'll mail you a copy of this book at some point in the next three months when I have a chance to go to the post office. And we're going to be doing the same thing this month. So if you want a copy of this, just leave a comment down below with your Instagram username and I will message you if you are the lucky winner next month. Anyway, let's talk about this book, the third door by Alex Banyan, the wild quest to uncover how the world's most successful people launched their careers. Now this is sort of a self-help book in disguise. It's not really a self-help book, but beginning, you know, I'm a big fan of these like self-improvement, self-development, business typebooks. This sort of is that, but not really. It's it's the story of this college student called Alex who realizes that he doesn't really know what to do with his life. And so he goes on a mission to try and get life advice from the world's most successful people. So he goes off to find, try and find like Bill Gates and Warren Buffett and all these like famous people and ask them what they were doing at his age, like, you know, 18, 19, 20, 21 around that age in order to get to where they are today. And initially, when I heard about this, I think I heard about it on Matt Diavalle's podcast, really good episode with the author Alex that you should definitely listen to up at a link down below. When I first heard about this, I just thought it would be like a compilation of like life advice, kind of like Tim Ferris's tribe of mentors, which is a good book. But actually, this, this is more like a story book. He's telling the story of how he had this idea and all the various steps he took to try and interview the world's most successful people. I just really, really interesting. And I've got like a personal rating system for books. There can be good or really good or really, really, really good. And for a book to get really, really, really good, like the three, reallys. Then it needs to keep me up until 4 o'clock in the morning, the day before I actually have to go to work at 7 o'clock in the morning because it's that good. And the third door definitely hit that bar. I finished it in about two days because I started reading it one night at 11 p.m. stayed up until 3 a.m. that night, kind of getting halfway through it. And then the next day stayed up until 4 a.m. and then I had worked the next day, which is probably a bit, you know, a responsible of me, but, oh well, you know, I just loaded up on coffee from Costa Coffee, shout out to Costa, sadly not sponsored. Oh, by the way, I actually forgot to mention what that why it's called the third door. Life and business, it's just like a nightclub. There are always three ways in. There's the first door, the main entrance when 99% of people wait in line hoping to get in. The second door is the VIP entrance, where the billionaires and celebrities slip through. But what no one tells you is that there is always the third door. It's the entrance where you have to jump out of line, run down the alley, bang on the door a hundred times, crack open the window and sneak through the kitchen. There's always a way in. Whether it's Bill Gates selling his first piece of software, or Steven Spielberg becoming the youngest studio director in Hollywood history, they all took the third door. If you dream of learning under the wings of what class mentors achieving your biggest goals or just transforming yourself into the person you always imagined you could be, the third door gives you the tools you need so you can get what you want. Yeah, loads of interesting, interesting insights from there, it's just a really, really good story in general. Even if we didn't have any life advice, I would still love this because it's just so well written and I actually cried at the end. There's like a really good bit about when he's asking Lady Gaga for life advice. I won't go much more detail into it, but I actually brought tears to my eyes and I was like, this is actually so sick. So yeah, third door Alex Banyan, I'll stop running on about it. Let's move on. Secondly, I want to talk about a podcast that I discovered about a month ago and that is the smart passive income podcast by Pat Flynn. And I've heard of Pat Flynn because he's been fairly prolific in the kind of smart passive income community for the last like 10 years or so. I think I've first discovered him about five years ago, but I never actually looked into his content because it always just sounded a bit scummy, kind of like roomy setties. I will teach you to be rich or Tim Ferriss is the four hour work week. But it's actually really, really good. It's it's a podcast he's been doing it for absolutely ages now. It's there's like 350 episodes or something. And the idea is that you know it's this whole thing about passive income, I.e. creating, you know, books and processes and businesses that mean that you can make money without having to put more time into them. And Pat Flynn is a master of this and he on his podcast he talks about his own experiences of building smart passive income sources, but also he interviews loads of other people who've done similar things. So I've listened to about 25 episodes of this podcast this last month and I've gotten out of the like 20 queueed up. I just went through his whole back catalog and just added whichever one seemed vaguely interesting to my Castro. That's the app that I use for podcasts. And recently I've been listening to a lot of interviews from people who've done self-published books. So books are a great way of making passive income because obviously you put in a ton of effort to research and write the book once. But then, you know, that can then sell multiple copies without you having to put in much extra time effort. And I've been kind of vaguely thinking, oh it would be called to write a book at some point. And so I'm sort of soaking in all this podcast he knowledge about it. And apart from book authors he also interviews like entrepreneurs and other people who have this whole passive income thing going, I just really good to get actionable advice from people who have built this sort of lifestyle of that. I certainly aspire to and that a lot of people who watch this channel, I know probably aspire to as well. So yeah, if you haven't seen it, you should definitely check out the smart passive income podcast by Patlin. Firstly, I want to talk about a physical product that I've been recommending to literally all of my friends. And that is this weird looking she-out suit back that sort of thing that I found randomly on Amazon. And this is just amazing. So it's like, you know, you can see how it is. You're like, you put it put put it on through it and then you turn it on. And it massages you. And it's like the best thing ever. And you can like modulate the force by just pushing more forward. And you can like make it warm you up as well. And it's a great because it's very, very portable. And you can plug it in anywhere or my goodness. And what you can do is you can just position it exactly where all the pain points are on your back or on your neck or whatever. And it can just, it can just massage you. So you can, you know, the other day I was watching some YouTube videos. So I just had had this sitting like this and it's quite distracting really. And just feeling the relaxation and the awesomeness of getting the massage. Oh, hello. Yeah, this is amazing. And I recommend to a friend who bought it immediately on Amazon Prime. The incident I recommended it. And he said that that it's changed his life as well. So I'd highly recommend this. So if you ever get kind of back pain or if you enjoy massages as I do, massages are like my favorite thing. So if anyone ever wants to get me a gift, you know, like a massage, like, you know, voucher type thing is like the best thing ever. But yeah, this is just, this is just incredible. And it just like massages you really nicely. So yeah, 100% would recommend. I'll put an Amazon link in the description below. So if you're into this, if this seems either sort of torture device, you might like them. I would recommend. It comes with like a little car, chargey plug thing as well. I haven't tried using it at the car, but maybe one day if I'm going on a long journey, I'll just, I'll take it into the car with me. But yeah, that was product number three. And finally, I want to talk about an author slash blogger that I recently discovered. And his name is Tyne and T.Y. N.A.N. He doesn't have a surname. He just goes by Tyne and he's written a few books, self-published on Amazon. You can have a look at and he's also got a blog, tyne and dot com. And this guy's quite interesting. He's interesting because for a few reasons. So if anyone's read the game by Neil Strauss, circa 2002, then Tyne is actually one of the pick-a-partists that was kind of featured in the game. So he used to be a pick-a-partist back in the day. That sounds all sleazy and stuff, but, you know, there's a lot of kind of backstory behind it. And the game is actually quite a good story book if you want to want to have a have a look at it. Anyway, he used to be a pick-a-partist back in the day and kind of learned how to talk to girls and stuff. But now, then he kind of left that side of life. And then just went like traveling around the world, running his side business so he made this blogging platform and then this way to find cruise ship deals and stuff. And then you wrote a few books. The interesting thing about him is that A, he's very into this whole traveling thing, which, you know, I've recently become very into as well after listening to Rolf Pots podcast, deviate and reading Rolf Pots book, bag of bonding. So he's into the whole traveling thing. But perhaps more interestingly, he went viral on the internet about six, seven years ago amongst the tech community and stuff because he bought an island with his friends like an island off the coast of Canada. So he and like 10 of his mates, they all pitched in to buy this island, which apparently cost them around about $10,000 each, you know, you know, $100,000 a island or they're about split ten ways, $10,000 each. And he says that this island is the best thing that he's ever bought. And, you know, me and my brother, we have both entertained to these fantasies of, oh, we will be called to buy an island one day. But it's just so interesting, hearing someone who's actually done it, talk about why you should buy an island and why it's like the best thing ever. And he talks about how life on this island and like, you know, he and his mates go to the island very, you know, several times a year and they've cleared all the undergrowth out and they've started building their own houses and they've turned it into this kind of community holiday, who holiday type destination where they can bring their own friends and family. And it's just been something that's added so much value to all of their lives because it's, it's fine, it's interesting, you get to hang out with your mates, it's physical labor, it's all these cool things, or tot up in this very weird thing of buying an island. So yeah, there were a few podcasts that I heard there, he was featured in so I linked some of those down below along with his blog that I started binging. Apart from the island thing, he also has this other interesting philosophy, which is that, what he does is that he finds areas around the world that he enjoys living in. And then what he does is that he gets 10 of his mates together and they buy a house in, like, you know, in the central, in the central of that city. So I think he's got properties in Budapest and Tokyo and Las Vegas. And his, his theory is that it's, it's a lot more fun and it's a lot better to own one tenth of 10 houses around the world than it is to own a single house in one place. And we all have this thing that, you know, we want to get the property ladder and stuff and I suppose it does make sense owning your own home, at least initially based on what the numbers are like. But then in terms of sex second and third and then four thumbs and stuff and investments and things, his whole thing is you might as well just club in with 10 friends and buy a house in Budapest that any of you can go to whenever you want. Like, they don't even put it up for rent on Airbnb or anything because that would then that kind of defeats the purpose. The point is it just, it's just home base that you can have in a city that you really like going to that at a moment's notice you can decide, you know what, I want to go to Budapest for the weekend and the fact that you've got a house there that's, you know, open to you and 10 of your friends. It just makes it so much better. So I think that's a really interesting philosophy to live by. And if you listen to his podcast, he's very, very thoughtful about the things that bring him and his friends personal happiness and him having done the whole thing of like traveling the world and being all successful and trying to be rich and stuff and he's realized actually, you know, as all rich people say that is not about money, it's about, it's about the freedom and it's about spending time with your friends and family and it's about these experiences. He kind of thinks through this very, very clearly in my opinion. And I've started now kind of floating this idea to my friends being like, hey guys, you know, in a few years time, why don't we all just pitch in and get a house in, you know, some cool city that we like and then we can all treat that as a holiday home. But yeah, loads of interesting insights and life lessons and stuff from Titan, so I link all of his stuff down below. And that brings us to the end of another monthly favorite series. Thank you very much for watching. If you liked the video, please give it a thumbs up. If you enjoyed this video and haven't seen other videos in the monthly favorite series, I'll put a link over there somewhere to one of the monthly favorites playlist that you can just kind of browse through. So yeah, thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video. Bye bye.
