# BMAT Section 2 - Everything you need to know | BMAT Tips series
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HGTzYlkT5Ww
My online BMAT video course (75+ videos) = https://courses.aliabdaal.com/bmat-crash-course-online

Hello friends, in this video we talk about Section 2, giving a brief overview of what comes up, chatting a bit about timing, and then going over some tips on how to prepare for it.

Useful Links:

BMAT Ninja  - https://bmat.ninja - Free access to 1,200+ questions including lots of section 2 stuff. We've also got loads of concise notes that you can use to teach yourself the science/maths stuff.

Section 2 Syllabus - https://6med.co.uk/guide/bmat/bmat-section-2-syllabus/

Section 2 Assumed Knowledge Guide - http://www.admissionstestingservice.org/for-test-takers/bmat/preparing-for-bmat/overlay.html
**Keywords:** bmat, section 2, bmat section 2, bmat preparation, bmat ninja, bmat tips, how to prepare for bmat, bmat physics, bmat chemistry, bmat biology, bmat maths, oxbridge medicine, cambridge medicine, oxford medicine, imperial medicine, ucl medicine, 
**Date:** 2017-06-22

## Transcript
 Hello everyone, welcome back to the Beam Out Tip series, where I talk to the camera to give you tips on how to do well in the Beam Out. My name is Ale, I'm a fifth year medical student at Cambridge University, and in this video we're going to be talking about your approach to section two. Now feedback from the last video said that it was a little bit too long, so instead of doing a really long video where we talk about all the section two, we're going to be splitting it up into different bite-sized chunks. So if you like watching YouTube videos of a toilet like I do, you won't have to be in there for very long. So let's dip our toes into the world of section two. I'll start by giving you a brief overview of what section two involves, then we'll talk about timing for a bit, and then I'll talk about how I would prepare for section two if I were taking the Beam Out this year. So let's start with the brief overview. Section two has 27 questions and lasts 30 minutes. This comes up to about one minute per question, and we'll talk more about the time you've just moved. Section two covers an even split of biology, chemistry, physics and maths. With biology being the easiest and maths probably being hardest. The standard of section two is GCSE or O level difficulty, but the problem is that the questions could be taken from any of the exam boards, not just the one that you've done. So back in my day about six, seven years ago now, when I was preparing for the Beam Out, I got loads of CGP revision guides from all the different exam boards and ripped out the pages that were relevant to the Beam Out questions. Thankfully, you don't have to do that because there is now an official section two that seems well it's guide, which you can free the access online, and I'll do another video to talk about how to make the most use of this guide. So that's section two. It's essentially an even split of biology, chemistry, physics and maths. 27 questions, 30 minutes. Let's talk about timing. The timing of section two is actually really tough. You get about one minute per question, and this is generally not enough time. So keeping to time is super, super important. If you're finding that you're spending more than a minute on a question, you should just guess and answer and move on. In fact, if you recognize from the start, the question is going to take longer than a minute. If you just guess and move on anyway without even attempting it. Every year, on our courses, we tell students about the importance of the timing of section two, and how you should ruthlessly guess and skip questions. But every year, we get emails from students saying that they ran out of time and had to leave five questions to learn. I can give you quite a lot of tips for the timing and each of the various different questions, but this video would then get too long. So instead, we're going to split that up into these subjects specific videos, which are coming in the next few days, so do keep a look at those. So that's timing done. Let's talk a little bit now about how to prepare for section two. If I was preparing the section two to take to Beam Out this year, here is how I would do it. Firstly, I would teach myself all of the science that I didn't already know. I would focus especially on physics. If I'm not doing physics at A level, I would not make the big mistake of skipping the physics questions completely just because I'm not doing it as an A level subject. To teach myself the science, I would use the official section two assumed knowledge guide, and I would find a section two syllabus on the internet. There is one conveniently linked in the description of this video, which would tell me which topics a bit historically asked about in Beam Out section two papers. I would prioritize the topics mentioned in the syllabus and depending on how much time I had left until the Beam Out, I might want to teach myself the rest of the stuff in the section two assumed knowledge guide. Having taught myself all of the science I need to know, I would then do lots and lots of practice questions. The easiest way for me to do that would be to go on a website that I made, called Beam Out Ninja, where I would find the past 15 years worth of Beam Out section two papers along with a load of other questions written by Oxbridge Medical students. I would practice loads and loads and loads of those questions, and then when I was confident I'd practice enough questions. I'd want to do the last five or six years worth of actual Beam Out half papers, and I'd want to do those under strict time conditions making sure I was sticking to the 30 minutes on the load of the section two. I would then check my answers, and if I got a lot of questions wrong I might want to look at the solutions again on Beam Out Ninja, or I might ask a teacher or ask a friend to give me some tips about where I went wrong. So that's how I would prepare for section two if I were taking the Beam Out this year, and I would suggest that if you're a bit unsure about section two you might want to follow a similar trajectory. So that concludes today's video. I've tried to keep a brief, but this video is still probably quite long. We talked about the content of section two. We've talked a little bit about the timing, and I've given you some thoughts about how I would prepare for section two. Mostly involving teaching myself the science and need to know, and then doing lots of practice papers. Coming up very soon will be videos on physics, biology, chemistry, and maths, where I'll be giving you specific advice of how to tackle those sections, and some tips you can use to be efficient with your time, which is the most important thing for the next two. So thanks for watching. I hope you enjoyed the video. If you did give it a thumbs up, you might want to subscribe to the channel if you like, and I'll see you in the next one. Bye.
