# A Day in My Life as a YouTuber
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HIlZ-rW7dXA
To help you get started with braincare, go to https://yourheights.com and use code Ali15 at checkout to get your exclusive discount, and start taking care of your brain and body today.

Last month I hosted an event for alumni from our Part Time YouTuber Academy and decided to vlog the whole day, enjoy 😊 

If you enjoyed this video and you want to be part of this community, enrolment for the next cohort of PTYA has actually just opened too, sign up here - https://academy.aliabdaal.com/

🎙 Check out my weekly podcast, Deep Dive - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/ - It's also available on all podcast platforms, including Spotify, Apple Podcasts etc.

💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://go.aliabdaal.com/subscribe-sundaysnippets

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - 
 https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

🎬 YouTube for Beginners - Everything You Need To Know To Start  - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/YouTube-for-Beginners

MY CREATOR COURSES
🎬 Part-Time YouTuber Academy - My 6-week live online course on becoming a part-time YouTuber → https://go.aliabdaal.com/parttimeyoutuberacademy
🏆 Creatorpreneur - My flagship course for scaling up your creative side-hustle → https://creatorpreneur.academy/course
🗣 Camera Confidence - My self-paced course on how to improve your creativity, career, or communication skills → https://cameraconfidence.aliabdaal.com/

MY FAVOURITE GEAR
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) -https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE TOOLS
🚀 VidIQ - How I optimise my YouTube videos - https://go.aliabdaal.com/vidiq

✍️ Shortform - The BEST summaries of books - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform

📚  Readwise - How I remember what I read - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise

🎵  Epidemic Sound - Where I get my music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound

MY KEY LINKS
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com/
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I’m Ali, a YouTuber, podcaster, soon-to-be author and ex-Doctor working in London, UK. I make videos that explore the strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. I also have a weekly podcast called Deep Dive (https://www.youtube.com/channel/UChfo46ZNOV-vtehDc25A1Ug), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://go.aliabdaal.com/subscribe-sundaysnippets).

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, behind the scenes, day in the life, daily vlog, daily vlog channel, ali abdaal productivity, ali abdaal youtube, 
**Date:** 2022-11-01

## Transcript
 Hey friends, welcome back to another day in the life of vlog. Today's an exciting day because we've got an event in London with 100 alumni from my part-time YouTuber Academy, so it's going to be super fun, and I'm going to be giving a talk about how to stay consistent with a side hustle like YouTube, crucially while enjoying the journey along the way. Anyway, the morning starts with a lazy 830am wake-up. I normally wake up at 7am, but I was at a comedy gig last night, and we grabbed a cheeky mackeys drive through on the way home. Anyway, after showering and changing, I make myself a cup of instant heathen coffee, with oat milk, and I sit down for half an hour to do some journaling. I write my morning pages, which if you're not familiar, is three pages of writing absolutely whatever you want, by hand ideally, and it's a great technique for boosting your creativity and reducing your stress apparently. After this, we head into the kitchen where our friend Eric, who's staying with us for a few days, cooks up an absolutely sick tofu scramble. While he's doing all the work, I'm just chilling and videoing various bits of it for this vlog lol, we also had our cousin jajah's aip stay over last night, so he joins the party and we have a pretty cute lazy breakfast. When it gets to 11am, we wrap up our breakfast, wash up, and I head into the studio room to dismantle the vlog setup. Gordon comes over to collect all the gear, and at one pm, after dressing up fancy, we head over to shortage, where we meet up with the rest of the team for our part-time YouTuber Academy event. We do a bunch of heavy lifting to grab supplies from the van, including lights, camera gear, a load of sea stands, and tripods, and some special merch to put into goody bags for all of our students. The boy's Sean Gordon then set up a filming setup in a side room, where the idea is that we'll ask our alumni for testimonials about the course at the end of the event, and barve in the rest of the gang set up the drinks, biscuits, and logistics for the event to run smoothly, while I roam around with a camera being an absolute pest. Not hominy, you. No, you can't. Oh, I love a microphone. Tommy, should we sing a song? No. Okay. Our alumni start arriving from 3pm, so we roam around having a chat with various people, and at 3.30 it's time for my keynote thingy. Right, hey everyone, welcome to the party. Thank you so much for coming to our, I think, third, in real life event that we've had for our part-time YouTuber Academy alumni, so it's great to see you guys here. We will be starting with a little bit of spiel from me, how to do YouTube as a part-time thing while having fun without burning out. That's a plan. If last time, if you were guys were here and you haven't yet given us a testimonial for your incredible experience, of course, of the part-time YouTuber Academy, I would love it if you, if any of a handful of you are down for doing that for me, where, you know, Gordon might ask you, you know, what's the thing you love most about Ali Ali's content? He's really into productivity like he doesn't even waste time ironing his clothes. I kind of love that. I've noticed in these videos and then I saw him today and I thought, oh, he's put a shirt on and then it's like, oh, he's shirt's not ironed. He doesn't waste time, because it's like you're what's the point, you're just going to scrunch it up and put it in the wash. And then the final field of good factor is purpose. How are play people purpose? It feels really good when we feel like the thing that we are doing has a wider purpose that's bigger than us in some kind of way. This is not just woo kind of stuff. There's like loads of evidence behind this. How purpose is a driver of intrinsic motivation. How purpose is related to self-determination theory. We feel so energized. We feel so good when we feel that what we are doing has purpose. And so, when it comes to something like a YouTube channel, this is probably that this one and play or the ones that I use most often personally with YouTube stuff. It's very easy. Like, you know, I've been doing YouTube think of five years now and it just like makes a large amount of money and we have sponsored deadlines and it's kind of stuff. And it's it's too easy to think about the money side of things to be like, I'm doing this video because it's going to make money. It used to be this sweet guy, you know, trying to do good, trying to save lives and now, I mean, look at him. It's just basically walking at the bank and walking back home, but whenever I think in those ways, whenever I think of like the selfish gain that I'm going to get from making a video, making that video no longer feels good. It starts to feel like a chore. But whenever I can be like, no, screw the sponsor money. I don't care. It's going to make money by default. Whatever it's fine. But need to worry about the absence. Don't need to worry about the views. When I stop thinking about the numbers on the screen and start thinking about, will this actually be useful to at least one person somewhere in the world? And telling is this video? At least helpful to at least one person in the world. Suddenly, all my overthinking goes away. Suddenly, I'm not wondering that, oh, why people are going to be annoyed that I'm talking about money. I'm not worried that like, oh, is this video a bit too niche? Like, I don't even know what I'm talking about really. I'm just thinking, no, this will probably be helpful to at least one person. And if I can just think about that one person, coming up to me one day and being, like, hey, I really liked your video on X. Like, that is the thing that makes me feel like, yeah, I want to make this video. I feel good making this video. Will Ali ever become a juncian athlete? No. All right. So, um, and keynote is done. And Q&A. That was super fun. Enjoyed that. Really nice audience to the vibes. Now, um, everyone else is in a little break up rooms where we've got a few prompts on the tables and people are having a good time and getting to know each other. And I'm just recovering from the talk with my little hook zero and calling my grandma. And then I'm going to go back in and do some a mingling and then we have our YouTube quiz. So that's going to be super fun. Yeah. See you in a second. We start off with a picture round where to have to guess who these 10 YouTubers are. Coincidentally, they're the highest earning YouTubers and then a second general knowledge round. After the vibes of the quiz, pizza arrives at 6pm and we spend two hours mixing, mingling, eating and hanging out. I station myself in a corner and people come up to me to ask questions, so I'm loving life because I'm a massive attention seeker. We take a bunch of selfies. I feature in various people as bee reels, whatever the hell that means. And I spew out super hot fire, YouTube and business and life advice, which is my absolute jam. Like we've seen so many people just blow up through YouTube shorts. The more the shorts platform evolves, the more they make it easier to convert a short viewer into a long form viewer. Now it's 8pm and it's time to wrap things up. All right, it's time for the wrapping up of stuff. Stuff is going in over the van. And it's time to head through the back, the back alley. It's cool because all the rest of the people who attended have all gone down to the pub. But we are hot, Alison. Yeah, we're just loading shit up into the zip car. Saying hello to the guy. We load up the van with all the gear. Say our goodbyes to the team and then at 9pm, Angus drives me and him in the van back to my place. We arrive home at 9.30pm where I bid goodbye to Angus. Say hello to my housemate and brother Tamel and my housemate and sister-in-law Lucia. The studio room looks like a total tip, but I'm too tired to fix it right now. We decide to order some more pizza for dinner, well on my way to becoming a gym shark athlete. And so at 10pm it's pizza much time. There's a cheeky calzone, some bruschetta, barata and calomari to round things off. At 11pm it's time to head to bed. I do my usual night time routine of brushing my teeth, washing my face with these cerevae hydrating cleanser, moisturizing with these cerevae PM moisturizer and using my dematico retinoid. Then I put my retainers in and because I forgot to do it this morning, I take my meds at night time instead. I've been taking finasteride every day since 2019 for my hair loss and it's made a big difference. And since 2021 I've been taking heights who are very kindly sponsoring this video. Hites is a brain-care smart supplement. It's basically two capsules that I take each day which contain over 20 high-quality vitamins, minerals and antioxidants to help take care of your brain and body. I take a supplement because according to the research, 99% of us in the western world don't actually get the vitamins and minerals we need from a diet. I certainly don't because my diet is nowhere near the gold standard Mediterranean diet. And I like heights in particular because it's just two pills so I don't need to deal with drinking any green sludge and because the team behind it is very evidence-based. With a formula developed in collaboration with neuroscientists and nutritionists. On their website, they've also got a ton of documentation about the formula they use and links to all of the scientific papers and evidence supporting it. Through being a heights customer for the last 12 months, I've also become friends with the founder of the company, Dan Murray Sutter, who are had on my deep dive podcast last year. I also like the product so much that I became an investor in the company. So if you'd like to try out the smart supplement to take care of your brain and body, you can head over to yourheits.com and if you use the code Ali15 at checkout, you'll get an additional 15% off the already discounted rate of your first quarterly subscription. Anyway, after taking my meds, it's time for bed. I put my jeans away, change into my brand new pajamas and get into bed. As usual, I take my mouth shot to encourage nasal rather than mouth breathing at night, which I've been doing for over a year now, and I read on my Kindle until my eyes start to close. That brings us to the end of another day in the life log. It's been a wholesome day, meeting a bunch of friendly alumni from our part-time YouTuber Academy, and I can't wait for more events like this. If you're interested in potentially signing up for our next cohort of the Academy, you can join the waiting list linked in the video description. Anyway, here is a playlist of more day in the life logs. Have a lovely day, and I hope you'll see you in the next one. Good night.
