# Monthly Favourites #3 - Ali Abdaal
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hly9Ekte8zY
Taking a brief break from revision/study tips videos to bring you this Monthly Favourites video. I was in two minds about including the Psy-Changeling bit about paranormal romance but thought why not. Enjoy xx

- Follow ± DM me on Instagram: https://instagram.com/AliAbdaal
- My weekly email newsletter: https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
- Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
- My website / blog - www.aliabdaal.com

TIMESTAMPS:

01:20 - The Psy-Changeling series, a paranormal romance series of books by Nalini Singh + discussions about romanticism. 

05:24 -  An interesting article about friendships/relationships from ‘Barking Up The Wrong Tree’. 

10:04 - A YouTuber I recently discovered who’s been a big source of inspiration for me - Matt D’Avella

13:26 - Anna Kendrick’s autobiography entitled ‘Scrappy Little Nobody’. Discussions about acting, women’s experiences and celebrity culture. 

18:55 - Wrapping up.

LINKS:

1. The Psy-Changeling Series.

* Book #1 - http://geni.us/psychangeling

2. How to make your relationships awesome

* Article - [This Is How To Easily Make Your Relationships Awesome: 4 Secrets - Barking Up The Wrong Tree](https://www.bakadesuyo.com/2018/03/make-your-relationships-awesome/)

3. Matt D’Avella

* https://www.youtube.com/user/blackboxfilmcompany
* https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=auowsk9OfYU

4. Scrappy Little Nobody by Anna Kendrick

* [Scrappy Little Nobody eBook: Anna Kendrick: Amazon.co.uk: Kindle Store](http://geni.us/scrappylittlenobody)
* [Happy: Why More or Less Everything is Absolutely Fine eBook: Derren Brown: Amazon.co.uk: Kindle Store](http://geni.us/happyDB)

🎬 My online course on video editing - https://skl.sh/32TpEvm
🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal

Who am I:

I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

- Follow ± DM me on Instagram: https://instagram.com/AliAbdaal
- My weekly email newsletter: https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
- Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
- My website / blog - www.aliabdaal.com
**Keywords:** march favourites, march favorites, monthly favorites, monthly favourites, cambridge medicine, ali abdaal, monthly favourites 2018, 
**Date:** 2018-04-16

## Transcript
 Hey guys, welcome back to the channel. If you're new here, my name is Ali. I'm a final year medical student at Cambridge University and this is the third instalment in our monthly series called Monthly Favorites. Where each month I talked to you about my favorite books, podcasts, articles, stuff I've discovered that month that I want to share with you guys. We're taking a little break from the recent spate of study and revision themed videos that have appeared on the channel. So yeah, I can promise you that none of these four things that I'm going to be talking about are going to be anything to do with study or revision. Yeah, that's really intro. As usual, everything I'm going to talk about is going to be timestamped down below in the description. So if something doesn't quite take your fancy or you want to skip ahead, please feel free to do so. Don't feel like you have to spend all however long this video is because you probably have better things to be doing with your life. Such as work. We're not going to talk about work today. Instead, we're going to talk about four things. Number one, we're going to talk about the site changing links series, which is a paranormal romance genre type series of books. Secondly, I want to talk to you about an article that I read recently about like friendship and relationships and kind of my thoughts on that if you're interested. Thirdly, I want to talk to you about a youtuber that I recently discovered called Matt Diivella. He's a minimalistic filmmaker, podcaster, and he's got an amazing YouTube channel that has such sick production value videos and has been a real source of inspiration to me for this channel. And finally, we're going to talk about Anna Kendrick's new autobiography called Scrappy Little Nobody, which I read a few weeks ago and actually really enjoyed. So I just want to talk to you a little bit about that. So paranormal romance is apparently a genre. I discovered this like quite recently. I've been reading these books and obviously I read Twilight back in the day and all that stuff. But I didn't realise that this was an actual thing. And I realised that I absolutely love the paranormal romance genre of books. I'm a sucker for anything romance related generally. But the nice thing about the paranormal stuff is that you get a lot of like a lot more in the way of potential conflict and like magic and I love absolutely love the whole magic thing. And the villains are a bit better because it's a little bit more real in a way when you've got like some evil vampire coming after you rather than in like 50 shades of gray where you've got her psycho, ex-boyfriend, you know, trying to stab her with a knife. That's like a more like in a way unrealistic type of threat that you get. Whereas in paranormal romance you get very realistic threats like vampires and werewolves and stuff. The really nice thing about the side-changing series by Nellini Singh is that each book follows a different character. But it's all part of the wider story. So like in the first book you get introduced to Sasha and Lucas in the second book you get like Faith and Vaughan. It's like each book has like a different character who has the only love story and gets together with someone else. But like they all combine in a way that each book references the previous ones and you kind of get blimpses of the characters that you grew to love in the previous books. And like on the on thinking about it the thing I absolutely love about this particular series is that because each book is its own little love story. Kind of like kind of the whole book is almost focused around them getting together and then when they do get together at the end, it's that that's the end of it and a new book starts and then you get to see another love story from the beginning and kind of like the exciting opening stages. Some people like Alanda Bhutan would argue that this obsession that our society has on the opening stages of love stories and films and books means that we're all hyper romanticized and we all focus too much on the opening stages of a relationship and not enough at all. And what happens later, you know, the pain, the arguments, you know, looking after the kids, what type of glass we want to buy from IKEA or what color the surface is going to be. All of that stuff gets relegated to stuff that we don't hear much about because obviously the only thing we're interested in is the excitement of the initial chase, the initial romance. I kind of agree with him, I think it's sort of bad that society focuses and like all of this media or books or movies focus on the opening stages of a relationship, but to be honest, the opening stages of a relationship are by far the more of the more exciting ones and I think the fact that all of these books focus on the opening stages of the relationship is what makes them so exciting to read. So yeah, I actually started reading these on my elective in 2017 and read about 10 of them while on elective because I just couldn't put them down because they're just so good. Oh yeah, something I completely forgot to mention the plot in a way kind of irrelevant because the fact that it's a love story is the most important thing. But essentially in this world you have three races, you've got the side, the PSY, the psychic people who can like read minds and stuff and have telekinetic powers and stuff. You've got the change links who are like humans that can change into wolves and bears and fish and stuff like that and you've got the humans who are just ordinary humans and this is kind of about the dynamics and the politics of these three different races. So you've got the side who are like the ruling elite who like all like proper educated and speak very classily and all that stuff and they sort of subjugate the rest of the of the races and they think that changing the beneath them and that humans are just a bit pointless because they don't have any special powers. And the interesting thing about the size that because all of their minds are connected in this kind of like hive like structure, it means that in order to stop them from going mad, they've had to erase all emotion and they've become silent with a capital S and that means that no size allowed to experience emotion and they get emotion conditioned out of them at a very young age due to pain and all of this stuff. So when you get particular members of the SY race you are starting to feel some kind of emotions then they have to sort of break away from their race and that's the kind of story of the first two books. It follows some cardinal SY members so like people of the race who have like really really strong powers and how they start experiencing emotions and how they start falling in the oven all of this stuff. But the whole the whole series of 16 books so far is set on this idea of this sort of a war between these three races and then you get some corporation because you know a SY mates with a change laying a changing mate with a human, a human falls in love with a SY and it creates this really nice mesh work of interweaving relationships and alliances and combat and it's really good. You should definitely check it out. Secondly I want to talk about an article that I read on Eric Barker's blog which is called Walking Up The Wrong Truth. That's a name of the blog. It's a really really really good blog. I subscribed to the newsletter and it's one of the few email newsletters that I get that I actually open and read because there's just a lot of value in the writing. He writes articles like semi-clickbait, you semi-clear shade topics but the research behind them is really good. So one of them might be you know five ways to a five scientifically proven methods to increase your happiness or for scientifically proven ways to become closer to your friends or you know that that was your one. Initially I thought it was obviously clickbait but then I started reading stuff and it's really good. The article that I read most recently is about relationships and not like as a romantic relationship. It's just kind of any any sort of relationship and it poses the idea that relationships are essentially an exchange of bids where one party makes a bid for attention to the other party and the other party kind of responds to that bid. It sounds a bit weird but bear with me and you obviously are linked the article here and down below so you can feed it for yourself. You should it's really good and he probably explains it better than I can. Essentially his idea is that when someone makes a comment to you that oh look the weather's nice yeah there are three ways you can you can respond to it. You can either accept the bid. You can be like oh yeah it's a lovely day's and everybody will be like you know comment on that. You can reject it. You can be like really I think the weather's a bit shit today or you can just kind of ignore it all together. So you've got these three ways of responding to a bid except reject or ignore and his his his theory and this is that the the most successful relationships friendships marriages whatever are where the ratio of number of bids to number of accepted bids is the highest. I think he side some studies that show that looked at sort of married couples in like really long successful relationships and in those it was like quite a high ratio in their general conversation of bids to accepted bids like you know one would make a comment about the weather or hell honey look there's a bird outside and like obviously the other one doesn't really care there's a bird outside but you know she responds to any way she's like oh wow that's interesting I wonder if it's a Robin rather than uh because rather than just kind of sitting on a phone and those sorts of relationships were the weather most successful. This this drug accorded me because some of the time especially in relationships with people that I'm very close to like my mum or my grandma I find that they often make these seemingly pointless statements like you know I'd be on my laptop doing some work or you know on my phone reply to YouTube comments and my mum would make some comment about you know some shopping she's brought or like something that wasn't TV and and previously I sort of used to think that that you know it was just a comment just made for the sake of it and I had no need to respond to it because obviously it's my mum and like you know just yeah I'm busy doing some of my laptop it looked like a comment like oh look uh huge grunts on TV maybe doesn't quite warrant a response for me because yeah I can see it's on the TV and it might just grunt but like having having read this and having like seen this the this idea of relationships being an exchange of bids I now try my very best to respond to these a bit more because obviously they're they're the way conversations happen and like I sometimes think that if you know we were chilling in my room with my university friends and one of them would be like oh look who grunts on TV or if he grunts on YouTube or like random comment like that we all would respond to it in like a normal way and I think sometimes relationships with our parents and I was I was talking to a few friends of mine and they kind of agreed relationships with our parents and people that are very close to us we sometimes don't necessarily put in the effort that we would with our friends or people that we want to get to know better because we just kind of assume we just kind of assume this that oh you know obviously obviously I'm just going to grunt at my mum when she says something because she knows that's just what I do even though probably wouldn't do that with my friends but anyway brand-out way of saying this there's article really made me think if you're in that position where you feel like maybe you know your conversations with your parents follow the same formula like a little teenagers do like you know how was it honey how was your day it was all right you know that that sort of that sort of thing or you know what you do at school work you know that's that that's quite common from speaking to my to my friends maybe have read in the article it's it's really interesting if not then it might be completely pointless to you but either way I find it interesting and I've because this because this series is very specifically aimed at and of me talking about stuff that I find interesting I'm trying not to overly worry about you know maybe like whether other people will find it interesting so I'm kind of hoping that you do I'm kind of hoping you've read article you find it interesting enough but if not then I'm personally trying to be like you know what it doesn't matter at least I've shared it and you know at least it's out there and that's kind of how how this creation thing works but yeah that's Eric Barker's article about relationship and I'd highly recommend you check out his blog and subscribe to his newsletter because it's like genuinely pretty good content pretty much every week the third thing I want to talk about is a youtuber called Matt Ivella he is a filmmaker best known for the documentary that was on Netflix called Minimalism I haven't actually seen it I'm going to watch it at some point after exams I'm kind of saving it up as my end of exams treat but he's recently started a youtube channel where he has a podcast where he interviews people I create if people people like youtubers and artists and musicians and stuff and he talks to them about how they got started and it's it's called the ground up show so the idea is you know how you got started how you grew your thing and how you made it big but the reason that I find Matt very very inspirational is because he started with zero he started with zero subscribers on on youtube and that's something that is a big kind of barrier to entry for a lot of people and certainly was for me because I was thinking that obviously obviously the best time to get involved in youtube was in like 2010 back when there was not much people around obviously it's over saturated nowadays this guy Matt he he felt the same things apparently he says in one of his videos but he decided that actually the way he can set himself apart from the crowd he's just about being a really consistent with his uploads and just producing high quality content but secondly by producing it very very well like this guy the filmmaker he's got fancy cameras he's done this for years and years you know he knows how the camera's work and the quality of his videos like the production value is so so so high like it's it's a point where like pretty much everyone has a podcast but he videos all his podcasts from like three different camera angles and they're absolutely beautiful like and post all these like hour and a half long podcast on youtube along with on his actual podcast so you've got the option of listening to it in the car or in the gym or whatever but you also have the option of watching it on youtube and I think the fact that he's done video with this and done it so well it just makes it an absolute pleasure to watch I realized that that's kind of what I would like to go with this channel like filming in such high quality hopefully you know obviously it's it's not necessary or you really need for youtube as a decent is a decent microphone and you can film anything with even on iPhone and I think you know taking the time and effort into you know getting a lighting set up setting up the microphone setting up the loads camera with a decent lens it's you know making sure I get removed the game of throwing exposure from the background making sure all that stuff in the background is sort of clean because I have to move a lot of stuff all of this stuff goes into hopefully making a high production value for these videos and one thing that I really appreciated about his channel was was the high production value and that kind of really inspired me that yeah wow just guy this guy's got such a high production value I can learn a few things from him he's got really good content as well and he just followed this formula of good production value plus good content plus consistency and you know in the last two months his channel has exploded in popularity and it seems to have been an overnight success but obviously as he says in one of his podcasts none of these things are an overnight success obviously he's been working as a filmmaker for the last like ten plus years building up all this experience so now that that he's got an interview tube and putting the work put in the hustle consistently done it now he's getting he's getting results but yeah I just find his channel generally very inspirational it's all about building stuff from the ground up so if you're into this sort of thing maybe not necessarily YouTube just any kind of creative sphere maybe you're like a painter on the side or like an artist or you draw stuff or you write poetry and you want to kind of get it out into the world probably then and you're not really sure you know how to do it then his channel is a source of lot of inspiration the podcasts are really interesting I started listening to them in the car and yeah would highly recommend that if you want to check it out I link his channel down in the description below along with his podcast and finally I want to briefly talk to you about attic Hendrix latest autobiography I say latest I think it's the only autobiography probably as she's like you know in her late 20s early 20s late 20s I don't know and it can Rick the actress he plays I don't even know what a name is in pitch perfect and who did the that cup song that went big a few years ago many years ago and actually so she's written a book and in this book she talks about the kind of a childhood and she talks about moving to LA and becoming an actress and like auditioning for lots of things and eventually she kind of makes it big with with pitch perfect and then she becomes kind of a celebrity and she talks about the challenges of a being being in the acting sphere the whole thing of having to go to hundreds of auditions and kind of starting off really small and then kind of working your way up and then you know eventually if you're really lucky you make you a big break she also talks about the struggles of being a woman in the sphere which I find really eye opening one of the things she says is she makes a point that everyone says she's she's very nice you know if you if you she gets a fan coming up to her then you know the smiles because of brief chat takes photo the fan goes away thinking oh wow you're so nice and she was saying this is like a common thing for celebrities to get like the the more big they are like especially big movie stars the the small of the interaction like even if you have a absolutely tiny interaction with them like if I met Brad Pitt on the streets of about hi you're Brad Pitt you'll be like yeah can I get a foot with you yeah of course no problem he puts his arm around me I'd walk away from that thinking wow Brad Pitt is such a nice guy even though obviously I have no idea he's such a nice guy which is like five second long interaction but Anna Anna Kendrick makes the point that that's especially for women this whole thing of being nice a it's obviously she says you know it's nice for people to say that she's nice but B she says that obviously they don't have anything to base that on other than this minor interaction and see this this label of nice any any kind of situation where you're having to assert yourself in order to fight for fight for your rights or anything like that then you start to lose this label of nice and and for women she says you're always in the book the opposite of nice is bitch and therefore like as soon as you become not nice you fall into this realm of you know she's difficult she's a bit of a bitch and that's sort of thing she also makes a point that in her kind of whole acting career 90% of kind of difficult people or people who have created fast and created kind of all these requirements for them and everything 90% of them have been men but 90% of people who have had the label difficult applied to them have been women so she makes the point that being a man in these situations is a lot you can definitely get away with a lot more as a man in these situations without it reflecting kind of poorly on your own personality your own kind of self whereas if you're a woman and you kind of have the audacity to you know float the book a little bit you become labeled as this you know as a bitch or as difficult and men tend not to get labeled as such you know if a man is assertive he's he's called assertive if a woman is assertive she's called difficult or painted the bum or you know whatever what do you want so that was something interesting interesting about this the the struggles of being a woman in this field and obviously it's something that me as a guy I don't really have much exposure to saying a real talk from women talking about what it's like to be a woman you know I can talk to my friends about it of course but it's it's it's it's it's different hearing it from someone who is a celebrity and who's in a field that we all seem to cover it a lot like everyone wants to you know be famous be a celebrity like a lot of people's dreams is to be an actor a lot of people's dreams is to be a big YouTube of myself included but yeah getting the perspective from a woman and this was was really interesting and finally she gives a really good insight into celebrity celebrity culture in a way and what it's like on the inside being a celebrity I think we all idolized celebrity a lot there have been surveys where you ask kids what they want to be and they you know reply with I want to be famous I just thought it was it was it was it was very eye opening hearing about you know that kind of behind the scenes of what actually what happened to the Oscars and how she struggled to get into a dress and in her shoes and you know she couldn't walk all night and then as soon as she got home she just like kind of clapped on the bed and took a makeup off and she was like oh my god and talking about how like with celebrity culture and with things like the Oscar the Golden Globes and stuff obviously what the media portrays what what we see on TV is very different it's a very kind of wrap-top packaged airbrushed version of reality and kind of what you get behind the scenes there's a lot more struggle a lot more pain a lot more drama and it was it was it's it's interesting getting that perspective because with the exception of Darren Brown's book happy where he talks about what it's like being a celebrity really good about the way I talk about it in another video because I absolutely love that book um with the exception of that I haven't really heard much about you know bit the celebrity's talking about what it's like to be a celebrity and I think it's it's an interesting thing Jack Gleason who plays Joffrey who played Joffrey in Game of Thrones he gave a talk of the Oxford Union a few years ago in which he read out an essay that he wrote about what it's like to be famous and he gave a real a really kind of damning indictment of it but it's the saying that you know being being famous it's not all as cracked up to be but you know I think reading the book it was it was just like quite funny very well written very easy to follow um be it had all these interesting insights about what it's like to be a woman and what it's like to be an actress what it's like to be a celebrity and I found it in broader my perspective I wasn't expecting to enjoy it you know I did I came across it in like one of the airport shops and I was like oh Anna Kendrick's autobiography just maybe kind of cool um but then I decided you know what I'm gonna give it a chance I read some review on the internet that said that actually this is a pretty legit read uh so I thought I'd read it and I'm really glad I did because it's broader my perspective on life generally and yeah if you've got some spare time and you know what mine quite easy reading took me a few hours on plane to to finish it yeah would highly recommend scrappy little nobody by Anna Kendrick okay so that brings us to the end of this video I've talked for a long time we've talked about number one the side changing paranormal romance series of books that I absolutely love that would highly recommend you check out even if you not into that sort of thing number two we talked about Eric Barker's blog barking up the wrong tree and his recent article about relationships and how it's kind of like an exchange of bits between parties um and that's sort of changed the way that I've viewed relationships with my parents and other people that really close to me uh 30 we talked about Matt Diivella who's a youtuber that's uh inspired me a lot with his like high production value really good content really quality stuff and finally we talked about Anna Kendrick's autobiography scrappy little nobody which I'll be linking down in the description below that you can check out for yourself if you like so yeah that's the end of the video thank you very much for watching I hope you enjoyed it uh these monthly favorite videos are always a bit weird because I'm always like oh you know what if what if no one cares that I read this book and I'm gonna talk about it and I don't know but then people say that you know you shouldn't care whether people think and you know there's definitely a lot to be said for that so yeah either way I really hope you did enjoy if you like the video please give it a thumbs up if you haven't subscribed to the channel please consider doing so more vlogs more revision stuff more music stuff coming soon at some point uh and yeah thank you very much for watching I'll see you in the next video good night
