# Reflecting On My Fears - Day in the Life
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HPcIwHwZIhI
Hey friends, welcome back to another day in the life video, this time I'm spending my Saturday introspectively reflecting with Tim Ferriss' fear setting exercise to help me better understand what I want from this YouTube channel and where I want it to go.

Tim Ferriss Fear Setting Exercise: https://tim.blog/2017/05/15/fear-setting/
Speechify - https://speechify.com (coupon code ALI for 15% off) 
@CliffWeitzman + https://www.instagram.com/cliffweitzman/

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

PART-TIME YOUTUBER ACADEMY:
🍿 My 6-week live online course - https://academy.aliabdaal.com

MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
✍️ The best summaries of books (Shortform) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
📚  How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound

🎙 My weekly podcast - https://www.notoverthinking.com
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/friendzone/
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮  Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I’m Ali, a YouTuber, podcaster, soon-to-be author and ex-Doctor working in London, UK. I make videos that explore the strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://email.aliabdaal.com).


GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, vlog, productive, deep dive, podcast, day in the life, day in the life vlog, productivity, vlog 2021, Day In the Life of a Start Up CEO, Day in the Life of a Start Up, London start up, Day in the Life of a CEO, Day in my Life as a CEO, Day In the Life, Ali Abdaal Vlog, Tim Ferriss, Tim Ferriss Fear Setting, Fear Setting, ali abdaal notion, ali abdaal day in the life, productive study vlog, An Introspective Day in The Life, 
**Date:** 2021-12-03

## Transcript
 Hey friends, welcome back to the vlog. It's been a very long time since I've done one of these, but even though nobody, not a single soul was asking for it, I'm going to show you what goes on in a day in my life. It's a Saturday, but because I'm somewhat unemployed, that doesn't really mean anything to me. I wake up at 8am, make my morning cup of instant coffee, and station myself on the MacBook ready for a morning writing session. I start with some journaling using my usual app day one. I check some emails and stuff, and I end up watching a motivational David Goggins video that makes me wonder why I'm being so soft lying on the sofa with a warm blanket and a hot coffee, when I could be running outside in the cold. I decide that suffering isn't ready for me, and I continue to type away. At half past nine, the effects of the coffee starts to kick in, so I take a quick trip to the bathroom to drop the kids off and have a shower and do my skincare routine and take my brain care supplement and put on my favorite fragrance. I tend 13, my lazy morning routine is over, and I pack my bag and grab some fuel for breakfast ready for an Uber trip to the studio. While I'm in the car, I read one of Tim Ferriss's blog posts about saying no to cool things and why he quit angel investing. This is something I've been dabbling in recently, and I need to decide if I'm going to make it a serious part of my life, or completely forget about it, we'll have to see. I get to the studio at 10.50, I drop my bags off, and I head to the communal area. So, welcome to the communal area of the building that we're in. This is where I'm going to station myself for most of the morning, because no one is around, and so I can play whatever music I want, I can make myself a coffee, and just nice, good natural lighting, good vibes in the background, so yeah, I'm going to get started with some writing. Now it's time for my second caffeine hit of the day with some English breakfast tea. I leave the tea to brew for around two minutes before adding the milk, obviously because I'm not a human. While the tea brews, I stand there, thinking to myself, it does anyone actually care about these vlogs. Then I decide that's too big a question for this time of the morning, so I move on with my life. Got the tea. And got the heal. I'm time to do something productive. My time. From 11 a.m onwards, I lounge on the sofa, doing some more stuff. I think about starting some writing, but I want to finish reading the Tim Ferriss blog post first, and that takes me down a rabbit hole of more of his blog posts. I've read most of them already in the past, but there's some solid lessons worth revisiting. Alright, so I have some thoughts about the stuff I've just read on Tim Ferriss's blog. It talks about kind of saying no to things, and he says that when you've achieved any more to come level of professional success, you then move from doing lots of outbound, like actively seeking out opportunities and reaching out to people and things, to now kind of try to back away as much inbound as possible and try to figure out what the right things are to do. Usually the problem is that you're saying yes to too many things, which seem kind of cool. Like seven out of ten opportunities, where you're like, oh, that seems cool. That seems cool. I'll do that. I'll do that. I'll do that. I'll do that. I'll do that video. I'll do that. Investment. Eventually, before you know it, like, you're kind of useful up with other people's agendas and other people's commitments. And you think, well, is that's really what I want to be doing? It's just really the highest value that I can be adding to the business and to the world or whatever impact you want to have. This really resonates with me because I have found myself saying yes to way too many cool things. But if I were to have applied the filter of hell, yeah, or no, which is something that Derek Siddler talks about hell, yeah, or no. If I applied that filter, I probably would have said no to the vast majority of these things that are now in my calendar. And he clearly now within this YouTube channel and within our business as a whole, there are all sorts of cool kind of cool things that we could be doing. And I always try and I'll allow, well, in the past I eat in the last few weeks of months, I've made the mistake of saying yes to too many of them. But now that I'm revisiting this Tim Ferriss stuff, I'm like, damn, I should kind of be saying no to more of this stuff. So I guess I'd be interested to hear if, you know, if you're watching this, you know, do you apply the hell, yeah, or no filter to the things that the opportunities that come your way? Do you feel like you're saying yes to too many things? Do you feel like you're saying yes to not enough things? I certainly feel like I'm saying yes to too many things. But I've been intrigued to see what other people think about this. Anyway, back to the blog. Next, I do a cheeky FaceTime call with my mum before finishing my heal and deciding on a change of scenery and moving over to one of the tables. It's now 1150 and I still feel like I haven't actually done anything substantial today. But that's fine. It's been a lazy morning of reflection so far and I decide to continue the reflections by opening up Apple Notes and writing my thoughts about what I want from my YouTube channel, my business overall, and what I want from life. All right, this is going to be a bit self-indogent, but oh well. I have just been doing a little bit of writing on Apple Notes, my second brain of choice. Trying to figure out, I kind of wait or I want this channel to go, wait or I want a content to go. And I feel like I have one of these check-ins with myself every few weeks. But I think this is the first time in a while where I've actually sat down to think about it without having like, I don't know, a meeting scheduled or something else that I quite have to do. I'm going myself a cringe pass when it comes to this sort of stuff because it's very hard to, it's very hard to sincerely answer the question of like, what do I want, where don't want a business to go? Without signing a little bit cringe-worthy. I think the aim of our business is to help people live their best life through creating inspiring educational content. And really the vibe that I want to give across in the content and for all the things that we do in the business is that we have the vibe of being a guide, not a guru or the other way of thinking about it would be like a fellow traveler along the same path as the audience. I don't want it to sound like I have the answers and I'm telling you the answers. What I want to sound like which is true is that hey, I'm interested in living a happy full-for life trying to live my best life. I think broadly that correlates with four pillars, those pillars are health, wealth, love and happiness. And when in those four pillars, I am keen to explore what other people are said, what other people have written, my own thoughts, other people on how we can kind of live a good life. I want to enjoy the journey, I want to have fun, I want to do work, that I think is interesting, do work that I'm passionate about, the passion is a bit word. Basically, I want to live my life kind of thinking journey before destination. I eat, it's not really about trying to hit some arbitrary goal. It is actually more about enjoying the journey on the way to getting there because the journey is all with all that we have at the end of the day. I do want to be financially, financially free. I think part of living a best life is not having to worry about money too much. I wonder if it's fair to say that I want to get to a point with my job, the thing that I do for work, where if I won the lottery, it would not change very much about the work that I do. And if I won the lottery and it would just significantly change the work that I do, then maybe does that mean that I am kind of maybe I'm doing the wrong thing? I don't know, I don't know that's fair. Is that fair to say? If I won the lottery, if I didn't have to worry about money at all, I would still do stuff like this, but I wouldn't care about the numbers and I wouldn't care about making paid courses because I don't care about paid courses. The only point about paid courses is to fund the business that makes the free content. So anyway, that's that side. I want to not have to worry about too much about making money to support myself and my family. I want to learn cool things, read about interesting topics and document my findings where people can care. I want to write books that help people live their best life. I want to make videos and do podcasts etc that help people live their best life. It's a lot of better repetition here. I think what would be really cool is when people see or read or listen to or watch my stuff. I want them to be inspired to follow their dreams to be more productive or whatever. If that's meaningful to them to be more intentional about the way that's a living. Because again, not because I have the answers, but because like I'm trying to do this myself and explore and document along the way. And if the things that I'm documenting are helping at least one person to maybe think of those ways as well, that seems kind of cool. Then I was kind of writing down a little bit about what my kind of dream world looks like as it relates to kind of the business and the YouTube channel and stuff. In that inner dream world, I wouldn't give a toss at about numbers. I'd upload a video that I think is authentic and would be useful or interesting to at least one person watching it. And I would forget about how many views or likes or comments it's getting. I go on and care about that kind of stuff at all. I'd make content I want to make rather than being confined to topics because I think they'll do well on the numbers front. The business would not rely on the YouTube channel continuing to hit numbers. The business would be a lifestyle business. We're not trying to be huge. We're just trying to be sufficiently profitable while having fun and helping people along the way. And I think in an ideal world like I would want everyone I work with to be in person, I think. At the moment we have a bunch of kind of remote people and not saying one of five is remote people because they're remote. But I think overall like from now on the highest we make in the team and the people I want to work with, I want that to be in person because I get a lot of energy out of in person interaction and I lose a lot of energy on Zoom interaction broadly. Yeah, we hang out as a team and do brainstorming and collaborative stuff. The team would enjoy their work and get on with their colleagues and they'd feel like we're making a difference. But they would appreciate that this is just a job at the end of the day. We don't want the business to take over someone's life to the point but they're not living their own best life. I think it is worth thinking about this sometimes. And I did this occasionally where I think about like if I could design my life however I wanted, what would that look like? And usually it's not absurd things like I'd live, I'd have a yacht and I'd live in, I don't know, Monica or whatever. It's usually mostly things like, you know, my calendar would be within my control. I wouldn't have meetings if I didn't think they were useful. I wouldn't feel like I have to make content because it's going to do well on the numbers. I wouldn't feel depressed if a video comes out and it doesn't perform well. I wouldn't feel bad if there are some comments on the video saying, oh, this is not very good content. As long as we're continuing to get comments from people being like, oh, this is actually really helpful and this helped me in my life in in in these different ways. And I think I'd like our content to be the sort where, yeah, if if something would help at least one person, then then we'd put it out. Whereas I think like as we chase the YouTube hands to wheel, you know, trying to kind of appease the algorithm, trying to get more and more numbers trying to grow. It's very easy to then go down the, I don't know, click bait route, go down the route of kind of, oh, this is a topic that I think would do well. Let's just do another video, 10 productivity hacks. Even though a video about 10 productivity hacks isn't necessarily the video that I want to be making, but if I know the other way, the video will do well, then it can sort of encourage me to make the thing. So that's stuff, something I'm trying to get better at doing, where it's like making videos that feel authentic and interesting to me, that I think would be helpful to at least one person rather than worrying about the numbers very much at all. So, it doesn't matter if it feels like this. I'm going to keep on the kind of journaling about this because I think it's useful. And yeah, it's nice, it's nice to have the space. So, that's my ramble. Back to the book. After a bit more typing and scrolling, I decide to continue to overshare while we're on a roll. As I've been thinking about what I want from life over the last kind of half an hour. I think it is basically the numbers. Whether it's views or revenue or profit or like whatever, subscribe account, follow a growth, etc. Carrying about the numbers is the thing that adds like stress slash anxiety to my life. So, I write down in this note document. What if I genuinely stop caring rather numbers? Like genuinely, like what if I actually completely stopped caring rather numbers? I'll be very liberating. And then I remember that Tim Ferriss has a fear of setting exercise. And I've never really done this series before, but I use Google's Tim Ferriss fear setting exercise, and I found this blog post here. This blog post. Fear setting, the most valuable exercise I did every month. And then there's this story of this lawyer who did this adventure thing. For nearly five years, he faces a long plot with the same dread. Do I have to do this from the 40 to 45 years? He once left under his desk at the office of repunishing a half-done project. I need to wake up and continue on at the next morning. Strike number three, candidate before he left for his prison invocation. We only need these promises to ourselves and hands had done it before as well, but things were now somehow different. He was different. He'd realised something while asking and slow circles towards the earth. Risks weren't that scary once he took them. His colleagues told him what he expected to hear. He was throwing it all away. He was an attorney on his way to the top. What the hell did he want? I found myself like as I was reading this seminar and rereading it now. I'm just sort of almost tearing up at this message that it's not giving up to put your current path on indefinite pause. And this feels weird. Like, why do I feel kind of borderline emotional about this? I don't get emotional about most things. I think it's down to the numbers. It's got to be down to the numbers. Carrying about numbers is such now an intrinsic part of my psyche that the thought of like genuinely seriously not caring about. But because it's easy enough to sort of talk a good game and be like, oh, I don't care about the numbers. I just want to make content about it. I just want to kind of live my best life and do my own thing and not really care about what they think about it. It looks like. But then it's different to like actually live that philosophy. The reason I do go to Tim Ferriss is because I had seen this attempt to look where I think later over here. He talks about like defining fear, conquering fear equals defining fear. And I'm going to do the exercise this thing about no caring about the numbers. Like do this fear setting model of like, what would it actually look like? If I didn't care about the numbers, what is like the worst case scenario? And how can I mitigate against that worst case scenario? And this is worst case scenario, even all that path. And the reason I like Tim Ferriss says this exercise is so powerful is because a lot of the fears that we have. I don't think it's in this blog post. But you know, there's that quote of like, I think it's from Mark Twain, which is, I have known a great many problems in life and very few of them actually happened. And there's another one, we suffer more in imagination than in reality. And I think if I think about like, all of the things I don't like about this business that I mean, like, you know, there are a bunch of really good parts that don't get me wrong. Follow along great for that, et cetera, et cetera. But the bits that I don't like are the ones in which I'm chasing numbers. And I just never really thought of what would it actually look like if I stopped doing that. So we're going to do this fear setting exercise. And we'll see how it goes. Right. And do not edit aim for volumes, spend a few minutes on each answer. Okay. Number one, define your nightmare. The absolute worst case that could happen if you did what you're considering. What doubts, fears and what it's pop up is you consider the big changes you can only to make. Invisit them in pain sick and detail. What if you end up your life? What will be the permanent impact of anyone's scale of once a 10? Are these things really permanent? How likely do things that they would actually happen? Uh, okay, I'm actually going to do this. Like screw the video I wanted to film today. This is more valuable. Um, so, back to the long. At this point it's 1250pm. So I order myself a cheeky German Donnerke Bab, which arrives pretty quickly. After demolishing the kabab box, I get started on the fear setting exercise. I'm answering Tim's questions and really trying to take it seriously to figure out what I'm actually worried about with these issues. And what the worst case scenarios are. I find that pretty quickly that all of the worst case scenarios are pretty unlikely. And even if everything were to decline in the business were to die, that's not really the end of the world. And I can always just get a real job if I need to. And to be honest, it should be pretty easy for everyone else on the team to find other jobs too. And I'd obviously help them out with that. So basically, the worst case is still not too bad. I ultimately decide on a few action points. That moving forward, I don't want the channel to be beholden to a particular upload schedule. And instead, we publish a video when it's ready. And when we think it's good, rather than when a sponsor is asking us to. We put out personal videos like this one on the main channel initially. And if it's really, really hurting the stats, then we just move the sorts of videos over to the second channel. And then when it comes to proper in-depth educational videos for the main channel, we don't only upload stuff that we think is genuinely really good and valuable. But at the same time, we wouldn't care too much about the numbers. Moving forwards, we define excellence internally, rather than thinking that it's defined by views or stats externally. Now, all this feels like quite liberating stuff. Having spent the last like out of plus, really going deep in my own psyche and kind of writing it down. It all feels very liberating. And it's kind of nice because maybe it's kind of obvious, but it just wasn't quite obvious to me that. And in some of the issues that have had with the channel, like putting out content that I'm not 100% proud of, can broadly be traced back to the fact that I'm still trying to hit this one little sort of two videos a week uploads schedule. And the two video a week uploads schedule, there's fairly arbitrary. I kind of decided it randomly. About a year ago, yep, two videos a week. Cool, let's do that. And there's really no need for it. Like, I don't think anyone is crying out for more content. And I would rather, in a dream world, be making fewer videos that I'm actually proud of, rather than feeling like I have to churn content out and scrape the bottom of the barrel for ideas, just to hit this two week, two videos a week uploads schedule. And then we're thinking, okay, what if we drop down to one video a week? But I think even even that is problematic because I think in the early days of starting a YouTube channel, yes, it makes sense to stick to a schedule and stick to consistency and stuff. When you're kind of getting into the swing of learning, I learned how to make videos. But now that I know how to make videos and we have a team now how to make decent videos, even sending ourselves a schedule of one video a week, I eat because it's a sponsored video. It's bad because they're all going to be weeks where we don't have videos that are quite ready. And if we publish a video that's not quite ready, that we don't feel proud of, then they just doesn't feel good. Maybe it does well. Maybe it does well for the sponsor. Maybe it makes sponsorship money. But it doesn't feel good. And given that, you know, I've been asking myself what I want from this business at the end of the day. And I can do what I want. I probably have to keep reminding myself of. I can optimize for the things that feel good. I eat publishing only when I feel a video is truly excellent. Or if it's like, I don't know, vlog like this one is doing it anyway because I think vlogs in this sort of community content is very different to like a main proper educational time video. And if I'm sitting down talking to the camera doing an educational time video, I want it to be really freaking good before I publish it. So yeah, I'm going to chat to agency standard for very nice and say, hey, can we hair down the sponsored videos schedule? Then while I'm in the process of finding myself, my phone runs out of battery. So I stick it on charge and I spend some more time replying to Twitter replies. And then watching some impact theory episodes with the remit Sethi where he talks about money. Not quite sure how I got on this episode, but it was in my suggested feed and I started watching it and it was some really good stuff. Then from 3pm onwards, I decided to work on a video about the book How to Not Die Alone, which I read a few months ago and genuinely changed the way I approached my love life. At 4pm, I get into a taxi via free now because Uber didn't have any cause available and head over to Follum where my friend Cliff has kindly invited me for a gym session. I say hello and get a tour of their ridiculously amazing living and working setup. My name is Cliff Weissmann and I'm the CEO of a company called Smeachify and Ali and I became what I call pandemic friends. We've met during one of your deep dives. It was, yeah. And long conversation. Yeah, have a long conversation from there. So can you give us a tour of the place? This is a first time a person. It was a lot taller than you actually think. Sure. So this is my house in London. We're living here for the next three months. As a team, we flip location every three to six months. And so in the beginning of the year, we were 18 people working on a speech about five. We're now 76. So we've got engineers that I work with us in 15 different countries. And so when we first met, we were living in LA. We lived for a little bit in SF, then we just finished off Florida and we're not here for a nice little bit. Amazing. And so we've got a really nice open floor plan. We've got about 70 people living in the last year's plan for the end of the second. Then we head over to the gym and I can't take my jaw off the floor. My god. So this is a dream. You have the gym in the house. In the house. It's like 15 seconds to go tomorrow. I actually love it. It's amazing. What the actual hell? How is that so cool? This is insane. And then there's also a really exciting experience. After chatting for a bit, we do a cheeky workout session with a bench press and overhead press, while discussing our two different businesses and business models. And where I go over my woes with trying to figure out what to do with my life role. Cliffs company is pretty sick. And I mean a bunch of his co-workers who will work at speechify, speechify is a pretty cool product. I'll link it down in the video description if you want to check it out. Then at 7pm, we hop into a taxi with the rest of the speechify gang to head over to the West End to watch the Prince of Egypt musical. The musical is pretty fantastic. And afterwards, we grab a bite to eat from Chipotle. And then everyone comes over to my place where we spend a few hours chatting and jamming to some absolute bangers. I leave you with some incredible scenes from Hamilton from the crew. Thank you so much for watching the vlog. If you've got on this far, you're an absolute legend. And have a lovely day. Goodbye. I'm not through the way, but I'm not through the way, but I'm not through the way, but I'm not shut. And you're just like my conscientious journey, I'm hungry, and I'm not through the way, but shut.
