# Relationships, Annoying Habits and More - Q&A with my Housemate
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hRx1ShvWWeI
In this video my housemate Sheen and I are going to be answering some of your guys' spicy questions. 

Check out Sheen here: http://instagram.com/sheengurrib
Sheen's podcast: https://anchor.fm/sheengurrib

00:00 Intro
00:44 Are you sure you both aren’t dating?
00:58 Are you related?
01:04 How are you so close when she’s your housemaid?
01:25 It’s haram to have contact with women
01:39 Does Ali’s obnoxious typing annoy you?
02:52 Does he snore?
03:07 Who’s messier?
03:30 Does it annoy you to have to stay quiet while Ali records?
04:04 Does he tell you to become a productivity guru?
04:42 Is Ali interesting outside of being productive?
05:45 Have you ever spat in Ali’s food?
06:34 The weirdest habit you have?
07:30 Who’s the better housemate—Sheen or Molly?
08:00 The sweetest thing Ali did for you?
08:12 How do you avoid being sexual with each other?
08:30 Has living with Ali taught you anything?
08:39 What’s your favorite quality about Sheen?
09:12 What do you think about Sheen’s podcast?
10:56 If you could change one of his habits, what would it be?
11:28 Do you ever find yourselves in competition with one another?
11:39 Who has influenced the other the most?
12:33 What change have you noticed after moving in with Ali?
13:53 What’s the reason why Ali can’t get a girlfriend?
14:22 How much money to kiss?
14:37 Is he more vain than you?
15:07 How many times a day does he look in the mirror?
15:28 Do you think Ali should go back to being a doctor?
15:39 What’s a very funny thing about him we don’t know?
16:08 Would you take a bullet for Sheen?
16:28 Something you two bond over other than food and shows?
16:58 How does Ali compare to his online persona?
17:23 Do you experience sexual tension at all?
17:32 Is she friends with Molly?
17:41 What’s Sheen’s favorite coping mechanism?
18:06 Top tips for writing my PhD thesis please?
18:52 Sheen, could you hook me up with Ali?
18:57 Is she helping you in your wife quest?
19:03 Does Sheen have a boyfriend?
19:19 Sheen start YouTube please
19:38 Would you be as successful now if you were raised in a poor family/country?
20:13 Are you a feminist?
20:33 What are you going to miss the most about each other when Sheen moves out?

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

PART-TIME YOUTUBER ACADEMY:
🍿 My 6-week live online course - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ptya_aliabdaal

MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
✍️ The best summaries of books (Shortform) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
📚  How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali
What I Use For Analytics - https://go.aliabdaal.com/tubebuddy

🎙 My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮  Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, q&a, ali abdaal sheen gurrib, sheen gurrib, dream, girl, podcast, sheen phd, ali abdaal dating, ali abdaal wife, ali abdaal girlfriend, ali abdaal date, ali abdaal marriage, ali abdaal vlog, ali abdaal roommate, doctor q&a, ali abdaal assumptions, who is ali abdaal, ali abdaal personal life, ali abdaal personal q&a, ali abdaal molly, personal questions, personal questions in english, ali abdaal youtube, 
**Date:** 2021-03-21

## Transcript
 By the way, you have been looking at the lens and not the screen right? Yes, the whole time. Thank you. I got for that. Have you ever spat in Ali's food when he's being annoying? Not in his food, in his coffee. What do you think is the reason why Ali can't get a girlfriend? Can I please? Please, the fifth. All right, I'm going to say, here. Hey friends, welcome back to the channel. In this very exciting video, my housemate, Sheen and I are going to be answering a lot of the juicy and interesting and productive questions that you guys have sent in via Instagram. Between the two of us on our Instagram accounts, we had literally thousands of messages. I think you heard a few dozen that I had several thousand. And of those, about 95% of them were based around our relationships status and around whether we were dating. So just putting it out there, you know, question number one, Sheen is looking like a meal. Are you sure you both ain't dating? Are we dating? We are very sure we're not dating. Well, that answers that, doesn't it? Yes. Now Sarah says, are you guys related? Everybody is related, right? Okay, Boomi Gupta O4 says, how are you two so close when she's your housemate? No offense. Why'd you tell people on your housemate? I don't. Where does this come from? I think just your pronunciation of housemate. I think when I say flatmate or housemate, some people think it's housemate, as if Sheen does all the cleaning and cooking around here. They might not be too far off from it's me, but who cares, I suppose. Alice Haram's have any kind of contact with a woman, except your wife and relative. Okay. Well, we address this, we are related to everyone's relationship in some way. We have a long category about what it's like living together. So five YK asks, does Alice obnoxious typing on the mechanical keyboard bother you? Which keyboard? There are many of them. You call you loud? Yes, it does bother me. I really like the apple one, can we go back to that one? It's very quiet compared to the others. I've been woken up several times in the morning with the angry typing. Is it you being angry? Is it just loud? Look, hang on. I see. See, you know, I consider myself a man of culture, right? Which means I always have to try out different keyboards. This is the apple magic keyboard. It's pretty good to make it. It's not bad, but then this is the IQ Unix LAT that I'm trying out. This is such a nice keyboard. This is not the loudest one you have. And the other one I've been trying recently is the keycron V2 I think. Let's try this one. There we go. No, but this is you typing very quietly. This is not high-tech. This is me typing quietly. Yes. That's how you type. And that wakes you up. Yes. Oh, I'm sorry. I'm not sorry. I know you're not. This is the price, the price of fame, the price of celebrity. Sure. Zee Emani asks does he snore? Not anymore, because he typed his mouth shut now. Yeah. Wait, I swear I wasn't snoring before that either. You were. This is something that Molly never complained about. Oscar again. Okay, fine. Okay, Priyanka Sunil says who's Messier? I will ask Ali this question. Who's Messier? Sheen is very messy. Is she now? Yeah. Is she? Look, it's not my fault that I have all this camera equipment lying around everywhere. And that is the only reason why the living room is always a bit of a tip. And that also explains why you're close always on the floor. Okay. Layla Sheen. Sheen does it ever and all you're having to stay quiet while Ali records, Priyanka Sunil may be a lot. It doesn't annoy me, I'm used to it now. I used to watch TV on silence, but now people have told me that I can use this blue to air pods, which I didn't know. So now I do that. So I'm not really living in silence anymore, which is great. Yeah, because she used to watch TV on mute with subtitles. Even like comedy shows and stuff. Yes. And I just didn't realise for so long. He did it. And then you mentioned I was like, why not just use headphones? And now you use headphones. So it's great. My life has changed. Milan Plague. Does he tell you also to become a productivity guru? He does it. I don't think so. He does. He does sometimes tell me, why are you wasting time watching TV? But he doesn't care. Hey, for the record, I don't think watching TV is a waste of time. Okay. I think relaxation and downtime is an important part of living a healthy, mindful life. Okay. Does that sound right? I'm surprised. Okay, let's treat facing that. Just last night you were, why are you being a waste man? Go to bed. You have worked for it. Yeah, I was encouraging you to get a healthy night sleep. What were you doing there? I was playing World of Warcraft. Oh, great. But that's, you know, we'll talk about that some other time. Right. Winnie X Booner is only interesting outside of being super productive and what interesting things do you guys do together? Um, first part of the question is, are really interesting outside of being super productive? Yes, I suppose. What makes me interesting, Shin? I was just thinking, what makes you interesting? It's interesting about me. He is always learning something new. I was telling you this the other day, if it's not magic, it's singing, if it's not singing, it's guitar, if it's not guitar, it's piano. Now, it's freestyle rapping. So he's always learning something new, which I think is quite interesting. What interesting things do we do together? We've recently started watching The Wire. How is that interesting? It's actually quite stressful. We, um, Shin is helping me with ideas for my book. Like, often, we've got like a whiteboard behind the camera right now. And it'd be like, if we like 10 o'clock at night, then I've just got enough of a call with like, one of the people helping me with a book. And I'm like, right, Shin, I, you know, I have this like, both of energy where I start scrolling stuff on the whiteboard and she feeds me ideas. Yeah, so that's nice. That's been cool. That's been cool. Oh, question for a, from Elizabeth. Have you ever spat in at least food when he's being annoying? No, the record I'm never annoying. Not in his food, in his coffee. Because the foam, it mixes very well, so he doesn't know. Well, okay, what do I do this annoying? We don't have that much time. We've, we've got all the time in the world. We can literally put the answer to this question, just on the second channel as it's as a standalone video. Wow. Look, I, I, I, I'm all about personal development here. Like, what do I do that's actually annoying? Do you not know? No. Really? I, I have no idea. Sometimes when I try to talk to him, he doesn't hear me or he looks at me, he makes eye contact lessons and then just blanks me. That counts as annoying, surely. Okay, like, I'm sorry. I can't do two things at the same time. If I'm playing with a walker after he talked to me, you know. Yeah, well, that's just a little bit of that. Fine. Sarah says, what's the weirdest habit you have on so for each other? The worst. The weirdest habit you have. I feel like a lot of these are not PG. I thought of one earlier, I forgot. Oh, no, I know, I know. So, even when it's one degree outside, I'll he sleeps with his window opened and his fan turned on. That's weird. I like having a fan in the room. But are you not called? Look, man, the ideal sleeping temperature is 19 degrees. But it's definitely lower than 19 degrees when you're not. No, I, I, I find it, I find it much easier to get to sleep when it's a frigid wasteland. And it, and it, and it's also quite cold in my bed. Oh, you're a lizard person. Yes. Okay. But what's mine? Don't skip. The weirdest habit you have. I find it really weird how when you're speaking to people on the phone in French, you will occasionally be like, you'll be like, friend friend, friend, friend, friend, friend, friend, friend, friend. It's the fondly of me. Yeah, okay, what's my name 20 says? Who is the better housemate, sheen or molly? No pressure. What do you think? You know, I can't spit in your food. I say. Like, man, I don't think it's fair to make such a, um, what's a word? Do not give a diplomatic, but yes, answer. I don't think it's fair to rank human beings on a scale. I, I think, I think it's deeply problematic. And I don't agree with that behavior. And you've easled your way out of that question. And if I did, I'd say molly. So, you know, you're done. The weirdest thing I'll do for you. He said that molly's the better flatmate. I'm not going to live this one down, am I? Okay. Oh, you want to read this one? I don't know if I want to read this one. How do you guys avoid being sexual with each other, living together, not assibling and nights? And nights. Okay. We are not nights to be honest. I don't know. I think that you don't know how we avoid being sexual together. I don't know. Right. I don't know. I don't know. Grey Harvine has living around Ali taught you anything. That you can be productive in a mess. Productive in a mess or productive and a mess. Both. Okay. Good. Thoughts on each other. So Luffy Monkey D. Luffy says, what's your favourite quality about sheen? What is that? See, I don't know if I want to be sincere or like take the piss with this one. Take the piss first and then you can be nice. No, I don't like taking the piss. Take the piss as mean. People are going to say I'm a bully. This is when do you care? No, I care. Um, I think you're very warm. Okay. And warm and empathetic and like you make people comfortable around you. And that's a very admirable trade that I try and and copy, but don't do very a very good job at. Um, so I think that's my favourite quality about you. Nice, nice. Ali, okay from Christina Damo. What do you think about sheen's podcast? Oh, well, finally you mentioned that. Sheen actually has a podcast called Dream Girl. Yes. Uh, which is a podcast about women empowerment. Mm-hmm. I think, I think that's a thing. Um, I think, I think it's good. I have listened to all of the episodes. Oh, I have. Actually, it's a podcast about women empowerment. And you listen to me recording it. You just hear half of it. And I share them all the time on my Instagram and it's my favourite podcast of all time. And he is the reason why I started the podcast. So. Oh, why? Because you pushed me to put myself out there. Okay, study or uh, or seven. Who will get married first? Who do you think? You've got more of a ticking clock than I do. Am I allowed to say that? Is that work? What do you think? But it's true. How was that true? Because you don't know if I want to have children. Yeah. Well, you don't know if I want to have it. Okay, you do. And you're like two years older than me. Fine. And yeah. Why are you telling people my age? People don't know your age. People know your relative age. Fine. So I will get married first because my clock is ticking. I think you have more of a desire to get married and have kids sooner than I do. You're the one who's on a wife quest. Yeah. I'm a, I'm on no quest. Yeah. Like I'm objectively doing a bad job of trying to get married sooner than I am. But I think I still think you, I still think you will. So you're telling me I should not waste too much time. The guy that you're interested in email marriage at sheemgurab.co.uk. That doesn't exist yet. This should just send it to your email address. Email marriage at alia.com and say for sheen. And I'll forward it along if you want to send us even. Thank you. Okay. Alexa, if you. Sorry, if you could change one of his habits, what would it be? I would like him to listen more. Yes. Listen more. Yes. Like when I'm in the middle of doing something or just otherwise. Just generally, I think you're here, but you don't listen. Okay. What's the difference? Like, I think you should just pay attention. Okay. I don't think it's a me problem. Molly and I have discussed this in our support group. It's a definitely, and at least a problem. Hi. Do you ever find yourselves in competition with one another? Yes, for food. For food? Yes. Competing for food. Yes, because you eat all of the chocolate all the time. The other day, I tracked from my desk to come here to find the chocolate and you had eaten all of it. Like, if you have chocolate by the sofa and I'm sitting by the sofa on my laptop, I can't not eat it. Who has influenced the other the most and in what respect? Okay. Well, I'm the professional influencer. So... Okay. I've already talked about how you influenced me. I influenced uses to start your podcast. Yeah. What else did I influence you to do? Are you trying to talk about the blog? Yes. Okay. He told me to build a website and write a blog, which has been great and very useful. I've made loads of very good connections. I don't want to keep guessing him. Is it not about me? This is about giving... Telling people why they should start a blog as well? You should, you should. It's been really good. What else have you influenced me with? And do you know what the best platform to start a blog is? It's the best space. It's the best space. Who are not sponsoring this for, in fact, it's not like... Your is on Squarespace. It is on Squarespace. I'd recommend Ghost for the record. Ghost is objectively better. Squarespace is if you don't know how to do anything. If you don't know how to use a computer, then it's best space is good for you. If you know how to use a computer, Ghost is what I would recommend. Wow. Moving on. IDK whatever 6, 8, 3. You are the average of people you hang out with. So do you notice any change in yourself after moving in with Ali? Maybe we haven't even averageed up what average down moving in with me. Well, I don't know about up or down, but I think one thing is, I've learned how to deal with negative comments. And haters? From me? From haters? Oh, okay. No, that's not what I meant. I mean, I see how cool you're about these things and I've started to try and be the same. Yes, wait, who hates on you? A lot of people. What do they say? A lot of things. Like what? I don't know. What's the most vicious things people think people say about you? That I'm trying to milk your cloud first of all. Okay. I mean, that's why we're here, right? So that's like cool. Lock me up your honor. See, haters. And then that I am trying too hard. Trying too hard to do what? Oh, like raise women's empowerment as an issue. Yes. Okay, right? Yes. Right. But then also sometimes when I post selfies, people will be like, oh, yeah, that's about women empowerment. Or when I wear makeup, people say the same thing. Well, saying that wearing makeup is... They make fun of like, oh, yeah, look at this person trying to empower women, but it's not empowering themselves. Oh, wow. Yeah, anyway. Luffy, Muffy, D. Luffy. Do you want to read this monkey, D. Luffy? What do you think is the reason why I only can't get a girlfriend? Can I, can I please? Please, the fifth. All right. I'm going to say, yeah. I think it's COVID. That's just do that. Right? Yeah. It's not him. Vedico, do you like Ollie's hair? What hair? Fine. I'm joking. It's looking better now. I've given him a shampoo and conditioner. Yeah, I've actually been conditioning my hair. And I cut it. He did. It was good. Theo, how it, how much money to kiss? I do it for free. Really? Yes. No. Yes. But they didn't say what kind of kiss. Maybe a kiss on the forehead. There's plenty of space. I'm sorry. Wow. I'm sorry. Wow. Oh, Harry, is he more vain than you? What do you think? Let's just put this into context. Look at, I was waiting to film this video. Look at what I'm wearing. This is my work thing. Okay. I just finished work. Right. And I was waiting here while Ollie changed three shirts, adjusted his hair, put on a blazer, took it off, and moisturised his face. So yeah, I'm moving. Ritten will cringy. How many times did he do to look into the mirror? He doesn't just need a mirror. Everything will do. The back of a spoon, a window, the white board. He just likes to look himself quite a lot all the time. Look, man, this is a self-confidence in action. You appreciate what you got, right? Yeah, exactly. Okay, this is for me again. Oh, Harry, do you think Ollie should go back soon to being a doctor? I think Ollie should do what he wants to do. If he wants to go back to being a doctor, he should. If he doesn't, that's entirely up to him. Nice. Pinken in, what's a very funny thing about him? We don't know. Keep it PG. What did you think I was going to say? I don't know. What's a very funny thing about him? We don't know. What's funny about you? I don't know. Let me think. I think it's really funny. Every time, after every meal, Ollie will push his belly out and look at him, but like, she, why am I so fat? And he does this after every single meal. Right. The only alternative on that note, would you take a bullet for sheen? No, I would. Why? Why would I take a bullet for you? Because I'm nice. I mean, it depends. Like, if the bullet was going in your head and was going in my arm, I would take the bullet for you. So if you were not in danger, you would. If my life wasn't at risk, then yeah, I would take a bullet for you. That doesn't count. Okay. Fine. Okay. XX, my X, something you two bond over other than food and shows. We both are strong advocates for women empowerment. Our supposed depends were bonding over me. So we do have a lot of very serious conversations about women empowerment, about racism, sexism, the intersectionality of problems. And we usually get very deep into these conversations. Yeah, it's not always happy conversations. Isn't it? No, they're serious stuff. Okay. But I don't mean that we are angry at each other. Right. But yeah, I think that. How does Ali compare to his online persona? I think it's a private persona. He makes fun of people's accent. How many languages do you speak, Ali? One fewer than you do. That's a lie. How many do you speak? It doesn't matter. There's not about me, there's about you answer the question. Well, in person, he's less nice than he is online. He makes fun of you if you don't speak English properly. Wow, do you experience sexual tension at all? Well, I can't say anything. It depends on you in the room, really. Very funny. It's she and friends with Molly. Yes, Molly actually rescues me from Ali so that we can go and walk and I see other people and I feel less sad about life. John says, what is she in favorite coping mechanism? Why don't you answer that? You spend a lot of time sitting on this couch watching TV. You spend some time crying but you don't do it in front of me so I don't really know if you don't. I don't spend some time crying, that's a lie. I cry sometimes. Okay, you eat a lot of chocolate. I eat a lot of it. I buy the chocolate. You buy the chocolate, was she then feed to me as a coping mechanism? Mm-hmm. And I think, oh, here's another one. So I went on top tips for writing my PhD thesis, please. Sheen has a PhD. Top tips, I would say, just start writing get everything on paper or on your screen. That's the first step and then later on go through and make it better. But it's always good to have a bit of a word vomit and make sure you have everything you want to say, written down. And then also just start off by having a very clear, kind of the backbone of the thesis, what your contents will be in terms of the chapters and the subtitles, etc. That helps in terms of writing. Great, so step one, make it exist. Step two, make it functional. Step three, make it effective. Yes. Boom. Somebody found a cool, low red Debbie. She can do, please, hook me up with Ali. I would not do that to anyone. It's more odd. Is she helping you in your wife quest? Is she? Nope. I asked, I said, I would not wish that one anyway, do. Oh, Suki Averides. Does Sheen have a boyfriend? No, she doesn't. She really doesn't. Please, set, if you're interested, send. What, what do you say, send a photo? No, I don't care. I'm ready. Okay. Okay, Amina Adegimma. Sheen, I just want to say, I love your personality. Start YouTube, please. Thank you. That's really kind. I will start YouTube very soon, but not like him. It will be just for the podcast, is going to be video recorded as well now. And then we'll all be on YouTube very soon. We're going to be video recorded. I will hate you. Would you be as successful as now if you were raised in poor family and country? I think that's for you. I was raised in a poor country. I don't think they've written us this. Okay, so I am from Mauritius, born in brought up there. I'm Mauritius. Mauritius is a little island in the Indian Ocean, near Madagascar. It's very, very small. It's a dot on the world map. So yeah, I went to school there. My school was pretty terrible. I went to stay school. So I think that doesn't really apply to me. I've been successful either way. Sorry, that's not true. Uh, Neha Sharma, are you a feminist? That's to you. I'm not allowed to identify as a feminist. I'm allowed to identify as an ally. You're allowed to be a feminist. No, that's not a thing. Yes it is. I swear there's like something around. You're not allowed to identify as that. You have to be an ally instead. I don't know. Isn't that like what you're supposed to say these days? I don't think so. I mean, whatever it means to you, right? Yeah. What are you going to miss the most about each other when one of you moves out? You first? Well, I'm the one moving out. So, um, what will I miss most about Sheen? If he notices that I've moved out. I will miss the occasional whispers of... Ali. Ali, Ali. While I'm trying to do something on the computer, then I look around and think what's going on, and then she says, uh, I call you. I don't believe that. I will miss that 100%. Okay. What about the little messages I leave you on the whiteboard? I haven't seen one in a while. I drew a poo yesterday. You drew a poo? Yeah. Okay. I said, I'll use a poo, and then I drew it. Nice. Yeah, I really missed those messages. Well, well, I miss. I think I will miss the spontaneous stuff, like going to McDonald's or 2am, or ordering crap, after we've decided to eat healthy. All right, brings us to the end of the Q&A. Thank you for watching. If you like this one, you might like to check out this Q&A that I do with Molly, my previous housemate, where we touched on a lot of the similar questions, but from a different perspective, thank you so much for watching, and we'll see you in the next video. Bye-bye. By the way, follow her on Instagram and follow her podcast and follow me on Instagram.
