# Apple Fanboy Reacts to Microsoft Surface Go 2
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HVRHozw5GA4
In this video we're unboxing and taking a first look at the new Microsoft Surface Go 2 tablet, along with a few of its accessories. I bought the base $400 model with the Pentium processor (because the proper M processor was out of stock). This is not intended to be a comprehensive review by any means, just an unboxing and first look. Enjoy xx

OTHER IPAD VIDEOS
1. Which iPad should you buy? - https://youtu.be/xFX-lyLU2X8
2. My Favourite iPad apps - https://youtu.be/xXVnz6t1aMs
3. How I take notes on my iPad Pro - https://youtu.be/waR3xBDHMqw
4. IPad Pro Smart Keyboard Folio Review - https://youtu.be/OLK52vT1YOA
5. iPad vs MacBook for Students - https://youtu.be/STYohijxBNY
6. How I use my iPad Pro as a doctor - https://youtu.be/jFACcujmdE4
7. iPad Pro  2018 Review - https://youtu.be/rEINNYczPtU
8. iPad Mini Review - https://youtu.be/re4Cjf_qqLA

--------

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
😃  How to be Happier - Stoicism Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/stoicism

TOOLS OF THE TRADE:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk
📚  How I remember what I read - Readwise - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali
What I Use For Analytics - https://go.aliabdaal.com/tubebuddy
🌐 My website platform (Ghost) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost

OTHER RECOMMENDED COURSES
📔 Effortless Output with Roam Research - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/roam
📓 Building a Second Brain - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/basb

🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, microsoft surface go, new surface go, ms surface go, microsoft tablet, surface go review, 2020 surface go review, surface go first impressions, microsoft surface go unboxing, surface go unboxing, microsoft surface go tablet, is surface go worth it, alternatives for ipad, other tablets than ipad, what to buy if i can't afford ipad, ipad alternatives, surface go for drawing, tablets for drawing, tablet for note taking, tablet review, apple ipad, 
**Date:** 2020-05-15

## Transcript
 All right guys, welcome to our first 4-8 in the dark side. This is the new Microsoft Surface Go 2. Check here we are. This is it. It feels really cute. Let's kick stand it up. Oh, hello. This is kind of nice. All right. How do we turn this thing on? Anyway, while we're getting that, set up. It's on the box of this stuff as well. So, this is the signature type of cup of thing. Come on. This feels cute. I think cute is the genuine one I can really use to describe this. Oh, hello, Cortana. Fine. A little sign in here, a touch of Wi-Fi there and we will have your PC ready for all you plan to do. Use your voice or the keyboard along the way and if you like me to stay quiet, just alert. Okay. I don't want Cortana. Cortana go away. I just want to get into this thing. Anyway, we also have this Microsoft surface sleeve, which is quite nice. The exterior fabric is water and dirt resistance, carefully blot with a damp cloth and mild soap to lift off any dirt. Right. So, I'll do that. This is the sleeve that comes with it. And that away. And finally, we have the Apple Pencil. I mean, Microsoft surface pen stiffed style it. Is that what it's actually called? I've got to say, I quite like this packaging. It feels very thoughtful. Kind of like Apple product, but we'll mention that today. Check that out. Oh, it's got some kind of face ID thing. Set up. Why not? Get instant access to your Android phones, photos, text notifications and more. Let's not do that. Back up files with one drive. Nah. It's EBA. Well, use Google Drive instead. Thank you very much. Get help from your digital assistant. Yeah, why not? This setup is really long and annoying. Oh, and you can use my location to find my device. Yes. I send diagnostic data to Microsoft. I'm taking a type of data. Yes. Yes. Come on, man. I just want to be able to dive in. Almost done. We just need a few more things. Windows will be all yours. Yes. I know the idea that Windows will be all mine. This is sick. I'm not even taking a piss here. This is actually quite exciting. I'm getting everything ready for you. Oh, yes. So I'm talking about labs. It's my take several minutes. Don't turn off your PC. I stack PC. I stack PC master race. Is that still the thing these days? Who knows? Here we go. Get apps. Make things on your screen larger. And get tips for using Windows. Right. We need to fix your Microsoft account. So the first thing I get when I look into Windows is an error message about my account. This stuff you just don't see without a product. Cool. Oh, question this. What does one use a computer for? Okay. Let's talk about the first impressions. So first impression is this thing is quite cute. I think it's an interesting for me to the dark side. Because I didn't expect it to be this cute and nice. The trackpad is a bit crap. Like maybe I can adjust the trackpad's and this tifty settings. But it feels very much like a Windows trackpad rather than a max slash iPad Pro trackpad. The new iPad Pro with Magic Keyboard is like the trackpad is amazing. This is the single best product I have used in a very, very long time. This is the Apple Magic trackpad. This is all fantastic. Maybe because I'm so used to those that this feels like you're wrong. Anyway, trackpad is fine. The keyboard feels pretty good. Let's do a typing test. So what's in the next part of these days? Is it Microsoft Edge? Let's give it a go. And I want to see if there's a way I can record my screen. Bing default search engine. Love it. Built in screen recorder. Through the Xbox app. Oh, there is an Xbox app. Who knew? Oh my goodness. We're unable to sign you in at the moment. Try again. There's a error code. 0x4090x. Oh, this is. Ugh. This is one of the reasons why. Windows is the dark side. You just don't expect to see error messages like just immediately. Or you do maybe if you're using Windows thing anyway. 10 fast fingers typing test. Let's see how quickly I can type on this thing. Why the hell is the oddies tabs so high right? Go away. All right. Moment of truth. Typing test number one on the Microsoft. Oh. Go away. Microsoft servers go. Already I can feel this being quite sluggish. In fairness, I have gone for the. In fairness, I have gone for the Pentium model rather than the fancy new Intel processor. Because those ones were absolute in the UK unfortunately. But. Oh, God. And it's, it's crap. Bloody hell. Why is it so slow? God. Okay. I need to reset this typing test. It likely can't keep up with all of the ads. And the rest of the BS that's on this particular website. But come on man. I expect that. All right. 144 words per minute. This is actually quite a nice keyboard. It's a little bit on the small sites. But I guess that's to be expected because of the size of this thing. But I actually quite like the keyboard. It's got a good good clicky key travel. This whole sort of fabric key surface feels quite nice to type on. So overall, I'm quite impressed. Impressed by the keyboard. Let's talk about the device in general now. So I feel like carrying this around. Is there a magnetic thing for the app? I'm not the Apple Pencil. The thingy pencil. Maybe it's supposed to go here. Yeah, I feel like I'm going to be attached here. Yeah, because sort of carrying this thing around, I would feel quite good. It just feels like carrying a notebook around. Whereas comparing it to my 12.9-inch iPad Pro with an Apple keyboard, like this feels like carrying around like a hefty kind of laptop type device thing. Whereas this feels really nice to carry. And honestly, just on first impressions, I would definitely prefer to carry this around. So you open it up. You grab the kickstand. It must be a more easy way of doing this. But then better at it. Face ID opens up. That's absolutely fine. Screen. I mean, it looks alright. It's obviously not as nice as the screen on the iPad Pro. The bezels are pretty huge. I think it's a 1920 by 1080 resolution on this 10.5-inch screen. So it's sort of similar to the budget iPad model. Trackpad, as I've said, not too much of a fan of. Again, this is something quite a few tech reviews I've been saying about. About the surface going to that. It's just a little bit on the slow side, I think. I've not really helped cases by getting the Pentium version, rather than the new Intel M core, whatever it's called version. But even so, like, even just immediately on kind of setting this up for the first time, you'd expect a device to be kind of blazing fast the first time. But I'm already getting a little bit frustrated by the speed limitations of this. I want to be able to do stuff a lot faster than I'm able to, because it just seems to be not working very nicely. It's all just a little bit sluggish. I want to be able to hit the windows a little bit. You immediately type something in within like a millisecond. I want the thing to launch. But there's all this sort of... There is a slight amount of input lag as well. No, it's theory I installed notion burden of where it's gone. For security performance windows, 10 in S mode runs Microsoft very fast apps. Fine. So can I download notion from the app store? Microsoft Store, switch out of S mode, perfect. You've now switched out of S mode. Thank you for that, right? Oh, keep what you could. Control W, why's it not working? Control Q? And let's more apps sometimes. I want to download Chrome. I'm typing in Chrome and it's giving me Chromex, so it's giving me stuff that is not Chrome. How the hell do I download Chrome? Google. Oh. Hmm. Not a fan of this trackpad. I feel like I'm being very critical about this. From the outset. So anyway, this is just like a first impressions look. I'm going to commit to trying this for the next two weeks at least. And we'll see how it goes. I might even take it to work sometimes instead. Maybe in addition to my 4.9-inch iPad Pro with magic keyboard. Yeah, even something as simple as this, like I'm swiping up with four fingers. And if this were a Mac or an iPad, like the instant you start swiping up, it recognizes what you're trying to do. And it feels like it feels like there's no lag between you're doing having a thought and doing the action and the action happening on the screen. Where is with this? Yeah, there's this. Oh, I want to swipe up and. Oh, it's just. It's just not nice. What the hell is with the trackpad? When I click with the trackpad, it just feels less precise than the MacBooks and the iPadpadpad. Yeah, just all. It just all feels very slow. Oh, let's test out this thing. How do I get back to the desktop? All right, let's find a default note. Notepad? Oh, tap your set of your pen. Yes, I'm a set of my pen. Oh, lag. I can't believe this lag. Why? Why is it lagging so much? Give me a sort of just a... I don't know. One note. One note is nice app. I like one note. Let's download one note. Yes, perfect. Face ID. Come on. Please work. I would love for this to just work. Okay. Where am I now to notebook? So, in theory, I want to be able to. Yes, I can write. Oh, my goodness. This is nice. She's nice. The iPadpad, the Apple Pencil. It's just not. I don't know. It's like your one note. It's just not optimal. It's because, on these things, it's treating... It's treating the stylus, like it's sort of closer. So, if you're hovering, it's like the cursor is moving around. And then when you press, then it sort of records stuff. Okay. In fairness, the stylus feels quite nice. There's a bit of give to it. So, as you're pressing down, there's a little bit more Haptic feedback as you're writing compared to the Apple Pencil with the iPad because that's a rigid stylus. This is fine. It's just not as precise. And I also don't like the fact that, at least on one note, I don't know if there's a different one on other apps. But it seems to slightly modify your handwriting. So, this is similar to good notes on the iPad Pro, which is why I don't like good notes. Is that when you make a stroke, it slightly adjusts what you actually did stroke-wise to make it look smooth or look more legit. Whereas no-tability, I love on the iPad because it doesn't change what you're actually writing. And I know what I want to write. I don't want the app to try and make my handwriting a bit nicer. So, I mean, it's fine. It'll do the job. But, I'm just not a huge fan so far. I need to learn the windows. Oh, lag. If this was a Mac, you press the lower key and instantly it would open up. But because it's windows, you press it, press open. Press open. There's like a half a second lag between pressing the thing and opening the thing. It's just, ah, what other stuff do we have? We can test out on here. So, that was how you know it's sorted. Well, lag. There's also some input lag on the trackpad. Like, sort of using notion. I get that maybe the app's a bit slow, but it's like, when I scroll, it doesn't, it doesn't feel like my fingers are in charge of the scroll. Again, comparing it to a Mac, like, with the magic trackpad, you genuinely feel as if that there's basically no lag between doing the thing and the action happening on the screen. Equipped with the iPad with 120Hz refresh rate. Like, you feel like you are in control of the thing, whereas, yeah, with this, I'm scrolling, but it's not nice, equally with the trackpad. As I scroll, there's a slight input lag between, between moving the trackpad and it actually scrolling on screen. It's a little bit better on Microsoft Edge, but it doesn't feel as seamless, as it does when you phone, for example, using a phone or using an iPhone or an iPad. All right, so this nine-night thing is just installing a ton of apps, but yeah, I think, how to say really, how I feel about this. It's very cute, and I can see it being very portable, and I'm going to be taking it to work for the next two, three weeks just to see how it fits into my workflow. I also do this exercise in bed each night, where I write down the most storyworthy moment of my day. Sometimes I take my iPad into bed with me for that, but I'll try for the next couple of weeks to do it on here, because that'll give me an idea of exactly how good this thing is to use. Judging by what other tech reviewers are saying, I probably wouldn't recommend Microsoft go to most people are saying, like the Verge first impressions review were saying, it's fairly slow as well. A little bit slow. I'll have to wait for a couple of days to weeks to see the full reviews coming out. But so far, I think, base price of this is $399, as basically the same price as the budget iPad. And this doesn't even come to the keyboard. It doesn't come by the pencil. It doesn't come by the case. Just like the iPad doesn't. So it's like you're playing in exactly the same priceable park as the budget iPad. But having played around with the budget iPad and set it up in everything, that is sort of so much faster than this. And I think Apple stuff in general is far better optimized in terms of speed. And people say that, oh yeah, well, Apple products you're ever paying for specs, but actually the specs don't matter what matters is the user experience. And the user experience on this so far has been a little bit on the laggy slash slow side, even though the keyboard is very nice. The pen is quite cool, and it's a very cute form factor. If this could be an iPad with this sort of cloth thingy, it's just like nice colors, then I think that would be great. But yeah, so far, it's all right. I mean, I'm enjoying it. I will try and use it for the next two, three weeks, and I will report back. But thank you for watching this first impressions review. I'll first foray into the dark side. I wouldn't recommend this probably. I would recommend the iPad. Here are some videos about my iPad's iPad videos, and which iPad you should buy that sort of stuff. Don't get this for now, but maybe I'll change my mind in two weeks time. Thanks for watching and see you in the next video. Bye-bye.
