# The KEY Study Techniques for Exam Success
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hw3SpLQYeLA
Get a 30-day free trial of CuriosityStream - https://curiositystream.com/ali and use the code ALI at checkout! 

If you sign up to CuriosityStream, you also get access to Nebula for free, where I'll be posting exclusive content that you won't find on YouTube.

My Nebula profile: https://watchnebula.com/aliabdaal

Check out Simon Clark on:
Twitter: https://twitter.com/simonoxfphys
Youtube: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCRRr_xrOm66qaigIbwFLvbQ

00:49 - How to stay focused while studying
09:20 - Detail of active recall questions
13:06 - Strategies for math, physics, etc
19:56 - Revision timetables
24:38 - Memorization
32:32 - Taking notes
37:14 - Spaced repetition with multiple subjects
40:53 - Studying after poor results
46:55 - Going through a tough time
51:51 - Studying at home vs library, coffee shop

My new discord server - https://discord.gg/jwYwgUv (where we chat about books, productivity, study tips, podcasts and other wholesome things)

💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking 
📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

My Spotify profile - https://open.spotify.com/user/1111404728?si=7QYptBTLREWbU1OCHHxrBw

🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal

Who am I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 


If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭
**Keywords:** how to study, studying for exams, study tips, studying tips, how to study science, spaced repetition, revision timetable, how to study effectively, how to prepare for exams, how to prepare for lectures, study with me, how to revise, study techniques, exam revision, college study tips, how to study for exams, study motivation, revision tips, best way to study, how to get good grades, how i study, study hacks, memory palace, how to memorize, ali abdaal, simon clark, 
**Date:** 2020-03-13

## Transcript
 Hey friends, welcome back to the channel. In this video, me and my friend Simon Clark, who is an Oxford University graduate and fellow education YouTuber. He and I are going to be answering loads of questions that you guys sent in about how to study for exams. We're going to be talking about how to stay focused while studying, how to use Active Recall appropriately, how to make a space repetition time table, how to take notes in class and after class. The balance between understanding content and memorizing content, we also talk about some stuff that I haven't really touched on on this channel before, like how to cope with failure, how to stay motivated to study after to get poor results and what to do if you're going through a tough time. So hopefully you'll find all of that stuff useful and just a quick flag. This is just one half of the discussion Simon and I had about study tips. We answered 10 questions in this YouTube video, but over and our streaming platform Nebula, we've answered another 10 questions about completely different subjects but all related to study. But I will tell you about that at the end of the video for now, let's get into the Q&A. How do you stay focused while studying and that comes from the Daveler on the score 24? Thank you the Daveler. Well, I am terrible at this. I will be completely honest. I get distracted very easily. So I find that I'm most focused when I remove as many distractions as possible. So when I'm working and I'm writing a script for YouTube video, I have a two-screen setup and I find it all too easy to have a video playing on the other screen because I'm like, oh, I've made me feel like I'm not really working. But my attention is constantly being divided. I will be too easy to have, I don't know, like, another web page that I was using for research, but I'm not actively looking at up. So what I tend to do is have something like Spotify open. So it removes that screen as a distraction. I always think you had to accept that you're not going to stay focused for hours and hours at a time. I don't know if you do this, but I will find that I'll be working for maybe 45 minutes and then it's almost like you kind of wake up and you're like, oh, wow, I don't know. I was really in there for a while. Like, I should hang on. I need to get up and do something because it's like, you recognize that that was your natural limit for focus. Yeah, I have exactly the same thing. Like, I tried using the Pomodora method at some point. It's worth for me, like, forest is a good app that I found. When I was writing my thesis, actually, that was really useful. But sometimes, it doesn't work. No, so like, I find that about 45 minutes is kind of the upper limit of my kind of natural sort of fully in the zone. Yeah, because sometimes when I'm filming study with me videos, I get, I realized, oh, wow, I was actually just doing this for 45 minutes and not realizing it. Yeah. But then for me, at least it gets to that point where I can sense my mind beginning to wander and at that point I think, okay, let's get up, make a couple of coffee, make a cup of tea, go to the bathroom, do something. We're not robots, so at the end of the day, you know, we have a natural need, I think, to, you know, vary the task that we're doing. So when it comes to staying focused, you've got to accept, you're not going to be focused the whole time. I think, in a way, you actually have to kind of employ your mindfulness technique where you're aware, when you're doing mindfulness meditation, you are concentrating on the breath, but you, the kind of description is moment to moment, non-judgmental awareness. That's kind of like mindfulness and the nut shows that. So the idea is that you're just sat there kind of like paying attention to pay up what it feels, or how you're breathing. And if you're mind wanders, the important thing is not to say, I mean, idiot, I need to be focusing on nothing. You say, okay, my mind wanders, that's okay, but let's now think about breathing again. And it's that non-judgmental awareness aspect of it. The fact that I think when you're studying, you have to recognise, oh, hang on up, I got distracted. But that's okay, because like, that's a natural thing to do. You don't want to shame yourself into, you know, thinking, oh, gosh, you never get distracted. No, it's a natural thing. You just have to kind of bring your attention back to what you're doing. And say, if it's important, I'll get for that in 10 minutes, you know, and we'll return your attention to what you're doing. Yeah, that's so interesting. I think that's a big part of why I said, isn't like, I certainly used to struggle to focus back in the day, and it would, I would lose focus, and then I would kind of beat myself up about it. But I guess I kind of naturally stopped beating myself up about, was like, oh, yeah, well fair enough. Yeah, I have about 15 minutes, because, you know, I'll take it right now. And I think just, kind of, not stick, yeah, it's sort of partly having a certain amount of time to do stuff in, but also not being too harsh on myself when I lost focus and, you know, look, my phone or something. Yeah. Well, because it's a negative feedback. When you get distracted, you were saying, oh, I need it, and then get back to it. And then when it happens again, you're only going to get more and more frustrated. And it means that you are going to associate studying with those negative emotions. So it's important to, it's just in terms of like a feedback cycle to not have that negative component to it. And so just neutral that, not in a positive way. I think, oh, great, I got distracted again. Like, you know, you've got some neutrally, just be like, no, just put our attention back to what we're doing. So do you use any tactics to not get this, but you know, like, self-control apps or anything like that, or you not really need to. I've never used anything like a, you know, those extensions that stop you from going on Facebook or whatever. I'm not saying that I wouldn't benefit from it, but I've seen to have found a good medium where I'm at the moment, right? Do you get distracted from time to time? And certainly when you work for yourself as a YouTuber, there are whole days when you think, man, I've done nothing today. But I think for the most part, I'm a happy level with it. In terms of just self-discipline and index. And also, sometimes rolling with being distracted. So I'd be like, oh, I'm just going to, let's just do this. And then I'll quickly like, I'll be updating my finance spreadsheet or update a thumbnail or, you know, right, quick email, because you think, well, I'm being distracted, but let's turn that into a productive thing. And then we'll come back to it. Less possible when you're studying, I know, but for me, I seem to have found this system that kind of works. Oh, that's it. Yeah, I don't really use any of these apps either. One thing I do is I turn my phone face down. I do that. Yes, absolutely. Immediately, it liberates, you know, Slack notifications, tweet notification, this person. Well, I also turned off most notifications. I don't have any Facebook or Twitter or Instagram notifications, I think on my phone. It is the bare minimum of, if something is really desperately needing to get my attention, it will tell me. But for Twitter in particular, I was used to be on Twitter way more than I am now. When I just remove notifications from popping up, cut down the number of distractions per hour by, I don't even want to know. Yeah, literally. The other thing I find helpful for focusing is I've got a study with me playlist on Spotify, which is just like instrumental film music. You know, from the order of the ring, the price of the Caribbean. If I have my headphones on, I'm like, yeah, you know, it's fine. I think you have to have like a stable of those, like I'll have like a trunk legacy is a really good one to it. I think I find things with words quite distracting. So like I was a singer, I used to sing a lot of choral works, and so I would listen to them, especially if I was trying to learn a piece of music. But now I'm like, I just find myself either singing along or paying more attention to the words than answering my music. Sorry to my work. So yeah, like low-fied beats, as you would find everywhere on YouTube with that one gift of the girl. You know, you know the one I mean. Yes, I think that. Yeah. And like, yeah, instrumental soundtracks. I find game soundtracks really good, because they're meant to be played alongside, you know, you focusing on something else. But something like simsity or the sims or um, city skylines. I've got really good soundtracks that yeah, they're meant to just kind of occupy the back of your brain whilst you're focusing on something else. Now, have you got published by a playlist that have these in them? I actually have a public YouTube playlist. Oh, fantastic. We can put that down. I'm not sure that everything in there is technically legal, but I didn't upload it. So it's fine. Yeah, there's actually a video I'm working on at the moment called Should You Study with Music. So we've got a whole light literature review and stuff about this. And it seems to suggest that music with words interferes with the phonological loop part of our working memory. And therefore you can't really focus on those two things at once. Yeah. Music like instrumental music is sort of, it's all right. And studying in silence is actually the best option because, you know, evidence shows that we retain stuff better when we are being tested on it in the same sort of atmosphere that we learned to in. So they've done studies where they've made people learn a series of words underwater and then test them underwater. And they do better than the people who learn a lot and test them underwater. I, you know, a lot of different sort of conditions. We kind of great. If you get to an exam and they're just like, okay, and your time starts now and then the music from the Lord of the Rings just sounds like that. There's the next three and a half hours. But then kind of going back to our main question about the focus. I find that even though I know that listening to music at all is probably slightly suboptimal, I think overall it's just massively increases my own enjoyment and my own focus. Yeah, I'm happy to take the productivity hit. It's a bit like when you go to the gym, I find that I obsessive of trying to make the optimal strategy and you think like, you know, this particular superset and I'm going to do it this many times a week. The end of the day, the best gym strategy is the one that you do. You'll get the most health benefit if you actually go to the gym. And the same with studying, the best study routine is the one that you actually do. So if you make something actively unpleasant by being in silence for eight hours a day, you're not going to want to do it. So you're, you know, integrate that over time, you're going to miss sessions because you just can't bring yourself to do it because you're making it a pleasant environment, you're going to get more good at it. Absolutely, yeah, I think that's a big part of kind of developing the motivation or discipline, whatever you want to call it, just making it a more enjoyable experience and just finding kind of a soundtrack does that, going to a library, going to a nice coffee shop. If I've got an example to prepare for, I kind of budget sort of, I'm happy to spend 20 pounds today on just lattes just to let them go. It's the pleasantness of the experience. Yeah, that's nice. I like I do have a budget for it. This is my self-care budget for this session. Okay, so we've got a question from Rosa Lesniac that says, how should I write active recall questions? No idea how detailed they should be. Okay, now, so I think what they're getting at is sort of like, if you're writing questions to self-test yourself, like I've been preaching for the last two years, how do you know what level of detail to go into for those questions? I suppose what I would say for that is that the level of detail should really be tailored to your exam. And I think that's always the answer, like, as much as we would love for education to be for it's a for the sake of learning realistically at the moment of the way education, at least in most of the Western world, it's due to worse preparing for exams. And so the level of detail for any specific question should be based on what the office would need to know for the exam, like for the first of your medical school exams, you didn't know stuff in a certain level of detail, finally your medical school exams, you didn't know that stuff in a lot less than the detail, because there's more important stuff that's going on. I think it also depends on the nature of the subject, though, because I think for something like medicine where it is effectively memorization of lots of individual facts, you can you can create your own questions because it kind of lends itself to it, but for something like physics, I think it would be much more difficult to come up with your own questions, because in a way, there are so many different ways that you could approach these problems. If you're testing your understanding of a particular formula in circular motion, if there's some mechanic stuff, you know, that all the ways that it can be done are in textbooks already, you could just sub out the different numbers, but it's not like you're going to either come up with something new wave looking at it, or all the ways of just been explored already, because there's so many ways you can do it. So I'd argue that with something like physics, you actually can't really self write that many questions. You just have to draw pretty widely. I'll give you something like maths. It's just pure, I think you kind of could like if you're like, oh, let's solve differential equations and just like, you know, brainstorm a whole bunch of them and solve them. You could do that, but not so much, actually, for certain, I think certain subjects like physics. So for example, in physiology, you might self write the question of why you die when you swallow fresh water, or why you die if you inhale fresh water. And that would be a whole sequence of process of about fresh water being a certain similarity. And therefore, that going into RBO line, and therefore, that's a few things, but the better reason, therefore, causing satellites is causing hypercolinear, causing cardiac arrest, or that well, that kind of stuff. But the question, why do you die after inhaling fresh water wouldn't be an exam question in the VA question? I would write for myself to test my understanding of the concept. We're going to be like an interview question. Oh, yeah, I'm like an interview question almost. So do you have equivalent things that you might do in the future? Yeah, I think I think you could. I feel like the this is a great book by Randall Monroe called Whatif. There's basically just hypothetical situations. Like, you know, what would happen if, I try to think of a good example, like, if you were to drain all of the water on Earth at the bottom of the Mariana's trench, what would happen starting from time zero? Or what sort of what's really going to be better? Yeah, exactly. So you're going through the concepts without necessarily putting numbers to it. So you're kind of explaining out loud the way that these concepts relate to each other. Or another good one was like, what would happen if a glass was actually half empty and the other half was full of water? You know, so what would this different physics that we're going to be like, right, I had to think about how the crystal is going to deform. You know, what is the vacuum going to be doing in terms of the pressure pushing in on it in different directions? Like, you could do that kind of thing. And yeah, I just, I just feel like they're the kind of questions that it would take you about as long to think of the question, is it would touch the answer? No, I think stuff like that, Jen, it definitely lends itself nicer to a memorization subject. We can just write yourself like, what are the three functions of the pulmonary circulation? I mean, I don't know, it's an election, so I'm one, two, three, okay. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Whereas, you know, for yourself, there could be more. Yeah, here's a concept. How a plane. Right, so this is about specific strategies for maths, physics and engineering. Oh, okay, my habit is that, you know, I don't do any of that. So, okay, Mr. Mantis asks, how do you revise stuff like math? Isn't it all just practice? Is that the best way to apply? I have to recall, and my long-blet. So, how to studying for unique exams and medicine differ from unique exams and engineering with physics? So, I suppose, what's your take on? Okay, how to revise a technical subject? It's not necessarily going to be, you know, wrote repetition at the same derivation over and over again. That is part of it. I think you only revise by doing practice problems. And, you know, it's important to not just do the same problem with slightly different numbers every time. Like, it's important to change out the variable that you have to calculate, change out the assumptions that you're making. I find that the back sections of textbook chapters will often have, you know, like half a dozen or a dozen questions on a particular topic. And, yeah, can get a little bit boring, but you've keep drilling them and you try different textbooks, then that's the best way to revise this stuff. And, what about, kind of, like, GCSEA level, kind of maths, physics, sort of stuff? What was your strategy for those? For that, it was very much based on past papers, because particularly at school level, you're not really revising to pass the knowledge you're revising to pass that particular exam paper. So, you have to remember what they're looking for in the marks game, and since doing these exams on Twitch as, like, as an adult, it's really interesting to look at the marks games and be like, wait a minute, you're actually only accepting certain answers when you're asking quite a general question. So, you know, you have to be aware of what they're specifically looking for, and also the format that, you know, you know, that the question is going to be, you know, let's say there's three parts of the question, you have a buildup, a main part of the question, and then an extension. And so, you're that extension, you'll probably use something that you worked in the buildup. You know, you're learning the format, so that's definitely how I approached it, but it becomes all could when they're on that many past papers, like if they've changed the exam spec recently, in which case, you know, it comes back to basically doing practice problems. Yeah, I think it was like basically identical for me, like, so I did maths and physics at a level. I did a further maths unfortunately, I thought I'd do English literature instead, but then I kind of regret not doing further maths because I feel like it would have been really fun and I was like maths and I was, I regret not doing English literature. So, you know, really smart. Yeah, absolutely. But my strategy for that was very much kind of CDP revision guides and past papers, and even like, for maths, I didn't need the revision guide because it's like, at the time there were years and years of past papers. Yeah, and a lot of at least kind of in C3 and C4 for maths, you could, like, there's modern calculators have that function where you can put in your different, your derivative or something, and it calculates a number for you. Oh, right. Yeah, it was a check my answers in the exam paper, and so I knew I got my offer and I knew I got 100% in the exam, immediately after it was over because I could do a literally check all my answers. Yeah, it was just a case of repeating past papers. The other thing to remember is that just because your exam board doesn't have past papers, there will be, for example, for a level physics, you know, AQA does a lot of them, but then OCR also has one, and then there are also ones that are used in Scotland, there are even ones used in Wales. You know, they're all, it has slight differences, but approximately the same, and to be honest, if you actually did do revision from those past papers as well from different boards, you're actually going to have a slightly more rounded kind of view on the subject. You're going to be a little bit beyond, in some cases, what is necessary for the exam? So, yeah, you know, it's not the format necessarily you're exactly looking at, but it's still plenty more practice material out there. I guess what we're saying is that four technical subject is really all about doing the problems, and I guess if you're at wanting to apply like something like active recoil to that, then that is active recoil euro. Yeah, it's not like you're kind of memorizing those advances, you're actually actively working through them, and that's how the connections are very important. You're working through the basically the mental checklist of how you approach the problem. You're like, oh, it's this kind of mechanic's problem, it's circular motion, right? What equations do I know? It's, okay, centrifugal acceleration, and we know these variables, that means I need this. It's like working through that checklist, kind of thing. That's the process that you're revising. Oh, so when I coach people on the BMAT, which has a physics and kind of maths and chemistry component, what I always say is, as you're reading the question, write down the variables that they're giving you. So, for example, speed equals this, distance equals that, tiny equals question mark, and then you think, what equation do I know that has speed distance and time in it? And then, hopefully, at that point, it will be useful. And then you can plug numbers into it, and then you're done. Particularly if it's something like, if they tell you, oh, assume constant acceleration, like a little light should flick on your head. But yeah, that was exactly what my maths teacher did. It was right down everything that you know, and everything that is that you're explicitly told you don't know. And yeah, often, the answer just kind of appears in front of you, and you just have to plug numbers in. Absolutely. Yeah, and there's some, like, famously difficult questions in the BMAT, where they give you something like, you know, G and H. And you feel like, oh, okay, but then it next helps you to work out the velocity in something sort of going up and down. Run it. And that point you have to make the lead, but okay, let's start by calculating gravitational potential energy. Then let's assume gravitational potential energy max is equal to kinetic energy max. And now we've got K equals a half in B squared. And see, it's a bit more of a kind of huge process, but very much still. Yeah. And that's the kind of thing that, you know, yes, you have that step, that checklist of what you know, and what you don't know. But then it's the practice aspect of it of how those things actually connect. So that's why the practice is so important. And then what was the other part of the question? It was how does medicine and physics and maths differ? Yeah, how does studying for unixams and medicine differ from unixams and engineering of physics? I mean, like, in medicine, almost entirely memorization. Yeah. And I feel like it's a lot more kind of work. As in, I thought I came riddled a bit different because we had practical papers, which were more like data analysis. So you get a series of data from an experiment and you have to calculate the percentage of oxygen at standard room temperature and pressure dry. And then convert it to a body temperature, pressure saturated. And therefore think about the ideal gas equation. And whether 47 millimetres of mercury water needs to be applied to that. And all that kind of stuff, which was a bit more working through papers. Yeah, it's you actually got data rather than just abstract stuff. I really like the door to me with that was memorizing detail. Physics at Oxford was definitely process. Yeah, it wasn't data driven. It wasn't memorization. It was here is, you know, you are given this set of concepts and you are expected to arrive this concept, put them all together, kind of thing. In some cases, like when we did subatomic physics, there were actually tiny exam, sorry, essay type questions, where you would be like, you know, what are the different kinds of leptons? How do they differ? That kind of thing, where you would basically be memorizing. But for the most part, it's very mathematical. It's very, you know, applying the same kind of broad concepts over and over again. So best way to approach revision time tables for the end of exams, starting to get close, says matte underscore dented. To the end of the exam. Oh, isn't it? As in, they've got exams coming up. Oh, I see. They create a revision time table. So can you just go over your tactic for this again? Sure. I think that's like a really good sound vital. So I think basically it boils down to how much time do you have available? And, you know, that actually has to include up to the very last exam. And so then, you know, counter up the number of hours that you have available, which you can do with, on a given school day, for example, you might have two maybe three hours in the evenings. The weekends, you could probably double that, maybe a little bit more. But be realistic. And in fact, you might actually want to subtract maybe 10% to actually allow for a bit of leeway and that, you know, stuff's going to happen in life. You're not going to be able to do every session perfectly. And then, you know, some of that are over the number of weeks. That is the total amount of time you have. Then look at the number of subjects you have. How you don't necessarily have to divide the whole time equally between those subjects. It should be how confident do you feel in those subjects to begin with. So, for example, what GCSE, I dedicated more time to French because I was definitely not as good at French as I was at, say, physics. And then, given those ratios of how you think you should dedicate your time, basically just multiply those ratios by the time available, that's then total time per subject. And then you can kind of do the same again in that you have that number of hours. You break it down by the number of topics and the number of modules that you need to do. And then it's just a question of spacing them out in a way that is intelligent. And make sure you get everything done before the actual exam day for each subject. And obviously that means that they're going to be staggered as the exams go on. And then basically just do it and go into it with discipline and crucially also, it's space repetition. So, that on a given day, you know, a week from when you've done something, you're going to do all the stuff that's in your plan for that day, but you're also going to look back on the material that you previously covered. So, it's basically just intelligently looking at the time table will be realistic about how much time you have and then just dividing it appropriately. It's kind of time logistics. Time logistics. And I think again, can you just re-hatch the kind of diary that you'd make? Oh, yeah. And so, in terms of the space repetition, what I would do when I was in Oxford when I did very well, the exams was I'd have a paper diary because I'm old. And I would, on each given day, write what I had done on that day, and then also go ahead a day and write in that same subject, go ahead a week, write in that subject, go ahead a month, write in that subject. And then when I came to that day, that would serve as a list of the topics which I would have to revise as well as anything which was in my plan. So, then I would, for example, I have to do this for a couple of weeks, you'd go to it to give a day and you go, right, well, I'm going to revise this bit of special relativity, this bit of atomic physics, this bit of satellite physics, and now today I'm doing general relativity. And so, you know, you had everything planned out for you. And, you know, after you're doing it for a couple of weeks, you just get into this rhythm of doing it. I also found it was useful to color code it so that just the glance you could tell, you know, how loaded your day was going to be with, for example, if you've done several modules in special relativity just by chance like a weaker part, then you'd end up with a day of just doing it. And we'd be like, oh, well, at least I know what's ahead of me kind of thing. This is a pretty revolutionary strategy. I've never heard of anything like this before, and I think this is actually game changing stuff. Really? Yeah, no, because I can imagine, like, if I applied this, like even this year, or even now, like, as I come across new cases each day in medicine, you know, just like writing, you just sort of like tomorrow, you know, revise management of the atomic pregnancies, and then just in my calendar a week from now, revise management of the atomic pregnancies, over time, you know, everything. Yeah, you just pop later. And so you're like, right, what's on the agenda for today? I mean, all right, cool, though, well, while you're like, you know, on the train to work or whatever, okay, cool, I mean, it's revised management. Yeah, because, you know, after, what are you supposed to do after a month? Is it six months? Is that the next space repetition? No, like, I don't think anyone's really, no one's got that fun. That was going to level four. I don't think, I saw some papers about people attempting to chop, kind of the ideal thing. I think it's so kind of individual dependent. Right. It's really hard to make up because if you were doing it over, you know, as a practicing doctor, you know, if you wanted to look at his studies, maybe a year later, you could be a year later. Let's just go about it when I'm a dog or pregnancy, but that's actually useful. I try to actively recall the contents of that topic, and then yeah, looking it up on the Wikipedia video or something. We should make an app. We should make an app. This does sound like a kind of thing that needs them. We can make a notion template for it. Oh, for the next notion template video. There we go. I want to make up in March. Right. There's a time. We can cross-pollinate each other videos then, and then I like it. Okay, so Ruhar Hammard says, any tips are someone who struggles with memorization. On a similar note, straight out of ideas says, how do you memorize large steps in biology, like certain processes in gene technology and such? And the cold ice says, in law, you have to learn some phrase or odd school word by word. So what will be the most efficient way? So I guess they're getting that kind of mix or hacks for remembering stuff. Straight out of ideas is a great thing. I love that. I think if I was to say in a word, game of fire is to turn it into something that the active memorization into something that becomes a game. And I guess that is kind of what flashcards are like a little bit, and you can almost test yourself like how many can you go through in a minute, and you know, what's your streak, you know, how many of these can you get right in a row? I think you have to try and find some, at least for me, because I played and I still do play a fair few video games. Perhaps that's just the way that I best engage with something, is if you can make it fun and make it a game, I'm in, and I will try my best to do well at that game. But otherwise, I think it's honestly comes down to repetition. It just comes down to doing it over and over and over. Yeah, that's why we're just in an active recall, which is basically what I've been preaching for three years. Yeah, but space for repetition is like, if I think if I was to go back in time and just slap two words into my brain, the age of like 10, it would be space for repetition. But it's so important. It's just so key. Well, you just forget everything. I think the other thing, when you're a popular active recall, which is that it's far better to try and remember, in fact, then it is to just read it. So passive and pointless, whereas the act of trying to remember it strengthens those connections in your brain, it's like the difference between reading about working out and actually doing the workout. Obviously, one of them actually changes your muscles and the other one does not. Yeah. There's a few other sort of memorization hacks and strategies that apparently are helpful. A lot of the memory champions that you use sort of memory palaces and exercises. Oh, yeah, all landscapes. Have you ever tried using this? No, I've not. I know that there's one of the classic ones is, you know, you went to go through your front door and it's like the way to your room and all that kind of thing. I've never really, it's been a long time since I've had to memorize something which is a large collection of individual facts. I do YouTube scripts and when I'm memorizing YouTube scripts and delivering them, that's a paragraph or two at a time and I just find that I can store that much in my ram and then you're working memory. Because it's how I think about it. I have my stories and I have my ram. And I can remember that much of the time. So it's been a while since I've actually had to memorize this stuff. I think in, you know, the one time maybe in the past, I knew I did it in first or second year and I think it was basically associating it with colors. It was like the flash card that I had that particular thing on was a different color and so I think right with it's first like yellow and pink and blue, whatever it is. But not really. I've found that I'm very much just like, well, I'm just going to put it in my brain and then I will regurgitate it. Yeah, I think I was kind of similar like with flashcards. I would just kind of brute force it. And I think with flashcards, the theory around them is that every card should have a single example of the fact on it. But really what I would do with flashcards is because a lot of the topics were sort of interconnected sort of a continuum of quanta. Yeah. I would put tons of information on a flashcard and just trust that over time, I'm just going to, it's just going to get uploaded to my non-to-memory because by virtue of repeating it, space repetition, plus active-requality, flashcard. Yeah. One thing that I did do before, one of my, one of my exams, a few of my exams in the second year was I had to do some last minute prep for a topic because I have, like, I think this topic might come up. And we often had to memorize references for papers where an experimental things were done, just because you know, like sprinkling in that sort of information that this was Hoshkin and Hoshkin 1942, would give you a few more marks and make it look as if you've done external reading. Yeah, I don't think the memorised list of references. But the way I did that was I, I have to use the text system for that, which is where you turn each digit of numbers into a letter. So, for example, one becomes an L. Oh, okay, you know, seven becomes a K because it sort of looks like a K. And therefore every combination of numbers then is a word. And so, mug would be three and nine. So, because there's three prompts. Okay, nine is a G sort of looks like nine, some mug. And I would create these sort of stories for myself, which is exactly what like memory champions and stuff do. Yeah, absolutely right before this example was able to memorize that a list of like 50 references that I could just literal into my essay completely forget the next day, because obviously forgetting curve I hadn't had repeated it. But that was something I played around with, but I've never really done much on the memory palace front. Oh, no, there was one guy who basically, who's doing physiology at Oxford, and I won't name him, who at my college basically had to do an essay question in one of his exams and I think there were like three things that you could choose from. And he just memorized two whole essays, like word-for-word memorized, because he thought they were going to come up. But he like memorized two thousand word essays, word-for-word, and then hoped that one of them came up, which it did, fortunately. But I had no idea how he managed to hold that much information in his brain. Well, mate, this is basically why this is my third year. I picked three modules. I wrote down all the past paper titles for all those, because it was just essays, predicted a few more planned first-class essays for every single one and memorized them all. So I had like 50 essays in the bank. So, but how did you memorize those? Oh, so I would memorize in entire paragraph using anky, and have those are kind of like blocks of content. Right. And then I would have the whole essay structure as a spider diagram. I'll show you, like, I've actually got my, oh, you're kidding. My book is quite a bit, this is my point of joy. I have never, this is first, this is the first for the channel. The book of essay plan. This was actually my, my other viral video entitled How I Racked First to Cambridge. So it would basically this method where every essay would have its own essay plan for it. So, you know, Jean's personal intro, SLCGA for one of the genes, then this one, and then sort of, you know, LESH 1996, Lymphoblasts. That would be an anky flash card. And therefore, when I came to that via a spider diagram, I would recall the flash card paragraph for it. Right. So this is a, this isn't necessarily one individual essay that will discuss the three genes. Oh, I see. So that it's not necessarily an order, but you go, no, this is, no, it's, it's sort of been cut by the order. Oh, it goes cut by the first paragraph that SLC and then contour and then XTR. And then, and this is absolutely pretty fun for the fourth thing, every sort of buffer. I had like 40 to 50 essay memories. And I was kind of each to sort of, kind of, 8th of May 8th of May. I would just draw these spider diagrams out from memory. And then in different colors, I would add in the points that I forgot. And so over time, I just developed this, like, huge ass. You know, if you asked me anything about this romantic hub or about short-term memory, long-term memory, I would, we'd go to take this essay plan. But this is interesting because you didn't necessarily understand it. You could regurgitate the facts about it. Yes, true, but in the process of creating these essay plans, I came to my understood the topic. Right. And so in by virtue of the fact that I made sort of 15 essay plans for comparative recognition, you could put any question in fact, we're calling it for me. And so much so much so much. So that's the difference, because you looked at this from so many different angles. Yes, you'd memorise those angles, but together, they actually did provide an understanding. Yeah, absolutely. And so in, in this video, what I say is kind of the process of putting together this, so I would, I would set myself a target of one essay plan a day. And so throughout the second and third term, I was doing one essay plan a day. And basically, that was my task of the day that becomes so familiar with this topic to be able to create an interesting essay out of it, find references, copy and paste bits from different review papers and craft into a plan, then turning to anchor flashcards, then memorise advice, find a diagrams. And that was how I got that price. But I'd never happened again or whatever, that was this. And now I don't think about it. So there we go. There's quite a few comments on that video, things that this is what's wrong with education. You're just memorising and we're going to take it. Was that yeah? Sorry, but you know, hate the player. So I hate the game a lot of the players. Okay, next question is, oh, this is one I feel very passionate to be a bit. It's not the only six minutes, but it's on the topic of taking notes. So, for example, like HXD Dora says, I take all my notes on my laptop, is this bad to do considering all major tasks that don't have paper and pen. C, KW, XN, asked how can I write concise notes? And kind of on that note, I would like to ask you, do you think taking notes to help for things? Or what extent that's true? I love doing paper notes when I was at uni. I think it was a little bit before everybody started using things like Evernote and Notion and things like that. So I did exactly the way that I did at school, which was in lectures just taking sort of, you know, the freehand notes as you're going, which is depending on the lecture, sometimes basically just copying down the slides. And sometimes it's more freehand. What I would then do is combine that with textbook notes. So I'd also take notes on textbooks. And then basically combine loads of different sources together into one hand written effectively textbook for the course. I found the act of writing the best way to get the information to go into my brain. And I'm sure that there are studies which have shown that sort of kinesthetic learning is not actually a thing. But I perceived it as the action of writing was the way that I took it into my brain. And I think really, I had slowed down the way I thought to the rate of writing. Because if I'm scanning a piece of paper, I'm like, okay, right, that's in my brain. But it's not, I scanned it in two seconds. Whereas if I'm writing that, it will take 10 minutes and it's actually really sunk in. So hand writing, I really like. And I personally don't find, like, get much of the same benefit from doing it on a keyboard, which, again, probably doesn't make any sense, but maybe it does because I type faster. I don't know, because the evidence actually shows that hand writing gives you longer retention than typing. Oh, yeah. You know, I medically just find the evidence-based study tips. So my issue with taking notes in general is that a lot of taking notes is summarizing some rising stuff from a textbook with the book open. Yeah, I think taking notes in a lecture like the intro lecture and note taking is fine because it keeps your wake. Yeah, and otherwise it's so easy to fall to sleep in a lecture because it's easy to fall to sleep in a lecture than in bed. Yeah, that's what I found in the local medicine stuff. But then kind of taking notes from a textbook, sort of looking at the studies about this, they say that summarizing from a textbook is sort of four times less effective than closing the book and just trying to write it out from memory, doing things like that. Right. So the way I approached note taking in first year was similar to this kind of school based method of, or I'm going to take notes from the lecture notes, I'll take notes from the textbook, I'll add some notes from Wikipedia, and I'll have my set of notes that I'll revise from. Yeah. But then I ended up having so much stuff and I was like, I can't revise from this. I have a rise from this and I'm reading and highlighting, and a lot of my friends kind of we all did this in first year because that was how we could school. And then we realised that at least in medicine where it's pure, sort of, it's volume of memorization, rather than understanding stuff. That because we think they came completely unsustainable. And so from second year we found all the revision guides, all the kind of essays from people in the year are above all that's short cuts to avoid having to take notes. Right. The point where most of my year of stop taking notes, you know, at some point through the medical school journey, that's interesting. Could I just never would have conceived that that would have been an option, I guess. I think there's different people's subject there because physics is a lot more kind of understood at least my understanding of it, a lot more understanding heavy rather than yeah. It's more I think a lot of stuff. It's more concepts. Yeah. I think. And especially, more so maths than physics, but when you have derivations, you learn a derivation by doing it over and over and over and over and over again. It's basically just a series of steps that you memorize. But you know that you're going to be asked to recall it in a graphical manner in that you are going to be asked to depict it in a certain way on the page. So you do it over and over again. And I think you can do it beginning open book and then close book, which is effectively kind of combining the two approaches. But yeah, I guess I never really actually analyze the way that I took notes. And I think if I were to go back to uni now, I would almost certainly sort of think about it, I guess, a bit more analytically. And do what's the technical way you just sort of try and do it from memory and then, you know, again, try and do it from memory again? There must be a name for it. So this one called the Cornell note taking method. Oh, yes, Cornell, but which is like you would write, you would write your notes, but then on the other half of the page, you would write like a point. Oh, well, I specifically questions relating to the other half of the page. Right. But when you're reviewing your notes, you're not looking, you're not looking at the notes. You're covering them up and looking at the questions and trying to dredge up information. Yes. And actually recall it's how we learned it and stuff. Yeah. Okay. So we've got a semi-semen says, how can you do space repetition with multiple subjects and remain sane? Ah, I did this during my undergrad. So my third year at Oxford, I, you do, I think it's six different modules, which are all the same size and there's an hour and a half paper at the end of the year, on each of them. And you take them all in the same week. So you have to do the revision period, simultaneously for all of them. And the way that I did was I had a physical paper diary where I would write in on the day what I had done and then add in for the following day to revise that topic and then flip forward a week, revise that topic and month, revise that topic. And then as I went through the working week, it just populated over time until, by the end of the revision period, you just opened up the diary entry and you were like, oh, I need to do these five subjects today because I, the system told me that I did these a month ago or a week or whatever. And honestly, I found that just by using a physical diary and keeping like a continuous system for how long it was four or five months maybe, it took care of itself basically. And you know, you know that you're going to do those things, you know, I'm going to switch gears like five times a day, so I need to do two hours on these two hours on these two hours on this. And I found I worked really well. Yeah, I had almost an identical strategy except mine, I quoted the retrospective revision timetable. Oh, because instead of kind of sort of doing a subject and then projecting forward that one day, one week, one month, kind of space, repetition style, I would kind of mark in my, on my gougles, on my gougles sheet, when I've done the, when I've done the topic. So yeah, be like comparative cognition, 26th of April. And then when it came to the 27th of April, I'd be like, oh, okay, you know, this one I've only done one. So then we repeat that one today and be like, okay, it's been a few days since I've done respiratory physiology, so let me repeat that one. And each day I would figure out I would just kind of aim to do kind of five or six topics. And I could look at what the balance of kind of spacing intervals was. So that I didn't, in a way, I don't like personally sort of making a prospective plan because anything can happen along the way and I don't know. But also what I would do is I would kind of code the topic space and how well I knew them at the time. So 26th April would be kind of coded in red if it was terrible and therefore I would give it more priority. I think it was kind of coded green because I don't know, I can fairly comfortable with this topic. But I think kind of when jogging multiple subjects is really just a, it's just a case of allocating your time appropriately. Like, yeah, you know, when when doing GCSEs, I did, I didn't really need to need to revise them as much. I imagine you didn't really either because it kind of is not really, it made sense and therefore I would spend more time on history or geography. And I think that's kind of the key to multiple subjects through figuring out what the priorities are figuring out whether the biggest holes are. I like the way the system works. I think it, I think there's probably a breaking point at which the number of subjects you're taking, it kind of becomes untenable to look back and say, I've got to compare this to 20 different modules. You know, I feel I feel like much the system that I was using was very rigid, but it allowed you to work with lots of subjects at the same time. So, you know, you just open up a day and you'd be like, oh, that's what I'm doing. It took a, even though it's like a little bit more work at the time because you're filling it a little out. I found that it honestly made life so much easier. And if I wish I'd started that in my first year, and he started in my third year and I did incredibly well in those exams and I put it on a lot better earlier in my degree if I was just a bit more organised. Yeah, so for a few years now, I've been thinking that's someone should make an app similar to that where every day, it's sort of like your own revision diary, you record what you studied that day and it also might have been noticed by as you a day or later a week later in a month later to, oh, you know, you last reviewed physiology, you know, yesterday, you should probably review it again today. Yeah, I think that would be a good idea for. I think we found our app that we're going to develop together. We've got this. Oh, okay. Now we've got one about dealing with failure. So Hock Sabicol says, how do you keep studying after poor results? I don't know, people have varying to that question. There is a supposed a consolation in the fact that if you are studying after getting a set of poor results, you are likely to do better in your next exam. Just by regression to the mean, the fact that you had like a dip, so in a way, say, right, well, I know that the next set of results is going to be better. How much better can I get it? You kind of can view it as a challenge of right. Yeah, this sucks, but I'm not for one thing that like it's an important bifurcation that you kind of come down, you can choose to either say, well, this is my life now, I guess, and so just wallo in that new state, or you can view it as an opportunity to show how much better you can improve by by the next test by the next exam. Requestion to the being a like that. Yeah, it's the whole there was the Nobel Prize in Economics, I think. It was awarded basically based on this behavior. It's like a fighter pilot training school and is Ray, I want to say. These guys were running combat sorties and the trainer was talking to this economist and said, well, of course, I'm not going to praise them if they do well because I've noticed if I praise them, then the next time round they do worse, which is just the regressions of the mean, the fact that if you do well, you're more likely to do bad next time round. So, kind of remember that like, then they are not obviously independent events or these, you know, tests that you're doing, but if you have a bad result that doesn't mean you're going to stay bad forever. In fact, it means you're probably going to do better next time, but it's that challenge, it's like an opportunity to see how much better you can do. That's how I view it anyway. Oh, that's very interesting. There's a concept that I like to think of when it comes to this whole dealing with failure thing and that's the idea of diversifying your identity. So, certainly for me, when I was kind of in school, like my entire identity was wrapped up in, because, you know, when I did the 11 plus, I managed to get kind of first in my school and therefore my year seven report was written position on entry one. And my whole identity was wrapped up in trying to maintain that position. And like everything, you know, what my mom and dad would say and stuff like, in, like, not in a mean way, but just in a sort of, oh, it's fantastic that you've maintained your position. And so my whole identity was about in that, I need to maintain that position and that was the only thing that I really had going for me or so I thought. And what I realized that it kind of, I basically had that, I didn't see kind of throughout my GCSE years. And then in six form when I started trying to apply to medicine, I realized that, well, crap, you kind of need some extra critical activities going on here. And so I took up a few other things that took up close up magic and over the last few years, over the previous few years, I've been learning how to code. So I had that aspect of my identity that, oh, I've got this business making websites for these other businesses and that's kind of cool. Then I got really into water walk around and rating and stuff. And that was an aspect of my identity. And then at university and now kind of as a doctor, a YouTube group of business or whatever, if any one of these things goes wrong, I've got the other stuff that I can pull back on. Yeah. And I think in an ideal world, our sense of self-assence of identity would be internally generated. We would have needed to rely on external validation to get that identity by boost, but realistically, a lot of us still have sort of something. Yeah, I really like some extent But I think the other thing to bear in mind is that they are independent. They're in their own categories and if you sort of were to suddenly become the single worst radar and world of warcraft in the world, that's not going to affect your position in the other ones. But the other thing to, you must have had the similar experience when you go to Oxford, you're used to being a big fish and a small one got them. And suddenly you are a tiny fish and a very big ocean. My first essay was 52% I was like, what the hell? I've never seen a number this long ago. But and I think you are so used to being, yeah, one of your identities is like top of the school or near top of the school and I'm one of the one of the or the best, like instrumentalist and my instrument in the school. And it's the, it's remembering that your identities are individual, but they also sum and you're greater than some of your parts. So whilst I went from my school and I was one of the best in physics and I was one of the best people at Saxophone and I was, I don't know, one of the best people at public speaking and when I went to Oxford, I was definitely no near the best in any of those. But I was the best person who did physics, who did saxophone and who did public speaking. That was the best version of me at university. And I think if you didn't have that concept of your own category or most, that hybrid category, it can be absolutely crushing. So you know, you had to remember that you are the best person in the world at being you, no matter what you did, sound like Mr. Rogers, like Mr. Rogers. You don't do Mr. Rogers's, from American TV, you know, the guy, he has a film about over the moment. Mr. Rogers. Yeah, it's a wonderful day in the neighborhood. Wait, is it a football coach? No, he's a kid's TV presenter. Oh god, I have no knowledge of American TV beyond the CW network. Right, okay. Well, it's very, you know, it's the kind of thing that he would say. You are the best person in the world at being you. So that's a really interesting way of looking at it because that's very similar to advice that a lot of startups get in that don't try and be the best in a particular category, try and be the only one in your category. Yeah. And even with when it comes to personal brands, so someone like Tim Ferris has narrowed his brand so much that he's the only one doing the stuff that he's doing. Yeah. And it's so much easier to be the only one in your category than to try and compete with other people in a plot of other stuff. Yeah. And so I'm certainly for me when I kind of start the YouTube channel and how the business going on the side. Like yeah, my, my exam grades won the best. I, I fluked out and got a prize in my 30 year, but that, I suppose, kind of like, you know, as well. But that was the one you were applied for, all of the effects of anything. Yes, right. Yeah. But every other year, you know, first year, two, one, second year, I got a first. But I've bought you a by a script. And then pretty mediocre in clinical school. But I had other stuff kind of going for me. And so that was never really a big hit to my identity. I never felt bad that I only came in the top 30% or 40% rather than the top 10% because I, you know, I was, I was single for that. That's not the cool. You were the, but they were the number one in your category. Yes, they were like, I was the, I was the number one at YouTube, or who was also a business owner who also was the duty of the family. And I thought that was really good for my identity, but that's something to say. No, totally, I totally get that. How do you still do the work when you're going through a really tough time? Like, breakup, family issues, says Sarah Angeline. I think that comes down to where your values lie in terms of what value do you place on the work relative to your personal happiness? Because if, for example, your work is cure cancer tomorrow, then if you're going for a breakup, perhaps you can afford to put the personal life on the back profile one day to cure all cancer. But if on the other hand, your work is complete this one assignment to get 100% rather than 90%. Prioritize your mental health and your well-being over that one piece of work. So I feel like when it's a question of, you know, like, how do you get this stuff done when you're going through a tough time? Ask yourself, is your well-being worth more to you, you know, over the course of your life than this one project, this one task, really, if you're being honest with yourself. Because I feel like it's so easy to get into this trap, you think this thing's, you know, if this doesn't happen, the world will end if I get 75 rather than 80 on this. Yes, whatever. Yeah, how much does that matter at the end of the day when you are going through what could be a trauma that affects you for years afterwards? You know, it's, you're well-being is worth more than a piece of paper. Oh, you know, tell me if you disagree. Oh, I don't have a cent of grain. Yeah, I think when it comes to going through personal stuff like that, obviously, that had that has to come first. There's always no reason why this random work should take preference over that. I think one area where I know a lot of people struggle in, I certainly use to, is when it comes to something like sort of getting to the end of the day and feeling tired and thinking, okay, I kind of had this work that I need to do, but I also kind of want to get a good night sleep tonight. And that's something that I still struggle with. If I get home from work at like 10pm, you know, I know that I should probably crank out a video or I could just go to see, but I should get eight hours for what for. Okay, it's kind of that thing. You've never done that. It's, it's that sort of balancing act, but that's something that I still struggle with. Yeah, and we're human, we make mistakes on that all the time. And just because you made a mistake in the past, like you think, well, I prioritized the essay over, you know, taking care of myself because I had a breakup, like one time, doesn't mean you have to repeat them to stake. I did it all the time in my PhD. I would stay up until one or two or three in the morning to edit a video. It could have waited a day, you know, and I probably would have done better and felt better if I just had a few more hours of sleep. There was, I was, I was having that with friend who's like 10 years older, so he's been a medicine for a long time, but he also does kind of want to put no restuff. And he was saying that one thing probably the biggest thing he's learned in this kind of, in the last 10 years was that almost nothing is worth losing sleep over. And so okay, I was telling him that, yeah, if you go and edit this video and it's going to need to be out and he was like, yeah, but, you know, when you're going to get your 8 hours, I was like, oh, I had, I hadn't really thought of that and he said that, you know, it's not worth losing sleep over, it can always wait. I knew him. Yeah, he was right, there was no need for that, just to come out of the following, and I came the day after. I can guarantee that we'll be people watching this who will be thinking, yeah, but what I do is important. I'm not, I'm not going to be weak and just look after myself. I'm going to push through and it's like, you know, we're not going to tell you to not do that, but at the same time, ask yourself, how much is it worth really? Just because I know that if I had heard this advice when I was a kid, I would have been like, no, I'm just going to push forward. You are only damaging yourself in the long run. It's, it's short-term pain, long-term gain, effectively, by losing out on potentially that little bit of extra work. You may be losing out slightly, but it's that long-term benefit you've got to keep in mind. Yeah, I like it, even these days, I think, so if I, if I get home from work, I could either film a video or I could go to the gym, it's impossible to kind of get both of them done. Yeah, and then I had this bust in my head, I'm like, okay, well, I know that Jim is going to be better for me, because obviously my health is far more important, than filming another video of a study with me video or something. But then I sort of think, yeah, but I can always take care of my health later on, it's such a long-term thing, whereas I know that this video needs to come out next week. It's good to get, yeah. Yeah, you know, it's all about looking at life for different lenses. You can't expect to make the best decisions if you're only looking at life through a 300-millimeter telephoto lens. Sometimes you've got to use an 18-millimeter miniature and be like, oh, wow, there's so much other stuff. There was another kind of framing of this life, I find helpful, which is that it's okay to have different seasons of your life that are off-balance in different ways, because the person was saying this, some self-help group, probably, was saying that this whole work-life balance thing is a complete myth, because it's never going to be in balance, and almost no one thinks they've got good work-life balance. Everyone is in balance in some way or another. Yeah, and so it might be that when you're young and single and stuff that maybe the work takes presidents over, you know, the life stuff a little bit more, because then hopefully that sets you up to then take a bunch of more of a balance later on. Yeah, I think that's another thing to keep in mind. Yeah, it's the time integrated average. I'm integrated average. You know, you're integrating the total balance over time, and it's like, what is the residual if you're your entire life? And if it's close to zero, then that's probably good. Yeah, I'm going to pretend I understood that, but that sounds legit. Can you learn better at home or on a coffee shop or library? Which place do you prefer? It says, you know, Scani. I mean, entirely depends on the subject you're doing, the mood that you're in, the type of coffee shop, the type of home, and how long have you been at your home, how long have you been at university? There are so many variables, but it is entirely down to personal choice. The thing that I generally try and do is specially separate out different kind of subjects so it Oxford there was, you know, college libraries, there was the university library in subject libraries, and what I would like to do is actually study for certain subjects in certain libraries, so it would be right. I'm going to do go to the sac clearance, the tutor, and I'm going to do the atomic physics stuff, and then I'm going to upstix, go to some pieces library, and I'm going to do the general relativity stuff, and it kind of tied a place to a subject, which kind of was strange because it meant you had certain associations with, for example, like special relativity, I'd be like, man, I just think I can taste Coke, like, you know, I go associated with a bar or something, a Coca-Cola, I should be very clever. It is Oxbridge, but no, Coca-Cola. Yeah, I like to try and do that, but yeah, it's a personal choice at the end of the day, like it's also we keep kind about this point, as we've been talking about, where are you going to enjoy doing this, where is it going to be like it, and not necessarily enjoyable, but not unpleasant experience. That's the best place for it. My tactic for this, when we're preparing for my second or third year exams was that I would do my very hops, and so one day I would go to the medical school library, one day my college library, one day the divinity faculty, criminology library, it's like a cruel example. Anyway, it would be so fun, and we had like a what type of group of like a few of my friends, I'm going to be like, right guys, let's go to the criminology fact today, and you go to the criminology faculty. I wish I'd have that, and then like that bunch itself would collage and then in the afternoon we can go to hot numbers or something to study there, and that would just made everything so much more fun. So I think when I was at uni, I don't think what's happened to an inventor. So I really didn't stop it. Yeah, I wasn't in a single group chat until I think I started my PhD. So I didn't know. Yeah, God, I wish I'd had that. That would have been amazing. So that's the end of the Q&A. Thank you very much for watching. Just let you know, as I mentioned at the start of the video, there are 10 more questions that Simon and I answered while we were doing this filming session, but those are over on Nebula, which is a streaming platform that Simon, me and a load of other creative friends are helping to create. The idea behind Nebula is that it's not a kind of competitor to YouTube. It's just a location where we can put extra stuff without worrying about the algorithm really. So for example, over there, I put long-form discussions about things like productivity, motivation, success, conversations that I have with people that I interview that weren't really working YouTube is like a two-hour long video, but you can find those on there. Also, I've got a series over there called Workflow, which is where I do a deep dive into some of my favorite apps and talk about how it fits into my own workflow and my own productivity setup. But again, that stuff is a bit too niche for YouTube. So if you're interested in that sort of niche stuff, you'll find it on Nebula. And finally, as I mentioned, the other half of our Q&A, which is a lot more detailed, because we haven't kind of cut it down to try and fit like a 20 minute timer. The other half of our Q&A, which is a lot more detailed, is also found on Nebula. So if that sounds good, and you want to sign up to Nebula, what I would recommend is that you actually sign up to CuriosityStream, but going on CuriosityStream.com If you don't know already, CuriosityStream is the world's leading documentary subscription platform founded by John Hendrix, who's the founder of the Discovery Channel. And on CuriosityStream, you get access to thousands of documentaries across all sorts of genres from history and geography, to technology, science, economics, healthy eating, all this sort of stuff. And the best part is, when you sign up to CuriosityStream account or a free trial of CuriosityStream, you actually get free access to Nebula bundled with that, because Nebula and CuriosityStream are working together. That means for the cost of $3 a month or $20 a year, which is literally the best deal in streaming, you get access to this amazing library of documentaries, but you also get access to all of my exclusive content on Nebula, and a load of other creators exclusive content on Nebula. So if that sounds up your street, you should definitely go to CuriosityStream.com forward slash early to sign up for your free trial, get access to Nebula, watch the other half of the stuff, and do please subscribe to Science Channel. I'll put it in the video description. Thank you for watching, and I'll see you in the next video. Bye-bye.
