# Productive Day in the Life in Lockdown // Behind the Scenes of my iPad Pro Videos
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=i2Fm4hyZTMc
in this video, I take you through a day in my life, during lockdown, spending all day at home and filming a tonne of stuff for the new iPad Pros. Enjoy xx

To check out my WORKFLOW series on Nebula (with 6 videos about Roam Research), the best way is to sign up to CuriosityStream (the world's biggest documentary streaming platform). For just $3/month or $20/year you get access to thousands of high-quality documentaries, along with FREE access to everything on Nebula including all my exclusive videos on there. 

--------

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
😃  How to be Happier - Stoicism Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/stoicism

TOOLS OF THE TRADE:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk
📚  How I remember what I read - Readwise - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali
What I Use For Analytics - https://go.aliabdaal.com/tubebuddy
🌐 My website platform (Ghost) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost

OTHER RECOMMENDED COURSES
📔 Effortless Output with Roam Research - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/roam
📓 Building a Second Brain - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/basb

🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** study with me, ali abdaal, study, how to study, study tips, study tips for exams, studying, school, university, motivation to study, how to revise, motivational video, cambridge university, uni vlog, student, ways to study, studytube, medical school, study hacks, junior doctor, doctor on call, being on call, productive day, day in the life, how to film broll, filming b-roll, how to film b-roll, ipad pro 2020 review, tech blog, tech review, ipad b-roll, 
**Date:** 2020-04-19

## Transcript
 Hey guys, welcome back to the vlog. Today is going to be a super productive day of getting a load of stuff done while in lockdown, and so as usual I'll talk you through what I do in a day for whatever that's worth. I wake up when my alarm goes off at 9 a.m. but then I break the cardinal rule of productivity which is to never get back into bed with your phone. Having broken this rule, I spend another whole hour in bed on my phone going through emails, trying to reply to a handful of Instagram DMs because I'm nice, and watching of all things a Logan Paul vlog. I'm sorry. Before finally stopping my professional wigsed mannery at 10 a.m. and getting out of bed. It's my day off work today before a string of 14 hour shifts in a row where I won't have any time to make videos. So today's objective is to batch film a load of stuff to keep the content factory happy for the next two weeks. I decided to start the morning by sticking a load of laundry in the washing machine, doing the dishes, cleaning the kitchen and making my morning cup of coffee with the error press. For breakfast, I'd dump some Greek yogurt into a bowl and add a couple of handfuls of homemade granola courtesy of my friend Kim, who's been teaching me how to cook. We're actually in the process of turning that teaching process into a class on Skillshare isn't that fun. Anyway, at 10 a.m. 30 I sit at my desk and bust out my lunch term 1979 book with Unable Air Pen. As usual, I do my morning dump which involves firstly writing out a list of three things. Something to focus on, something to be grateful for and something to let go of. Today's main highlight is going to be filming a ton of iPad related footage because hopefully the new 2020 iPad Pro's should be arriving today. I'm grateful for amongst other things. This apartment that I'm living in and I want to let go of the fear of delegation. Maybe I'll talk about that in a video of some other time. After this, in the second phase of the morning dump, I write out all the things I might possibly need or want to do today so that it's all out of my head and onto paper. This takes around five minutes and then from 10.35 I spend some time writing out my morning pages. This is a writing method that I'm experimenting with and the idea is that every morning you write out three pages of A4 by hand of whatever's on your mind. And the theory is that it helps uncoge your mind of some of the junk and stress that might to accumulate it. Technically, it's supposed to do it on paper writing it out longhand, but I tried and got annoyed at how slow my handwriting was compared to my typing speed. So instead, I'm experimenting with doing them on room research. A somewhat fresh and exciting new app that promises to be your go-to tool for thinking. I've been using room for a few weeks now and I feel like I've come to some interesting insights through the connected way that it deals with thoughts and I'm working on a more detailed video about this in the near future. If you'd like to see a video of how I'm using room these days and how I'm learning the ropes of it, it's part of my workflow series which is available on Nebula, more details about that in the video description if you might want to check it out. Anyway, from 1045, I spent an hour chatting to Angus, one of my team members, and going through edits for a video that he's putting together. About two weeks ago, he'd never edited a video in his life, but then he took my Skillshare class on how to edit videos in Final Cut and now he's a pro and doing some of the editing for this very YouTube channel, which is kind of fun. I've put a cheeky link to the class in the video description if you fancy checking that out as well. Hashtag shameless plug. From 1145, I spent 15 minutes reviewing a monthly favorite video that my actual editor Christian has sent in and that's looking pretty spot on. While I'm there, a funky new parcel arrives in the post, and of course, I wash my hands after handling it just in case. At noon, I need a poo, so I sit on the toilet for 20 minutes, watching Tom Scott's latest video about YouTube's copyright infringement system. After washing my hands, I think. I then spent 10 minutes hanging up the laundry, and then I spend the next 30 minutes showering, shaving, and moisturizing, as I prepare to systematically film a bucket load of B-roll footage of the new iPad Pros. At one PM, I decided to clean the living room, just generally because it's nice to live in a tidy house rather than in this pigsty with camera gear and empty boxes thrown all over the place. This is what happens when my housemate Molly leaves me for an extended period of time. From 155 to 20, I do the silent unboxing video with post-it notes, and then I spend 10 minutes sending the files to Christian via Google Drive to see what magic he can work in the edit. Then I grab some food and oven ready meal from Marx and Spencer's, after which I have a cheeky zoom call with a friend of mine from university, whose name is incidentally also Ali. This whole quarantine thing is really great for keeping in touch with friends not gonna lie. After we wrap up, I spend the next three hours filming an absolute ton of B-roll of these various iPads in different locations in the house, which turns out to actually be quite fun. Right, so it's 7 PM, and basically, I've just spent the last, I don't know how long, I've lost track of the time. Basically, just lying in bed with the two iPads and using the camera with this slider to film me playing on the iPads. For a higher one period of time, there's something very satisfying about it, just like lying in bed, getting like a super close of shot and making a slider sort of moving a little bit. But I need to actually return these, so I shouldn't just toss them unless I'm confident, oh, hello. Caching them, that's fine. That turned? Oh, boom, need to be double these. It's probably quite dangerous, um, probably shouldn't be doing this door really, but, oh, look at that. It's so satisfying. It's just tossing iPad. I'll give it a toss anyway. Let's move on and film some more B-roll at my desk, and then it will be time to actually record the video. Then at 7 PM, I spent half an hour sorting out the thumbnail for the iPad unboxing video that Christian managed to edit beautifully in record time, and then from 730, I spent another nearly two hours filming more B-roll from different angles on my desk, isn't my life just so incredibly exciting. I do take a quick break to have dinner that's left over from the afternoon, so I guess that makes it all right. From 9.15 PM, I have another Zoom call with Nate, a good friend from university, and then at 10 PM, I make a start on planning, writing, and filming this iPad Pro review video. This takes just over an hour, so then at 11.10, I unload the footage onto Google Drive, brush my teeth, and get ready for bed. But before going to sleep, ready for a 13 hour shift at work, the following day, I decide to unbox a special package that arrived earlier that day. All right friends, final order of business for the day is an unboxing, so this is the Peter McKinnon times nomadic camera bag that I supported on Kickstarter when it first got released, and this is very exciting, so it's far the most money I've ever spent on a camera bag or any sort of bag. But look at that. This is the logo, the Pete's Pirate Life, fly the flag, branding thing. It's pretty kind of a brand really, like it. And oh, here we go, here it is. It's really heavy, so nomadic 35 litre life on the move built to last travel ready. But this is going to be my new camera bag. It seems. Oh, beefy camera bag. This is huge, but this should be able to carry everything for weekend trips, maybe even a week long trips. I'll go, oh, that's a laptop compartment, that's kind of cool. And the main pocket on lips like this. Oh, hello. Look at that, get all the stuff inside it. This is an extra bag. This is an extra bag. This is an extra bag. And these are dividers. This is a case for SD cards. This is a memory card case and battery case. Oh, amazing. What's this? Is this like a rain cover or something? I imagine this is some sort of rain cover. Strap goes here. Strap goes here. And yeah, the dividers and stuff. This is so sick. Now, the coolest part about this whole setup is this extra thing because like this is like a camera cube. But then it becomes magically becomes it's own little day back. So you put stuff inside it and then when you get to your destination, it just becomes your life. Every day carry day bags. How do they do it? Cube. That goes here. Now what's this? I think this is a little pound for like GoPro and accessories and stuff. Yep, perfect for GoPro and things. That's nicely in there. This is a filter case. Oh, yes. I don't really carry that many filters. So I'm not really sure what I'll use this for. Basically, I have one filter. That goes in there. We have a battery case and we have a memory card case. There we go. There's lots of different memory cards. Push up with your thumbnail to remove memory card. Now it's an extra memory card case. What's this? It's a compression cube medium. So the packing cube, which in theory fits over there, so it's pretty sick, man. Okay, it's past midnight. Time to go to sleep now. And four days of work for 13 hours of our shift for the next four days. Fun times. Thanks everyone for watching. If you like the video, give it a thumbs up. Yeah, good night. See you later. Bye.
