# How to Make Productivity Healthier
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I9m00NGPwgg
In this video I'll be sitting down with @UnJadedJade to discuss the healthy approach to productivity and our views on what it means to be productive. 

00:00 Intro
03:37 Focus
07:44 Forethought
08:36 Spaced repetition
08:59 Active recall
09:42 Association
10:34 Desirable difficulty
14:28 Fun

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

PART-TIME YOUTUBER ACADEMY:
🍿 My 6-week live online course - https://academy.aliabdaal.com

MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
✍️ The best summaries of books (Shortform) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
📚  How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound

🎙 My weekly podcast - https://www.notoverthinking.com
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/friendzone/
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮  Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.notoverthinking.com), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://email.aliabdaal.com).

🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, unjaded jade study with me, unjaded jade revision, study with me, unjaded jade, how to be productive, unjaded jade motivation, unjaded jade productivity, how to be more productive, motivation to revise, unjaded jade studytube, get productive with me, unjaded jade studytuber, ali abdaal unjaded jade, how to increase productivity, healthy productivity, how to be productive all day, how to be productive when unmotivated, 
**Date:** 2021-09-19

## Transcript
 Hey friends, welcome back to the channel today. We are discussing healthy approach to productivity featuring none other than Unjaded Jade. Hi, um, Jade is a friend of mine. You've just released this book the only study guide you'll ever need Which has become a number one best set of congratulations. Thank you, uh, and Jade is also is a fellow youtuber We've been following one of them. We started youtubers at kind of the same time. It was like 2017 and we've been following one Like you know channels since and then for a few years. I was like, I really want to be a friend But I feel it would be weird if I said you're a friend So cute, did you say that? Oh my god, he commented on one of my videos a few years ago, and I was like, no way It's the alley of the house Anyway, let's talk about the healthy approach to productivity. So you've been researching this stuff a lot recently in preparation for writing and publishing your book You can tell us a little bit about your book. Yes. Oh, I got it so thrilled to see this in person So the only study guide you'll ever need is Everything I wish I had been able to read during secondary school So it's a combination of revision methods, evidence-based techniques for studying Productivity tips, all these things that you don't really get taught in school, but a pretty essential to Getting that information in your head and being able to do well in exams But it's also kind of more holistic So it looks at things that affect you as a student like perfectionism, fear of failure, mental health, and talking about my own experience Yeah, yeah, it's pretty solid stuff I have a little quote in it. You do He's asking about space reputation or the forgetting curve or something like that the thing that I really like about it is that There are other books that talk about studying like make it stick is pretty good. It recommended it a lot I think yours is the first of its kind that actually talks about the holistic approach including the mental health type stuff You and I get a little bit of Black on the internet for promoting toxic productivity and all that which is a little bit baffling because I feel like like how would you define productivity? Okay, so I think how the internet would probably define productivity is Is anything where you get tangible output which is you know economic activity It's you studying. It's you putting in time for a better grade. It's making more money. That's often Classically seen as productive, but we want to redefine productivity, right? That's it. To us productivity is just spending time well and that's something I dig into in this book That could be spending time with friends. That can be self-care and recharging If it's you know if it's spending time well even if that just means enjoying your life then that's also productive Yeah, absolutely and so for me. I think of productivity as doing more of the things that matter to you and so to me Hang in out with friends or having dinner with friends or playing board games or even these days playing Ratchet and Clank on the PS5 I consider productive It's when I want to be doing something else But then I'm not doing that thing That is when it becomes unproductive and that's when I start to feel a bit like a waste man So in the book you have like a really interesting approach to the productivity equation Yeah, what if you can tell us like what is the unjadedjade productivity equation? Yes, so if you're not familiar the classic productivity equation is output over time So you're trying to produce the most output in the small sum of time that you can Classically in factories is trying to make the most products But I think the way for you to be the most productive and whatever activity you're doing is to add three f3 Yeah, so you're kind of multiplying this output by three things and in this video we're going to dig into those three things, right? I think so one of the three fs So our three fs are focus like deep focus getting in the zone Four thought so how you plan your activity and fun So enjoying what you're doing love it and so ultimately productivity equals output divided by time Modified by focus multiplied by four thought and multiplied by fun I'm going to dig into strategies for each of these three fs the three most interesting components of the productivity equation So let's start by talking about the first f which is focus now you've got a really good tip in the book Which is the sanctity of space what is the specific space what's the deal with that? Okay, so the idea is that when you're doing activities you tend to do them in a certain place So when you go to the kitchen your brain is thinking I'm going to cook or I'm going to eat When you're on your bed your thinking generally I'm going to go to sleep and so when I'm doing certain activities like studying or like writing This book I try and keep a sanctity over the space I'm doing it in so you kind of have a choice Right like when you're at your desk you can make that a place where you scroll on your phone and go to a social media Or you can try and commit to making it a place where you I don't know you revise that chapter of biology or You know you work on a project of some kind and this was really essential to me being able to finish this book Because I had a cafe where I would go to and whenever I was there I wouldn't bring a friend I would just sit and write yeah, and you were able to write this book in like six months or something like that I'm not a month while doing university while also being a professional youtuber That's that's pretty good going Thank you, but it's kind of as we're saying focus, right? Like it can be so hard to find when you've got so many different elements of your life that you're juggling So I find like that intentionality like I am coming here to do one task is really useful Nice, so I'm going to start using sanctity space in my life as well Especially when when writing my book into doing stuff I feel like a cafe nice cafe same cafe every day. Yeah, it would would be a good shout You you also talk a lot about like the mental health side of things when it comes to focus What's what's your take on that yeah, I mean at the end of the day You can't really focus if your mind is not there and not every day is going to be the best day of your life mentally And so that's something I discuss in the book is how our minds actually fluctuate and you can Put in routines to help look after you mental health so I talk a lot about mindfulness things like yoga and meditation Which sound very hippy and you know Sound that you're just going to sit there and breathe and it's not going to do anything for you, but Habits like that we can journaling self care are really important to for you to have to sustain focus and Wanted that I really like that you give is that like for those of us who struggle to kind of make time for ourselves What would you what would you advise that people like me do to kind of Incorporate this sort of meditation mindfulness type stuff into our lives. That's a good question So I think once you've decided that this is something you want to do the way that you can make it tangible is Time blocking so looking at your life in your calendar and actively putting it in your time table You know that at 7 a.m. when I wake up or 8 a.m. or whenever it is that you're going to make 10 minutes to write in a journal or 10 minutes to go on one of these meditation apps and give it a go and that is that makes you more likely to commit to it Yeah, this is something that I genuinely struggle with where if I'm enjoying like work and Creasing you can almost output so much like that definition of productivity I often forget to take any time for myself And do something that's not work related to people so what I'm going to try and do is like schedule something like a tennis lesson or something And five or six p.m. to force me to leave work and then like schedule in the time for like playing PlayStation or like I don't know Trying out meditation at some point in the evening will see if that works and it's like you can't see the benefit of it right there and then right You know when you're like playing on your PlayStation you're like oh, maybe I could be doing something else that feels more productive because it's going to create gain Yeah, but in you doing these activities which are just relaxing and you're recharging you that is going to create a better You it's almost like an investment in you being able to do classically productive task better Yeah, I suppose it is and I guess we're also trying to not think of it as I'm doing this for the sake Of more economic output. That's true. Yeah, yeah, which is the thing that I was struggling with is like yeah, I guess you know the That the upside of meditation is like I can make a video about it I guess it's just like looking after who you are, but then who you are is doing you know all of these other tasks too Yeah, but all right, so we've got the first F which is focus and you've got a bunch more tips in the book about it Yeah, and you know I have tons of videos on our own channels about how to have a focus as well What about the second F for fourth thought for thought so it's a bit of a mouth for that one But the whole idea is planning and how essential that is because so often we block out a time to sit and study But if you haven't planned what you're going to study or how to study it effectively You might just end up kind of wasting time So you sit there and you know you need to learn this information, but you don't need to know how to learn So there are some things I'd discuss in my book one of which is a framework to understand how we learn and Plan better revision techniques. So the idea is that you know if you're sad when you're Revising you can change it to the new monic sad Nice little bit like shoved in there, but memorable Yes, and this is all based off of you know different research papers about what works for science of memory And the S stands for space repetition, which is something I think you've discussed on your channel before If you look at the forgetting curve of a few memory you can put it somewhere on screen When you are learning something you actually exponentially will forget that information if you don't go over and review it And so the idea is you know, you just review that information at regular intervals Yeah, you're more likely to retain it and then the second one is active recall So I think what's so so hard and what feels often productive for people is just been more time revising But doing passive activities like highlighting or rereading a textbook You're just staring at information so it feels like you're spending your time well when in reality You're giving it a bit of thought to plan an active recall revision technique is what is going to give you the most benefit So the idea is you're pulling information out of your mind so you know if you're if you're trying to recall a process You're actually going and bringing it out of your head is you going over that information It's better than just reading it So that's space repetition active recall. We've got an A and a D what are those numbers yes? So the third one is association So the idea is that when you're learning you tend to build it off of the foundation and the things that you already have in your head And example that I bring up which is not related to studying is how I'm quite good at remembering people's names And the way that I do this is whenever I meet someone and I take their name I try and associate it instantly to something I know about this name Or this person or something it reminds me of so I'm kind of building it on to a prompt for myself So for example if I meet someone called Charlotte I can think what does that name mean to me? My neighbor's called Charlotte, you know, and then whenever I see this person again I'm bringing back that foundational knowledge of my neighbor which was going to promise to remember that name and Any revision techniques that you're using which build off of associations are going to be more effective and Lastly the D is for desirable difficulty and this is the idea that you should be doing revision practices which are hard which challenge you and if they're not feeling hard enough then you can put in more active recall or you can go to more application Methods like testing and so this sad new monarch is is it get a set of questions? You can ask yourself when you come to revise just to make sure you're doing something which is actually effective Nice, yeah, that's really good I'm going to start using this when I'm preparing for my future medical exam We've got a couple of other things within fourth thought that you talk about in the book that are kind of less study and more like general my fear I wonder if you can talk about some of those yes Something I've been doing for the last years which really helps me juggle having a YouTube channel alongside university But pricing all of it is this idea of having a monthly overview with goals. These can be based off of you know Even your new year's resolutions at making them more tangible then breaking that down to the weeks of the month Then breaking the goals down at what you want to achieve then you were day to do list and then you want to do us for what you're going to do in that Activity yes nice that's pretty good The way I like I always feel like I really need to do like a weekly review and I just do it so rarely but on the times I do it I always feel like oh I've got so much clarity It's such a useful thing to do monkey reviews as well, but yeah, how does this discipline? Yeah, how do you bring yourself to do it how do you bring yourself to do it? I think because the times in my life where I don't do it. Yeah, I feel really lost or just chaotic and I feel like I'm Constantly like on a treadmill trying to catch up with life Yeah, like this thing is I want to achieve but I haven't put any frameworks down in my life to achieve those things So it's kind of you know like how you feel inspired to do new resolutions on each other Yeah, it's like massive wind pollution I have a similar feeling at the start of every month. Oh, because it's like oh, you know Yeah, it's a new month like why not you know I said I wanted to achieve these things this year. Why not use this as a fresh start now to do something about it Oh, okay, that's very inspiring Well, we're sort of early August now, so I might do a wave of month your monthly Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, do for it. Might as well And one thing you also talk about which I have I first heard from you on a video two years ago is the Odyssey plan What is what is the Odyssey plan? Can I just say as well when Ali commented on my video about the Odyssey plan? It was just such a cute moment. I felt so honored. So it was what I just had so Yeah, so the idea of the Odyssey plan is a way to plan your future kind of similar to vision boarding or defining what you want to do with your life You you write down if you were to continue with what you're doing right now What your life would look like in five years So if you're studying medicine the odds are that in five years you're gonna be a junior doctor You're gonna be a doctor, maybe you're living in Cambridge if you studied in Cambridge And that's sort of where your life is going and then you imagine if you picked a slightly alternative route Which is also achievable so maybe you study that other subject that you were considering or you pursued YouTube, which is you know, maybe an option. I don't know why I'm using your life out yet as an example But um and then you also write down if societal expectations didn't matter money didn't matter What would your life look like in five years? What would you be doing? How would you be spending your time and then you take a step back and you look at these Life odices and you work out the elements of that final one that you could bring into your life now to make it feel more meaningful Oh great stuff. Yeah, I just I did this first in like December 2019 when you first put out that video Talking about it and it just like genuinely changed the trajectory of where my life was going Just to spend a half an hour thinking and writing about what these five of your plans look like I feel like it's it's time for a new one. I haven't done it in a while. Oh my god I don't know. I feel like I need to do one too. Oh, yeah, maybe tonight Stick in the calendar something like that Awesome, and then that brings us to the final effort which is fun Something you and I love to talk about we love fun. Come on. Who doesn't I think so what we talk about Refraining subjects Didn't go yeah, book court so when it comes to fun one thing you talk about in the book is how like specifically to study How do we essentially talk ourselves into enjoying the stuff that we're doing? Even if it's not like fun like on the surface. Yes, okay So I think so much of what we view as fun is the narrative we're telling ourselves about something Because if you say I hate maths then every single time you go to a maths lesson That's still in your head. You know you hate maths. You're not gonna enjoy this new thing You're being taught so I think part of it is Noticing firstly what you're telling yourself about the things you don't like and then reframing it based off of you as a person And what you do like to find something of value in that subject Yeah, so again that you can do this for a journaling you can talk to friends about it But every subject has something brilliant about it You have to convince yourself sometimes, but I find as soon as you can find a reason for it to be fun Then you can convince yourself of it. Make it more bearable. Yeah, like there's this another technique that I I used a lot at university, which is first for stuff where I couldn't figure out a way to make it fun The way I would make it fun is by thinking about how I would teach it to someone else And I was super into teaching and I'd always teach students in the years below Yeah, and you have to make it interesting exactly You know make it into like sitting in the monics or like weird references Yeah, things like that and even if something is really really dry like I don't know Vyrology or something although you know, it's kind of relevant these days Even if it's really boring and you just have to memorize a table of stuff Figuring out like interesting monics and ways to teach it to someone else just automatically makes anything We do a lot more fun. So that was kind of specific to studying But I think like the way you approach writing the book is really interesting I wonder if you can talk about how how you made that fun and sort of the the goal thing Yeah, god I mean are you having a really good chat about this because writing a book when you've already got a platform is kind of terrifying I think you sort of you you're scared of the expectations that people have of you that the pressure for it to Perform numerically all these things like best cellulists, which I shouldn't even care that much about you know You should just write the book for the fun of the process and I really had to change my goal in order for it to be fun Because I would come and sit down to write in every single time I'd be thinking about the end point I'd be thinking about the reviews the you know that every single word I type right now has to be a best-selling word And that kind of pressure is crippling so instead focusing on why I'm writing it for me Just finishing it trying to find enjoyment in every single time I find you by a sentence, which is good That made it just a lot more achievable and enjoyable. Yeah, absolutely like I really need to take this advice on board When I'm doing my writing or anything else where I feel like if I start taking it too seriously Just sucks all the fun out of it. Yeah, or is one I've treated more like a game and like this is supposed to be fun In fact, I have a post in note on my monitor my old monitor called this is supposed to be fun I just gotta look at it and remind myself. Oh, are you stressing? This is all the game in a state's not the end of the world if a book doesn't do well You know what matters is writing something that you're proud of and yeah getting it out and it's genuinely very good It looks very pretty Well, you can check out the link still the books and everything else in the video description It became a bestseller Yeah, which is you know how it like what you know and that that truly was not the goal when I finished writing this I didn't care how it did numerically because I was proud of myself Be getting out this was the message I wanted to put in it So yeah, so just write the book. I'm sure all that it's gonna happen I wonder All right, so that was our take on the healthy approach productivity We've got this equation which incorporates yes productivity involves output over time That's kind of the boring bit, but the fun stuff is the fun the focus and the four thoughts And you can read all about those things in James book so links to Amazon waterstones over the Retro in the video description everyone subscribe to Jade channel as well It's great. I've been following it for the last few years and yeah, obviously plans to have genuinely helped change the way that I've living my life So thank you so much And yeah anything else you'd like to end with not really this is just an honor random point But I've been watching Ali's channel for years and I I had a vision of what this place looked like in my head It's actually much smarter in person. It's really small. This is a productive space. Like you know Every corner of the space Yeah, you know that a junior doctor salary before the youtube like you start growing in But yeah, one day we'll upgrade to a pop a student. Otherwise it's pretty nice It's amazing love it. Yeah, thanks for being on the channel. Thanks for watching and we'll see you in the next video
