# What Am I Doing With My Life?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IhfxUm3cmuM
Hey team, a bit of a rambly life update video today. I discuss how the business is going, stuff that’s happened over the last 6 months, and try to figure out what I want to do with my life. ❤️

Building My Business And Writing My New Book: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EhY122yaLT8&ab_channel=DeepDivewithAliAbdaal
Apply to be part of the team: https://apply.workable.com/aliabdaal/?lng=en
Deep Dive Podcast: https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal
Creatorpreneur Waiting list: https://aliabdaal.com/creatorpreneur-waiting-list/
My vlog channel: https://www.youtube.com/c/AliAbdaaalBehindTheScenes/
The Friendzone Discord - https://discord.gg/Dh2kGavffd


MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

PART-TIME YOUTUBER ACADEMY:
🍿 My 6-week live online course - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ptya_aliabdaal
CREATORPRENEUR
💰 My flag-ship course for scaling up your creative side-hustle - https://creatorpreneur.academy/course


YOUTUBE FOR BEGINNERS COURSE
📸 This is for anyone who'd like to start a YouTube channel. You'll learn everything you need to get started as a YouTuber including how to script, shoot, and edit your first video - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/YouTube-for-Beginners



MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
✍️ The best summaries of books (Shortform) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
📚  How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
Deep Dive Podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/
The podcast that delves into the minds of entrepreneurs, creators and other inspiring people to uncover the philosophies, strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. You can find it by searching “Deep Dive with Ali Abdaal” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc).

🎙 Deep Dive Podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/
The podcast that delves into the minds of entrepreneurs, creators and other inspiring people to uncover the philosophies, strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. You can find it by searching “Deep Dive with Ali Abdaal” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc).

BE MY FRIEND:
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/friendzone/
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
💙  The Friendzone Discord - https://discord.gg/Dh2kGavffd
🎮  Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I’m Ali, a YouTuber, podcaster, soon-to-be author and ex-Doctor working in London, UK. I make videos that explore the strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. I also have a weekly podcast called Deep Dive (https://www.youtube.com/channel/UChfo46ZNOV-vtehDc25A1Ug), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://email.aliabdaal.com).


GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, life update, everything is changing, what am I doing with my life, business, and, life, update, business update, business and life update, ali abdaal life update, I'm moving to america, 
**Date:** 2022-05-12

## Transcript
 Hey friends, welcome back to the channel. This is going to be a bit of a roundly life update video, where I share what's going on in the business, what are our goals for the year, what are the challenges that we are facing as a team, and what's going on in my personal life in terms of just updates and general challenges across the board. All right, let's start with the business side of things and let's start with our goals for the year. So we are in a new calendar year since I last did one of these updates. And so our goals, our business goals for 2022 are as basically, in terms of top line revenue, we want to try and get to five million pounds this year and we're aiming for a pre-tax profit of three million pounds. By the end of the year, we're hoping that maybe we'll have around 25 people in the business and we're hoping that we'll have four million followers, subscribers, etc, across all of our different domains if you add them up. So I think we'll hit that one in particular. So those are our measurements for the year. And then our goal for the year is that firstly, we want to run three successful cohorts of our part-time YouTube Academy. We've run one of them already cohort five and we have cohort six and cohort seven coming up later this year. We also want to try and release four of our own separate courses. So one of them is already in the pipeline. A second one is being filmed in the next couple of weeks. And then two more for Q3 and Q4 of this year. We want to have four courses released by the end of the year and we're kind of fingers crossed hoping that we can make a hundred thousand pounds per month from all of those courses combined. Thirdly, we want my book to have been written, as you might know, I'm working on writing a book. Been spending about three and a half hours each day working on that. I'll tell you more about that further on in the video. Fourthly, we want a classy sales and marketing funnel produced for all of our courses and all up all of our prepared paid products that doesn't seem too scammy but that actually does, and at least people to discover our courses and our products. And finally, as a more of an internal thing, we want to have all of our core processes within the team documented and followed by everyone. So those are our five main business goals and measurements that we are going after this year. And all of this is basically serving our core mission of core purpose as as a business which is to help people live their best life. And right now, the way we do that is by hopefully creating inspiring and educational content along the themes of health, wealth, love, and happiness and impact. And then overall, our kind of ten-year target is to hopefully build a profitable company that helps people while having fun. Don't really care about like attaching numbers to that I've talked before about my philosophy about goals and metrics and numbers and like two next-end. There are necessary even when you're running a business. But I think our ten-year goal is mostly around. Can we build a profitable business that helps people while having fun without really overly worrying about what the numbers look like? Now, if we take this kind of five million pound figure, hopefully, I mean, what we're hoping is that maybe sort of three million-ish comes from our part-time YouTuber Academy. We're hoping that one million-ish comes from the YouTube channel and we're hoping that another one million-ish comes from our courses other than the part-time YouTuber Academy. So things like Skillshare and the courses that we are going to produce ourselves. Within that one million YouTube, I think hopefully about half of it will come from brand deals and sponsorships and the other half hopefully from our YouTube ad sense itself. And then within our YouTuber Academy, we've got cohort five, which we've just finished and then we have cohort six and cohort seven of the course. That's roughly what the breakdown will look like. Hopefully we'll see again, not really overly wedded to the numbers, but like having those numbers as goals helps me and helps the team kind of make sure that we're all okay, like we're all in the same page, we're all kind of going in the same direction. This is what we need from a top-line revenue perspective. Obviously running a business is about way more than just top-line revenue, but if a business is ultimately not profitable, then it doesn't it ceases to exist as a business. And so I think it is important to keep kind of the money side of things. The business side of things at the front of our minds, even while we are trying to do this thing of like creating inspiring educational content, because well, we have to stay. So then we have to stay profitable. All right, next thing to talk about is the team. So currently, I think we have about 19 people in the team. People always ask like, what does everyone in the team do? How the hell do you have 19 people in the team? And so we've been doing a whole restructure over the organization. We've been redoing our organization or charts. And so this is currently what it looks like. So I am at the top, and my role is to be the visionary for the business. We're using terminology from the book Traction by Gina Wickman, which is on the bookshelf somewhere, Reddit. I think last year, and it was completely game-changing. Absolutely fantastic book. And we then have the, so we then have Angus, who is the integrator, i.e. the general manager of the business. Now the business splits into various levels, and we have different people, which make up the leadership team. So underneath Angus, first of all, we have Gordon, who is our head of production. We'll talk more about these in a minute. We've got Tommy, who is our head of P.T.Y.A. our part-time YouTuber Academy. We have Becky, who is the head of the Alibar Brand, which feels weird to refer to myself in the third person, but cool. We have Gareth, who is the head of our new creator, Pranur Brand, more on that in a little minute. And we have Dan, who is our kind of HR slash people slash finance slash admin slash legal guy who does basically all the stuff and who interfaces with our accountants and our solicitor and all that fun from bits. So the seven of us, me, Angus, Gordon, Tommy, Becky, Gareth, and Dan make up the leadership team of the business, and then each of these five people are managing various people in turn. So underneath Gordon, for example, in the production department, we currently have three editors. We have Christian, Christian, and Sean. And we're actually looking to hire another video editor and also a graphic designer. Those are open positions in the team. And in fact, if you want to check out those jobs, they'll be a link in the video description. If you're based in London and you fancy joining this team as a video editor or a graphic designer. Under Tommy, under the part-time YouTuber Academy, we've got a few people. We have Bob, who is like our head of operations. We have Allison, who is our head of student success, and we have Elizabeth, who is our head of content. And we've got two open positions. In the part-time YouTuber Academy, where we're hiring more operations associates, and maybe potentially looking for a data person as well, those things will also be in that job's page if you want to check them out for whatever reason. Then, under Becky, we have lots of people. So firstly, we have Jamie, who is our YouTube channel manager, slash producer. We have Amber, who is our podcast manager, slash producer. We have Grillam, who is like our chief writer. We have NS, who is like my book research assistant, and we have Joe, who is our head of social media. So all those five people are directly reporting to Becky, and Becky's job as the head of the Aliable brand is to kind of make sure everything in the Aliable brand. It sounds weird to say. But everything in the Aliable brand is kind of moving forward, and it's kind of aligned, and that is on brand, and the kind of messaging is consistent, and the vibe is consistent across the board. Garath is in charge of a creative printer, brands under him is George, who is our head of content for a creative printer, and Yakub, who is our head of marketing for basically everything in the business. And then, Dan manages our accountants who are external, and the lawyer from a law firm called Sheridan, who is also external. So basically, in the team overall, we have 19 slash 20 people, depending on how you can't Joe, because he's technically a contractor, but he's also a head of social media. And we're actually also looking to hire three interns for the summer. So we're looking to hire a video production intern. He'll be working with Gordon. We're looking to hire a writing intern. He'll be working with Grillam. And we're looking to hire another intern for a part-time YouTuber Academy. So if you're a student, based on the UK based in London, and you fancy joining our summer internship program, again, details down in the video description. So that was what the old chart looks like. And now we're going to break down all the different aspects of the business, what they're doing and what the main challenges are before I go onto my personal life. But because it is a sunny day, we're going to go a little bit outside, take the camera off the sticks. So I'll see you in just a moment. All right. So we are in a park, and put a nice day. Let's talk about some of the different aspects of the business. So starting with our part-time YouTuber Academy. Now, this is a thing that we started in October of 2020. And initially, it was a bit of like, hey, we'll just see what happens. We'll see how it goes. We'll make this course on how to be YouTubers. And initially, we expected 10 people to sign up for the first cohort. But 360 people sign up for the first cohort, which was awesome. And now we've been running it five times now. We've just finished cohort five. And so far, we've had over 2,000 students go through the cohorts. And fairly accidentally, the part-time YouTuber Academy has become the single biggest revenue driver in the entire business. And we've ended up in this weird position where it's like, I've been doing YouTube for five years. And I've made more money teaching people how to do YouTube than by actually doing YouTube. Which is actually a fairly common thing, apparently, in the world of education. You know, sometimes, if you're a personal trainer, for example, and then you start coaching other personal trainers, you actually make more money coaching other personal trainers than you do actually being a personal trainer. But that's by the bite. So yeah, it's become a super cool part of our business. And we've got Tommy as our head of the part-time YouTuber Academy. And underneath him, we've got Bob, Alison, and Elizabeth, and we're hiring a few more people there. Yeah, it's kind of cool. Like, we've ended up with this community of people around the world who are all wanting to be YouTubers. And we've got an in-person event happening in London like next week. So we've got, like, I think 50 plus people. I think we have possibly even 100 people coming over in person to hang out and do some workshops and things like that. And, you know, one thing that I really liked about my life at university was that I got to teach people in real life. And then when I was working as a doctor, I was also a physiology supervisor at Cambridge University for go to college. And that was super fun because I got to teach people in real life. But since pandemic and since becoming a quite full-time YouTuber, I haven't really had the chance to do much teaching in real life. But I'm really excited about the direction of the YouTuber Academy because what if we could do in person workshops about teaching people how to use cameras and how to edit and how to be YouTubers and all of the skills associated with being a creator? Could we do that in person as well as online currently? It's all online, but, you know, I think there's vibes about doing it in person. And I guess one of the challenges with the part-time YouTuber Academy is to what extent we want this to actually be a major part of the business. Because it's just something that happened completely by accident. If I ever thought about what I want my life to look like, you know, a few years ago, I would have said I would have said I want to continue making YouTube videos, I want to continue in the field of personal development, help people live their best lives, all that kind of stuff, reading writing teaching. And I guess it's one of those things around like where, you know, it's all well in good planning your life in advance. But then opportunities arise and stuff happens. And things never really work out exactly as you planned, but sometimes things work out better than you planned. So, going back to the challenge, the challenge right now is figuring out where the YouTuber Academy fits into our business overall. How much do I want to continue to be involved with it? It's really fun doing the live sessions, but there's so much work behind the scenes that's involved. The team work ridiculously hard to put it all together. And we also need to hire more people to kind of make it happen. And in a way, the YouTuber Academy is its own business within our business. And partly why we have 20 people on the team is because like five of them are basically full-time supporting the part-time YouTuber Academy. So, yeah, we just finished court, five of the course. I think we did over a million dollars in revenue for this cohort. We've had really great students satisfaction ratings. We've been analyzing all the survey and the data. And we have our official team debrief tomorrow for like five hours in the morning before I go to Scotland for a friend's wedding, where we figure out like, you know, what went well, what went not so well, what can we learn, how can we improve things for next time, how can we hire more people, how can we get more students to put us on board, all of the fun stuff associated with managing the operations for such a big operation. So, that is the part-time YouTuber Academy. Next up, we have the creator printer. It feels like I'm doing one of these ads like walking up with a camera guy with a gimbal following. Anyway, we have the creator printer brand. Now, what is the deal with that? So, initially, and I think I talked about this in my last update video, we wanted to make a whole like part-time brand. We wanted to make like part-time podcasts to part-time YouTuber, part-time creator, part-time writer, part-time lover, you know, this whole suite of things around the kind of part-time brand. But then actually, one thing that, well, one project that sort of put failed, but that we sort of shelves this, well, in the last few months, was that we were going to make a YouTube channel called the part-time creator Academy. And, in fact, we actually made a bunch of videos for it, and we had the whole thing going on the way. And the vision for this channel was that it was going to be kind of like masterclass, but for creators, for free on YouTube. Like, could we make the best videos in the world that teach people how to be part-time creators in terms of like YouTube, podcasting, writing, drawing, etc, etc. Anything associated with being a creator, but a few months into the project, like we actually released a few videos on this YouTube channel, and then we realized that, hang on, it's actually so much work that's trying to create a new YouTube channel completely from scratch. You know, the vision for this channel was that I wouldn't be the only one in the videos. We also have Jamie and Elizabeth and Angus and Gordon and George and the rest of the team, also featuring in videos and kind of like hosting certain videos. We're going to do like creator breakdowns. And I still think this is a very good idea, and we do want to do it at some point. But what we were thinking one evening in the Angus and Jamie, where we were just like hanging out in the studio, and we were like, this thing feels like a very heavy lift to this creator academy channel. And I just had the thought like, what if we just didn't do it? What if we just completely scrapped the idea of this creator academy channel? What would happen? And we kind of just like hypothesized about what that would look like if we just completely scrapped this aspect of the business. And as I was thinking about it, I felt this enormous weight lifting off my shoulders. And you know, similarly, everyone in the team who I mentioned this idea too afterwards, they were like, oh yeah, that's a relief. Because even though we have 20 people in the team, we were still trying to do too much. And there is always a danger when you're running a business of, you know, in this book, the 22 in need of the laws of marketing, they call it the law of line extension, where when you're good at doing something, then you think, oh great, we're good at doing the thing, therefore we should diversify doing another thing. And we can apply our goodness of doing one thing to the other thing. But actually there's a real danger that you won't actually be good at doing the second thing. And there's a danger of like spreading yourself too thin. And so what we decided to do was completely scrapped this project. And therefore the part time brand got replaced with the creator of Prano brand, we filmed a whole course and it's in the process of being edited called the part-time creator Prano, which is going to be sick. It's basically all about how creators can think more like businesses, which is all the stuff that I've learned and the team have learned over the last two, three years of growing this as a proper business. And then we thought, you know what, like, what if we made like a Twitter account for the creator Prano, where we break down, but basically we do all the stuff we're going to do in the part-time creator Academy YouTube channel. But we do it as a Twitter account instead, or as an email newsletter, or as a podcast. Rather than as a YouTube channel, because it is such a heavy lift starting a YouTube channel, because you're basically building a media company completely from scratch, whereas Twitter, newsletter and podcast are way lower lifts that don't necessarily require me to be the front facing front and central times, especially because my time is limited these days, as I'm spending four hours a day, basically writing my book. And so we're going to be launching the creator Prano brand hopefully over the next few weeks, along with the course, the Twitter, the newsletter, the podcast. So if you want more details about that, there'll be a link down below. But really, like one of the things that I think about in terms of like the future of this business is how do we build stuff that doesn't rely on me as an individual? Because right now, this YouTube channel is the foundation of the entire business. And if the YouTube channel collapses, or if I get hit by a bus or if I got cancelled, then the whole business basically crumbles around me, and everyone has that up a job, and this is not very good. So can we build a brand that is tied to me, but not so intrinsically tied to me, that like if something were to happen to me, or if I become unavailable, or if I don't want to do this stuff anymore, then the whole business folds and crumbles. And so that was the idea behind the part-time brand, and that is the idea behind this creator Prano brand. And so we've got Garrith leading the brand, and we've got George, who was initially one of the writers on our team, who's now the head of content for the creator Prano brand, focusing on the Twitter and the newsletter. And so the idea is that hopefully all do is, you know, each month will take insights from like all of our, you know, my YouTube channel, this YouTube channel, all of the other aspects of the business, the podcast, the second channel, the vlog channel. And so I want to accolate insights from all of our YouTuber and podcaster and creator friends. And can we turn that into actionable, like articles and Twitter threads and stuff that will help people be part-time creators or become creator Prano's i.e. creators that treat their thing as a business, not just as a creative side hustle. But really the idea behind it is like, can we do it in a way that is so that's not intrinsically tied to me, where it's, it doesn't need to be my face on camera and doing all the stuff. And really, I think the way that this creator Prano journey goes for most people is that initially you start off as like an employee, where you have no autonomy. Well, you have sort of some amount of autonomy, but very little autonomy because you're being told what to do. And then you think, oh, I want to become an entrepreneur or I want to become a creator, because that will give me more autonomy. I will have the freedom to be able to just do what I want, which is currently the place I am where I do, you only have the freedom to do what I want. But at the same time, that freedom comes with kind of golden handcuffs in a way like shackles and that in a way that yes, I do have the freedom to do what I want. But I actually don't because I could need to film YouTube videos every week. I need to film the podcast every week. I need to keep showing up because what we don't want is for this to build this business up to a point where it's ridiculously successful and then for things to stagnate. And so it almost kind of feels like running on a bit of a hamster wheel to constantly try getting the same results. Because in a way, like, you know, I'm a lot of people who are following my YouTube channel in 2017 when I was making medical themed content. There's a lot of the same people that are following my channel now because over the last five years, as I've grown, as people have grown, you know, if you think about the YouTubers you watch right now, possibly not the same as the YouTubers that you watch five years ago. And so there's this constant level of churn right where even though the subscriber count keeps keeps on going up, though the view count doesn't necessarily because you're having to get in more subscribers to combat the churn. And so it does feel like this constant wheel of like spinning and spinning on it. Which is fine because it's really fun. But the thing with the business is if we're planning for the future, what if I no longer find this fun? What if I decide that actually, I don't want to make YouTube videos every single week because I want to focus on the book or I want to focus on other things or I want to spend time with my friends and family. How do we make the business more anti-fragile? How can we build a brand or brands that are not intrinsically tied to me? So the creator Panero is one of them. We also got essentially, which is our product line. So we've made some stationary. And within that brand, we're thinking like, do we want to make a kind of a keyboard? We want to make a bag? We're working on this hourglass set. Like, can we make physical products? Whether brand is not like the Ali Abdullah merch store because again, that's reliant on me. But it's its own brand and I act as the sort of marketing department for that brand. Anyway, that's a theory behind all this kind of stuff. And I think that's like the next level up of creator Panero's. So my friend James Hoffman I think is really good at this. So he is kind of the world's most famous coffee YouTuber, as far as I know. But he also owns his own coffee shop, he owns a coffee roasting business, he owns his own merch company. But all of those are things that are not so tied to him that he can't like have a kind of balanced, healthy family life. Because yeah, and so that's where we're trying to get to with this creator Panero brand. I hope one at the same time, actually providing a really useful service to anyone who wants to become a creator or a creator Panero by kind of breaking down what's worked for other people and giving all the tips. Not in the format of a YouTube channel, but in the format of a Twitter account and news letter and a podcast. So yeah, more details in the video description. If you want to join the mailing list for whenever that is going to be ready. All right. So that was the creator Panero stuff. Now let's talk about kind of the main foundation of the business, which is, quote, the early of the odd brand. And again, it seems weird to be talking about myself and the third person like the early of the odd brand. But it kind of is a brand now. And that's again, the thing with being a creator is that you start off as an individual. But then very quickly, if things become successful, you start to think of yourself as like a business bird would or as like a brand would kind of thing. So please forgive the weirdness and I know how it comes across. But you know, hey, you know, I think one of the mistakes that creators make is not thinking of themselves enough as as a business and instead thinking too much as individuals or as creatives. But yeah, let's take a step back and think about like what is like what is the early of the odd brand like overall and where do I want it to go? You know, we've got a bunch of different things across a bunch of different platforms. We've got the main channel. We've got the podcast. We've got the second channel, the vlog channel. We have all of the social media platforms. So Twitter, LinkedIn, TikTok, Facebook, Snapchat. And we're forgetting Instagram. We've got the website. We've got newsletter. We've got the book that I'm writing. So that's quite a lot of stuff. And if, for example, you're a brand like, I don't know, Apple, you'll have like a marketing team who is in charge of all of the different channels of the brand and a whole brand strategy for each of the different brand channels. And that's kind of how we are starting to think about this. Like what does this look like over the long term? And if we think of, believe me, as a brand, what is the brand strategy for the short media and long term? And so we've got Becky in charge of this now. We've recently promoted Becky to kind of the head of the earlier blah brand where she'll be in charge of basically moving the brand forward. This is the thing that I find probably most I must struggle with right now. Like what is actually the point to cool, been doing YouTube for five years, started off making content about medical school, then made content about productivity and tech. And now I'm sort of this life guru type figure to some people it seems. And it's really fun and it's growing really nicely and it's cool and all that. But like where, why does it go from here? Honestly, I'm not, I'm not really sure. Like this is, this is one of the difficulties we're having in the team whereby, me, as the kind of the under of the business, the CEO, the visionary to use the traction terminology, I need to have some kind of vision, some kind of plan for where we're going. And I don't really know, I don't really know what I want from this. I don't really know what it looks like in the future. And I guess this is enough of an unusual career that there aren't that many examples of people who are doing it in a way where I can, I can point to someone to be like, oh, I want to be the next that person. But if I were to try, I think it would be a combination of Tim Ferriss, Naval Robert Kant, Ryan Holliday, Kalenewport, and like Derek Cibbers, if any of those names mean anything to you. Those are the sort of people who are having my mind just like, you know, if I could do some kind of combination of what they're doing, then that would be awesome. I think overall what I want to do is, basically, spend my time reading, writing, and teaching. And I kind of want to have the freedom to learn and teach stuff on my own terms. So what does that look like? I think what that looks like is that in the future, I want to, like, I'm just really interested in personal development, and I suspect always will be really interested in, like, evidence-based stuff, because medical background and all that stuff. I like figuring out how we can optimize our lives for the better. And given that's the stuff I'm interested in, given that I'm also, like, very interested in teaching, I like teaching that kind of stuff to other people. Not so much in a sense of being a guru, like, I know the answers, but more in the sense of, like, hey, let's all figure this out together. And here's a paper that I read that talked about procrastination. And here's a technique that you can use from that thing that I found particularly helpful. That kind of stuff. And I think I'd like to do that for the long term. Obviously, I reserve the right to change my mind if new, if new data, or new preferences should arise. But that's the direct kind of the direction I want to go. For example, Tim Ferris is a great, because he, in his brand, was initially all about, like, productivity, then he expanded into, like, health and, like, wellness and general life stuff. And then he started his podcast and brought other people on board. And now he's released more books about that. And now he's going into the psychedelic stuff and, like, the mental health stuff. So he's, like, his career has kind of gone sort of exponentially bigger over time. But also, he seems to be following his interests and focusing on the things that he's enjoying, rather than being tied to being the four-hour guy or the productivity guy. So that's pretty cool. I think Ryan Holidays career as a book author is interesting, because of his lifestyle. He spends four hours a day working, you know, nine a.m. to one p.m. lives on a farm near Austin, Texas, apparently. And yeah, just does reading and writing in the mornings. And then spends the afternoon evening to hang out with his family and taking his kids to school and going for a walk in the park. And seems to have a really solid balance life. But at the same time, with that, what looks like a four-hour workday, he's also producing prolific output and writes a new book every two years or so. It always hits in your times for a cellulist. It's always really good. And he's really bringing stoicism to the masses as it were. And genuinely, the people that read his books, including me, have, like, they've profoundly impacted me because they've taught me about stoicism, this school of ancient great philosophy, that I wouldn't necessarily have come across otherwise. So that's really cool in terms of like a life setup. Someone like Cal Newport is interesting, again, has the straddles this world of being a teacher, because he's a professor, I think, at Caltech or something like that in computer science. And so he does real life teaching, which I think is really cool. But he also writes blogs and books and podcasts and has a YouTube channel now recently. And that kind of life seems kind of interesting. Someone like Derek Sibbers, Ditto sort of thought leader, Esk, wasn't entrepreneur, sold his company, and then writes philosophically about life. And similarly, Naval Ravicon, Angel Investor, founder of Angel List. But really, you know, famous to me for being like just a deep thinker and a bit of a philosopher. And like, things, interesting things about life and his wisdom and stuff. I think really applies to my own life and applies to lives and millions of other people and helps us live better lives. So if I could do some sort of amalgamation of what all these guys are doing, where I can try my best to live my own best life and to be kind of on this journey of personal development and stuff. And as I discover cool stuff, I can make videos about it, I can write about it, great books about it, maybe. And I can teach it to other people, kind of as a documentary. And so I become kind of like a guinea pig for trying these new things out and then sharing them with other people. That's, I think, what I want from quote, my brand. And most of the stuff that I care about is the content and the teaching side of it. Like, I love reading and I love the writing and I love the making of videos. What I don't love so much is the logistics is the thinking about the data. It's like, oh, what's the title of this video going to be? I don't know. What's the thumbnail for this video going to be? Don't really know, don't really care. How do we title up podcast in a way that gets the most clicks? Because actually, the title matters a huge or huge amount. How do we look at the analytics to see where the retention was falling off and stuff? It's those things which are really important in building a kind of media brand. But those things that I am not very good at personally or I'm just not massively interested in. And so that's really where the team comes in. Like, Jamie is our YouTube producer, our Amber is our podcast producer or Becky is like the brand manager. The team can figure those details out and they can feed back to me. But like, hey, people don't like it when you rambles. So maybe avoid rambling so much about it. Okay, cool, noted. That's fine. But I don't have to be in the weeds digging through the data and being like, oh my god, how do that video perform? And what I found is like, the more I can dissociate myself personally from the numbers. Like, I'm not really going to look at how many views this video gets. I don't really care how many views this video gets. That's David's job, sir. Look at it and be like, hey, this video didn't do too well because of ABCDE. Let's improve that for next time. And that's awesome. That's fantastic. We're on this constant source of source of improvement. But it's nice for me not to have to worry about those details. And I think that that's another place that you know, obviously starting out for two years as a sort of creator. I had to do all that kind of stuff myself or the video I was saying or the camera set up or the lighting or the data and let's take all of it was all coming from me. But now that we've got a team, I can lean on the people who are better at those sorts of things. Like, we've got people in the team who have sick it data. Whereas I don't really care about data myself. And so this is the great part of getting to this level of credit for know where you can leverage other people's skills. Gordon, the cameraman is way better at cameras than I will ever be. And so it's perfect because I can fully trust the Gordon will deal with making stuff look pretty. So I don't then have to think about it. And I can focus my energies on how do I make the best content possible and how do I teach in the most effective way possible, which is the thing that I personally care about. So coming back to the Ali of the Abrand, one of the different facets of it. So we've got YouTube, which is managed by Jamie or YouTube manager slash producer. We've got the deep dive podcast, which I think is like pretty fun and interesting. And it started a few months ago and we're already on like, I don't know, 75,000 subscribers on the YouTube channel and several tens of thousands of downloads per episode, which is awesome. But again, I don't really care about the numbers myself. It's just sort of conversations that I have with inspiring people, authors, entrepreneurs, creators about how they go to where they are. And like the strategies and tools that we can use on our share journey of living, living our best lives. So the podcast is really fun for me, especially because I don't have to deal with the logistics. Initially, I think it was like this time last year where Angus, I think it was Angus and our friend Hassan had the idea that, hey, we should start a podcast. And immediately I was like, oh, but that's such a fact. Like, I already felt like I didn't have enough time in my life. The thought of emailing people and booking guests and dealing with logistics and calendars and cameras and all that stuff just made me think, oh, this is not going to be fun. But then what Angus said was, what if you didn't have to do any of that? What if the team just took care of everything and all you had to do was rock up and have a conversation with someone? I was like, oh, all of a sudden, that sounds really fun. And that is now basically the setup we've got for the podcast where I rock up. Once a week or so, have a conversation with someone cool. I spend some time preparing for that conversation. And obviously, I know who the guests are because I mean, we have this little whole database of people that we're reaching out to. But Amber deals with all the logistics, Gordon and Sean deal with the camera setup, Gordon and Sean and Christian deal with all the editing, Amber deals with all the analytics. Like, all of that, none, the bits that are less interesting for me are the bits that I don't have to deal with, which is why me, the podcast is super fun. And it's been super useful for people. We've had some really good feedback and a mid-season survey. And we've just finished two seasons of it. And we're going to be starting season three in the next few weeks. So if you haven't yet checked out the podcast, you might like to check it out. I'll put a link down below if you want to see that. In other exciting news, we are also starting a daily vlog. Yes, this is a thing. You know, I know I talked about how we're doing too much. But I think the daily vlogs are a bit of a 30-day experiment to see what happens. So we have a vlog channel. It's called Aliablevlogs. It used to be called Ali's Appendix. And then it became Aliablevlog behind scenes. And the name changed. And like, it's still not massively sold on Aliablevlogs. Maybe we'll go back to Ali's Appendix. Let me know what you think in the comments. But it is a second channel where, like, this channel is other than videos like this one. Usually where I sit down and I present something that, hey, here is a strategy that you can use to be more productive. Here is a framework for better skin care. Here's a framework for better longevity or health and stuff. Whereas on the second channel on the vlog channel, it's more like kind of day in the life stuff. Kind of the inspirations here are some people like Gary Vaynerchuk and Stephen Bartlett who do a good job of documenting the things that they are doing as entrepreneurs, as creators, as business people. And I think there's something really cool about that. Like, I really wish these people, I mentioned Tim Ferriss, Cal Newport, Ryan Holiday, Derek Sivers, Naval. I really wish these people had vlogs where you just could get a bit of an insight into what they were actually doing day to day. But they tend not to do that kind of thing for whatever reason. Maybe because it's too much effort, maybe because they just don't want to do it. But I think that would be really cool if, yeah, basically I can document my life. And if it's useful for some people, then that could be interesting. We've had a few comments on the vlog being like, hey, this kind of stuff is more interesting than the main channel content. Because the main channel content, like, can get a bit tiring after a while. If it's just like, kind of the same self improvement advice again and again and again. Whereas a lot of people in the audience are like, oh, we actually prefer the vlogs because it's a bit more raw, it's a bit more relatable, it's a bit more honest, all that all that kind of stuff. And it's just been really fun doing the vlogs. So we've done it for the last three days so far. And we're planning to do it for the next 30 days as a bit of an experiment to see what happens. And if it goes well, and if it's enjoyable, and if it's fun, and we think it's useful, then we'll continue doing the daily vlog. And I do like the idea of daily vlogging my life for the foreseeable future. So that is what we're doing with the vlog channel. Again, if you haven't checked those out, that'll be linked down below if you want to see. Next we have our social media stuff. So we've got Joe in charge of social media on like Twitter and Instagram and LinkedIn and TikTok. Previously, what we did with social media was that it was very kind of repurposed. I agree with filming a YouTube video for the main channel and then we chop bits out of that video and we'd post them on Instagram or on Twitter or chop bits out of a podcast and post them. We still do that to an extent, but not very much. I think the way that I want to start thinking of this is that like treating each of the social platforms as like, it's own thing. If I'm doing a video about productivity tips on YouTube and it's like a 20-minute long video that explores like 10 different things, can we turn those things into 10 different TikToks? Where the content we create is actually native to the platform itself. So it's not like we're copying and pasting the same video on YouTube and just chucking on TikTok. But in fact, we are creating 10 separate TikToks where I'm giving 10 different productivity tips in a way that works on TikTok and that works for that audience. Can we turn that video into a thread on Twitter or into like a graphical image or something like that, which is easier to share and absorb for the people that are on Twitter primarily rather than on YouTube? Can we turn it into an Instagram carousel, which is nice and easy to consume on Instagram? Can we turn into a LinkedIn post, which is these people people to consume on LinkedIn? And really, it's moving away from thinking of myself as I'm a YouTuber and then I repurpose stuff and put it on other platforms and mortar words again, this sounds a bit like cringe. But I'm trying to be, I guess, a thought leader or like a teacher? I think teacher is the right word. I'm trying to be a teacher and the thing that I want to teach is like the message. But the message can take different forms depending on what platform it's for. Like a message on TikTok is very different to a message on a two-hour long podcast and the same message is very different on Twitter thread or on a YouTube video. And so how can we think about message first and idea first and then platform second and then how can we use the team to kind of, who have expertise and use the different platforms to basically figure out the best way of delivering that message for the different platforms? So that's what we're doing on the social front. Similarly, website, blog posts and stuff, we've kind of been neglecting the website a little bit. It's not a huge priority right now, but maybe that's something that will hire for like a website manager or something like that. And then finally, we come to the book. Now, the book is the major project that I've been working on for the last kind of year or so. We now have a new editor on the team. Her name is Rachel and she's fantastic. And we have our two editors from Penguin and McMillan, Rowan and Ryan, who are great as well and very involved in the process. We've got my agent Kate from Peter Fraser Dunlop, a literary agency based here in London. And on our team we have Inners and we have Jack, who are kind of like our research assistants who are helping kind of make sure that the stuff that we're putting in the book is evidence-based and is legit and has like genuine science-backed research behind it, which is awesome. And so yeah, the book is making progress. I can't reveal too many details about it right now, but yeah, I've been spending basically every day 9 a.m. to 12 30 p.m. that's like my book a writing time. We have nailed the concept. I think we've got a title that we're happy with. And now we're just trying to figure out like what are the chapter outlines looking like. And we are hoping tentatively, I'm going to say this now, tentatively, can we get a first draft by the end of July? And the final quote deadline is the end of this calendar year, so around December. And hopefully fingers crossed, the book will come out in January of 2024 because it takes ages for traditional publishing to spin its wheels and for things to actually come out. That's very exciting. Working on the book is been really fun. Earlier today I was reading a paper about procrastination from Pierre Steele, who is a researcher from Calgary University in procrastination. And it was really cool. It's really cool going back to like the scientific roots of like my life. And reading papers again and highlighting stuff and like having a note taking system. And it feels like almost being back at university where I'm working on this research question of like how do we be more kind of sustainably, sustainably productive in a nice way. And how do we tie in all the research that people have done over the decades over the years in terms of like psychology and neuroscience and behavioral economics and all that fun stuff. And how do we turn it into a book that has interesting stories and interesting anecdotes and bits from my own life, but also bits from scientific studies and is packaged in a way that is compelling and accessible for people to read. So that's a really fun project to be working on. And I can definitely see myself wanting to write more books after this. But that is the thing that's taking up the bulk of my time. Final thing to talk about in the Alibar brand is that we are actually taking our community more seriously. So we actually have a discord server called the friend zone where linked number low if you want to join. It's completely free where we're going to be doing more community stuff stuff like live kind of zoom, co-working sessions for when I'm writing my book. I kind of did those a bit during lockdown. They were very popular. I want to resurrect those. And we want to get like the community involved and have been in terms of like giving content suggestions and thumbnail ideas and that kind of stuff. But also people seem to be forming their own little community on that discord server which is nice. It's pretty active if people talk about tech, about studying, about productivity, about like rating setups. It's pretty cool. I browse through it occasionally. I'm not at all the time because I'm focusing on actually when I work. But if you would like to join the friend zone community completely free, it's always going to be free. There'll be a link down below to the discord server. All right, let's talk about a few challenges. I'm going to walk, oh let's walk in that direction. Let's talk about a few challenges in the business now. We were already talked about the challenge of like what does this look like in the short-term medium-term long-term. It's a pretty uncertain future. Businesses like this are not massively well. There's not a lot of them. And so we don't really have a playbook to follow. But it's just like we're doing our best. But there is this like when you have a team of 20 people, there's balance between like experimentation and stability. I think as a solo entrepreneur, as a solo creator, maybe even with a team of two or three people, it's very easy to move fast and just be like, all right cool. This thing sounds cool. Let's do the thing. Whereas when you have a team of 20 people, this level of like, I'm very kind of mind-changing and like, oh my mind's always going in a dozen different directions. It's very easy for that to become really annoying for the team who need a little bit of stability in their lives to actually do their best work. And so what we're trying to figure out is what is the best set up for this? How do we retain our flexibility? How do we retain our kind of experimentation need kind of attitude? But what also adding a little element of stability for the team? And one thing that we're thinking of right now is can we make a roadmap or something for the next year or two? Where the next three months is very like set in stone? And we'll like, we know what's happening over the next three months. But where six months, nine months, 12 months is fuzzier. So we have a bit of a rough outline of what might happen in the business around that time. But it's not the sort of thing that is so set in stone that we can't change things if we need to. If new data comes to light, we'll be having new idea. Nothing's like that. I think another challenge is more of personal one is kind of figuring out what do I want my own life set up to look like? And then how does that relate to the business? So for example, one thing I've been toying with the idea of ages is the idea of traveling the world. I wanted to do that in 2020, but then lockdown happened just after I quit my job as a doctor. And so I couldn't do that. And now we've got the studio in London and stuff. But if I do want to travel around the world for an extended period of time, what does that mean for the team? What does that mean for the studio? What does that mean for the business overall? Right now we're a fairly hybrid team. We've got I think three people who are remote right now, but everyone else is hybrid and in person in London quite a lot of the time. Do we want to continue to build a hybrid team? Do we want to go fully remote? Do we want to go fully in person? What's that process going to look like? And how does it relate to? Yeah, basically I need to figure out what to do with my life and then therefore the business kind of ideas will follow. But hopefully if we can make these extra brands, create a printer essentially the product line, any future brands that we create. If we can make those successful, then it means that my own kind of life set up gets associated from what's actually happening in the business and then maybe you're like, oh, business doesn't need to uproot itself if I decided that if I decided I want to live in a different country for example. Kind of another random thing is like what do we do with our studio? Our lease is inspiring in October and I don't think we're going to renew it. I don't think we want to keep this place even though it's very nice. It's a stupidly expensive and we've realized that what we actually need is a separate room for YouTube videos, a separate room for podcasts so we can have multiple sets and we can have things set up at all times just to reduce the friction. And so what we're thinking about is can we rent as a business like a three or four bedroom apartment, make one bedroom the YouTube studio, one bedroom the podcast studio, one bedroom maybe YouTube set number two and another bedroom maybe like a spare guest bedroom for anytime team members who live slightly further away are coming to visit London. Can we just make our own little hotel as well where people can just live there if they want to? That would be pretty cool. That's kind of where I'm leaning towards right now and so we're in the process of trying to look for some kind of space. If anyone is watching this and you have you are or you know someone who's in a state agent or someone who manages property and stuff we would love to rent an absolutely sick place three or four bedroom apartment or house or something, preferably in central London please do get in touch earlier earlier.com and we'll see yeah it would be kind of cool if we can if we can work something out because right now we're just looking at websites and right move and things like that so maybe maybe there's something interesting there and finally I guess let's talk about personal life updates a little bit and so in terms of the personal life again I like to split things up into health wealth love and happiness and I just want to talk about each of these a little bit in turn if anyone is still interested in terms of health I think that's actually going pretty well me and Gordon my videographer and Jim buddy have been doing a regular workout regimen where we're working at three times a week. Still not taking my diet over seriously but I am kind of thinking when I do order a takeaway how kind of order a healthier takeaway rather than a unhealthy takeaway kind of doubling a little bit with cooking I've been hosting a few dinner parties where I cook in the dinner parties still not definitely not cooking regularly at all but it is yeah it is a thing that I've been doubling with and generally I'm pretty happy with how the health stuff is going. Did a badminton session earlier today along with the gym session and I feel really good now that I did some exercise and activity during the day and that feels awesome so I want to incorporate sports, badminton and squash on my jams in particular a little bit more but that's happening on a health front and I do definitely want to make more make health more of a priority in my life. I'll talk more about that in just a moment. Let's move on to the wealth side so we've already talked all about the career stuff you know investments stock and share portfolio real estate crypto although that stuff going reasonably well working with a kind of wealth slash financial advisor now which is kind of weird and cool and interesting. Never thought I would get into that position but here we are. The love thing is interesting so within love I would put like friendships and relationships in terms of relationships as you might have heard from a previous podcast episode I now have a girlfriend who's been going strong for about eight months now and that's really fun. It's going yeah it's nice more details to come about that at some point and then on the friendship front I think I still do a bad job of keeping in touch with friends and so one thing that I want to make more of a priority in my life is for example hosting dinner parties and just having people over and there was a really really good article I read on the Harvard Business Review which was an article written in 2010 by Plato and Christianson who was a Harvard Business School professor and it's called How Will You Measure Your Life and one really interesting thing he says in that article is that like when when this chap was at university he spent an hour every day kind of he's big on the Christianity stuff so like reading the Bible and trying to figure out his purpose in life and there was a line in the article where he said that like when when you have a spare hour in your day what is the thing that you default to? For me when I have a spare hour in my day the thing that I default to is something worked related I think oh I can't work and work on the book for an extra hour or work on the YouTube video for an extra hour or plan this video out better so it's a bit less rambly and less all of the place and less long but one thing about like what what do you notice in the article is that like you know when you think about how you'll measure your life like if we think about regrets of people who are on the on the deathbed they all basically say I wish I hadn't worked so hard and so when I have a spare hour of my day why is work the thing that I default to? What if instead the thing that I default to two was something to do with health or relationships and I've been trying this new model out for the last last couple of weeks and it's actually been really good it's like I have a spare hour and like oh cool let me organize some kind of brunch where I can vital my friends great that's on a half an hour and now my friends are coming over for brunch like quite a lot of friends in a thing that wouldn't have happened if I'd spent that hour working on the book or if I said I have a spare half an hour I think okay is there something I can do for my health maybe I'll just go for a walk maybe I'll go to the gym for a quick session half an hour is better than nothing and thinking in those terms of like what is my default use of time and how can I make sure that the default use of my time is something that is actually contributing towards my overall life satisfaction rather than the default which is to just keep on working because to be honest for me and for people like me work will take care of itself like I don't need to struggle to motivate myself to work a bit because the work is very fun I really enjoy it but I do then run the risk of letting the other more important areas of my life like health and relationships and happiness kind of take a backseat and so I guess for me it's about kind of re-figuring out this balance whatever that looks like and finally in terms of happiness I can't imagine being much happier than I am right now but I've kind of been saying that for years I think I'm very lucky and that I don't really have any mental health issues and I believe in all the stoicism type stuff and I think I'm just generally prone to being very fairly zen and fairly happy and not particularly anxious about stuff in fairness also I've lived a very privileged life where I haven't really had any adverse circumstances so maybe something will come that completely kicks me in the teeth and that yeah is really bad for my mental health but right now things are going really well and yeah one thing I often ask myself is like what is the difference between the life I would want to have if I won the lottery and the life that I have right now like what would my calendar look like if I didn't need to worry about making money and broadly it's actually fairly similar to what it looks like now I think I'd brought to be kind of doing the same things like reading writing teaching I still even making YouTube videos I'll be doing podcast episodes maybe it won't be doing like paid courses might probably just make them free but other than that everything else about my life would stay and I think I do like to check in with myself and look at my calendar and be like is there anything in the calendar this week that I haven't enjoyed doing and then I figure out a way to delegate it or eliminate it in some capacity so that's been super nice and that's one of the really nice parts about being a creator printer or being an entrepreneur of any kind where you actually can just do that you can decide what life's that if you want for yourself and you can take the steps to make it happen whereas in a previous life when I was working as a doctor and I had my schedule controlled by my rotor coordinator a lot of things in my life were outside of my control and so I guess the final thing I'd like to say in this video is just a massive thank you like because of you because of you guys because of this YouTube channel my life is completely transformed over the last five years the stuff I'm doing now the people are meeting the friends are making like it's just stuff that I would never have dreamed even possible and it's all come as a result of like me making these silly internet videos and you guys continuing to watch them so yep massive thank you for your support on that front that brings us the end of this video if you're if you like this and you got this far I would love it if you can leave a clover emoji as usual no idea how long this video is going to be probably ridiculously long and if you haven't seen last quarters like six months ago the update the life update do click on that video over there because that is you know if you're interested what my exact thoughts but exactly about six months ago when we first moved into the studio and I first moved to London so you can see how things have changed and maybe some of something in this video has been helpful to you but either way thank you so much for watching hit the subscribe button if you're already and I'll see you hopefully in the next video bye
