# My Favourite iPhone XS Apps
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ii6V_-svh28
In this video, I go through 30 apps that I have on my iPhone XS Max that I use regularly for various purposes. To save you time, I talk about these in 6 separate categories so you can skip ahead to whichever you're most interested in. Enjoy xx

Rosetta Stone - http://bit.ly/RosettaStonexAli
- Use the coupon code ALI50 to get 50% off 😁

💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking 

📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

LINKS

1. Audible - http://geni.us/AudibleAli
2. My Goodreads Profile - https://www.goodreads.com/user/show/45329045-ali-abdaal
3. My Spotify 'Study with Me' playlist - http://bit.ly/AliStudyWithMe

TIMESTAMPS

00:33 - Organisation and Productivity apps
03:41 - Education and Learning apps
04:54 - Reading apps
08:11 - Writing apps
12:30 - Audio and Music apps
15:37 - Photo and Video apps

🎬 My online course on video editing - https://skl.sh/32TpEvm
🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal


Who am I:

I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

My most popular videos:

- How I take notes on my iPad Pro in medical school - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=waR3xBDHMqw
- Mu 2018 university desk setup - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zdew7At9S2U
- How to study for exams - Evidence based revision tips - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ukLnPbIffxE
- Study with Me + My revision method - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yiRYn97GJhM
- iPad Pro vs iPad (2018) comparison for college / university students - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tIdU4Sw6a5Y
**Keywords:** iphone apps, whats on my iphone, iphone x apps, iphone xs apps, iphone xs max apps, apps for iphone, best apps for iphone, iphone best apps, ios apps, iphone apps 2018, ios apps 2018, whats on my iphone 2018, whats on my phone, iphone x, iphone xs max, iphone xs, whats on my iphone x, whats on my iphone xs, what is on my iphone, whats on my iphone xs max, 
**Date:** 2018-11-01

## Transcript
 Hey guys, welcome back to the channel. If you're new here, my name is Ali. I'm a junior doctor working in Cambridge and in this video, I'm going to be taking me through the apps on my iPhone. So to give this video some semblance of structure, I'm going to be talking about these apps in six distinct categories and these are all going to be timestamped in the description below and let pinned comments so you can skip around if you feel like it. These are firstly, organization and productivity. Secondly, education and learning, 30 reading, writing, audio and music and photo and video. So I'll be taking you through the apps I use and describing each one. Let's let's just get into it. All right, so there's five apps in this category and let's start by talking about my email client which is Microsoft Outlook. Yeah, I know Microsoft makes really good apps for iOS. Who'd have thought? So I'd actually been using inbox by Gmail for the last few months but then it was announced that Google was going to be retiring support for that. So I switched to Outlook on the recommendation of the verge who've done a fantastic video talking about the best email client for iOS and they decided that Microsoft Outlook was the best and who am I to disagree with them. Yeah, I've been using it for the last few weeks. I really like it. The calendar app that I like to use is called Fantasical and this does cost money. It's available for iOS and it's available for macOS and the main reason I like it is because it's got this really good natural language processing thing on it. So let's say I were to write. Pathology lecture tomorrow at 10 a.m. at LT1. I can just write it out and it automatically knows what the event is, where it is, what time it is and that's just makes the process of adding stuff to my calendars so so convenient and I found this particularly helpful when I was a student and when I had loads of lectures and stuff to record on my calendar. Number three, my to-do list is called Things and I've talked about this in my video about what's on my Mac as well. Again, it's got a Mac app. I really like it. It's really well designed. It's a really nice to-do list and getting things done. Good book, by the way, you should read it. Approach to productivity and you can sort it into the different areas of your life. So I've got an area for work, an area for six med, my side company, my online courses, my YouTube staff, some tech videos coming up. This is sort of what I've got planned. Yeah, really nice to do list. Again, cost money, but to be honest, I'm more than happy to pay money for premium apps that I think add a little bit of value to my life in terms of productivity and organization. Point number four is not really an app more over an indispensable utility in my life that I really can't function without and that is Google Drive. Because I store absolutely everything in my life on Google Drive. I've got folders for, you know, from my sixth form years all the way through the six years of university, folders for work, folders for all the design, codey, or every, pretty much everything I've ever done in my life for the last eight years has been put on Google Drive. I absolutely love having Google Drive. I pay the 80 pounds a year for the one terabyte option and I've used about 300 gigs of it so far. It's just incredible. And if you're not using some kind of cloud backup solution for stuff, then I'd highly recommend Google Drive. It's wonderful. And point number five, let's talk about passwords and the app I use for that is one password, which I will now unlock with face ID. Yep, there we go. I've got, you know, got the phone resting, resting over there with a second camera angle. So I have to kind of lean over it. No, no, no, no. Anyway, so one password, obviously manages all my passwords. I think everyone that kind of knows about password manager these days. There's like one password last pass or whatever they're called these days. To be honest, I've been using it for so long that I have really found no reason to try any others. And again, it's something I pay for. I paid the 40 pounds a year or whatever it costs for the subscription. And I think to be honest, that's worth every penny because an account getting compromised, especially if like a lot of people you've got your whole life on the internet, then that could be really, really bad. And what is 40 pounds a year, you know, the price of peace of mind as they say. All right, so apps for learning and education and there's three things that I want to talk about here. Firstly, Rosetta Stone, which is a fantastic language learning app, and who are also incidentally sponsoring this video. So thank you very much to Rosetta Stone. And I've been using Rosetta Stone to learn Japanese for the last few months. I've kind of been a bit on and off with it. I have it that I need to develop. I'm reading a very good book in the moment called Atomic Habits by James Cleary. You should definitely check that out. But I'm trying to build this habit that every day I just do a little bit of Japanese practice. And Rosetta Stone makes it quite easy. It kind of gamifies the whole process and it makes it fun. And it makes you say stuff out loud. So you practice your speaking as well as, you know, actually being able to understand the language. So that's really good. Secondly, for my flash card needs, I use Quizlet these days. I've recently switched to Quizlet from Ankey. I used to use Ankey for Med School, but I switched to Quizlet because it's cool. And because like, it feels better designed and it's just pretty and it makes kind of going through my flash cards a bit more fun to do rather than a chore. I used to find that Ankey was a chore. But of course, I still have Ankey on my phone. And I don't know, like, I've got tons of decks for loads of stuff. And I'm not really using much of them through my clinical school years, but back in the day in my preclinical years, in years one to three, I used Ankey to memorize Anatomi and to memorize Pharmacology, all the list of drugs that we have to learn as medical students. And it was really good for that. So yeah, three apps for learning and education. And let's move on. All right. Let's talk about apps for reading now. And I absolutely love reading. I don't really like reading on my phone that much because I've got an iPad pro this thing. Or I've got my plan for this video. iPad pro. And I've got a Kindle as well. But I still have six apps for reading on my phone. Firstly is the Kindle app. And yeah, it's great. Like, all of my books are on Kindle. I don't use physical books anymore. I've gone completely paperless. And actually, oh, this is that book, atomic habits. So I was actually reading that at work when I had a spare 10 minutes or sitting on the toilet earlier today. So the Kindle app is really useful for those sorts of moments. It's really nice to use. You can like turn the brightness right the way down so it doesn't really strain your eyes too much. And yeah, I love Kindle. Secondly, let's talk about Pocket, which is what I used to save articles to read later. Would recommend there's other stuff like Insta paper out there. But again, I've been using Pocket since I don't know, God knows how long I started using it in secondary school. So it's kind of nice looking back through my archive of articles and seeing what I was reading when I was like, I don't know, 16 years old, however long ago that was. But yeah, Pocket is great for saving articles that you don't have the time to read right now. But you've come across a link. You can just save it. And you can read it in the nice little interface a little bit later on. Thirdly, I've got the medium app, which I really enjoy using. I'm a subscriber to medium. I pay the £5 a month of whatever it is. And I get the daily email that has my medium digest. And I just kind of nice when I click on a link in the email it opens in the app rather than, you know, in a browser window. And the app is a very nice reading experience. Oh, look, why should stop being so hard on yourself? Yeah, nice reading experience. Good for highlighting stuff. Yeah, quite enjoy medium. Fourthly, let's talk about reader, which is my RSS feed reader. And yeah, I thought RSS feeds were dead as well until I came across an article on the sweet setup. We talked about the best RSS feed reader for iOS and said reader was the one. And yeah, it's really great. So I connect my feedly account to it. And in my feedly account, I subscribe to all the different feeds. In fact, let's have a look at the categories at the moment. Minimalism, productivity, money, product, medical ethics. And I intend to expand these over time. And it's just kind of nice because I follow about 50 different blogs. And it's a bit annoying having to check the websites. So I just open reader about once a week, one of, you know, made some time to browse through some articles and kind of have a flick through the list to see if there's anything interesting to read. Yeah, really good on that front would recommend having an RSS feed aggregator if you follow a lot of blogs like I do. Number five, not very exciting. My Twitter client is tweet bot. Yeah, it's good. It's a Twitter app. It does, it does what it should. It does Twitter. So yeah, nothing exciting there. And finally an app that I like to have is actually good reads. So I read a lot of books or at least like to think so. And every time I start reading them on Kindle, it's got this option to automatically add to my good reads. So my good reads is like a running total of all the books I've ever read. And actually when I made a good reads account first a few years ago, I took the time, you know, took a few hours. I'm just like quite a fun few hours to like add all the books. I could remember ever having read into good reads and just giving them a quick rating out of five based on what I thought of them. And I think that is really nice. I really like doing this whole tracking thing. And because I, you know, anticipate I'm going to be reading books, you know, quite often for the rest of my life. It's just kind of cool to see every year, you know, you've read 40 books. These are the books you've read. These have been your favorite ones. Oh, reading a topic habits at the moment. See, it's got that right. I've got a list of books that I want to read. A list of books that I've read. And yeah, I really recommend good reads. And it's definitely worth taking the time. Like if I've spoken to so many people who say that it would be kind of cool to track and of the books they've read, films they've watched, that sort of stuff. But it's just that initial setup process where you have to add everything you've ever read. It's quite fun. Would recommend if you haven't tried it already. All right. So let's talk about apps for writing and there are five things in this category. And firstly is no-tability, which is an app that I've got on my iPad, I've made an extensive video about this that's got lots of views, which is very exciting. But it's quite nice having the no-tability app on my phone. And actually earlier today, I've just gotten back from one of my late evening shifts at the hospital finished about 9pm. But at one point my iPad ran out of battery and that was really annoying. So like until it took a few minutes to get get some juice back. But in that time, one of my seniors was giving me a list of stuff to do. So I actually opened up no-tability on my phone. The note that I had for the day, I used no-tability to manage my to do lists. I'll do video about that at some point. But the note I had for the day was already synced thanks to, you know, I cloud-sync or whatever it is. And I was able to add stuff to my to-do list, you know, jobs to do at the hospital. And then once my iPad got some more battery, I went straight back to it and it just automatically updated. And that was just like a really nice user experience. So I used the iPad and no-tability to manage my to-do list in the hospital because otherwise you're kind of writing on a scrap of paper and it's very easy for the advert for that to get lost and, you know, the iPad's encrypted and all that stuff. Secondly, the app that I tend to use for note-taking kind of if I have to write stuff on the fly or if I'm writing a piece for my email newsletter or my blog, you can check it out at alia.com. Think in description. Is bear, bear writer. It's a really nicely designed app. You can write and mark down, it's good for matching, it's quite simple, it's quite a minimalistic kind of interface. And I think I picked this up again because there was a review from the verge saying that that was the best writer and like note-taking app for iOS. This was a few years ago. So I switched from ever note to bear and it was quite easy to import all my notes across. But yeah, no bear is really good. I write stuff on it and then I copy and paste it into my blog or in my email and it's just nice. It's just a very minimalistic note-taking app. Recently, though, I have decided to give ever note another try which is why ever note is now on my from page. And I'm starting to use ever note again because I think it's a bit more full featured and I want a full featured note-taking app to take notes for my upcoming postgraduate medical exams. I'll report back once I've done more testing of ever note, bear, one note, all the kind of note-taking apps for iOS and decide which one is my favorite. But you know, I've got my note books for this is my obstetrics and gynecology syllabus, clinical skills, governance, blah, blah, blah, blah, all of these different bits of the syllabus and then the ideas that within these I'll have separate notes for each of the topics. And I've already made a video explaining this in a bit more detail that will also be linked in the description if that's the sort of thing that floats your boat. So ever note is what I'm using right now to take notes, but while I was in medical school and pretty much all through it, I did use one note to take notes. And yeah, I've got my note book that has all the various medical subjects in it and let's go into extended clinical cases and then there's all these different notes that I've got for each of these various things. And yeah, I should probably go through this at some point to categorize these and to learn from them. But yeah, overall, I really enjoy using one note back when I was in medical school. The reason I moved away from it is because I didn't like a few little things about it, but I'll be doing some more testing later on. And the reason I've still got it on my phone is because it's kind of nice to refer back to my med school notes at some points if I have to. And finally, and this sort of comes under the category of writing, the app that I use for my journaling habit is day one. And I really, really, really, really love day one. Again, this is something that I subscribe to the premium version of, which is like two pounds a month or something like that. And the idea behind day one is that you can just very easily add to your journal. And there was this thing I wrote, I think on the sweetsatup.co.uk.com. Sweetsatup.com is that quantity is what makes quality in a journal. Like the more quantity you can add to it over time, the better a journal is going to be. So occasionally, I have these stints where I post something in the journal like every night. But then I go for a few weeks of that posting. And you can make different journals of it with it as well. So I've got one from my personal journal. I've got one for memorabilia. It's where I take photos of birthday cards or, you know, sentimental items and things. Stuff that I'm not, I'm not going to carry around with me. But I think is nice to remember there for a take a photo of it. And thirdly, I have a journal for a nice comment study that I get from people via YouTube and Instagram. So here's one from today actually. Hi, I've done my beam at next week. Oh, your video has been really helpful. That's really nice to get this. And then I replied, here's another one from some guy from a straight area who got into med school and wanted to say thank you. So just kind of stuff like that. It's really nice keeping a record of and you can just kind of flick through and it saves all the images and it's all, you know, sing to my eye cloud and stuff. Obviously. So yeah, I use day one for my personal journaling to, you know, take photographs of memorabilia and to record nice comments. All right, next category, audio and music. And there are four things I want to talk about here. Firstly, Spotify is my music thing of choice. I am fully Apple fanboy. Here's the watch in every respect except I absolutely hate Apple music. I tried switching to it twice actually because I was like, I really want to like Apple music. I really want to be the sort of guy that uses Apple everything that's got a home port. It's got three home ports in the house. I wanted to be that sort of guy. But, you know, every time I tried I've ended up hating the user experience of Apple music. Sorry, Apple, if you're watching this video, you're probably not. But I just think Spotify is a better product. And of course, I pay for Spotify premium. And I'm still on the student discount actually. Thanks to a unique days who sponsored a previous video so you should check them out if you're still a student or if you're just graduated from being a student because you can like drag out the student discount for a year after you graduate, which is like a really mind blowing feature. Anyway, yeah, Spotify is fantastic. Secondly, for audio books, I use audible. I absolutely love audible. It's like probably one of the apps that has most affected my life in a positive way. And at the moment, I'm listening to words of radiance by Brandon Sanderson. It's the second book in the store where my archives would recommend. And yeah, there's various things that I've listened to on audible. I'll also put an affiliate link in the description below. So if you click on that, I'll make like a few pounds to buy a coffee from, you know, you can sign up to a free trial as well. Like genuinely, it's really good. Audible has changed my life in the sense that now, if I have to do a lot of long car journey or a long train journey, I don't look forward to that time anymore. I just kind of think, okay, cool, I'll just put on my audio book and listen. And actually today, while skateboarding home from work on my boosted board mini, I was listening to, I was listening to words of radiance. And then when I got home, it got to like this really, really, really good bit. So I just kind of lay on the sofa. I had a lexer. I don't want to say too loud. I had lexer at the back, playing the audio book while I was just kind of lounging on the couch. And it's just really nice. I absolutely love what I'm more kind of recommended highly enough. Thirdly, the app I use for podcasts is overcast. So let's have a quick look. So over the art of manliness, collection for geek, couple's therapy, yeah, there's loads of podcasts that I listen to. Recently, my favorites have been the ground up show by Matt DiVilla, which is really, really good. And also the Tim Ferris show that I've been listening to for years and years, or is it over there? It was really like Sam Harris's podcast occasionally. And yeah, podcasting really good. When I'm not listening to an audiobook, if I've got my headphones in, or my, uh, AirPods in, AirPods, uh, then I'm listening to a podcast. And it makes long drives really pleasant. And you learn a lot through podcasts as well. It's really, really great. People, if you've not tried podcasts, you should check them out. And overcast, so far, has been my favorite app, although admittedly, I haven't really tried many others. And finally, an app that I find really useful to have is the ultimate guitar tabs app, where you can pretty much type in any song on the planet, and it will give you the chords for that song. So this will actually how I learned to play the piano, like, you know, the piano next to me, just like put, bring up a song. So we're like, oh, oh, today was practicing in my blood by Sean Mendez. You can pick the song. It's a bit too high. So you can like transpose it down by like eight semi-tones. If you have to, if you've got the bass voice like I do, then you play the chords and you sing the song. And it's really, really cool. And if you've got a guitar, let's get to the background over there. Coincidentally, I didn't plan that. If you, if you play the guitar, or like, if you're ever around friends and someone says, oh, you know, it's a really great app that you can just bring the chords up and kind of play along and you feel cool because, you know, you're helping everyone have fun by playing, playing, playing, stuff on the guitar. But wow, this video's gone on for a really long time. If you still with us, thank you. Hopefully, we're still all having fun. There are four apps that I want to talk about in the photo category. So firstly, is preview. And preview is an app that I used to plan out my Instagram feed. At one point, I was trying to kind of maintain a theme, keep to a similar aesthetic. So preview just lets you kind of load up photos for Instagram and you can kind of move them around. And let's say I want this photo of the hamster to put next to the chicken and you can kind of like move them around and it shows you your previous feed as well. So you can kind of plan things aesthetically. So preview is really good for that. The app I used to edit my photos these days is like, oh, hello, that's a photo of me. It's a light room. This was made attempting to take the selfie at work earlier today and using the new portrait mode on iOS. So maybe you'll see the portrait mode of this image. But the nice thing about light room on iOS is that it pretty much has a lot of the features of the desktop app. So on my MacBook, I used light room to edit all my photos. But, you know, let's say I want a snap a quick photo at a restaurant or something for Instagram. I can bring it into light room and apply presets to it. So there's this preset pack that I bought. It's quite expensive, actually. I just give you some nice sets of presets that you can use. I think this is the do you travel presets app. Yeah, it's quite good. I intend to expand my collection of presets a bit more. And this is just a lot nicer than the filters that you get built into Instagram. And then you can tweak stuff about the images as well. So if I wanted to change exposure or highlight to whatever I'd be able to do that using the light room app, yeah, would recommend if you're into this whole photo editing sort of stuff. Thirdly, an app that I use almost every week is Spark Post made by Adobe. And this is actually how I make all of the beautiful thumbnails for my YouTube videos. So I just take a screenshot of the video, bring it into Spark Post. Whoa, okay, it's loading all stuff. Bring it into Spark Post. And then let's see, let's look at this one, iPhone 10s Max. You just kind of click on it. And then you can change the text. You can like apply, you can like darken and lighten the background. And it's just like a nice, easy way of generating thumbnails. And yeah, to be honest, I could put them into Photoshop and do exactly the same thing. But it's just so convenient having an app to do it. Like all I have to do is screenshot the bit of the video that I want. Adrop it over to my phone, open up Spark Post, put some text on it, add up it back to my computer so I can upload it to YouTube. Bit of a roundabout process, but it saves me from having to open Photoshop. I made this point before, but pretty much anything I can do to reduce the friction that it takes to do stuff in this content production space is going to be worth it. And finally in this category, the app that I use to vlog when I'm vlogging on my iPhone, which I don't very often is Filmic Pro. Filmic Pro is wonderful. It lets you film in 4K, it lets you change the bit rate and set it really high. There's tutorials on the internet on how to use Filmic Pro to its max, but you can also shoot in different frame rates. And here is a little bit from my vlog where I was vlogging my night shift in the emergency department, so you can see what some of the Filmic Pro footage looks like on the iPhone 10s max. It's really good filming 4K. Usually I film in 25 frames per second, but if I want to, I can switch to 1080p and 100 frames per second to film in that buttery slowmo, it's less good. Obviously, then like a standard camera would be, but for any sort of vlogging purposes, I really like Filmic Pro as my video app of choice. Oh, and finally, one thing I forgot to mention, app number 5 is one that I actually use for my Instagram stories, and that is cut story. And the idea behind this is that you can just upload a video. So if I'm, for example, filming myself singing, I can upload a video. It'll automatically cut that video into kind of 15 seconds segments so that when you post them to an Instagram story, you can like post them one in a row without, without having much of a break between between the thing. So yeah, cut the choice really good for that, and that's a quick blog that if you're not following me an Instagram, you might like to. I post photos of me and my friends when we're at work and photos and videos of myself singing songs if you're into that sort of thing. All right, so that brings us to the end of the video. That was long. So thank you very much for watching. If you still hear, I really hope you gained something interesting from that. If you want to see a more detailed kind of review of any of the apps that I've used, please let me know in the comments, or if you've got any other things any suggestions for me to talk about, I want to be doing more tech videos like this one, and I love talking about tech and apps and all of this sort of stuff. So yeah, thank you so much for watching. If you liked the video, please give it a thumbs up. If you haven't subscribed to the channel yet, please consider doing so. Have a lovely day, and I will see you hopefully in the next video. Good night.
