# Cambridge Medicine Interview - Experiences of 8 students
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iIdqPeI-Po0
Interview Crash Course Online - https://courses.aliabdaal.com/interview-crash-course-online. 

In this video, 8 medical students at Cambridge University talk about their experiences of their interviews. We don't give any specific questions away (that would be a little unfair), but we give you a good idea of what to expect when you visit the wonderful place for your interview :)

COURSES THAT ME AND MY FRIENDS RUN:
Interview Crash Course Online - https://courses.aliabdaal.com/interview-crash-course-online. 
6med Interview Crash Course - https://6med.co.uk/interview-crash-course
6med MMI Crash Course - https://6med.co.uk/mmi-crash-course

--
If you've got any questions, please comment down below and I'll do my best to get back to you asap.

Chidera's awesome channel - https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCeq4iBads31CT551gDJND5A

--
Who am I:

I'm Ali, a final year medical student at Emmanuel College, Cambridge. This vlogging thing seems quite fun so I'll be vlogging life and other things throughout the year. I'll also be featuring some videos of myself and my friends giving medicine application advice on camera :)

Follow me plssss:
- Snapchat: aliabdaal
- Twitter - https://twitter.com/AliAbdaal
- Instagram - https://instagram.com/AliAbdaal
- Website - www.aliabdaal.com
**Keywords:** cambridge university, cambridge university medicine, cambridge medicine, oxford medicine, oxbridge medicine, applying to cambridge, cambridge uni medicine, cambridge med school, cambridge medical school, cambridge medical student, oxford university, oxford university medicine, oxbridge medicine interview, cambridge medicine interview, oxford medicine interview, 
**Date:** 2017-10-17

## Transcript
 Hey guys, welcome back to the channel. If you're new here, my name is Ali, I'm a final year medical student at Cambridge University. And in this video, we're going to be hearing from myself and seven of my medical student friends about their experiences of the Cambridge interview. So if you're applying to Cambridge or Oxford for that matter for medicine, you might find this useful to kind of hear from various medical students about what their experiences were like. First thing to say is that, to be honest, it's quite repetitive. Everyone has broadly a similar experience in that they enjoy their interview and it's quite sciencey, academic, they ask you questions about stuff that you know, but then they ask you questions about stuff you don't know and they're trying to teach it to you and this kind of see what happens, see how you think you want to be thinking out loud all that stuff. So this is quite a long video. Everyone kind of says the same thing, but I know that when me and my friends were applying, we would have taken an all-credectomy just to hear Cambridge students talk about their interviews. So hopefully you won't have to resort to that. You can just watch this video and you can hear from various medical students about what their Cambridge interviews were like. We've got some tips littered throughout this video about how you can prepare for it, things you can do on the day and so on, but we've got a dedicated video about tips for the Oxford interview coming out within the next few days as well. So by the time you're watching this, it's probably out on the channel, so have a look at that. It'll be linked down below. But yeah, here we go. We're just going to run through and we'll have eight medical students talking about their tips for the Cambridge interview. I really hope you find it useful. I actually loved my Cambridge interview. I came out with it thinking, this was like the funnest day I've ever had. Oh wow. Probably not ever. I really don't think that's what I'm talking about. I came out thinking that I had a really good time, but you walk into these rooms that you have these really comfy sofas, you sit down and you're just chatting with these awesome people. Yeah. And it's challenging. But I kind of almost, I really didn't think I was going to get in. So I was like, I'm just going to try and have fun and I don't think to lose at that point. So I was like, you know, I'm just doing this for a test for me. The first thing to say is I really, really enjoyed it. It was probably the most enjoyable interview of the four that I had. And it was like, there were kind of asking questions that I vaguely knew the answer to, but kind of exploring the topics and the depth that I hadn't covered before. So I had to think a lot for myself. And it wasn't really an interview in the traditional sense that I was expecting. I was expecting it to be, you know, these old men kind of see to be kind of desk, throwing questions at me and me having to kind of answer in a very formal fashion. I don't know. You know, the whole Cambridge, Cambridge stereotype. But in reality, it was quite friendly. There was still quite old men. But it was more, it was kind of in a lounge living room setting with comfortable sofas. And it seemed very relaxed. And it wasn't so much as them interrogating me as a sort of two-way conversation. So they'd ask a question, I'd respond, they'd respond to that. They would kind of teach me a little bit of a topic that I didn't know. And then they'd ask a follow-up question. So it, it honestly did feel a lot like a teaching session. And five years in having been at Cambridge for the last five years. I can say that the interview was quite similar to what our small groups, the provisions are like, where, you know, you start with a topic. And the supervisor teaches you something and then they ask you a question about it. And, you know, it's a very two-way dialogue. And I really liked that aspect of the Cambridge interview. Okay, so my Cambridge interview was totally different to my other interviews. It was very science-based science in maths. And so when I turned up, it was two separate interviews. So that was the first difference. Was that you have to wait around sort of all day. And you were interviewed by two separate groups of people. The first one I had, I found really difficult. I went in and it was sort of using maths techniques, looking at graphs, interpreting them. And then also sort of extrapolating from that and seeing what you could think in an abstract way, as well as in a scientific way. And that one I found quite difficult because doing maths on the spot is hard for anyone. But I particularly struggle when I'm put under pressure. But actually, I got a stuff from, I kept getting stuff wrong. And they would just guide you through and try to get you to the right answer in the end. And I think that's what they're looking for really. They're looking for someone who can get things wrong and recover from it and keep going and learn from them. Because in the end, these are the people who will be your tutors. These are the people who will teach you. And if they can't teach you in an interview situation, then they're not going to be able to teach you when you actually come here. So don't be afraid of getting stuff wrong. Just have a go and really try and use your first principle knowledge of your basic biology, maths chemistry, physics, all of those in order to get to some sort of answer. And if it's right, great. But if it's wrong, it might not be the end of it. My second one was very similar again. It was giving me questions, making me think further than I did in my lesson. So it was starting off with something I should have learned. And then getting to somewhere that I had never learnt before. And so they guide you through those steps. And they give you help in order to try and see how much you can do. And again, I only got about halfway through the question in the end. But clearly, that's all we wanted. And they wanted to see how your mind works. And that you could speak out loud and show them your steps out loud. And you could learn from your mistakes rather than that you got the perfect answer every time. It was two half-hour science tests. And they were great fun. The interviewers asked me some questions and I answered them and then they probed and probed and probed until they found something I didn't know and watched how I responded to not knowing something and tried to work things out for fresh principles, or for my early open principles that we had established. So I thought my answer was horrible at the time. I came out thinking like, oh my god, that was horrible. Never going to get in here. It was really quick interviewers, but I was like the last interview. So I remember thinking that they were just really tired. And we were like, you know what, let's just quickly ask a few questions to get in there. In terms of how it felt during a lot of them, I found sort of what, as you would expect, I'm familiar content and really put you on the spot. Which ties back into realizing that it's not about knowing the answers right away. It's about sort of keeping it ground, keeping your head and realizing, okay, they asked me something I have no idea, but let's think about that. And so it worked through it and talked to them about what you're working through. And I think that's how really you were trying a bit more in the interview. Yeah. It was also really, really friendly. They were the, I had four interviewers across two interviews. They were all really polite, really, really nice. They smiled. They shook my hand. And I genuinely felt that, you know, they, they wanted this, you know, they wanted to be there, like interviewing me as weird as that sounds. So that did a lot towards putting me at ease, because I was like super nervous when I went in there, as I'm sure everyone is. But the fact that they were smiling and shaking hands and kind of making little jokes here and there, it really helped. So yeah, I loved my Cambridge interview. And, you know, I would, you know, unreservedly recommend it to anyone applying to medicine. And because really the Cambridge Institute is sort of like a little supervision, which is sort of the small group teaching they have here, where they push you, they ask you questions. You don't always know the answer, but you work together, you think out loud, bands ideas of each other, and that just makes it quite a good learning process. So if anything, it sort of like a pilot into seeing how well you would do with that sort of learning experience here in Cambridge. And if anything, you get a free lunch in a nice college. I think that's really nice. I suppose my one was at the end of the day, yeah. It wasn't a sort of alternative weird out there, as some people would have you believe. It was a thorough testing of the basic sciences. The first one was a bit more clinical, so it would ask me questions about medical problems that I at least could have had a reasonable insight into from my stage of education. And I had questions about sort of what it was to be a good doctor from a professional point of view. In my second one, that was a bit more about the basic sciences. So I got some sort of genetic questions. I got some organic chemistry questions. And it was all stuff that, you know, the entry level into the question was accessible for anybody who just knew their AS levels, set up a fine. So as long as you, you know, you can make mistakes under pressure and still get away with it. But as long as you kind of just relaxed and did yourself just as with that, then you at least, you have an inlet into the questions. Then never, it's not in their interests, it just asks you stuff you don't know. They want to see how much you know to start with. And then what's more important is how much they can teach you and how receptive you are to learning over the course of the interview. So don't worry if you get to a point where you can't answer anything, can you further? Because that's essentially where they're trying to get to. So my chemistry interview is very academic. We started off by talking about why medicine as usual. I thought that these were quite perfunctory questions in the sense that there's just literally to screen people who might be a bit awkward or where they haven't really thought through their answers. But then after that, the real meat to the interview was about the way which you think. And so I got a lot of questions. I got a huge number of questions which were scientific in nature and it's kind of like a dance really between the interview and the interview, whether interviewer tries to get the interviewer or get me to build on my knowledge, my existing knowledge and push the implications on their knowledge one step at a time until I got to the right answer. The first question I would trigger was a probability question. Please calculate the probability that this drug will not work. So it's long those lines, very scientific, very mathsy. As I had to interview, the first one was a sort of general interview that I think a lot of people are prepared for. So I don't want to give too many specific questions, but again it's a sort of like why medicine, why came rich, what you will expect, they're going to ask you what you're applying for the subject and why you're applying to the specific university or college. So that was kind of my general interview. If I were talking about things that I'd put on my personal statement, so I've mentioned a few books that I'd read and some experiments that I'd done, so they kind of, that's what to think. My science interview was a bit of a mess. I will say that nothing that I was asked with my scientific interview I had ever covered before. A lot of the stuff I was asked in my science interview, I didn't cover into my third year at Cambridge. So going with the expectation that I'm not going to ask you anything that you know because that's kind of what they want to do, they want to see how you think and not just what you've memorized and that was very much what it was. It was working through questions where there was no way that I would have been an answer beforehand. I just had to work through it with them and show them how I think and how I reasoned. If you want to see any of those particular questions, I do have a video on my channel where I've basically go through the questions in that interview. So thank you for watching, that was eight medical students talking about their experiences of the Cambridge interview. As I said at the start, it really is quite repetitive which is a good thing because it means that everyone has the same interview experience and that you're not going to get thrown curveballs like things I've seen in newspapers like they throw a rugby ball out of a window and ask you to respond and weird stuff like that. They're just going to do that. That's just completely mythical. No one has that experience. Everyone has poorly the same experience which is good for people applying because you kind of know what to expect. So please do keep a lookout for the video that we've got coming out very soon if not already about tips for the Oxbridge interview. If you like this video, please give it a thumbs up. If you haven't subscribed to the channel, please consider doing so. We've got videos about interview, email, stuff like that and I also vlog every now and then about life as a final year medical student. So thank you very much for watching. Have a lovely day and I'll see you next time. Bye!
