# How I Gained 1 MILLION Subscribers
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iNI-1Vy6WM4
In this video I'll be giving you my thoughts on reaching one million subscribers and how the journey's been so far. 

👉 Find out more about The Part-Time YouTuber Academy here: https://academy.aliabdaal.com/

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
📚  How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali
What I Use For Analytics - https://go.aliabdaal.com/tubebuddy
🌐  My website platform (Ghost) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost
🎤  My podcast hosting platform (Transistor) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/transistor

OTHER RECOMMENDED COURSES
📔 Effortless Output with Roam Research - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/roam
📓 Building a Second Brain - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/basb

🎙 MY WEEKLY PODCAST - https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCdXpN-Z7LyTgc3OLo_Zw2Pg
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app. And we post clips + full episodes on the YouTube channel, so please subscribe to that!  

BE MY FRIEND:
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮  Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, ali abdaal books, one million subscribers, one million subscribers special, thoughts on youtube fame, what's it like to be big on youtube, what's it like to have 1000000 subscribers, what's it like to have one million subscribers, what's it like to be famous, how it's like to be famous, how it's like to have a lot of subscribers, subscribers, youtube, how to reach a million subscribers, youtube course, how to be famous on youtube, 
**Date:** 2020-11-15

## Transcript
 So I'm not very good at talking about my feelings, but this little bad boy recently arrived. And I've had a few questions from people, friends, and family, and fans, and stuff. Asking how does it feel like to have a million subscribers in YouTube? And that's really got me thinking, like I've been pondering this for a while, like how does it feel like to have a million subscribers in YouTube and how has it felt over the last three and a bit years of churning out content week after week and slowly getting to this point. And so in this video, I'm going to generally ramble and talk about my feelings about how it's felt like along the way. We're going to be talking about kind of the motivation to keep going. I'm going to talk about haters and how to deal with that, the experience of kind of fame. And we'll talk a bit about how the feeling of the numbers changes over time, and how the feeling of the revenue, the channel generates changes over time, and the idea of hit on a kind of temptation, the school, the sort of stuff. It's going to be fairly rambly somewhat self-indulgent. If you're looking to be more productive, watch anything by Matt DiVelo Thomas Frank. This is not that sort of video, but it might be interesting to give you an insight into the psychology behind someone who is hopefully going to now have a million subscribers golden plaque thing. Anyway, let's get started. So honestly, I never really thought I would get here. When I started YouTube in the summer of 2017, like the idea of hitting a large suppress subscriber count was just not even on the cards. I remember I started with about 47 subscribers. Those were random random random people who somehow subscribed to my channel because I had a Google account since 2007. I started off with the 47 subscribers and at the time, I knew someone who had 4,000. And I thought damn 4,000 seems almost unattainable, but hopefully, if I can do this consistently for a year or two, I might be able to hit 4,000 subscribers. And I was looking back through my stats, and I saw that it took me 52 videos and six months to hit my first 1000 subscribers. So I was making two videos a week for a whole six months, 52 total videos before I even hit 1000 subscribers. And that was quite baffling because I kind of forgotten how slow the growth was. And this this graphic came across recently, which really describes this amazingly well. So we've got the kind of exponential growth in terms of channel subscribers and views and revenue. So this is a standard graph of what compounding gains look like at the start. It's really, really, really slow. And then over time, it just accelerates the flywheel continues. But I think it's interesting if you overlay the graph of memory retention and like the forgetting curve on top of that, because right at the start, that is when we have the most kind of strong memory about the amount of work and effort that goes into this. But then over time, on memory of that stuff kind of decays. And so now at this point, three and a half years later, I think this is now my like 302nd video. I've actually forgotten how much effort and work this was back in the day because and it just it just feels so natural now. It's like, yeah, I make two or three videos a week. And what? That's fine. Like it just feels like such a normal thing. But certainly at the start, like I had no idea I would be even shooting for any kind of big numbers. 4000 subscribers was like, I can I think I can just about get to this point if I work really, really hard. At a time, I knew someone my friend Ibsmo who had about 50,000 subscribers. And I was thinking, okay, there is no way in the world there's no way in hell I'm ever going to get to 50,000 that's just not even on the cards. It just was not even a possibility. And so the next milestone really was 5,000 subscribers, which I see that I hit in March of 2018 when I had 78 videos published. So it took me 52 videos to get to 1000 subscribers and then another 20 videos on top of that 25 videos to get to 5000 subscribers. And then it took me about two months and I was around about 95 videos to get to 10 or 15,000 subscribers. And then the channel growth started to sort of accelerate. But even at that point, even when I was at 20,000 subscribers, I kind of thought, okay, 50, 60K, that's, you know, that's something to shoot for in two years time. And there's no way in the world I'm ever going to hit 100,000 subscribers. And my friends at the time were saying, like, obviously, you're going to hit 100,000 subscribers because your growth is accelerating. But in my head, it was like, no, this is just too big a number. There's no way this is going to be possible. How can they possibly be 100,000 people in the world who just want to hear me talk about like studying or about productivity or about my desk setup. And this is a letter from Susan Wodgiki, the CEO of YouTube. I'm sure it's printed and not a personal book. The thing about a subscriber count is that I've just, I've never really cared about it. I always knew that sort of fixating on subscriber count was just a totally pointless thing. And so ever since like 5000 subscribers, I haven't really given a thought to, oh, we're going to hit this many subscribers. We're going to hit this many subscribers. Obviously, it's something that I look at every day and be like, okay, how is, how is growth going? But it's just a number that has stopped meaning anything and stopped meaning anything like absolutely ages ago. And a lot of people have asked me, you know, how do you have the motivation to keep on continuing making videos, especially when the growth is really slow and start? Like, you know, 52 videos to get to the first 1000 subscribers. The goal was not a numerical goal. It was not a goal of I need to get to 1000 subscribers or I need to get to this much revenue. It was instead a process goal. It was a goal of I need to make between one and three videos a week. And that is the only thing that I care about. And because that was the only thing that I cared about, you know, that that was my goal. And that was something entirely within my control. It is completely within my control, whether I make one or two or three videos a week. It's not at all within my control. How many views they get? How many subscribers I get? How much revenue I get from the videos? How much people like me? All of that stuff. It's at that time I control. And so I think in general, what I try to do is I really try and set goals that are input goals. Like goals that are completely within my control. Like how much can I do? And that's the only thing that I'll focus on. So I think that was what helped me at the start. Just not fixate on the numbers because if you fixate on numbers and you've put out 10 videos and no one's watching them and you've got no subscribers, you're going to think them. What's the point? But if you recognize that this is not about the numbers, the numbers will come as a side effect over time. The score takes care of itself. Then I think that's an easy way to do it. Let's talk about hedonic adaptation as well. Let's see what Susan says. You're bigger than Vancouver. You're bigger than Venice. You're even bigger than Las Vegas. One million subscribers. Maybe you've imagined that day for a long time. Maybe you never thought you'd grow so big. Yep, that was me. Either way, not much can match the satisfaction of finding out that your creativity, that your ideas that your voice speaks to 1 million people across the globe. That is where I disagree with Susan here. She says either way, not much can match the satisfaction of finding out that your creativity, your ideas and your voice speaks to 1 million people across the globe. And here we have to talk about hedonic adaptation. So hedonic adaptation is this idea that in psychology it's a fairly standard thing that the more of something you have, the more acclimatized you become to the thing and your goalposts completely shift. This is often used in psychology research when they talk about money. So kind of to use my personal example, when I was 13 years old and making six pounds an hour in my day job in my part-time job and making like 24 pounds a week. If I got like 20 pounds, that would be like, oh my god, best thing in the world, like 24 pounds a week, that's like, I don't know, 96 pounds a month. I'm so rich. But as I've gotten older and as I've started to make more and more money, the bar for what is a good amount of money to make. Or what is an expensive item or anything like that who's just completely gone out of the window. And I'll think to my house to make this last night that, you know, I spent a few thousand pounds on like the new Apple M1 MacBook Air MacBook Pros and stuff. And that just felt so cheap. Like I could not believe the bargain I was getting because the way that I view money is now so radically different to what it was back in the day. But back when I first started looking at laptops and thinking, oh my god, a MacBook costs a thousand pounds. That's just so expensive. And I think this idea of hedonic adaptation that the value of things changes internally to us over time, very much and annoyingly also applies to the views and the subscribers and the messages that I get on YouTube as well. And this is something that I really try to try my very hardest to fight against because I know it's just really bad, but it's just how human psychology works. Like at the start in the first few weeks, I'm refreshing my phone every two minutes and being like, oh my god, I've got 66 subscribers. Yes, we've got one more subscriber today. Or today was a great day. We've got three new subscribers. I can't believe it. Whereas now it's like, if I get a video that only gets 50,000 views in the first 24 hours, I think, oh god, what the hell is the point of that? If I have a day where I've only got an extra 1,000 subscribers rather than 2,000 subscribers, I'm thinking, come on, like this is a terrible day, what the hell is going on. And this is just so annoying because obviously I try and think to myself that these numbers are real people on the other end of the screen. And I think one of the challenges that we all have to do as we're growing up in becoming more successful or whatever, it's trying to remember what it felt like to do the thing at the lower level. Like, you know, the joy I would feel when I made 20 pounds at work, or the joy I would feel when I had two extra subscribers. I try and remind myself of that joy. Anytime I'm feeling our crap, this video is a bit crap. And I got 100,000 views and three days and you know, falling into that comparison trap. Incidentally, this is where I absolutely hate the YouTube studio app. So if you're a creator on YouTube, you have this special YouTube studio app. And the very first thing you see when you go on it is you see how well your latest video is performing relative to your previous 10 videos. And so if your video is 1 out of 10, that means out of the previous 10 videos, this is the number one. So you're feeling really happy. Yes, I've got a 1 out of 10. My video is doing well in terms of views in terms of watch time in terms of whatever. But if you have a video, if I have video, that's like 8 out of 10, 9 out of 10, that means it's underperforming compared to my previous 10. And that really puts me into this like spiral of depression where I'm like, ah crap, you know what is life, why is this video going so badly? Oh, people have realized I'm an imposter, people have realized I'm a fraud, no one's going to watch my YouTube channel anymore, I'm going to end up homeless and broken. That all happens and then I have to like CBT myself and have this like chorus of, you know, the stoics and stuff in my head, people like Gary Vaynerchard, beaming like it's not about the numbers, it's about it's about having fun, it's about providing value and 50,000 is still a lot of people and all of that. And it's just all of these shenanigans, mental shenanigans that we as creators have to do to get over the fact that our videos are underperforming. And again, our way to help with that is just to remember that. 50,000 still, quote, you're actually quite a lot of people and three years ago, I'd have been absolutely overjoyed if a video had got 50,000, that would have been a viral video, but now 50,000 videos feels like, ah, this is a bit crap. Let's talk a little bit about haters now, actually let's see what Susan is saying. We know that being able to touch the lives of so many people is reward enough, but we're incredibly proud of all you've done and so we hope you'll accept this gold creator award as a token of a self-esteem. At esteem not self-esteem, Freudian slip right there and I write and this is, is it a million subscribers? I think he was quite nice. Around a box. I'm gonna caress this while I talk about this idea of haters. I feel like one of those villains stroking their cat. So haters are interesting, right? Because haters are like one of the phenomena of the internet. Then everyone kind of knows about. Often one of the first questions I'll get when people find out that I've got a YouTube channel other than, hey, how many of you make, which is, you know, so the question is that that's some people ask, is like how do you deal with haters online? I think it's weird, because everyone has this misconception that there are just loads and loads of haters online, which is absolutely not the case. Like 99.99% of all my comments are just really nice and supportive in friendly and very occasionally I'll get a hate comment. But it took me about like a solid year before I started getting any hate comments at all. And this is one of those stupid things that keeps, I say stupid because I used to suffer from this. It's one of the stupid things that keeps people from not putting themselves out there online. Thinking that, oh, if I put myself out there online, people are gonna leave a comment saying I have a big nose or saying that I'm too hairy or saying that I've got sweat patches under my arms or saying that my voice isn't nice or whatever. But as a start, like for the first year, no one is watching your stuff, like no one cares. And the people that are watching it are gonna be the people that are like, oh my god, this is cool. This person has got 24 subscribers and they're making a useful video for me. Why on earth would they leave a hate comment? That's like just not even a thing. So I think as a start, you don't have to worry about hate comments, because the people watching your videos are the people who love you anyway. And like, oh my god, thank you, you're sharing life about a Cambridge medical student. You're sharing about your terror addiction or whatever. Over time, as the numbers stop to swell. And as you start getting videos that go more viral, I eat hit people outside of your subscribers. At that point, you do start getting more hate comments online. Now, when it comes to hate comments, there are some that just don't affect me at all. Like if someone says, hey, bro, you talk too fast or, huh, you're a virgin nerd. What a loser. Or like, oh, you're not as stupid. Or whatever. Like, you know, those comments, I honestly can care less. Like, they do not touch me in the slightest. I've been doing this for long enough. I actually just don't care. The sort of comments that do kind of get to me or along the lines of your videos used to be really good and you used to be really altruistic because you really cared about helping people. But over time, as you have gotten more famous and more successful, your channel has gone downhill, because now it's obvious that the only thing you care about is money and fame. And therefore, I'm unsubscribing those are the comments that are like, oh damn, because there has to be a shred of truth to that. Like, over time, my psychology and my psyche around this channel has the fact that I now don't try and reply to everyone on Instagram. Like, up until like 10,000, 20,000 subscribers, I was replying to absolutely every single Instagram message that I got from people asking for advice and people saying nice things. And now I get like 50 to 100 DMs a day, and I just don't even see like 99% of them let alone be able to reply to them. Occasionally, I get emails from people being like, oh my god, you know, I've spent so much time watching your videos and I can't believe you can't even do the courtesy of replying to my email. And it's just like, you have no idea how many, like, I get 200 emails a day. It would be a full-time job to reply to everyone's emails. I'm sorry, but that's like not a thing. And so those things are things that I know have happened to me. And so in my head I'm thinking, oh, maybe this person is right. Maybe the thing I'm just, I'm chasing now is just fame and attention money and all this kind of stuff. I think this is tricky because people always say, and I've spoken to other creators about this, about this idea of haters and people saying that your videos used to be good because of X, and now they're bad because of Y, and it's usually as they become more successful. I think those comments feel a bit weird because, like for me, even at the start, the reason I made videos was not altruistic. And this is like one of the weird aspects of the parasocial relationships between kind of creators and audience on the internet is that it pays to give the impression that what we are doing creating content on the internet is purely altruistic. It pays to give the impression of, like, hey, friends, you guys are my friends. I'm sharing this video with you purely because I, you know, it'll add value to your life. And I want to help, and I'm a really nice guy. And that's that image of I'm doing this for non-selfish reasons. But underneath, like, for literally everyone, underneath that, there is the less sexy reason I'm doing this because I know it's going to make money. I know I want attention. I know I want an audience and I want fame because of the selfish benefits it brings me down the line. And so for me, at the start, when I had like 20 subscribers, no one is thinking that I'm doing this for selfish reasons because I've got 20 subscribers and I'm making no money. But now that I've got 1.2 million subscribers, and I'm openly open and transparent about how much money I'm making, it's now very easy for people to say, hey, bro, your videos used to be good because you didn't used to care about money. Now you care about money. It's like, no, I've always cared about money. I've always cared about treating YouTube as a business. I've always been interested in teaching. And the way that I've used the making these videos is like I'm teaching people online at scale, sharing my experiences, being like this sort of stuff kind of worked for me, maybe it'll work for you as well. So that's kind of the feeling that I get when it comes to this comments. But at the same time, there's a part of me that thinks maybe he's got a point, maybe I have become just an arrogant, narcissistic twat who sort of expects a certain number of views on the internet and who expect people to follow him because he's famous and he's even using the word famous because it's just all these things that happen for specifically for those comments like that. So yeah, when it comes to haters, I really don't care about comments on my appearance or oh my god, you haven't got to go, friend. Oh my god, you must be a virgin. Well, thank you for the original comments there. But it does get to me when people say that your videos used to be good. And now all you care about is money, you twat. Anyway, um, the other interesting one is anytime you ask people for money, people will complain. So I have been very scared of selling stuff because I know there is going to be a subset of people in my audience who are going to say oh my god, this guy is a scammer because he has the audacity to charge money for something. And recently, actually, sort of a few weeks ago, I released this course called the Park Time YouTuber Academy, which is like a four week live intensive interactive course. It's starting next week tomorrow, depending on when you're seeing this video starting on the 16th of November. That's the first cohort. And more info in the video description. The cohort is closed. You can't enroll for it now. The next cohort's going to be in February 2021. But I didn't even mention this course on YouTube. I mentioned it on Twitter and Instagram and my email newsletter. But even then, on one of my recent YouTube videos, someone commented saying something like, oh my god, Ali has become a total scammer. He is releasing a course. And it costs $2,000 in about how to do well on YouTube. And he's a total scammer. And all he cares about is money. And it's like god. And that comment had like 80, 80 likes on it. And I was like bloody hell. And in my head, I'm thinking, well, you know, no one's forcing you to buy the course. I'm not selling a result. I'm selling kind of, you know, this is like super intense. This is like, you know, 24 hours of literal me teaching you live on a Zoom call in front of a camera with homework assignments, with like guest workshops, with like three events happening each day, with like lots and lots and lots of stuff going on. And a team working full time to make this experience as great as I can be for the students. And we've got 400 people in the cohort who have been happy to pay the prices. And we have given loads of scholarships that to people who can't afford it. Like all of that stuff is in my head. And yet there's dude. It's always dude on the internet commenting that bro, you're a scammer because you have the audacity to charge money for something. It's kind of a bit, a bit hurtful. I can see why it would happen. It is very easy when someone has like, you know, I spent like the last three and a half years creating free content online. I've made courses on Skillshare, but Skillshare is effectively free. You can sign it for the free trial. And then it's basically free. To some people, I can seem like, oh my god, this guy is now taking advantage of his audience by charging money for something legit. And again, that kind of hurts. You can't really get over it. And everyone has spoken to, you know, I mean, Matt, you've ever recently released his own course. And he was talking as well about just how many people complain that it costs money. I was like, well, you know, this is a, this is a, this is a job. You know, I've got to pay the bills. I've got to make money somehow. This is a business. It's a business at the end of the day. And again, coming back to the parasocial relationships. It's the side here that people have that. Oh, if someone is creating videos on YouTube, they must only purely be doing it altruistically and anything beyond that. Anything that even hints of this person has selfish motives. This is a business, this person wants to make money. That is enough to call this person a scammer. So that's kind of interesting. That's another kind of variety of hate comment that occasionally I let get to me. Let's talk about now about being proud of achievements. This is something people have for me about Instagram. Like, you must feel really proud how proud you feel that you've hit a million subscribers. And honestly, I don't feel proud at all. I don't like the feeling of pride. I don't even know what it means. Like, what does it mean to be proud? I can say like, I'm proud of someone. And if I'm proud of someone that kind of means, I'm happy for their success. And I understand they struggle to get there. And I feel I've had some kind of hand in their success. Like, I wouldn't say I'm proud of Ed Sheeran, forgetting number one of the charts. Even though, like, it's a good achievement. And he struggled hard to get there. I won't say I'm proud because I've had no personal personal connection to him. But if my brothers start up did well, I'd be like, oh, I'm proud of that. Because I can see the amount of effort time of it that's gone into it. And I feel a personal connection with him. When it comes to feeling proud of myself, I just never have that feeling at all. But I think the feeling of being feeling proud of yourself is totally pointless. The way that I think of it is that I basically can't take credit for anything that I've done. I honestly cannot take credit for this this thing. The official thing to say would be like, oh my god, it's all, it's all because of the fans. Thank you so much fans for, you know, millions of fans without you. That would be like the official line. But the way that I actually think about this is that who I am is just a result of circumstances and luck. And I was very lucky to have a few unfair advantages that I managed to stack up on to make this YouTube channel. I was very lucky that I read the book show you work about Austin Cleone in 2016 that encouraged me to start my blog. I was very lucky that at that time in 2012 when I started medical school, it was very easy to set up a business, helping people get into medical school. So I did that and I made some money out of it which meant I could have four decent camera gear right from the start. I was very lucky that I got into Cambridge University which was a big name university and I was trading off of the brand value of being at Cambridge. I'm very lucky that I decided to go for medicine because, you know, being a doctor, again, trading off of the brand value of that. I'm very lucky that my mum decided to move us to the UK just prioritise my brother's education when we were really young and without that none of the stuff would have happened. So all of these things are things that I just really can't take any credit for and the way that I think of it is that all I've done is I was dealt a very good hand and I don't think I'd squandered the hand that I was dealt. I think I played my cards recently well but that's not something to feel proud of. It's just like a it is what it is and so when people say how proud you feel that you hit him in inscribers which is a question I got through Instagram sometimes. I kind of feel like it's I just don't relate to the feeling of being proud of myself in any regard. Maybe that's bad, maybe that's good who knows but that's just kind of how I feel about that. Let's talk about the experience of fame. Now this one is kind of of interesting because the first time I got noticed was it was it was only about three months into my YouTube career. It was around about November of 2017. I'd been creating videos from like June or July that year. It's a four months into my journey and I was making videos about interview preparation for medical students and one day I was in Cambridge town center with my friend Katherine and we were at a restaurant. I think it was some Italian restaurant and she was telling me off for being a bad friend because I was too focused on videos and not and she was sort of needed some help in some regards and I hadn't picked up that picked up on that so she was kind of telling me off for being a bad friend and there was this girl and her parents sitting next to us who kept looking over and at the end she came up to us and she was like oh my god I'll be in Katherine I recognize you from the videos you've given me amazing interview advice and I've got my Cambridge medicine interview tomorrow. I was like damn okay that's cool so that was like the first time someone recognized me in real life while Katherine was telling me off for being a bad friend because I was working too much on YouTube. That was interesting since then I now get recognized a few times on the streets when I go out kind of in non-locked-down times. There was feels a bit weird because I'm like I want to be nice to this person and I want to chat to them and stuff but I also don't want to waste that time. I you know I recognize maybe they just want a photo maybe they don't even want a photo and if I suggest age you want a photo it's going to be weird really weird if they also like can I get a photo with you they're going to feel embarrassed. I like I can ask them the name what they're up to but if they're with friends and stuff then it's kind of awkward and it turns into this kind of like awkward thing and I'm sure I'm overthinking it and I'm sure they're not thinking about it in as much detail but it just feels a bit weird to get like weird in a good way. Like I always really like it when people come up to me and be like hey I love your videos man it's just that after that point I don't really know where to take the conversation. The thing that I started doing what I've been doing for a while for the photos like three years now actually is I have this standing offer and open invites that I talk about on my website where if anyone wants to grab a coffee with me they can come to Cambridge and or if they're passing through Cambridge I'll buy them a coffee no questions asked. So for the first two years of doing this I would meet people after work at my hospitals canteen right from a coffee made a few friends that way met up with lots of people from all around the world which was really awesome and now recently kind of when lockdown wasn't a thing in the UK we have kind of Tuesday afternoon as being like my meetup day and so every week I'll just kind of station myself on a coffee shop in the Cambridge town center and people come come to me to hang out and it's really cool and it's sort of we normally hang out for a few hours occasionally even invite people back to my place for dinner in a not weird way but I've actually made a few friends and a singing teacher and a guitar teacher like through this and one of the guys I met through one of these coffee meetups and now he's part of my team he helps me out with with the content of his name is Joe he's cool it's been a nice way of making the numbers side of things seem more real because now it's like I'm interacting with real people who like my stuff and that's kind of cool so this is something I want to do more of like the more physical in person meetups because I think that's like a really nice part of the fame when it comes to the numbers and stuff it's all about the head on a adaptation you kind of forget that there's a million people who are 20 million and he looks like because that's not again it's not about the numbers it's just about continuing to plug away the videos and even I don't even think about the numbers I care about a subscriber count in that I wanted to be going up over time because it's a sign of channel growth but beyond that I just don't think about the numbers at all a few more things so let's talk about what it feels like at different levels of growth and at the start it feels really good because every time you get a new subscriber or a new view it feels like you really earned it and it feels like yes another one I think when I got to 5000 subscribers that was like the peak of the experience because at 5000 subscribers I was like okay now if I ever run out of content ideas I can just ask on a YouTube comment say hey guys what video should I make next or if I'm doing a Q&A I now have 5000 subscribers and therefore I know I will get at least a handful of questions that I can answer a Q&A for every time I hit a milestone like a hundred k 200k primary k million I kind of think to myself does this feel any different to 5000 and the answer is always no this feels no different to 5000 and I was talking to author Ryan Holiday the other day on one of my deep types hashtag name drop hashtag flex and he has a very good blog post where he talks about how it feels to be a number one best seller and in that blog post he says that he was moving his lawn one day when his agent emailed him or message him and said that he hit number one on the best seller list and he looked at his phone, put his phone back in his pocket and kept on moving the lawn and he said it feels like nothing and I think that's very true like that's very much the case for me as well people say how does it feel to hit a million subscribers how does it feel to hit a hundred it also just feels like nothing because the number isn't what matters it's the work and you know a philosophy that I recently started to really apply to my life is that the only real objective is to do the work so that you can continue doing the work it's playing like an infinite game where there is no end goal the only goal is to be able to continue playing the game and for me playing the game is being able to release videos on YouTube and so my only goal is to be able to continue doing that and so you know something like this nice rose gold not rose gold whatever this is it's all very nice but it actually doesn't feel like anything and actually this arrived in the mail about a month or two months ago and I just I knew I wanted to film this video and unbox it throughout but I just didn't really care about it because I mean okay it's not the point the point is just making the videos and it's doing the work so that you can continue doing the work this YouTube thing is an infinite game for me it doesn't have like an end goal or an end state I know I've won the game once I hit 10 million subscribers or whatever it just feels like yeah I just want to continue playing the game because playing the game is fun and it's profitable and it helps people and all that kind of stuff finally let's talk about the money side of things and I think the money side of things is interesting on a sponsor front so I remember it took me about a year and a bit I got my first sponsorship deal in the summer of 2018 after making how many videos do I make? I was on 52,000 subscribers and I had made 120 videos so 120 videos after I started YouTube 52,000 subscribers the first sponsor reached out to me and when a sponsor reached that to you it's absolutely mental like you think oh my god I can't believe you're giving me this free money and I think my first deal was for like a thousand pounds I was like what someone wants to pay me a thousand pounds just to mention them in a video for two minutes what hell hell yeah this like genuinely feels like free money and every creator that was spoken to has had a similar experience when it comes to sponsors and for me at the start and every time I get a new sponsorship deal because I was negotiating them myself and signing contracts and doing emails back and forth and you know when a sponsor comes to you usually it's through a middleman agency and they say something like hey Squarespace would like to work with you um how much would you charge for a 60 second integration and anything down how the hell do I know how much to charge and you just pluck around them number out of thin air and then they try and chalky down from it and you think hmm I'm not sure how much I'm worth I'm not sure how much I should be getting paid and you try and ask other people of people a bit cagey about it and it's all very it's all this kind of black box of like how how much should I be being paid for a sponsored video because we're solo creators like at the start I was making kind of 500 to 1000 pounds per video which is absolutely insane that's like a really really high amount of money but now I'm making a lot more than that and I can't tell you how much I'm making because that's against the term most sponsors of agreement but it just feels so weird like no one would bat an eyelid if Coca-Cola spent 200,000 on a TV commercial but if someone if Coca-Cola pays a creator 200,000 to plug their product into video then that feels a lot more different even though the end result is the same the way I used to think about sponsors was oh my god I can't believe this is free money the way I now think of it is that it's just another another line item of revenue in the business and because I work with a lovely agency we get sponsors all the time and sort of every week pretty much have a sponsored line up so it's now become something that I don't have to think about just another line of revenue in the business and I can focus on creating the content rather than on worrying about the monetization behind the scenes those were lots of rambly thoughts about what it feels like to hit a million subscribers again if you've got to the end of this video thank you so much please leave some kind of emoji in the comments like a cloverly for a tree or something just I can see how many people got to the end of this video this is gonna be really long but this is awesome thank you so much the fans are amazing the videos are amazing the audience is amazing but these were just a few things that go on in my head about kind of the journey to get to a million subscribers how it feels like now I'm here and kind of moving forward I'm gonna do another video where I talk about like 15 lessons I've learned on route to a million subscribers so that might be interesting but if you got on this far thank you so much watching normally at this point I would sort of pitch you to an M screen that has like a playlist so we'll put the playlist of popular videos there but to be honest if you watch this far thank you very much I really appreciate you all the best leave a comment down below if you have any questions about anything and yeah I just wanted to say wish you a lovely rest of day and say stay safe and enjoy the pandemic and all of that sort of stuff so thanks for watching bye
