# Apple Watch Series 4 Review
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IoA0q9fUpYI
Try Dashlane Premium free for 30 days here: https://www.dashlane.com/abdaal
The first 200 people to purchase get 10% off with coupon code ABDAAL

In this video, I talk through my 5 main use-cases for the Apple Watch Series 4. We end with a discussion about whether it's worth the money. Enjoy xx

💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking 

📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

TIMESTAMPS:

00:29 - Overall conclusion
01:30 - Speed and screen
02:17 - My 5 main use-cases
06:29 - Is it worth the money?

🎬 My online course on video editing - https://skl.sh/32TpEvm
🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
**Keywords:** apple watch, apple watch series 4, apple watch series 4 review, series 4, apple watch 4, apple watch 4 review, apple watch review, apple watch 2019, apple watch features, series 4 apple watch review, apple watch 2018, apple wwatch series 4 review, series 4 review, series 4 apple watch, series 4 apple watch 44mm, ali abdaal, 
**Date:** 2019-03-05

## Transcript
 This video is kindly sponsored by Dashlane. Keep your digital life secure and never forget a password ever again. Hey guys, welcome back to the channel. If you're new here at my name is Ali, I'm a junior doctor of working in Cambridge and today I'm going to be doing a review of the Apple Watch series 4. I watch that I've been wearing every single day for the last six months. As usual we'll start with the overall conclusion and whether it's worth it. So that's all you're here for. That's fine. But then I'll go into a bit more detail about the five main use cases that I personally use the watch for and then right at the end we'll do little discussion about whether those are really worth the 400 pound or 400 dollar price tag. So in conclusion, I absolutely love my Apple Watch. I use it every single day and it adds a smaller amount of convenience to my life in the form of notifications, Apple Pay, music and audio but control Google Maps and two-factor authentication with Dashlane. More importantly, I think it looks really pretty as an accessory and it goes with every outfit that I wear and in a way it lets me signal to people that I'm a cool guy who's into tech and all that sort of is all of this really worth the 400 pound or 400 dollar price tag. That's a bit more complicated. In my opinion, I think it is worth it. I do not regret the money I spent on this. I'm glad I spent the money on it but it's a bit more complicated than that and whether it's worth it will depend on your personal circumstances a lot and I'll discuss that more at the end of the video in this timestamp if you want to skip forward ahead. So that was the overall conclusion. If that's all you're here for then that's fantastic. Please drop a like on this video and then do something better with your life. But for the rest of the video I'm going to talk a little bit about the specs and then I'll talk about some of the use cases that I've found that out of value to my own life using the Apple Watch series for. Okay, I don't normally comment on specs because since like 2015 specs for things like phones and iPads and stuff, haven't really made any difference to anyone's life but for the Apple Watch that's not the case. I used to have the Apple Watch series one and it was really really really bloody slow to the point where it was just quicker to whip out my phone from my skinny jeans trying to squeeze it out, look on my phone and do whatever I need to do. That's not the case with the series four. This thing is lightning fast. I have never once noticed it being slow and also the screen bezels are a lot thinner than they used to be. It feels like an edge to edge display and although this is the 44 millimeter one the size feels similar to the old one but there is a lot more screen real estate. So yeah specs are good and speed is good and screen bezels are good. That's what I'm going to say about specs. I don't like talking about specs. All right, so none of these use cases are life-changing in any way at all. They're just very small conveniences that add a small amount of convenience to your day-to-day life and if you think that is worth the 400 pound price tag then fair enough, I personally do. The five main things. First one is notifications. So I like getting some notifications on the Apple Watch. I like getting email notifications because then I can decide if it's something I need to bust out my phone or iPad for and then I can reply to the email or I can just archive it directly from the Apple Watch which means overall I spend less time checking my phone and less time triaging email on my phone. I also like getting Instagram DM notifications because I'm all popular and stuff or at least I like to think so. I get a few tens of Instagram DMs each day where it's like someone has requested to send you an Instagram message. That's kind of nice. I'm in the middle of work. I have a look at the watch and be like, oh someone wants to talk to me. It says it's like a little burst of indoor fin release that makes me feel happy throughout the day. Point number two is Apple Pay. Now I absolutely love using Apple Pay on the Apple Watch. It's like the reason I don't even carry a wallet around with me anymore. It's great in the UK because the vast majority of shops now accept contactless so I can just double tap on the Apple Watch scroll through my visa or my American Express or my Monzo card depending on how I'm feeling and occasionally it does strike up a conversation with I don't know the barista behind the counter or someone in the queue when I'm paying. I'm like, oh that's what I saw very fancy isn't it? I'm like, yeah gosh, so high tech. It's really annoying when it doesn't work because then you look like an absolute twat because you've tried to pay with your fancy expensive watch and it just hasn't worked and then you feel very, you know, your face goes all red and you have to dig out your phone and do the whole face ID, make face ID works and then you can actually pay with your American Express card or whatever. I don't know why I'm signaling the fact that I've got an American Express. So yeah if you didn't have the Apple Watch then the alternative would be to get your phone up and use Apple Pay on that. It saves you about two seconds each time. It's not really a big deal but it's quite nice to have the watch for that because then you know you tap and go and it's just nice. Thirdly I really like the fact that you can control music and audio books on the Apple Watch. So if I've got Alexa to play some stuff on Spotify don't do anything. If I've got her playing something on Spotify and I want to change the song or shuffle I can just open the Spotify app on the Apple Watch and change it that way. Or if I'm having a shower and I'm wearing my watch I usually have some kind of music playing through my waterproof Bluetooth speaker in the shower and if it's a bad song I can just change it on the Apple Watch because this one is waterproof so it can you can survive in the shower. Fourthly I quite like the maps feature sometimes if I'm having to find a new place in London or roam around town and I've got directions on my phone I can use Apple Maps to send the directions to the Apple Watch and it will give me turn-by-turn directions which means I don't have to kind of look at my phone as I'm walking around. I can just kind of get the vibration on the Apple Watch be like oh turn right on to long road and I will turn right on to long road. Sadly this doesn't work with Google Maps only Apple Maps but hey it's the price we pay for having the convenience of the Apple Watch and finally one thing I've started doing regularly on the Apple Watch is using the Apple Dashlane as a form of two-factor authentication so because I've got two-factor authentication enabled on all the accounts that I care about instead of when I'm logging into like a new computer having to dig out my phone and use authenticator. Instead I just open up the Dashlane app on my Apple Watch and it generates the two-factor authentication code automatically so I can just see them on the Apple Watch and I can enter them in and that saves me a few seconds of my life either to hear where I don't have to get out my phone. It's again the story of Apple Watch saving you a few seconds. By the way if you haven't heard of it Dashlane is a fantastic password and identity manager they're very kind of sponsoring this video and I've been using it on my MacBook, my iPad, my iPhone and now my Apple Watch for the past several months. Three main reasons why I like it. Firstly it makes me more efficient when I'm on the computer because every time it recognizes that you're logging into something it just instantly fills in you login details to the point where you sometimes don't even see the login screen you just automatically login which is awesome. Secondly it stores all of my thousands of passwords securely which is really nice and again it can generate new ones for new websites that I register with and finally it stores all of my credit and debit card details securely so if ever want to buy something on the iPhone or on the iPad or on the MacBook or whatever it can just also fill the credit card details which means again I don't have to carry my wallet around which is just quite nice. Very excitingly Dashlane has over 10 million users in 150 countries so if you fancy giving it a try you can go to dashlane.com forward slash update that's ABD double a elf that's my surname if you didn't know and you can use that link to get 10% off if you fancy upgrading to the premium membership option. So how do we decide if something is objectively worth money you spend on it? If you've seen my previous tech reviews you'll now have got a three-part framework. Number one does it make me any happier. Number two does it remove any salient negatives from my life and number three does it allow me to do or make anything that adds more value to my life and the answer to the Apple Watch is no on all three counts. So as far as you know this attempt at creating an objective measure of whether something is worth it goes the Apple Watch is not worth it. In fact I would argue that it will never be worth it to spend 400 pounds on a watch let alone the thousands of pounds that some people spend on really fancy watches but do I regret buying it and the answer to that is no I don't regret buying it I'm quite glad I have this and personally even though it's objectively not worth the money I think subjectively it is quite nice to have provided you can comfortably afford it. If I were in my student days or in my secondary school days and I were having to tutor for I don't know 20 pounds an hour um in order to save up the 300 400 pounds that I need to fit this watch I wouldn't get it because there are far better uses of my money. I you know much rather buy new digital camera by a Kindle and like a ton of non-fiction books for a minute for it they're gonna add value to my life by a subscription to order bull you know to read all your books but you know there's all this stuff that can add so much more value to our life then the small amount of convenience at the Apple Watch ads but if you're in the position where you're financially pretty stable you know spending 300 400 pounds on a watch is not you know outside the realms of possibility and if you can sort of imagine yourself spending 400 pounds on a standard you know analog watch and you know being reasonably okay with that it's not gonna break the bank nor gonna change your life then by all means go for the Apple Watch if you're into tech if you're into this sort of stuff it does look quite nice and it does as I said at the start let's you signal to people that you're a tech person because you know arguably the whole point of accessories and things like this is you know this element of signaling you are sharing people that I'm the sort of person that hasn't Apple Watched therefore I want you to make these assumptions about me and even though you know it sounds weird to say out loud and even though we should all probably not be thinking that way I think that is a strong component about why people spend money on luxury products like the Apple Watch it let's us signal so yeah um if you can comfortably afford it then I don't think you'll be disappointed with this if you're a techie if you cannot comfortably afford it then please do not buy the Apple Watch it's absolutely not worth you saving your hard run cash for this by a camera instead a guarantee will add a hundred times on the more value to your life by a candle and some non-fiction books instead again a guarantee that will add a hundred times more value to your life then you know this piece of plastic that I've got sitting on my wrist so that was a review of the Apple Watch series four in conclusion I quite like it it's a luxury product definitely that adds a very tiny amount of convenience to my life but because I can comfortably afford it I can't it's gonna sound weird saying this out loud I don't care when you talk about money and we should all be more candid about talking about money because you know by the grace of God I can comfortably afford to spend four hundred pounds on a watch and think really nothing of it I think it's worth it if you're not in that position it's not going to be worth it it's not going to add any value to life don't do it it's plenty of money on something better instead so thank you for watching I hope you like that video if you like the video please give it a thumbs up if you haven't subscribed to the channel then please consider doing so have a lovely day and I will see you in the next video hopefully goodbye you
