# Exam Revision Tips with Ibz Mo
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ISjkHuJYTPw
In this video, I had the pleasure of chatting with YouTuber extraordinaire Ibz Mo. We talk about our processes for revising for exams/essays, and we share some secrets from Psychology research about how to revise efficiently. Enjoy xx

Ibz’ Channel - https://www.youtube.com/user/ibstarsns

More videos in the ‘Evidence-Based Study Tips’ (or whatever it’ll be called) series coming soon! 

💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking 

📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

TIMESTAMPS

02:19 - How Ibz writes essays
07:16 - How I memorise essays and other facts for exams
08:43 - Effective revision technique #1 - Spaced Repetition
11:55 - Effective revision technique #2 - Active Recall
14:47 - Closing comments

🎬 My online course on video editing - https://skl.sh/32TpEvm
🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal

Who am I:

I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking 

📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal
**Keywords:** revision tips, study tips, how to revise, how to revise for exams, ibz mo, evidence based study tips, evidence based revision tips, effective study techniques, effective revision, effective study, revision techniques, how to write essays, 
**Date:** 2018-03-24

## Transcript
 Hey guys, welcome back to the channel. If you're new here, my name is Ali, I'm a finally a medical student at Cambridge University and I ever heard my hamd. Also, there's Ismo and I study psychological, psychological, psychological, psychological, and behavioral science at Worse and Cottage, Cambridge. Today, we're going to be talking about revision tips for the two people that might not know who you are. Can you give us a quick? Simey, I'm a terrorist, I'm a terrorist. So, I'm a YouTuber. Cambridge, yeah, I'm basically, I'm joking with my time here, being a person of color, being a work class person, coming from my background, which I'm like the ghetto, where you get to a school, and then again, Cambridge. I think one people want me to want people to pull to me is because, like, much of the season, two of these three season, two of these reasons, and then when I did A levels, I just worked. Can I say it, arms? You can say, we worked my ass off, and I got my two results two days, and then I just go into Cambridge, and I think I just, I had to like really learn how to study, how to learn how to revise. So A levels for me was just like all the nothing, work hard work hard. Anyway, yeah, so if there is a super inspiring youtuber, everyone, everyone loves him, channel will be linked down below, and here in everywhere. Also, please check him out if you are one of the two or three people, maybe, who don't know who he is. No surprise, do you surprise me? No, yeah, I saw this really, everyone, I mean, like, knows who he knows you. I'm like, oh my god. Anyway, today we're talking about study tips. We're talking about how to efficiently revise for your exams, and we're going to be having a conversation with us and like, how we do it, and we both studied psychology, I did it for my third year, you're doing it for your pretty much whole degree, and there is a lot of stuff in the field of psychology about effective study techniques and all that. So I'm going to be doing a series on this channel in depth in a few weeks time, but this is going to be like a broad brush overview where you get the perspective of a medic, and also a PBS student who does like science and arts and stuff. As an exclusive, yeah, and what is your series called evidence based study tip? I don't know, I haven't thought of it. Well, what do you reckon? Evidence based, so yeah, I mean, is that a bit of that? I don't have an acronym, I don't know, you've ever stamped, absent, absent, absent. That's not very clickbait here. Oh, that's true. I don't want to clickbait here. How to smash your exams with these two simple steps? I don't have to. But I don't have to. But I don't have the views. I'll see. I don't know. But anyway, I don't think that. Anyway, study tips. So how do you write an essay? What's your process? In the pen, so with psychology, especially at Cambridge, we have two sides of it. We have like the more humanity side and the side side, and with humanity side, cos of my universe versus all the G and English, and I just have a lot of humanity. My process is to obviously get the question, and I do free jobs. My first job is what I word for me, everything I kind of want this on this word document. I'll have like the Dalai will be there, except the word in all these thousands of words. I have like five hundreds of words to form it. Okay, yeah. And then I have a second job where I take every single point, and I make a new document. Yeah. And then I just like read it through editing it. Yeah, get nice, put some evidence, link it back, and then I have a final job where I've put everything together. Yeah, just go for it. Again, link that much more references. Okay. But my main question of studying is, looking at the question, and what are my initial thoughts? Yeah. That's what I do. I usually decide to read this first. I'm just like, you know what I'm too old for this. What is my initial thoughts? And then I put that in my essay plan. And then before, if I don't have any initial thoughts, I do the reading this, which is so long. It's because I will like, yeah, they'll give you a textbook. That's like, um, let's just say, read this text, and the text is called, like, text A. I mean, we text B, text C, text D. And the title of text A will be like clinical psychology. And now you have to go deep in it just to find the one part of it. Links, like, there's, oh, there's just, that's why I'm just text ones. But anyway, so I just, we'll have to read and find links and then make it together. But one thing about psychology is they love evidence. Yeah, absolutely. So you, they have been times where I went down, you know, I don't need evidence of that. Yeah, it's fantasy. Yeah. And it was about what was about, like, how we develop language. Oh, yeah. And I was just very, very, very, very, very, very, and then my superiors are all that was this, you know, you gave me a hard baked essay. Oh, me. So just, I do lots of evidence and that's everything. But psychology's fun because you get to be, like, articles and, like, abstracts. Yeah. So for some, I read, absolutely. I don't understand. I don't really give it off of it. I've tried and the conclusion at best is, it's what I go for. My conclusions are always crap. My personal, like, jiggle it. This is the end. And I always leave something like, this topic is so important because the future is like, oh, yeah, absolutely. You need interventions to make the one a better place. But introduction is all you've lost. Because I thought, like, here we have to say in this essay, I think in this analysis. Yeah. Oh, oh. And then, like, you have to say what you're going to say in the essay. Yeah. But sometimes, I would say, I'm going to do ABCD, but I was to ABC. So I now leave back in charge of the last. Oh, okay. Yeah. Well, I just like, ABCD. That's a really good point as well. And I think this applies to GCC and A-level exams as well. When I was doing it, we'd look at the mark schemes. And it would say that you get the highest marks for sustained argument. I eat where you say what you're going to say in the introduction. And then you sustainably argue it throughout. As opposed to the standard thing of introduction. And then point four against four against. And then in your conclusion, you like, wait for the conclusion before telling the reader what your thesis is, what your, like, discussion is. I think it's really good to stay to it in advance. And I discovered this and like, I can do that. I'm thinking of it. Like, they, they see an outline of your essay. They're like, oh, but in this essay, I will argue that. That's very, that's very different to sociology, A-level. Because they love it. They love a debate. I was, when I said my essays for my A-level, I would take you on a journey with me. I will show you the world quite a long time ago. I wouldn't actually be like, this point, they're a bit on the very least. This is maybe a start and then I come to a fight with me. They loved it. But I felt, we're sad, honestly, because it's more scientific. This is one. It's one. What's the answer? I think I said evidence evidence evidence evidence. And then I would write all criteria, like, well, maybe perhaps this, you know, no. But I discovered that I'd write no more basic sentences. And I'm like, that's not my background. That's the hardest thing. But yeah, they just want clear answers to essays. Yeah, but as you said, you know, structure. It's, it's really useful to plan the essay in advance. There is quite a few studies as well about, you know, doing spider diagrams, where you have your, your topic in the middle. And then you just give your broad, broad brush strokes over you. I hear the click thing, because I know that they want to cut. It's just become a, like, a tick, because then you see the little spike in the audio. But I just, I forget to do it sometimes. Anyway, yeah. But one thing. So, but we don't essays, right? So, do you do essays? You're doing it in undergrad. Why? I was like, that's why I don't understand because I'm just trying to explain the function of the sodium potassium pump. Oh, but I know that that's in the, that's in the, um, uh, that's in the way. It's a little biology. It's a little biology. It's a little biology. It is, yeah. And it's in the, it's actually potentials. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. In the neurons. Yeah. That's what it is. In fact, the sodium potassium pump takes up 40% of the energy in our body, because it's just like everywhere in all the new, right? I think let's just come anyway. But here is the word essays, right? Like, the reason why I fight essays well is because in my exam, I do essays. But I sometimes I feel like, how do you have, how do you memorize the essay? Oh, right. Because we've got how many, they give us like two days to do one essay. Yes, right? But then in the exam, I've got like an hour or two. What's that? That's mine. I'll see. That's not, but I don't get it. And they don't, oh, it's a very big count. So, how do you revise for exams? I'm not essays. Okay. So, um, in, in third year, I did psychology, our exams were essay based. It was entirely essays. Uh, we had four papers that were three essays each and you had to do each essay in an hour. And my tactic for this, which I've been sharing with everyone who asks me, how do I, how do I get first and in psychology, because lots of medics do what fast? I've got first. Okay, I can talk to the end actually in my third year in psychology, because of this tactic. I'm obviously the only person who joins me to join talk with you. Um, it's not a good one, really good. Anyway, what I did was I made about 50 essay plans, and I predicted what possible essay titles they could feasibly ask based on the lecture notes and and the subjects. And I committed all 50 of those essay plans to memory by just drawing spider diagrams over and over again. And each essay plan had like seven different references. I also didn't read the references. I just, you know, read a review paper that reference the references. And I, you know, memorize that. Oh, Hodgkins and Huxley in 1942 did a study where blah, blah, blah, blah. So, I had these this bank of like 50 essay plans in my head. And then on the, on the actually exam of the 12 essays we had to do, eight of them were already prepared. And the other four, because I already, because I had all these other essay plans that my head had just kind of dried and dropped. I made like a spider just by the diagram and just like just before starting the exam of what it was going to be. And that just kind of ripped it up. Do you have a letter for memory? No, not in slightest. It was literally just this tactic of doing a spider diagram. And also space repetition. That's another absolutely magical technique that is the secret weapon of all everyone sort of like all these efficient study techniques. Because I have a list of special visitors. All right. So, you probably familiar with the idea that if you, you know, when you read something and then you come back to it like a week later, you realize you've forgotten. Yeah. And you're like, when did I read this end? I used to have this. And for me, I used to kind of think that it's, it's a bit of a waste of time because what's the point of going to this lecture, if I'm just going to forget it, like, by next week. And I would just kind of try and brute forces by repeating repeating repeating. But what they've done, they've done studies about this, I might show up the graph if I can find one, is that it's like you forget at an exponential rate. Like, if you rise to me today, you'll probably forget it, most of it by tomorrow and then all the whole of it by the day after. But if you revisit it tomorrow, then you go back up again. And then it takes you longer to forget it. So, if you do it again a week later, it takes you maybe a month to forget it. So, if you do it a month later, it's just been revised and go back. Exactly. But like in a space fashion. So, what I used to do is that I made a spreadsheet of like my topics and then I'd be like, okay, I'm doing this one, these ones and day one. And then the next day, I would repeat those. And then I would say a week later, I'm going to repeat those and then a month later, I'm going to repeat those. And when I started doing this, I had about three months left to until the exams, which is kind of what we have now until it levels. So, making this kind of time table where you actively space your reputation out. I think that's like the main, the main reason. Okay, wow. And be able to try that. I feel like that's just revision. And it's just revision. Yeah. It's space revision. What is that? What about the space? It's a plan. So, I did that for psychology. Yeah. Where I think I was that way, what I did with the name of this up 50, I was able to be like, whatever question you gave me. Yeah, that. But it's going to go. And I could have picked up all of my year ones and all of my year twos and all of my year, all of my paragraphs. I could think of more points like that. But for this year, I don't know how it came in, I thought, because it's just a lot more hard, a lot more intense. Yeah. But then maybe that's just me. Maybe I'm just thinking like that. But I feel like to memorize the same plans. I'm going to try that. Yeah. I feel like, oh, 50. That's a blur. That's a lot of, yeah. But you start off smaller than that. And that was someone who played off all of them. Oh, oh. So, like, for each paper, I only memorized about 10 to 15, I say plans. And that covered the bases of at least three questions I could answer. Yeah. I said plans already. Yeah. I said plans like, oh, we say this. I was like, what's on me? I said, I said, I was like, for me, what the? Why is it written in? What the hell could it wasn't written? Okay. Anyways, um, I said plans. We're my suppliers. I just do like title. I do box points. Both points. So I do have, um, I've great of 12. Yeah. And I have like in charging conclusion. And then I just do a little words in between. Okay. And so for example, like, just a title or like title, I wrote this and I remember I said, like the morning before the exam. I say, okay, I only do that for revision. Yeah. I only do for exams. I feel like the reason I and my grades have been in the script. I'll be getting like two ones and two two to see it. Yeah. It's because I don't put the effort in because it's essays that don't go towards our final grade. Yeah. So, because now we've got exam season and it is about our final grade, then I can start doing all these methods. Yeah. But that's really cool though. Um, yeah. I think it's as it has in the space space space mission space repetition. We're pretty good to search. Thank you. Well, that's okay. So we've talked about it. It's a plan to talk about space repetition. We'll just talk about one more thing. And that is the other magic weapon of all these officials tell you technically. You've got all these magic questions. Basically, two. Number one is space repetition. And number two, they're called it active recall. Basically, it means testing yourself in a low stakes fashion, like, you know, not in the exam, like, consistently asking yourself questions. Do you use this? Yeah. One of the time. And I feel like now with my, now that I live with my family, who does my same course, we do the whole time. Or we try to bring in jokes or be like, oh, that's why you're language so bad and because of, play RJ or because of this person. So yeah, I feel I'll be considering, I just try to bring in everyday context everyday discussions. Yeah. Yeah. That's, that's a great way of doing it. That's what I do with with medicine stuff with my friends. Like, well, we're well, we're eating lunch or something. One of us, we just throw a passion out there. And usually, depending on the crowd, like, some people are like, oh, why we're talking about medicine. But some of us love it. I love talking about medicine personally. Active recall, really, really important. So things you can do, there's a really good quote from some guy who's name or used to know for my, for my exam. It's man, probably. And it goes along the lines of the retrieval of a fact from within the brain is far more important than the putting of that fact into the brain. So it's, it's a lot more poetic than that. I'll flash it up over here. But basically, it means that when you try and recall facts from your brain, that is a lot more efficient than trying to put them back in. And I think a lot of times what we do when we were always in programs and that we read and then we read, we read again. But there's a study whereby they got loads of university students to read this passage of text and answer questions about it. So for one group of them, they got them to read it once and then answer the questions. For another group, they got them to read it four times and then answer the questions. For another group, they got them to read it once through mind map and then answer the questions. And for the final group, they got them to read it once and then just try and think of answers to questions, just act of recall it. And like obviously the read one group did the worst. The read four times group did the second worst. The mind map group did a bit better than the four times reading. But the final group, they're just read it once and try to recall those facts. They did the best. So this study kind of showed that, you know, just trying to test yourself in a low stakes fashion is four times more efficient than just reading the same thing over and over again. I think this is the biggest problem that I see with my friends who, especially in the school days, used to say stuff like, oh it takes me three hours to get through a science topic. It's because all they're doing is rereading. I think it's all about like making questions for yourself and testing yourself. That's the secret. What do you think? I've never been more inspired to study down. I think yeah, I agree. I'm reading a question. Yeah, because I thought like, well, I'm just having that somewhere, like a very precise question about that. Because in a lot of, I used to do that. I used to read the do essay plan. But when you do an essay plan, you're questioning yourself. But now all I do is read it. Oh, cause they tell us to read it. We've got a lot of stuff to read. Yeah. Oh, my Lord. Try reading a recording. Okay. Fingers crossed out. Okay, this video. Cool. So we talked about essay plan. We talked about space for a petition. We talked about active recall. Thank you very much. It's been really fine. I'm going to be copying all these videos. This is fun. This is the one that I missed everything. Everyone says that I had you. So you had you. So I did a whole video on this like, and it's the only video I've been making because that's what all the tips are. So I mean, I can't constantly make more videos. I thought like, you have to stick to what you know is good for you and use that. And I think these tips are like, you can't do it. And there's going to be series on this channel in the next few weeks where I'm going to be talking about the evidence based behind all these things. Because like for me, I studied this in second and third year, and I found that when I understood what the evidence was behind it and stuff like, you know, whether you should listen to music while studying and whether it is good to highlight and was really amazing. Sure, I'm so probably not. Instrumentals are okay. Music with lyrics is worse. Yeah. But to be honest, if listening to music helps you motivate yourself to work, then that probably overrides any. Yeah, there's going to be some evidence based behind that. It's we'll talk about the research. And if you're into that sort of thing, you might want to watch that. But otherwise, this should hopefully have given you a fairly poor overview, spatial rotation active recall as it plans. That's the game. If you get good grades, measure your number as a way, you come to says where you can donate money. Yes. Well, our Patreon will be a link to the way. So you have one. No, I don't know. I don't know. I think you should. I don't know what I'm doing. I think that could fund you a degree pretty much. All my followers are poor. Oh, yeah, interesting. But then you've got to know the University of Studios. Yeah. And then poor. Then when they graduate like in a year of just time, and then on these high-flying city jobs, with their Cambridge degree. And their gynecology. And their gynecologist to get sued. Oh, yeah. Yeah. I'll be all right. We'll be all right. But yeah. Thanks for watching. Take care guys. Bye. See you. Bye.
