# I Journaled Everyday for 90 Days. Here’s What I Learned.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JHKiDe8E4hY
Sign up to Morning Brew for free today - https://morningbrewdaily.com/ali

I've been journaling on/off for the last 5 years but in the last 90 days I decided to take it seriously. So in this video I want to go through my experience and give my thoughts on why we should all start journaling and the benefits I've got from writing for the past 90 days. Enjoy :)

👉 Links
Leuchtturm1917 Notebook - https://geni.us/9PsYjVQ
Lamy Swift Pen - https://geni.us/oX2dlK5
Day One App - https://dayoneapp.com/
The Artist's Way Book - https://geni.us/BA0sN

⏱ Timestamps
00:00 Intro
00:34 Part I: Why bother in the first place
01:44 Part II: The two journaling methods
07:37 Part III: Benefits of journaling
11:59 Part IV: Top tips for getting started

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

PART-TIME YOUTUBER ACADEMY:
🍿 My 6-week live online course - https://academy.aliabdaal.com

CREATORPRENEUR
💰 My flag-ship course for scaling up your creative side-hustle - https://creatorpreneur.academy/course

YOUTUBE FOR BEGINNERS COURSE
📸 This is for anyone who'd like to start a YouTube channel. You'll learn everything you need to get started as a YouTuber including how to script, shoot, and edit your first video - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/YouTube-for-Beginners

MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
✍️ The best summaries of books (Shortform) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
📚  How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound

🎙 Deep Dive podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/
The podcast that delves into the minds of entrepreneurs, creators and other inspiring people to uncover the philosophies, strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. You can find it by searching “Deep Dive” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/friendzone/
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
💙  The Friendzone Discord - https://discord.gg/Dh2kGavffd
🎮  Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I’m Ali, a YouTuber, podcaster, soon-to-be author and ex-Doctor working in London, UK. I make videos that explore the strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. I also have a weekly podcast called Deep Dive (https://www.youtube.com/channel/UChfo46ZNOV-vtehDc25A1Ug), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter).


GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, 
**Date:** 2022-09-09

## Transcript
 Hey friends welcome back to the channel. So I have been journaling on and off for the last five years, but really in the last 90 days I decided to take it seriously and decided from like May 2022 that I was going to journal every single day for 90 days. And so in this video we're going to talk about four main things. Firstly, we're going to talk about why bother journaling in the first place, like what are the benefits of journaling. Secondly, we're going to talk about my own personal method for journaling physically and also digitally with apps and stuff. Thirdly, we're going to talk about the benefits that I've personally got from journaling. And then we're going to end with some top tips on how you can get started with journaling as well if that's a sort of thing you're into. Let's go for it. Part one, why bother with journaling in the first place? So journaling is surprisingly good for you. Like there's a bunch of evidence that shows that it's got physical health and also mental health benefits as well. But to be honest, the main reason I decided to actually take journaling seriously was because of the productivity benefits unsurprisingly. And really the main benefit here is when we're journaling every day. Firstly, it helps calm our kind of monkey mind that mind that sort of always like often different directions doing, thinking about all these different things. And it really helps you focus on the things that actually matter in your life. And certainly something that I found is that when I'm doing my journaling and I'm thinking about like am I actually working on the right things, am I going in the direction that I want to go and kind of cognitively evaluating my life choices through the method of journaling, that really helps me kind of hone down on what are actually the important areas of life that I want to be spending my time on. And that therefore boost my productivity because productivity is just using your time well. And when I journal, it means that I'm more likely to use my time well. And to be honest as well, like dozens of podcasts I've listened to, there's people like Tim Ferriss who swear by journaling. There's a bunch of like a bunch of other entrepreneurs and authors and creators who I admire, who think who say that like journaling has changed their life and it's like the best thing ever. And so I've always thought, I've kind of dabbled with journaling here and there. I've never really fully taken it seriously. And so why not just give it a go? And so I committed to this 90-day experiment. Part two, the two journaling methods, physical and digital. So one of the things that I think was great about my method of journaling this time around was that I had two different ways of doing it, a physical journal and also a digital journal. And I think having both is sick because you benefit from the benefits of digital and you benefit from also the benefits of physical. I'm surprisingly. So the method I'm using as follows. Basically, I'm using this Loistum 1917 A5 size, I think as A5 size, dotted paper. It's glorious. I've been using the Loistum 1917 series of journals for over three years now. And it's just by far the best kind of plain paper journal I've ever found. I've traveled the most good ones as well. I just prefer the Loistum ones. And Neil Gaiman famously writes only Loistum notebooks. So that's why this is the one. I also bought for it this like special little attachmenty thingy where you can stick it onto the thing. And then you can stick your pen onto the thing. Now this is an incredible innovation because now it means that the journal is always with a pen. And before, when I didn't have this thing, I'd always be struggling to find a pen and it would be too much friction. But now just paying a few extra quid for this thing on Amazon, just made it made in an enormous difference. And so what is the method? Basically, the method is that I carry this journal with me pretty much everywhere I go. It always stays in my bag. It always has the pen on it at all times. And if you're interested, the best pen I've ever found for journaling is the Lamy Swift. This is a rollerball pen. But to be honest, you can use any pen. Any pen will do, but this is the one I've tested dozens. And it's been my favorite one so far. So essentially, there's like two different ways that I do this. The first one is something called morning pages. Now morning pages is this technique for journaling, which was written first by Julia Cameron in the book The Artist Way. Basically, the idea behind morning pages is that first thing in the morning, you bust out your journal. And you just write three pages by hand of whatever comes to mind. Any kind of stream of consciousness, anything that's on your mind, anything you're feeling, anything you're thinking, anything you're working on. And you just write for three pages. And it doesn't matter if what you're writing is absolute garbage. But the point is you just write for three pages. And there's so many benefits like creatively of doing morning pages. My editor Rachel, who's helping out the book, also recommended morning pages. And I find that in the mornings, when I actually write my three pages by hand, it generally, it's like, it's a way feeling. It feels like it kind of unclogs my brain. And it means that when I get to writing or making a YouTube video or writing a lesson for a part time, YouTube or Academy, it just feels like my thoughts are flowing in a way that they weren't before I kind of unblocked my mind through the morning pages. So that is my physical journaling method. Basically, very unstructured, morning pages vibes using the Lodge term 1917. But I also have a digital journaling method. And that is using the app day one. Day one is sick. I've been using day one since like 20, 17, 2016, something like that. It's available on Mac. It's available on iOS devices. And they think there is like an Android companion app that you can use. But sadly, it is mostly Mac. I'm sure the Windows and Android Heathens among us will find some alternative digital journal. But the nice thing about day one is that I can open it on any device. So sometimes, when I'm on my laptop, I will just do the journaling on day one on the Mac OS app. Sometimes when I'm on my phone, I'll just open up the day one app on my phone and just write a few things. And the cool thing about day one as an app is that it's not just text you can write in it. It also sinks to your calendar and you can put images in it. I have a folder for my personal journal. And I also have a folder for nice comments. So anytime I see a nice comment, if someone emails it to me or sends me an Instagram DM or Twitter DM, I will just screenshot it or share it straight into day one. And I've got hundreds of nice comments in my little nice comments folder so that, you know, if I'm feeling down, I can just flick through these nice comments and it's kind of nice. But, you know, the main thing I want to talk about here is the journaling one. Now again, there's no real method here. Usually, if I'm just on my laptop and I'm thinking, okay, first thing in the morning, I need to do some work or check some emails or reply to some slack messages or do some book writing. Normally, instead of doing that first, I would just open up day one. I'll open up day one on my Mac book and I've locked it with Touch ID and it's all encrypted, so it's all safe and stuff, hopefully, fingers crossed. And I would just kind of, again, write whatever comes to mind. Sometimes, I do morning pages by hand in the log term 1917, which is technically what you're supposed to do. But sometimes, I can't be bothered to do it by hand and so I'll just type it out on day one on the app. Now, the real benefit of day one is that it's fantastic for archive. And be, they've got this on this day feature. So now that I've actually been to doing this journaling thing for like five plus years, like yesterday, I found it on this day entry from like yesterday and a year before and two years before. And it was just super interesting. I think I shared it on Twitter as well. It was just super interesting to see. Now, oh, what were the sorts of things that were on my mind two years ago? That was when I just left medicine. It was like my second week of being unemployed, having worked as a doctor for two years, where I had all these different thoughts and feelings around where the YouTube channel are going and what's happening with this, what's happening with that, what's happening with the team. And then a year ago was when I moved to London for the first time. And so all the thoughts and feelings around that. And then yesterday was, I mean, obviously, a year on from that as we're thinking of moving the studio and like expanding the team and all this other kind of stuff. And it's just so cool seeing your own thoughts and feelings in a journal from years ago. And something like day one makes that super easy. Finally, the benefit of day one is that they've got a very good scanning feature. And so what I actually do is anything that are right in the physical journal, I will at some point scan into day one as well. And so day one is just sort of the single source of truth, which has all of the photos and all the scans and stuff of all of my handwritten journals as well. I also have a journal from like three years ago that I intend to scan into day one at some point. Because again, I'm just imagining, you know, a few years down the line, five, ten years down the line. By the way, you can always export the data as JSONs or as PDFs whenever you want. So it's not locked into the day one ecosystem. But I just love the idea that five years from now, I'll be able to look at exactly what I was writing in my journal 10 years, 10 years ago, and see how life has changed. And it's not just kind of like a naval gazing type thing. I do find that when I look at my previous journal entries, it really kind of fills me with grassitude, firstly because I'm like, oh my gosh, like, you know, life has progressed so far and life is so good and stuff. And it also kind of really helps me appreciate the present moment because it just sort of really solidifies this connection to my past self. Or I think, oh yeah, that was the guy was a year ago or two years ago and this is the person I am now. And just again, just being grateful for the present moment. Part three, benefits I've got from journaling. Right. So the main one has probably been this idea of creative unblock, which we've already talked about, this idea that like, if like on days where journaling is the very first thing that I do in the morning, I find that I am more, quote, creative as a result and I just have better ideas when it comes to book or YouTube videos or the business or the podcast or any of the other stuff that I work on. But then I think related to creative unblock is the second major benefit I found, which is essentially the processing of thoughts and emotions. So when it comes to processing thoughts, essentially whenever I have a thought about something and is a thing on my mind, then I will journal about the thing. So for example, loads of stuff in the business when it comes to making decisions about like, hey, who do we need to hire? Who do we need to potentially fire? What's the direction of the business? What are the projects we want to work on? All that kind of stuff? That all like processing all that stuff really helps when I'm journaling. And then when it comes to processing emotions as well. Now, processing emotions is not something that I'm normally good at. And in fact, I did read the article from a psychologist, which basically said that men tend to find great benefits in journaling than women do because women tend to be more open about talking about their feelings and vocalizing them to their friends anyway, whereas dudes are worse doing that. And I definitely, like, I am very bad at vocalizing my feelings and stuff, or even acknowledging and being aware of my emotions. But when I'm journaling, one of the prompts that I like to ask myself, whether I'm journaling physically, or whether I'm journaling on day one, is how am I feeling right now? And I don't really know how I'm feeling right now. And then I'm thinking, okay, well, I have to write something because I'm journaling. I think how am I actually feeling? And then I just try and describe my own emotions. And I'm surprisingly useful because sometimes, I'm like, actually life is pretty good. But sometimes I'm like, I'm actually feeling a sense of fear about this thing that's happening at work, or this thing, or like this sense of the sense of, again, like fear, anxiety, stress around what does my life look like two years from now? What does this YouTube channel are going to do? Is the book going to be any good? All of these insecurities that go around in my mind? And I find that when I write them down, I can really be like, okay, so I'm feeling this thing, why am I feeling like that? I'm feeling like that because ABCDE, okay, is this something that I want to be feeling? And then in a way, I can CBT myself out of those emotions if the emotions I don't want to have. But in any case, acknowledging them through writing about them in the journal, either physically or digitally, just like, really helps. And in a way, I kind of see the journal as my own personal therapist. And I kind of have these weekly coaching sessions with a chat called Corey, who's now a friend of mine, who does sort of executive coaching for entrepreneurs, which is basically therapy for entrepreneurs. And the sort of stuff that Corey and I discuss in our coaching sessions is very similar to the stuff that I will talk about in my journal. It's just that in my journal, I am the one who's in my own head and on the journal page giving myself advice and asking myself questions, whereas having that conversation with a friend, or with a coach or with a therapist, is like they're the ones asking the questions. And a lot of people I've spoken to who also swear by journaling say that it essentially serves the same almost the same function as as a therapist. So that's like a surprising benefit that I didn't quite appreciate. And then one more thing that I didn't fully appreciate beforehand is that often I would journal about big decisions that I'm making in my life or in the business or with each channel with work or personal life or anything like that. And sometimes I might want to get feedback on those decisions from friends. So my brother or like my house made you see her or close friends. And I find that if I write in the journal, sometimes I'm thinking like, oh, in the back of my mind, I'm thinking, oh, this is not necessarily a private journal entry. This is one where I'm going to be getting feedback from someone about this thing. And so the journal is just a nice place to be able to write up my thoughts. And generally when I write up my thoughts, I can be like, okay, here is why making this decision for reasons A, B, and C, here is the counterpoint like, here is the steelman argument against why this decision is a good one. What do you think? And then I'll either screenshot it or just like show the laptop to the person I'm showing it to and be like, all right, can you have a read of this for two minutes? And basically just test my reasoning and just assess am I on the right page or am I kind of missing something blatant? And usually they're like, yeah, no, that sounds very reasonable. That decision sounds reasonable. It sounds like the rationale for taking the decision is legit. But sometimes they'll be like, oh, heavy thought about this thing. And I'm like, oh, shit, I hadn't actually thought about that thing. And then I incorporate that thing into my decision making apparatus. And so like journaling has had all of these benefits for me beyond the stuff that I knew of allegedly stress reduction and depression anxiety at all, all the stuff that you read and articles on the internet. It's had a bunch of benefits to me beyond those. Part four, top tips for getting started with journaling. So tip number one is something that helped me back for absolutely ages, which is basically this idea that journaling needs to be this fancy elaborate procedure where I make my morning cup of coffee. I get the journal out. I sit down in my chair. I do the thing. And I've I form this whole elaborate ritual around the thing. And I would always find as with everything that I've tried to form an elaborate ritual around that I do it for like two or three days. And then I would stop doing it because something happened or I was busy or I was late or I had to do poo or anything like that that stopped my ritual from actually happening. But the biggest tip that I've learned from having done this every day for the last 90 days is really journaling is something that can be done anytime and anywhere. It does not require this ridiculous construct of BS that were prone to put around it. And so what I found is basically whenever I have got some I'll think you know what? Why don't I just open up the journal? Like that's just a default thought thought process that it is now. Whereas before I was like oh I need to put this as part of my morning routine. Tip number two is to screw any kind of journaling methodology. I find that rigidity is the ultimate killer of creativity and productivity and consistency. My whole thing recently has been about just lowering the bar as much as possible. And even if I write one word in my journal for the day, that's still a win in my book. I don't need to have filled out all these different prompts and different questions. So what I'd recommend is that if you're getting started with journaling, yes prompts can be helpful and a methodology can be somewhat helpful as loads of them around. But if you're struggling with consistency and if you find yourself procrastinating or not doing the thing that you want to do, just let lower the bar. This applies to everything in life. You know, I speak to so many people who struggle to make a YouTube video every week. But the answer there is just lower the bar. Like the more perfectionism you hold yourself to, the more you have this requirement that the video needs to be good, the less likely you are to actually post it, similar with journaling. The more requirement you have that are I must write my three pages, I must follow this little structured thing, the less likely you are to actually stick with it over the long term. Tip number three is that it's really useful to actually attach journaling to like anchor it to this other thing that you're potentially doing. So for example, when it comes to building habits, an easy way to build a habit is to anchor it to a habit that you already have. So let's say, for example, when I'm brushing my teeth, if I want to floss, then I will take the floss out and put it on the countertop. So I've anchored flossing to the brushing of my teeth because I'm already doing the brushing of my teeth hopefully and I've anchored the flossing to that thing. One thing that I do on that note is when I'm brushing my teeth, I do a little hamstring stretch because I'm trying to increase my hamstring flexibility and I will just always forget in day to day life. And I'm like, you know what, I brush my teeth for two minutes twice a day and therefore for one minute each time I'm going to hamstring stretch each leg. But the way that I've anchored journaling to a particular habit is that whenever I am on any form of either public or private transport, I eat, if I'm in an Uber, going somewhere or if I'm on a train, going somewhere, my default is not going to be, let me get up my phone and scroll or let me listen to an audiobook. My default is going to be, why don't I get up my laptop and I'll just do a little bit of journaling. Sometimes when I'm on trains, if the train is sufficiently steady, I'll use my physical journal. But often, if I'm in an Uber or something or the trains a bit rickety, rockety, I can just take my laptop up, I always have my laptop with me. And I do get a bit carcic in the car when I'm looking at a screen. But the nice thing about journaling is that I can just open up day one and I can just like kind of type without looking. So I'll often just be looking at the window while typing away and I'll find myself just sort of typing stuff in the journal and then at the end of this 10 15 20 minute journey and I've journaled a few pages and it's often really useful because it's like that's a dead time otherwise where if I'm scrolling on my phone, I'm going to feel sick. If I'm trying to do any other kind of work, I'm going to feel sick. Yes, I could just sit around and just kind of be mindful and stuff, but I'm not very good at that myself. So I find that anchoring journaling to trains or Uber has been just at the biggest hack in terms of actually me doing more of it than I would have done otherwise. Tip number four, if you're getting started, is that prompts can sometimes be helpful. Sometimes when I'm writing and I'm confronted with a blank page and I have no idea what to write. I'll do one of two things. Option number one is that I will literally write that, oh, I currently have no idea what to write right now. I'm feeling a bit of a block and blah, blah, blah, blah. And sometimes we'll just repeat that line over and over again. I don't know what to write. I don't know what to write. I don't know what to write. And eventually something will just start to happen. But the other strategy that I find useful to get around writing blocks is to use a prompt. And so a prompt I like to ask myself is how am I feeling right now? And why am I feeling this way? Another prompt that I like to use is where do I see my life five years from now? Am I happy with that direction? Another prompt that I like to use is if I only had two hours a day to do work, what would I choose to do in that time? Another prompt that I like to use is how am I currently feeling about my YouTube channel or about my book or about another major project in my life? Another prompt I like is how am I currently feeling about my relationship? Or, you know, whatever that might look like. The prompts are useful, but I find that being overly wedded to the prompts isn't. And so really it's about this getting this balance between rigidity and like structure, I eat the prompts. And also kind of throwing that at the window when you realise that actually I just need to do some free writing because that's ultimately what's going to help me stick to this journaling habit. And finally tip number five for journaling effectively or at least what I found is actually it's surprisingly helpful to do it first thing in the morning. That's the idea behind morning pages you do it first thing in the morning. And even though I did say that I don't like to set elaborate rituals around it, there is like a three-step morning routine that I now have, which is where I probably do I'd say 60% of my journaling and the other 40% is when I'm in Uber's or when I'm in trains. And the three step morning routine is firstly I get up, I go into the living room and I make myself a coffee using the coffee apparatus that my friend James Hoffman kindly gave to me a few months ago. Secondly, I will bust out my laptop and my journal and depending on how I'm feeling, kind of choose to write in one or the other. And the third thing that I do is I open up my email and there's one email that I read every morning and that is the email from Morning Brew who are very kindly sponsoring this video. If you haven't heard by now, Morning Brew is fantastic. It is a completely free daily email newsletter that keeps you up to date with what's going on in the world of technology and finance and business, which are like the three main things that I care about. It's stories that are sort of like the TLDR, just the summary of what is going on in the world of business finance and tech, with links to read more stuff. But it's kind of phrased in a very casual and entertaining way, which means it's the perfect start to my morning as I'm sipping my little cup of coffee and getting ready to start a journal session. It's also nice because as I'm reading stuff on Morning Brew, usually in the world of tech or business, that tends to spark thoughts in my mind, where I think, oh, that's interesting, that's happening in the world of tech. Maybe that could be a video about this thing and then that gives me something nice and easy to journal about because I've now primed my brain with stuff that's happening in the world that I actually care about. For example, Morning Brew keeps me up to date and what the hell is going on with Elon Musk's purchase of Twitter and what's happening with the trial around that. It also helps me keep up to date with crypto and they've got a free crypto crash course where you can just read about stuff related to the world of crypto to understand what's going on Ethereum proof of stake, all this stuff that's happening in the world of crypto. And it's a great start to the morning because it means that I'm not scrolling social media as the very first thing I do. Instead, I'm getting the news about things that I actually care about and then I'm sitting down to mindfully journal, sometimes I'll journal about things that I've read and sometimes I'll journal about things that are on my mind. But either way, thank you so much Morning Brew for sponsoring this particular video. And also, I have a sick interview with the founder of Morning Brew, Alex Lieberman, that's over on my podcast, a deep dive of the article that'll be linked over there and over there if you want to check it out, it's sick. We've had comments on that episode saying that this was like the single best episode of all time of any podcast that people have listened to, so you should definitely check that out. And if you like this video, you might like to check out this video over here, which is how rising online and made me a millionaire. And actually some of the stuff around that particular video stemmed from my fledgling journaling habit in like 2016. And that video just kind of talks about my journey towards writing online and how ultimately starting a website and putting myself out there on the internet, help me get ridiculous amounts of financial success. If you're interested in that kind of thing, you might like to check out that video over there. Otherwise, thank you so much for watching. Hopefully, you've got some value out of this video and I'll see you in the next one.
