# 7 Habits to Be a Millionaire by 30
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JMh44cq60UE
Sign up to Morning Brew for free today: https://morningbrewdaily.com/ali

I recently interview Cliff Weitzman on my podcast, and he shared some really interesting tips about relationships and making better connections with people. Cliff is one of the most impressive and successful people I know, so I thought it'd be worth breaking down 7 of his best pieces of advice. Enjoy x

🎙 The full interview with Cliff: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yfALZJcurZw

Free Trial for Speechify +- Discount - https://speechify.com/ali

🍿WATCH NEXT:
Why Following Your Passion is Terrible Advice: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dE-wvWdM6jY
7 Habits that Save Me 3+ Hours a Week: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hXP5fUfBGQQ
How to Become Luckier - An Evidence-Based Guide: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WizT_VdtOYM
7 Side Hustles You Can Start in 2023: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I-dlPuqFguo

⌚️Timestamps:
0:00 Intro
1:10 Habit 1
2:26 Habit 2
3:20 Habit 3
5:41 Habit 4
7:17 Habit 5
9:07 Habit 6
10:08 Habit 7

💌  Sign up to my free weekly email newsletter - https://go.aliabdaal.com/subscribe-sundaysnippets

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - 
 https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
🎬 YouTube for Beginners - Everything You Need To Know To Start  - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/YouTube-for-Beginners

MY CREATOR COURSES
🎬 Check out my free 7 day email course on how to become a part-time YouTuber: https://aliabdaal.com/part-time-youtuber-crash-course/
🏆 Creatorpreneur - My flagship course for scaling up your creative side-hustle → https://creatorpreneur.academy/course
🗣 Camera Confidence - My self-paced course on how to improve your creativity, career, or communication skills → https://cameraconfidence.aliabdaal.com/

MY FAVOURITE GEAR
🧑‍💻My MacBook Skin (& other tech): https://dbrand.com/palettes
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) -https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE TOOLS
🚀 VidIQ - How I optimise my YouTube videos - https://go.aliabdaal.com/vidiq
✍️ Shortform - The BEST summaries of books - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
📚  Readwise - How I remember what I read - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise
🎵  Epidemic Sound - Where I get my music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound

MY KEY LINKS
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com/
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I’m Ali, a YouTuber, podcaster, soon-to-be author and ex-Doctor working in London, UK. I make videos that explore the strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. I also have a weekly podcast called Deep Dive (https://www.youtube.com/channel/UChfo46ZNOV-vtehDc25A1Ug), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://go.aliabdaal.com/subscribe-sundaysnippets).

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, asking millionaires how they got rich, side hustles, how to make money online, how to make passive income, deep dive ali abdaal, millionaires how they got rich, multi millionaires advice, how to make money 2023, how to make money online 2023, side hustle ideas, passive income ideas, passive income ideas 2023, alex hormozi side hustles, ali abdaal side hustle, relationship advice, millionaire connections, millionaire relationships, Cliff Weitzman, 
**Date:** 2023-04-08

## Transcript
 When we think about the skills of millionaires, most people immediately think about technical skills. And you're probably expecting me to talk about skills like I'm learning how to code in this video. But what we're going to talk about instead is the skill of building relationships. And you probably heard that saying that it's not what you know, it's who you know. And I always felt a bit weird about that because of the kind of nepotism and privilege and all the stuff that goes into that. But I recently sat down and didn't interview with a ridiculously successful chap called Cliff Weitzmer, who's changed my view on this. Cliff is the co-founder and CEO of SpeechFight, which is a text-to-speech platform that's absolutely massive. They've got like insane amounts of five-store reviews on the app store. Cliff also did the whole Forbes 30 under 30 thing. Now, when I first met Cliff, I'm not going to lie, I had a reasonable dose of envy in my heart. Because there was this guy who was my age and who was way more financially successful than I was. And he's also doing cool stuff traveling the world with his team, building a cool company, networking with all these famous people. And he's actually a nice guy as well. So I was just like, damn, this guy is winning on all fronts. But then when I interviewed him in depth about his kind of success on the podcast and now how he got there, I realized that actually, it's the so much hard work that's gone into this. And the way that he thinks about success and building things is so much about relationships. And I realized that this was a level up that I needed in my own personal life. And so in this video, I want to break down seven habits that Cliff and I talked about, that has helped propel him to these ridiculous levels of success. The first tip is to send as many cold emails to people that you admire and people that you want to get to know. One of the strategies that he developed, once they get to the point where I'd read all the books that I could read to learn about atopic, is that make a Google sheet of the hundred people who knew about the topic the most and then I'd message every single one of them on Instagram, Facebook, LinkedIn, email, and then I'd follow up. Now Cliff's whole strategy for this is so systematic and absolutely insane. And I have never met anyone who has that like level of just comfortableness with sending cold emails. And he says that the amount of value he's generated for himself and for his business and everything in his life broadly can be attributed to just sending loads of cold emails. And this is the thing that most of us just don't do. I don't send enough cold emails. I've sent a few cold emails at my time and like one or two of them, two or three, have directly led to over a million dollars in like an outcome just by virtue of me sending the cold email and the chain of events that followed that. Similarly a bunch of people who know work for me and my team have gotten their through a cold email. And in the podcast episode which is linked down below but you can also find it on Spotify, iTunes, wherever you get podcasts. We break down kind of step by step how to send a decent cold email because it's just a strategy that has a ridiculous return on investment provided you know how to do it well. I get a ton of cold emails these days and it's really nice that people are doing it but it's also very saddening that mostly people are very bad at doing it but the so many potential benefits of it. You can get mentorship from people you can learn from people who are at the top of their game, you might even get a job, you might even get an internship. You might even find the love of your life through a cold email. Alright so habit number two is that when you do find someone that you admire and you want to connect with and they have some kind of content out there on the internet, whether it's a book or they've been interviewed on podcasts, then a very easy way of developing a sort of relationship with that person is to just actually consume all of that content and these days almost anyone with good ideas to share is also sharing them online. So it's actually not too hard to do this. If I fly from like California to New York and I listen to the book or bomber rope before we can present it, that book is 8 hours long. I listen at 2x speed, 3x speed, but at the time I lie like I finished that book, it's like I sat next to a bomber the entire time. And I used this strategy a lot like for example, there's a guy on Twitter called Peter Levels who is a dirty indie developer who has worked have been admiring for absolutely years. And so what I did is that I searched his name on Spotify and I just found every podcast he's ever been interviewed on and I just listened to all of them at like two and a half times speed. And now it's great because that was basically like I downloaded the things that he's saying he's talking points into my brain. And then I message him on Twitter and now we've had a back and forth on Twitter and at some point I'm going to go visit him in person and we'll do a podcast episode of Things Across. Alright, how about number three is to get comfortable with asking people to hang out. And Cliff has another inspiring story about this and that was when he was at university, he would spend a lot of time in the dining hall making sure he was sitting with different groups of people and trying to get to know as many people as he could. And I very quickly realized the best thing about college is the people who are there, much more important than the classes. And I would have two dinners every single night. I would go to a table to be like hey, can I show you guys what's your name? Ali, I'm Cliff, nice to meet you. Can I have a seat? Sure, how's it going? And then I talked to everybody in that table. I get two more blades and I go and I sit in another table and I would do this for the first two months with every single semester and I did this every year. So I got to know 60% of my freshman class with the first two months. Now at this point you might be thinking that this is way easier for an extravert to do and what if you're shy or what if you have social anxiety or what if you're an introvert? And yeah some people have an easier time of this thing with other people but no one is physically unable to do this sort of thing. And there are plenty of people I know who do for example have social anxiety, who by virtue of just systematic decentralization over time and putting in the effort over time they've built that skill of interacting with strangers and trying to make friends. This is a thing honestly that I don't do enough. Like if I'm sitting next to someone on a plane I'll still feel that like ugh, you know I want to say something but like I also don't want to say something. I also want to do my other thing and it's like I'll be in my head so much and then there are so many kind of serendipitous conversations where I've had that have just been incredibly valuable to my life, whether it's making a friend or a business associate or getting a cool idea or even just having a nice time. And I know that this is a thing that I would like to do more of. Alright just a quick break from the video to tell you about a sponsor which today is very exciting morning brew. Morning brew is a free daily email newsletter that is delivered every single morning Monday through Sunday and in under five minutes it'll get you up to speed on what's happening in the world of business and finance and tech. Now I've been a subscriber to morning brew for absolutely years. What I absolutely love about it is the fact that it just tells me what's going on in these industries in a witty and like fun way rather than being like dry and dense like most other news outlets are. For example thanks to morning brew I've been keeping up to date with what the hell is going on in the world of artificial intelligence with the GPT 3.5s and the 4s and all the interesting stuff around that. And the best part is that it's completely free. It takes under 15 seconds to sign up using just your email. You get the emails every morning and you can unsubscribe whenever you like. So if you happen to be interested in anything in the world of business or finance and tech which you probably are if you're watching this video then there's literally no reason not to sign up to morning brew. It is completely free and you can do that by heading over to morningbrew daily.com forward slash alley, ALI or you can hit the link in the video description and then just enter your email address so thank you so much morning brew for sponsoring this video. Have it number four bond over ambition or vulnerability. Now when you do meet people generally very little actual bonding happens over small talk and it's really when we bond over things like vulnerability that that's when we kind of develop a deeper relationship with a person. So small talk does have its place but ultimately the way that we bond with people is generally through bonding over shared vulnerability or shared ambition sometimes or shared experiences. And there's something that I find useful to keep in mind here which is kind of the structure of a good story. Like when you have a character in a story whether it's a book or a film or whatever there are kind of two things that you want to know about that character which helps you kind of get invested in what's going on with a character and those two things are firstly what do they want? And secondly why can't they get what they want? It's like Harry Potter and the Philosopher Stone for example what he wants it's kind of clear he's kind of he just wants to be understood he just wants to have friends he wants to kind of survive why can't he get it well because the does leads are like down toward him and like being mean to him and things like that and that makes us really connect with that character and I find it useful to keep those things in my mind and kind of cliff talks about this as well when trying to connect with someone like just trying to stuff out what are their goals and what are their challenges. What's your biggest struggle and I for now? What's your top three goals in life? What gives you energy in your work? All these things and you get to like the meat of the person and the easiest way to do that is you form relationships with people either you bond over ambition or you bond over vulnerability. Now obviously it's a little bit weird if this is the very first thing you say to people and that's not what cliff is suggesting you wouldn't just go up to someone and be like hey what's your biggest challenge what's your deepest desire or that kind of thing but I think it's a useful thing to keep in mind like I want to be interested in this person therefore I would love to know what are their goals and what are their challenges what do they want and why can't they get what they want and that generally sparks so much conversation. By the way if you're enjoying this video so far I would love if you can drop a little thumbs up because it really helps us for the YouTube algorithm apparently. All right so habit number five is to write thank you notes and this could be to people that you know personally or people that you don't know personally and this is just nice it costs us very little to send a thank you note but it generally means quite a lot for the person who's receiving it. In fact psychologists have even done studies that show the benefits of writing thank you notes so for example in this study by the University of Chicago's Business School the researchers asked a bunch of people to write thank you letters to someone who's done something nice for them and then to anticipate their reaction and in every experiment the people that wrote the letters they really overestimated how awkward it would be and really underestimated the impact they would have on the recipients and on top of that the people who wrote the thank you notes also felt better about themselves so this is really like a win-win win across the whole board. Now in the interview with Cliff we discussed a bunch of ways that he's applied this to his own life like he sent a random thank you note to the guy who invented audible because audible helped Cliff essentially overcome his dyslexia. I basically sent in this email and it was like hey you don't know me I don't know you but I just graduated college and I'm writing thank you notes in the list would not be complete without you in fact I would not be the person I had a day without you and it was the darn cats who is the founder I sent that email as a long email like a paragraph and he responded like 40 minutes later with a longer email than the one I sent and he went you know messages like this don't make my days and weeks but my months and we built a relationship. But the second really cool thing that Cliff does which is a habit that I want to incorporate into my life is that instead of scrolling on social media as a form of procrastination instead scrolling through the contact list on your phone or your recent text messages and just sending a nice thank you message to whoever catches your eye of like oh I haven't thought about this person in a while or oh I haven't message this person in a while let me just message them and ask how they're doing or say something nice if I'm procrastinating I'll just send gratitude notes to people that I love and it might be that I this the first time I thought about that about this person in six months but I'll just send a message by the way that's how I maintain connection with people who I'm close with even if I'm not close with them in person and when I heard that I was like oh that's so sweet and so nice I'm skeptical that Cliff does this all the time instead of scrolling social media because I know he also scrolls social media a lot but it's a nice standard to aspire to habit number six is to put good energy into the world without an expectation of return and this is something that the book The Go Giver talks about a lot is one of my favorite books I was on a road trip with some friends a few months ago and we listen to that audio book and these are cousins of mine who don't normally listen to self-help stuff but they listen to that book and they were like oh my god this is so good but essentially the vibe is that when you put out value into the world preferably without an expectation of anything in return then lower the loads of value just comes back to you don't try to get paid don't try to like arbitrage just put good energy into the world and if you do that good things happen so one example of this is making videos on YouTube and just chucking them on the internet for free and preferably doing that without an expectation that you're going to get X number of views or X number of likes or X number of revenue or if you want to work for someone that you admire and you're fairly early in your career you can actually work for free and people complain about this but like working for free is a way of putting value into the world without the expectation of anything in return and if you do a good job at doing the thing and working for free then chances are the person is going to want to pay you and is going to want to refer you to all of the other friends who also need that work being done if it's good you're putting value without the expectation of anything in return stuff will come back to you multiple fold and have a number seven is to work in your zone of genius and this means creating opportunities for yourself in areas where you personally can really shine now we all have different skills we all have different personalities but really ideally the place where we want to spend our time working is where it feels like play rather than work is you want to work inside of your zone of genius and never step out side of your zone of genius and so one of my zone of genius things is I'm really good real time life high pressure environments are when I shine and so I try to put myself in those things as much as I can and if I have an opportunity to go full force into my zone of genius I will clean right calendar I'll go full force so for example for me filming a video or like doing writing or coming up with ideas or teaching in some form that to me feels like play rather than work most of the time whereas for example for me going through numbers and looking at spreadsheet to like being doing like operations he type stuff really feels like a lot of work whereas I know people for example who just love spreadsheets and they love organising things and keeping there kind of business finances meticulously organized and their rooms are always really tidy and for them that feels like play like tidying is the thing that they do even if they want being paid for it and so you just gotta figure out what is that zone of genius for yourself what is that area in which you can personally thrive and flourish and if you have a sort of competitive attitude towards like the world and you want to be better than like 90% of people any of that stuff it's way easier to be better than 99% of people if the thing that you're doing for work is also the thing that feels like play to you because as Navarrovacant says you cannot compete with someone who's having fun now if that sounds too much like follow your passion that's not what I'm saying in fact this video here is all about why following your passion is really terrible advice if you want to succeed in the world of work at least and so you should definitely check out that video or alternatively you can check out this video here which is my full long form interview with Cliff White's man where we expand a lot of stuff so thank you so much for watching and I'll hopefully see you in the next video.
