# How to Film YouTube Videos on Your Phone
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JwhsPdN2RNg
🎬 My FREE online course on video editing - https://skl.sh/32TpEvm

If you've dreamed of starting a YouTube channel but haven't got an expensive camera and gear yet, this video's for you. We talk over my top tips for filming quality videos with your iPhone / Android using the app Filmic Pro. The audio is probably the most important part - I'd highly recommend using the Rode VideoMicro to start with, and you can always graduate to an external audio setup (like I have) later on. Good luck with your journey! 

Recommended Stuff:
App: Filmic Pro (iPhone / Android) - https://www.filmicpro.com
Mic: Rode VideoMicro - https://geni.us/RodeVideoMicroaa
Phone Lenses: https://www.sandmarc.com

--------

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
😃  How to be Happier - Stoicism Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/stoicism

TOOLS OF THE TRADE:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk
📚  How I remember what I read - Readwise - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali
What I Use For Analytics - https://go.aliabdaal.com/tubebuddy
🌐 My website platform (Ghost) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost

OTHER RECOMMENDED COURSES
📔 Effortless Output with Roam Research - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/roam
📓 Building a Second Brain - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/basb

🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** iphone filmmaking, how to film professional videos with an iphone, iphone video, how to start a youtube channel, tech talk, how to film on iphone, shoot video with iphone, filming with iphone, youtube video with iphone, professional video with iphone, professional iphone video, iphone video tips, how to film yourself, start a youtube channel, how to film with iphone, shoot video on iphone, video with iphone, film on iphone, how to film with an iphone, 
**Date:** 2019-08-29

## Transcript
 Hey guys, welcome back to the channel. In this video, we're talking about how to get started on YouTube using just your iPhone. And so this video is shot entirely on my iPhone XS Max. And I'm going to be sharing a few tips and tricks, but hopefully trying to make the point that if you're thinking of starting a YouTube channel or getting into filming and stuff, you don't need to wait for a fancy camera or save up for this, that and the other, all you need is your iPhone or you know, Android phone if you're one of those heavens. And you can just get started pretty much from now on, provided you know, you keep a few things in mind. So yeah, in this video, we're going to be talking about five things. We're going to be talking about video quality using a certain app, audio quality using external microphones, lighting, framing, and additional lenses and kind of the equipment that you might like to add on top of it. But really, you can just get started using just your iPhone. And hopefully I'll be making that point throughout this video. So let's start with video quality. And that's obviously the most important thing, although some people say audio quality is more important, but let's ignore that. Video quality, you don't really get from the default iPhone camera app and use it. And from most, I don't know much about Android phones, but I suspect that they're default camera apps are not great either. The app that you want to use, the app that most people recommend, I would recommend is called Filmic Pro. And the great thing about this app is that you can manually control a lot of the camera settings. So there's a few different settings that we want to change when we open up the app. And the main one is the frame rate. Normally with iPhone videos, they film in 30 frames per second. But it's either 24 or 25 frames per second that look more cinematic. Like 30 is just a little bit too smooth and looks kind of like iPhone video, which isn't really the vibe that we want to be going for. Unless you want to go for that 5 in which case, you do you. But at the moment, I'm shooting in 25 frames per second. And that is the same frame rate that I shoot in my with my fancy cameras and stuff. And hopefully that looks quite reasonable. Secondly, we want to be adjusting the resolution and the bitrate. And this sounds complicated, but basically we want to film in 4K resolution because we might as well and most what in phones offer that. And then we want to crank up the bitrate to as high as it possibly can be. On iPhones, this is called Filmic Extreme. I think on Android, it's like 100 megabits per second. Something along those lines that basically means there's more information encoded, but it takes up a bigger file size. High file size, better quality. That's the way that I would recommend going personally. And then just a few other things, you want to set your white balance so that it doesn't vary massively. And you want to change your shutter speed to 1 over 50 earth of a second. And this is kind of rule with filmmaking that if your frame rate is 25, you want your shutter to be double that. So 1 over 50 is called the 180 degree rule. Essentially, that gives you the best amount of the most cinematic motion blur. Like when I'm moving my hands like this, I tend to talk a lot with my hands. This should hopefully look semi natural, very natural. Whereas if I cranked up the shutter speed really high, like 1 over 200, it would look a lot more choppy because it's not quite what we used to seeing. You know, this all sounds complicated, but essentially once you've got these settings set once, you can just save a preset on Filmic Pro, then you never have to touch them again. And there's tons and tons of tutorials on YouTube where they show you in depth how to get Filmic Pro. And get the right settings for your liking. But yeah, most important thing for decent video quality is to not use the default camera app, but to use something like Filmic Pro instead, and hopefully they'll make a big difference to video quality. Okay, now let's talk about audio. And arguably audio is even more important than video quality, because people will sit through a low quality video if the audio is good. But if you have the best quality video in the world, but your audio is crap, then no one's going to want to watch your video. And I've got to be honest, I have kind of been cheating a little bit in this video and that I've been recording with my iPhone, but I've actually been externally recording audio using this road NTG for my connector to an external audio recorder. But now I'm going to show you what it sounds like using just the iPhone just so, you know, if you don't have this sort of setup, you don't really need it. So this is what the audio from the iPhone sounds like just on its own. Hopefully you'll hear the difference between this expensive audio setup and the iPhone recording. But hopefully you'll see that actually if you weren't just getting started on YouTube, but just your phone, this actually wouldn't be too bad. It wouldn't be the sort of audio quality that people would be like, oh god, that's garbage. I'm going to turn it off immediately. But luckily there is kind of a middle ground between standard iPhone with nothing attached and this kind of fancy audio setup. And that is using a small microphone like the road video micro. And that sets you back by about 30 or 40 dollars. So I'm going to plug that in and we'll show you what the audio sounds like from the road video micro. So at the moment, I have to stop this recording and unplug my iPhone. Okay, so let's get rid of that about in cable. And I'm using the road video micro about 50 or 40 dollars, something like that from Amazon. And I've connected it to the iPhone using the lightning to headphone adapter that comes with the phone. And this is like this other road cable that costs about $7. So for about 50 dollars, we've got this microphone connected and I've got it mounted to this random phone mount that you can get off Amazon for about 10 cradle $10 or whatever your currency is. So now let's hear what it sounds like with this microphone. Okay, so this is a test of the road video micro attached to the iPhone. And you can hopefully see that this hopefully sounds a little bit better than default iPhone microphone. But hopefully it doesn't sound quite as good as the audio coming directly from this audio recorder. All right, now let's talk about lighting. And as you can see, I'm sitting next to this massive ass window, which is providing some pretty decent natural lighting. So even if you don't have the money to spend on a lighting setup or lighting rig or whatever, you can just sit next to a window. And hopefully this looks pretty reasonable. Then if I wanted to, I could get my kind of fancy aperture at 120 D mock two lights. And I could kind of bring that in so that around so it's pointing at me. I could turn it on using the remote control wherever it is. And then yeah, if I wanted to, I could actually change the ISO setting on filming process that it dims the lightness a bit. But you'll see this doesn't actually make that much difference to the video. Like lighting is super important, but just something like standing next to a big window has quite a good effect. So let's see if I can kind of dim this light so that it looks a bit better. Something like that. So this is with light. This is without light. Honestly, I don't know, it doesn't really make that much difference. So it's big window lighting. Lighting is pretty much sorted. And again, lighting doesn't need to be one of those things. Like if you watch, for example, my behind the scenes video or Peter McKinnon's video showing how he makes his videos, it can look quite intimidating seeing these big expensive light domes and stuff. But really, you don't need that to get started. And over time, yeah, it's definitely worth investing in a light. And I'm really glad I spent the thousand dollars that I cost for this particular light. But, you know, you get pretty decent results just to answer the next two windows. So that's absolutely fine. Okay, fourth of you, let's talk about framing the shot. And I don't know if you can see, but I've got my iPhone connected to my MacBook. And I'm just using Quick Time Player. And Quick Time Player is allowing me to mimic what's on my iPhone screen. I think using the selfie camera on the iPhone gives you less good picture quality. So I'm using the normal camera. But to see what I'm filming, I've got it connected to my laptop. And therefore, I don't need anything fancy like, you know, a monitor. You know, I've got a small HD monitor that costs 500 pounds that attaches to a camera. You know, this isn't basically doing the exact same thing. Most of us have a laptop. Most of us have some kind of device we can attach our phones to. And so you can mirror the screen and monitor yourself that way. And therefore, you can get all of the framing that you want. You don't have to be kind of off to the side because you couldn't see yourself. Yeah, this is a very easy way to do the framing. And then also in terms of extra gear. So over here, I've got the iPhone sitting on this random, no brand phone tripod thing. I'll put a few links to Amazon in the video description. The important thing about that is that it's got a cold shoe mount on the top, which means this road video micro can attach nicely to it. So yeah, this is the microphone. It's tiny. And it just screws nicely onto this mount, which is a very easy way to attach it to the phone. And then if I were to vlog for example, I could just take the setup, take it off the tripod. And I'd have a vlog setup with the decent audio because I've got the microphone connected to it. And then that's just connected to a standard tripod. I just happen to have these lying around. This is the jewelry gorilla pod head. Again, it doesn't really matter what I'm using. The point is that you can connect any tripod to your phone provided you have one of these phone mounts. And it's a very easy thing to get that, you know, you can buy for a few dollars off Amazon. Like, if you want, you can go really get ho and end up just kind of propping up your phone on a stack of textbooks or anything like that. But, you know, if you're serious about starting YouTube, my recommendation is that you get started with just your phone and over time you can then add stuff to it so that it's never an excuse that, oh, I can't afford camera gear. As an excuse, as to why you're not starting a YouTube channel, it's just like an internal battle of, oh, okay, I need to get over the fear of looking fuelation, I need to get over my fear of public speaking. I'm just going to do it because starting a YouTube channel is great. And leads to lots of good things happening in life. And finally, just want to talk about extra lenses that you can use. So this is an extra wide angle lens that I got from Sandmark. They very kindly sent it to me. It's not sponsored, but yeah, they did send me the lenses to review. And this is quite nice because if you attach it to the iPhone, like I'm going to do now, then what it does, wants it to attach just that, it makes the angle more wide. So if we go back to the iPhone shot, you'll see that this is now a much wider shot. I look for the back. You can now see the microphone, and I'm just kind of monitoring this in the laptop behind me. So what I would do in this case is I would move the table closer. Hopefully, then you won't see all of the, all of the crap that's behind and we can just see the iPad. I move a little closer. I move this microphone a bit more up. Make sure it stays out of the frame, but still gets decent audio quality because it's close enough to my mouth. Get this camera out of the way. It's corporation texting out of the way. You'll see, I have to change up the framing slightly, but some people prefer this sort of more wide angle way of filming, and actually, you know, I'm not a huge fan of being so far away from the camera. I've said what I normally do is I use a wide angle lens, even on my normal camera, and then I sit quite close to it, and that has to benefit that if you're not using an external audio recorded, like I am, then you're closer to something like the iPhone, or the road video micro, which means you get slightly better audio quality because you're closer to the camera because you're using a wide angle lens. So I mean, Sandmark have loads of other lenses as well. They also sent me their macro lens and a tele lens and the animorphic lens, which I'm going to play around with some point. But yeah, if you want to go for a slightly different look than the standard iPhone framing, you can use an external lens or something just kind of screw it onto your phone and then it works. But yeah, hopefully the main point I've made on this video is that you don't actually need a lot to start a YouTube channel and to start filming, like you can just do everything with just your iPhone. Yeah, the audio is not going to sound that amazing, but it's perfect to get started, and you can always upgrade later on to the road video micro, and you can spend spend an extra $20 getting a tripod, and then if you're ready, you can spend $50 on a lighting setup. And over time, you build up your YouTube thing. And then eventually, if you really want to, you can like a graduate to getting a camera, but I've spoken to a lot of people that kind of people messaging me via Instagram and stuff, and asking for advice for things like starting YouTube channels, and I distressing about them and have said stuff like, oh, I'd love to start a YouTube channel, but I don't have the money for a camera, even though they've got like the latest iPhone or like a Google Pixel or like a Samsung Galaxy S8, S9, S10, whatever. You know, all modern phones are capable of filming in very, very good quality. They all have reasonable audio as well, and you can always upgrade audio if you really feel like it. But yeah, hopefully this video gave you a little bit of a taste, a bit of a flavor about how to get started on YouTube using just your iPhone. If you like the video, please give it a thumbs up. Over here, we've also got a few videos about, you know, in this creator diaries series, where I talk about behind the scenes of my own setup, including all the camera gear and stuff. So I have a look at that if you feel like it, but yeah, thanks for watching, and I'll see you in the next video. Bye bye.
