# My Favourite MacBook Apps (2023)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JWOR5Y-qmfg
JetBrains Academy have partnered with Hyperskill, so go to https://hyperskill.org/join/ali_abdaal and receive your first month for free or check out https://jetbrains.com/academy

I recently got the new M2 Mac Mini and had to download all of the apps that I use, so in this video I go through the 32 essential apps that I use on almost daily basis. Enjoy x

Rize: https://rize.io/aliabdaal
Sigma: https://go.aliabdaal.com/SigmaOS
My Spotify Playlist: https://open.spotify.com/playlist/5acGzAC0OH4QDVj5hlFqlK?si=b2847f85ff2c4e70
How I use Notion playlist: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL7BImOT2srcEfz4QRfSKnKJLM_nTCMV7k

Correction - SigmaOS is a WebKit based browser, that's compatible with Chrome extensions. It's not a Chromium browser as I said in the video 👀

🎙 Check out my weekly podcast, Deep Dive where I interview entrepreneurs, creators and other inspiring people - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/

🍿WATCH NEXT:
How I Manage My Time - 10 Time Management Tips: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iONDebHX9qk
My Favourite iPhone Apps: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DhGSyddz-g0
My Productivity Desk Setup (Portable): https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=r_uKCIqf1Fg
Kindle Scribe Review: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DW6jW9utbwU

⌚️Timestamps:
0:00 Intro
0:32 5 Productivity Apps
5:10 5 Apps for Life Organisation
9:32 3 Apps for My Personal Life
11:27 6 Apps for Research and Writing
13:40 7 Apps for Creative Work
16:06 7 Apps for Business

💌  Sign up to my free weekly email newsletter - https://go.aliabdaal.com/subscribe-sundaysnippets

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - 
 https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
🎬 YouTube for Beginners - Everything You Need To Know To Start  - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/YouTube-for-Beginners

MY CREATOR COURSES
🎬 Check out my free 7 day email course on how to become a part-time YouTuber: https://aliabdaal.com/part-time-youtuber-crash-course/
🏆 Creatorpreneur - My flagship course for scaling up your creative side-hustle → https://creatorpreneur.academy/course
🗣 Camera Confidence - My self-paced course on how to improve your creativity, career, or communication skills → https://cameraconfidence.aliabdaal.com/

MY FAVOURITE GEAR
🧑‍💻My MacBook Skin (& other tech): https://dbrand.com/palettes
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) -https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE TOOLS
🚀 VidIQ - How I optimise my YouTube videos - https://go.aliabdaal.com/vidiq
✍️ Shortform - The BEST summaries of books - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
📚  Readwise - How I remember what I read - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise
🎵  Epidemic Sound - Where I get my music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound

MY KEY LINKS
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com/
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I’m Ali, a YouTuber, podcaster, soon-to-be author and ex-Doctor working in London, UK. I make videos that explore the strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. I also have a weekly podcast called Deep Dive (https://www.youtube.com/channel/UChfo46ZNOV-vtehDc25A1Ug), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://go.aliabdaal.com/subscribe-sundaysnippets).

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, macbook, macbook apps, apps for productivity, macbook apps for productivity, macbook pro, mac mini, m2 mac mini, favourite macbook apps, favourite apps, apps to boost your productivity, macboook apps for creativity, macbook apps for students, macbook apps for school, macbook apps for studying, macbook apps for efficiency, apps for students, apps to install on your macbook, best apps to install on your macbook, macbook apps must have, productivty tech, 
**Date:** 2023-02-22

## Transcript
 In this video, I'm going to give you a tour of my favorite Mac apps this year. These are 32 apps that are used fairly regularly for work and for my personal life to stay organized and productive, so hopefully you'll find something here that you can try out as well. Hey friends, and welcome back to Tech Club with the ongoing series where I review tech and apps and other products that can help us be more productive in generally add value to our lives. Now, recently I got the M2 Mac Mini and I fresh-installed it a few days ago, and the only apps I've installed are the ones that I've genuinely needed to use in the last week. So these are the 32 apps that I use on an almost daily basis to help me be more productive and get my work done. Part one, five productivity apps. The first app on the list is Alfred. Now, this is an app that I install in every Mac that I ever use because it's just so good and it's essentially a replacement for Mac spotlight. So what I can do is I can hit command and spacebar and then I can type in basically anything I want and Alfred will find that thing. Now, if you're a normal person, the way you would open an app might be, you would take them out, so you would drag it over to your dog, which might be on the side or at the bottom, you would find the app and then you would be like, all right, cool, let me open up Chrome and you would click on the app. This is a total waste of time. It waste several seconds every time you do this and given that you interact with your computer 6,000 times, Ish, every day, it basically waste a lot of time to use the master click stuff. So with Alfred, let's say I want to open up Chrome and within like a millisecond, it's done because I've gone command, spacebar, I type in whatever I want, I can type in CH or even just see and it would just open up Chrome immediately. What if I want to open my downloads folder? So instead of dragging to the dog, opening the downloads folder and then like picking open and finder, instead I can use a feature of Alfred where if you start off with a spacebar, now you can open any file or folder. So I can just type in downloads and immediately within again a millisecond, I've not opened up my downloads folder. But the feature that I probably use most often on Alfred is actually just using it to search Google. And this is one of those features that spotlight, which is built into the Mac, it doesn't have. So let's say I want to search Google for, I don't know, I currently conversion or something, a 100 USD and GPP, I just type it in Alfred hit enter and immediately my default browser opens up with a Google search. App number two that I've always installed is called Moom. And Moom is a tool that lets you with a keyboard shortcut, snap Windows to either screen that you have and tend to different sides of the screen. So for example, with this Sigma OS window, I can hit Command Shift M and I can move it to that side of the screen and then with this Chrome window, Command Shift M and move it to the other side of the screen and this is a generally fairly easy way for me to resize Windows. And often I'm working in split screen view. If I have a Google Doc for my book open or some like research on the side, I'll use Moom to just snap the Windows on either side immediately, so it works super nicely for that. All right, app number three is a super helpful tool called Amphetamine and this is an app that runs in the little task bar of the Mac and it essentially keeps your Mac on for as long as you need it to. And so what I do with Amphetamine is I hit the little icon at the top and then I can start a new session indefinitely or for certain minutes with certain hours or while a particular app is running. Super helpful if you're rendering a file in Final Cut and you don't want you're Mag to go to sleep. Next on the list, we have an app that I use basically daily and that is called Clean Shot and it's a fantastic way of taking screenshots and screen recordings. Now, Clean Shot also operates as one of those like task bar menu bar app things. Let's say I want to take a screenshot of this graph from Anchor who's one of our YouTuber Academy students. I could set up a keyboard shortcut for this but I can also click the thing I can hit capture area and now I can define the area that I want to capture. This is all fine and downy so far. But now it appears here in the corner of the screen and I can edit this and kind of do whatever I want with this particular graph. One thing I often do is I often use the arrow tool to kind of point to different things. I could add text if I wanted to. The other cool thing about Clean Shot is that it takes nice screenshots of windows. So if instead of selecting a particular area for this screenshot, I wanted to select the whole window. I can go on clean shot. I can hit capture window. And now if we look at this because it just looks a bit nicer rather than one where you just see the window without the desktop. If you want to you can get rid of the desktop, you hit the shift key while hitting capture window. Now it'll give you the same screenshot but just with transparency in the background and a slight shadow on the window and it just generally looks more aesthetic than a normal screenshot. The other cool thing that Clean Shot does is that it lets you do scrolling captures. And so I often use this to take a screenshot of a whole page. And now what it's doing is that it's automatically scrolling through the page and it's turning this into a really, really, really long screenshot. Now the fifth app in terms of productivity tools is called Rise. And Rise is great because it's basically an automatic time tracker. It sits in your Mac and it tracks all of the apps and all the websites that you're using, although in an encrypted fashion. And then you can select how you want to categorize certain apps and websites. And I've been using this since like November 2021. And so I can see like on average in a given month or in a given week, how much time am I spending on video calls how much time I'm spending writing or product managing or using my to do list or wasting time on YouTube. It's also nice because it's got a Pomodoro timer situation built into it. So I can hit stop focus for example. Let's say my goal for the session is edit chapter to book. I can tag it with book for example. I can set a duration so let's say I want to do this as a 30 minute session because that's how I'm feeling. I can select my music, silence, low-fi beats, jazz, I often use low-fi beats because it's just kind of nice. Or I use silence if I'm using my Spotify, study with me playlist. And then I can hit stop focus. And now it's going to start this focus timer. And if it senses that I'm doing something that doesn't look like focus, like if I go on YouTube for example, it'll pop up with a little notification on the side saying, hey, it looks like you're getting distracted. Now rise and not sponsoring this video, but if you fancy checking out the link in the video description, I've got an affiliate link. So if you sign up, I get a bit of a kickback. I think I'm not even sure, but that'll be linked down below. It's also cool because if you want, you can enable this thing in the corner over here, where it says 24 minutes, time sends last break. 3 hours 12 total work hours, 40% of workday, but just kind of lets you know, but like, oh, how much time have I spent since the last time I took a break? Part two, five apps that help me organize my life. So first on this list, we have the app that I used to manage my to-do list, and that is things. Things is amazing. I'm going to do a whole video on it another time, but basically it's a to-do list app, and it's available on all Apple devices. So phone, iPad, Apple Watch, even Matt. I have it on all my devices, it's on my home screen, on my iPhone, and I also use it to keep track of all of the projects. So within relationships, I want to be a great boyfriend, a great group, eventually to return a party share, within fitness, within work, life, admin, fun, and hobbies. And basically, every morning, I figure out what am I doing for the day. And so I look at my any time list, which shows all of the things in my to-do list, categorized by projects, and then I'll pick which of these, which of the ones do I want to do today. So today, I want to weigh myself, which I haven't done yet, need to log my book hours. Oh, crap, need to order some stuff from a cardo, and integrate nicely with my calendar, so I don't have to look at my calendar so often throughout the day. Speaking of calendar, the app that I use for my calendar that I've been using since like 2015 is called Phantasticel. And the cool thing about Phantasticel is that it does have pretty good natural language processing. So if I wanted to add a new task, I could just say choose day 8 p.m. to 10 p.m. dinner with Tom at Hawkesmore. And so it would take the primators from the thing that I've typed in and turned it into a calendar event, which is very handy. Ab number three that I used to organize my life is superhuman, which is my email client that I've been using since I think around 2019. And I've integrated that with my personal Gmail and my work Gmail. And superhuman is nice because it has used shortcuts, and it's just generally a faster and more pleasant way of navigating email, which I also have on my iPhone compared to the Gmail default app or compared to doing it in a web browser window. The app that I used to manage all my passwords is Dashlane, which again I've been using for absolutely years. And then at number five we have a new app that I've been using recently as a replacement for Chrome. And that is Sigma OS. And Sigma is great because it's built on Chromium. I eat it's basically the same vibe and the same speed and same interface as Chrome, and you can use Chrome extensions as well. But what it does is that on the sidebar, you can categorize the different tabs. And so I often have dozens and dozens of tabs open and Chrome, and it can be hard to keep track of them. But for this I have a life design, I have a health, I have a relationships, I have a book, I can basically categorize my tabs into different workspaces. And so if I'm working on the book for example, I just open up the book workspace. If I know that I'm taking a break from work and I want to do a 10 minute stretch routine like this one, I'll open up the health space, or I already have this pinned at the top, so I always know that it's there. I'm going to be honest, I've kind of been going back and forth between Chrome and Sigma as my default browser. Sigma, they're constantly updating it, like loads of cutting edge features, but it's still a little bit buggy some of the time. And so as much as I love it, I can't yet fully just completely get rid of Chrome. Sigma also, it's kind of like superhuman, it's built on the idea of keyboard shortcuts. But I spend a lot of time in Google Docs these days because we're in editing stages for my book. And Google Docs already has a little to keyboard shortcuts in it, and sometimes those like don't interact with Sigma and I find myself getting a little bit frustrated, specifically when I'm in Google Docs. And the team are very responsive to bug reports, so if something doesn't work, I just messaged them in like guys, sort this out, please, and then they sort it out. So yeah, check out Sigma OS if you like. So over the last few years, I've had a ton of people asking me about learning to code because actually my original kind of the way that I made my money on the internet initially was through learning that a code. And when I was in medical school and this YouTube channel hadn't yet started, it was through my coding and web development background that I was able to make quite a lot of money on the side. And at the time, an app I used to use all the time was called PHP Storm, PHP was the coding language I would build my products in, and PHP Storm is an IDE, an integrated development environment, and it's developed by a company called JetBrains. And so it's particularly exciting that this video is very kindly sponsored by JetBrains. Now JetBrains is a software development company, they've got more than 12.8 million developers using their software, but they've recently launched a new platform for learning to code and learning computer science, and that's called JetBrains Academy. And the cool thing about JetBrains Academy is that it's all about project-based learning. If you're just trying to learn to code based on a syllabus, it's going to be boring and you're never going to do it. But if you try and build a project, build your own app, build your own website, and through creating those projects you can learn how to code. While if you're learning, you can pick from over 120 projects, and you can select different programming tracks, and then once you've selected a project, you get a personalized study plan, and this is kind of split up into different levels of difficulty so that you work through the difficulty levels. And the great thing about JetBrains Academy is that you're learning through these projects, but you're also learning within an IDE and integrated development environment, and you're learning the principles of coding all while creating actual real-world applications, and the system is pretty smart in that you write the code and then the system automatically checks how legit the code is, so that you get those instant feedback loops, which is super helpful for learning. Anyway, if any of that sounds up your street, and you want a totally free one-month free trial where you can check it out, then head over to hyperskill.org slashjoins slash alley underscore. And that link is going to be in the video description as well, and if you hit that link, then that will let you sign up for a totally free one-month free trial. But thank you so much, JetBrains for sponsoring this video. Part three, three apps that I use in my personal life. Now, I'm not going to show you what's in my journal, obviously, but in this calendar view, you can see that I've been kind of journaling on and off for the last, since 2014. Yeah, it's great, and day one is fantastic for journaling. I have it on my Mac, I have it on my iPhone, I have it on my iPad, you can also use an Apple Watch dictationy type thing, which realistically I never use, but it's just by far the best journaling app I've ever found, and sometimes even if I'm physically journaling, what I'll do is I'll write down on a piece of paper, and then at some point I'll go in and take photos of them on my iPhone and chuck them into day one, so that I have this as a digital and also an alogional backup. The other thing I love about day one is that they have an on this day feature, so because I've been literally using it for years, I can see that, for example, on this day, the second of February 2018 five years ago. This is what I wrote. It's been an absolutely bloodbath of a day from the crypto point of view, Bitcoin price crashed down to around 6k. I sold five Bitcoin at 64500 oh god. You can see, you can see, you can see what's going on here. Quite excited for the date with Redacted on Sunday, we're going to bed at Italian 5pm, although I'm not really sure what we're going to talk about. It's just kind of nice, it's cool. Similarly, on this day, last year the second of February 2022, man, this has been an incredible day, as I was walking back to the flat after parking the car at Redacted, I felt a profound sense of fulfillment. This was when me and Angus and Gordon drove up to Jim Shark HQ to meet with Steve Hewitt, who's the executive chairman of Jim Shark, and he did a whole business planning session for us. All right, next we have an app that I use for messaging, and that is text.com. It's a great app, it's cross-platform, and basically what it does is that it brings together what's up and I message and put a DMs, and it's like superhuman for messages, so you can archive messages, you can get to inbox zero on your messages, you can use loads of keyboard shortcuts, and it's so good that when I find myself having to reply to a WhatsApp on my phone, I think, ugh, I wish I was on my computer right now, because it's just blazingly fast to reply to messages using text.com, and then the third app on the list of personal is Spotify, obviously. I would love to be a subscriber to Apple Music, but Spotify is just a way better app all around. My study with me playlist, but like thousands of songs that are all like instrumental bangers from films and video games and TV shows, I'll link that down in the video description if you want to check it out. Part four, six apps for research and writing. Down this video is getting long, but that's okay, hopefully you're finding useful. If you are, please do drop a cheeky thumbs up on this video, really help out for the YouTube algorithm. F number one for research and writing is Obsidian, which is the app that I use for my personal note taking and personal knowledge management. Obsidian is my personal second brain. I've been using it a bunch when I've been researching and writing stuff for my book, so for example, this is me. This is some of my notes that I took from the handbook of positive emotions and took some screenshots while reading it on Kindle and copied and pasted some quotes in. It's really good for that kind of thing. Next we have another writing app, which is Scrivner, Scrivner is an app that's like specifically designed for writing books, and so this is what I was doing the first drafts of my book in, and it's nice because you can track the overall word count on your entire manuscript. You can track a daily word count so you can set targets for yourself. These days I don't use it so much because we're in the editing stage so everything is being done in Google Docs, but it's fantastic as like a first drafting piece of software. All right, next up we have Zotero, which is the app that I use for reference management for scientific papers that are read. So I've been through dozens of not hundreds of papers at this point for, again, research for the book and also research for some of our videos, and Zotero is nice because it's a great way of, for example, reading PDFs, but it's also great because then you can highlight stuff within these scientific papers, and because Zotero has an extension for Obsidian, it means I can automatically export my highlights from Zotero directly into Obsidian, and that means it's a lot easier to copy paste and move them around and build a book outline out of the stuff in the research papers. Next on the list is pretty standard. This is the Kindle app, which, I mean, I don't often use to read stuff on directly on my Mac, but in particular, if I'm doing research for book or for videos, and I know there's a book which I've read, or that I want to flick through, then I can just use the Kindle Apple my Mac, and I can screen short bits from Kindle, or copy paste them and chuck them straight into Obsidian, or notion or click up a Google Docs, or whatever app I'm using to actually craft the thing I'm trying to create. Apple number 5 on this list is very boring, it's just Google Chrome, everyone has Chrome, great browser, and then at number 6 on the list, we have an app that I genuinely use, and that is Surfshark VPN, and the main thing I use Surfshark VPN for is that if I'm using a Seihub, if you know, you know, because Seihub has a connection with Zotero, which means I can get PDFs, free, and stuff. I'm not going to talk about that too much for obvious reasons, but Surfshark VPN is the best VPN I've found for easily connecting to secure private networks. It's also been really handy, I was in Bali a few months ago, and the hotel had really blocked a bunch of different websites, so I just opened up Surfshark, connected to through VPN, and then suddenly everything was unlocked, so life is good. Part 5 7 apps for creative work. All right, so number one on this list is Screen Flow, which is the app that I used to record my screen on my Mac, so for example, I'm using Screen Flow to record this very screen recording, and I also use Screen Flow extensively when I'm doing live sessions from my part-time YouTuber Academy, so I'll have my presentation, which is being screen shared on Zoom with the people who've joined live, but then I'll use Screen Flow to record the whole screen, so that when we do a fancy edited version of the video for the video recordings of the part-time YouTuber Academy, we have it as a nice little high quality screen recording, unlike the crappy quality Zoom recording. Ab number two on this list is Final Cut, which is my video editing app of choice. I don't do a lot of video editing myself these days because I have a lovely team who do the video editing for me, but still every now and then my mum will ask me to edit a video for a friend, waiting or something like that, and I'll just open it up in Final Cut. Or if, for example, I just want to do a quick edit or just flex those creative muscles, then Final Cut is my video editing app of choice. Been using it for years since like 2017, and I actually have a course on Skillshare if you want to check it out, completely free, how to edit videos and Final Cut Pro that'll be linked down below. If you want all right, number three on the list we have the Adobe Creative Cloud. I have a subscription for it. Back in the day, when I was a kid, I used a pirate all of this software. I'm not going to lie, but since, you know, starting to actually make money and have a job where I do creative stuff, we now spend lots and lots of money for on the Adobe Creative Cloud for basically everyone on our team, and so I feel like I'm giving Adobe back to the value that I kind of owe them from all of the piracy that I used to do when I was a kid. Anyway, the three main apps that I use personally, I Photoshop, Lightroom, and Lightroom Classic. So Photoshop is great because thumbnails, we use Canva for a lot of our thumbnails, but sometimes something needs something a bit fancier and so we bring it into Photoshop for that. Lightroom Classic is great because if I have loads of photos on an SD card, let's say I've been to a cousin's wedding in Pakistan, I've taken a thousand photos. It's kind of a path going through those on Lightroom Mobile, which is nice for like a handful of photos at time, but I can just SD card them, Lightroom Classic, again, been using Lightroom Classic since 2015, so I'm very kind of comfortable with using that workflow. Next we have Lightroom itself, which is like Lightroom Mobile, because they kind of have these two weird versions, but Lightroom is nice because if I need to just touch up a photo for Instagram, or touch up a photo for editing a thumbnail, and I want to take a photo on my phone or do it on my iPad, then Lightroom, the mobile version, is great for syncing across all devices. Next we have the app that I use for streaming, which these days is stream labs desktop, I've been dabbling with more streaming recently, so that's the app that we use for streaming. And finally, the app that we use for a bunch of design work is Figma. We use it to design landing pages, and thumbnails for our YouTuber Academy staff, and thumbnail mood boards, and a bunch of other stuff. We also use Figma for a bunch of social media stuff, so Instagram carousels and things like that, where we can just create a template, and then it's very easy for us to edit the text whenever we need to. Part six, seven apps that help me run my business. All right, firstly we have Notion, which is the app that we use for almost everything in the business. We use it for all our team management, all of our one on ones, every employee of the team has a hub on Notion, we use it for our knowledge management, we use to keep track of basically everything that's happening in the business. I've made loads of Notion videos already, I'll link some of those down below if you want to check them out. But an app that we started using more recently specifically for keeping track of the video production pipeline is called pick-up. I click up is like a Notion competitor, Lalt sorry Notion, but it's more suited for direct project management. It's less flexible than Notion is, because Notion is basically anything you want it to be. But the nice thing about click-up is that it seems to be more specifically tuned to do lists and tasks and that kind of stuff and integrating with calendars in a way that Notion doesn't quite do. Thirdly, we have one password, which is our password manager for our team. Fourthly, we have Slack, which is how we communicate as a team. Number five, we have Zoom, Zoom is kind of boring, everyone knows what Zoom does. Number six, we have Loom, which is great for like recording screens and that's kind of stuff. And so often, instead of having a meeting, we'll save time, but just someone recording a Loom instead. And this is particularly handy, because if someone on the team needs to present something to me to get my sign-up on something, it's way easier for them to just send me a Loom that I can watch at double speed. On my own time, rather than try to get our calendars to line up, which is basically never going to happen. And finally, an app that we use within the team for a lot of brainstorming is called Mirror. And so, if we're having a meeting on Zoom, or even in real life, and we just need an interactive whiteboard to play around with, everyone will open up Mirror on their devices and we'll be able to put stuff on the screen. For example, this was some brainstorming we were doing around, what are the problems that people have with their YouTube channels? And how do we make sure that our part-time YouTuber Academy actually takes the boxes that we're trying to help people with? And Mirror is nice, you can move stuff around, you've got arrows, you've got diagrams, you can kind of do whatever, and it's an infinite canvas that is infinitely big, and so you can sort of play with it as much as you need to. All right, that brings us to the end of this ridiculously long video. I hope you enjoyed it if you're here so far. If you did, you might like to check out this video over here, which is my top 10 tips for managing my time. If you've gotten this far in the video, you're probably interested in productivity and managing your time, and you might like that video over there. So thank you so much for watching. Have a great day, and I'll see you in the next one. Bye.
