# My Evidence-Based Sleep Routine
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=K3eS4jr2pIo
For a breakdown of the latest news everyday, sign up to Morning Brew for free today at https://morningbrewdaily.com/ali 
Thanks to Morning Brew for sponsoring this video :)

Over the past few months, I've interviewed experts, listened to podcasts and consumed loads of papers and books to better understand the science behind effective sleep. I've collated all the information into this video which breaks down the 9 evidence based things that I've built into my routine to help improve my sleep and ensure that I feel well-rested throughout the day. Enjoy x

🍿WATCH NEXT: Why You're Always Tired - 7 Habits Ruining Your Sleep: https://youtu.be/qlf9-573MhI

🔗 Useful Links
Full episode with Dr Russel Foster: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LBPYDEJ6qHc
@hubermanlab Podcast: https://www.youtube.com/@hubermanlab

⌚️Timestamps:
0:00 Intro
0:14 Get Your Hours In
0:56 Build a Sleep Rhythm
2:37 Start with Sunlight
5:12 Morning Exercise
7:28 Caffeine Control
9:06 Catch the Evening Sun
9:43 Set Dark Mode
11:14 Expect the Spike
11:30 Keep your Cool

💌  Sign up to my free weekly email newsletter - https://go.aliabdaal.com/subscribe-sundaysnippets

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - 
 https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
🎬 YouTube for Beginners - Everything You Need To Know To Start  - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/YouTube-for-Beginners

MY CREATOR COURSES
🎬 Check out my free 7 day email course on how to become a part-time YouTuber: https://aliabdaal.com/part-time-youtuber-crash-course/
🏆 Creatorpreneur - My flagship course for scaling up your creative side-hustle → https://creatorpreneur.academy/course
🗣 Camera Confidence - My self-paced course on how to improve your creativity, career, or communication skills → https://cameraconfidence.aliabdaal.com/

MY FAVOURITE GEAR
🧑‍💻My MacBook Skin (& other tech): https://dbrand.com/palettes
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) -https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE TOOLS
🚀 VidIQ - How I optimise my YouTube videos - https://go.aliabdaal.com/vidiq
✍️ Shortform - The BEST summaries of books - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
📚  Readwise - How I remember what I read - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise
🎵  Epidemic Sound - Where I get my music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound

MY KEY LINKS
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com/
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I’m Ali, a YouTuber, podcaster, soon-to-be author and ex-Doctor working in London, UK. I make videos that explore the strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. I also have a weekly podcast called Deep Dive (https://www.youtube.com/channel/UChfo46ZNOV-vtehDc25A1Ug), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://go.aliabdaal.com/subscribe-sundaysnippets).

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, 
**Date:** 2023-03-17

## Transcript
 So over the last few months I've interviewed a bunch of sleep experts and listened to loads of podcasts and read loads of books all about the science behind effective sleep. And these are the nine evidence-based things that I've built into my routine to help me get an amazing night's sleep and feel well rested throughout the day. Let's get started. First off, I tried to sleep for around seven to eight hours each night. Now the science and how long you should sleep for isn't straightforward, but most research says that between seven and nine hours of sleep at night is ideal for a healthy adult. And according to a big 2015 study by the American Academy of Sleep Science and the Sleep Research Society, quote, adult should sleep seven or more hours per night because regularly getting less than seven hours of sleep can lead to a load of bad stuff like weight gain and heart disease and depression and charmingly increased risk of death. If you're not sure if you should sleep seven or eight or nine hours, then the solution is pretty simple. Just experiment with how much sleep you need to feel happy and productive the next day. And remember, if you get too obsessed with getting eight hours of sleep every single night, that actually might spike your stress levels, ironically making it more difficult to get to sleep and this is called sleep anxiety. So the second thing I try to do for healthy sleep is to build a sleep rhythm. I set a regular time for going to sleep and waking up and I try my best to actually stick to it. So for example, I usually go to sleep around 11 or 11 30 pm and get up around seven a.m. The more consistent your rhythm, the easier it's going to be to fall sleep and to wake up. And this is because of the homeostatic sleep drive, one of the main systems in our body that determines when we feel tired and when we feel awake, which is powered by the chemical adenosine. So adenosine makes us feel this intense need for sleep. From the moment we wake up in the morning, adenosine starts building up in our body. Until eventually, we start feeling sleep hungry. The more adenosine we have, the sleepier we feel. When we actually do get enough sleep, that drives our adenosine levels down again and we wake up feeling well rested. Okay, so why does this mean we should have consistent times for waking and sleeping? Well, if we start going to sleep and waking up at the same time every day and get up proper seven to eight hours of sleep, then our adenosine levels will regularly peak at the same time each evening, making us feel properly tired and ready for bed. And after seven to eight hours of sleep, that adenosine will be low enough that we can wake up naturally without feeling too groggy or tired. So the more we can invest in building the steady rhythm, the more we can bring our sleep schedule in sync with the chemicals in our body. And the less likely we are to feel weirdly awake at 2am and start playing video games. And here are four practical things that can help you build that rhythm. First, set an alarm for the same time every day to help you wake up consistently. Secondly, ignore the weekend. As far as your body is concerned, the weekend is just two days where you do your best to mess up your healthy sleep cycle. For me, I've tried to personally avoid lions or having a different sleep schedule on Saturdays and Sundays, so I don't mess up this adenosine rhythm that I've been trying to build. Thirdly, try to phase shift your social life. Basically, try to schedule evening meet ups with friends a little bit earlier in the day. The occasional late night is totally fine. I just try not to make too much of a habit of it. The final tip is to actually listen to your body. Try not to push through that sleepy late evening feeling. That's the exact trigger we're working towards, which makes it easier to fall asleep. Okay, so the next thing I do to get a good night's sleep is to catch the morning sun when I wake up. That's because in addition to adenosine, there's a second system inside all of us that affect when we feel sleepy and when we feel awake, kind of internal 24 hour clock called the circadian rhythm. Now, this system is mainly controlled from a master clock in our brain called the superchiasmatic nucleus, which leads just above the roof of our mouth, and sends signals to the rest of our body about whether to feel sleepy or awake. The circadian rhythm generally looks like a wave, with our brain releasing the chemicals cortisol and epinephrine to drive our upwards spike in alertness during the morning and the rest of the day, and melatonin driving the downward COVID night, making us feel like going to bed. And the number one thing that influences this circadian rhythm is light, particularly morning sunlight. When morning sunlight hits the retina in our eyes, it sends a message to our internal circadian clock to trigger that release of cortisol and epinephrine, which makes us feel awake and alert. Now, the sun doesn't need to be just peaking over the horizon, it just needs to be within a few hours of sunride. And as soon you can get it off to waking up, the better. So in terms of my personal morning routine, I wake up, I grab some water, I take my medication, which in this case is finasteride and heights, supplement and probiotic. And then after having a shower, I'll normally go for a walk and I'll walk over to the local Cretar Mongey where I've got the pret coffee subscription, because that encourages me to actually get out of the house in the morning to grab my coffee, and that means I'm getting the morning sunlight, and I've also delayed my caffeine consumption more and that a little bit later. Now, other types of bright light can trigger or wake up mechanisms, but a brain response best to the quality and amount of light that's coming from the sun when it's at a low solar angle. So on bright cloudless days, you should apparently stay outside for around 10 minutes after waking up to properly trigger your circadian clock. On cloudy days, it might take a bit longer, like 20 minutes, and if it's really overcast, it could take 30 minutes to an hour. But the main thing is that we don't want to overthink this, perfect is the enemy of good, and just getting any amount of morning sunlight in the morning is actually great for usuccating rhythm and for usuccating quality. Now, there's a second reason it's important to get that morning sunlight. In that, it sets our circadian clock on a timer to release the hormone melatonin from the pineal gland in our brain in about 12 to 14 hours time, which is going to make us feel sleepy later that evening. So at the early we get that morning sunlight, the sooner that clock starts counting down, and the sooner we start feeling sleepy in the evening. So if I wake up at 7am, and then I go for a morning walk to get that strong burst of morning sun for about 10 minutes, I should start getting the sleepy signal from my brain between about 7pm and 9pm that night. But if I wake up later at 8am, for example, the sleepy phase is going to move forward to between 8pm and 10pm. And before we continue, I want to give a massive shout out to the Huberman lab podcast. Andrew Huberman's podcast is absolutely sick. I listen to it all the time, and the episodes about sleep really help me figure out all of this stuff around the evidence around sleep and help inform a lot of the research for this video. So thank you Andrew Huberman and your team. Okay next, let's look at what time we ideally want to be exercising to get the best possible sleep. So sunlight is the most important thing to focus on, but exercise does release endorphins, which also make us feel happy and more awake. Now in an ideal world, I would be doing weight training in the morning, but I personally find that if I go gym in the morning, then I kind of feel a bit groggy for the rest of the day, so I'm not a huge fan of that. Instead, I do my morning walk thing. This is a thing that I figured out with my health coach. It was like, you know, trying to get some steps in the morning, and it also doubles as an effect in that it gets me the morning sunlight as well. Now, if you can actually do some proper exercise in the morning, then according to Andrew Huberman, there is evidence that a body starts to develop this anticipated patriotic circuit, expecting that hit of morning exercise, because it happened over the last few days, and getting us to wake up and feel ready for it to happen again. And that adds to that morning spike of energy that we want, and it sets us up for healthy sleepiness in the evening, because our body is going to be tired and is going to need sleep to recover from that training. Like, think about the last time you went for a really long hike or had a lot of exercise. You probably had long deep sleep that night. So we've talked about some of the stuff that I do in my morning routine so far. But one thing that I do that's unrelated to sleep is browse a cheeky news letter called Morning Brew on my phone, who are very kindly sponsoring this video. Now, Morning Brew is a totally free 100% free daily news letter that's delivered every single day, Monday through Sunday, and it just takes a few minutes to read and it gets you up to date on all of the interesting news from the world of business and finance and tech, which are three of the things that I came most about. And it's my favorite way to consume the news, because A, it doesn't take very long, and B, it's written in a dry, witty kind of entertaining manner, unlike most other sources of news, which are kind of dry and kind of boring. And it's really useful for keeping up to date with the content created business stuff that affects me personally. Like, for example, Zuckerberg recently rolling out Meta verified, which I heard about because I read my morning brew newsletter. And it's been great for also keeping me up to date about what's going on with the whole A-I stuff, because there's just too much going on. It's hard to keep track of it on Twitter, and so on Morning Brew, I get like a decent right up of what Microsoft Edge is doing, and how chatGPT is going, and like what's going on with Bing, and how it's just started making absolutely ridiculous statements. And it's just generally funny and interesting reading about this kind of stuff. So if you are interested in anything to do with business, or finance, or tech, or you just want an entertaining way to browse the news once a day, then there is no reason not to sign up to Morning Brew. It is completely free, and it takes less than 15 seconds to subscribe. So if you're interested then head over to MorningBrew Daily.com for what's L.A. And then you can subscribe there, and you'll be supporting the channel along the way. That link is also in the video description, so thank you so much Morning Brew for sponsoring this video. All right, time to talk about a big topic, caffeine. Now remember the chemical adenosine, which makes us hungry for sleep, while to actually make us feel sleepy, adenosine needs to get picked up by our adenosine receptors. And what caffeine does is act like an adenosine antagonist, blocking those adenosine receptors in our brain to stop the sleepy adenosine signal from being processed. So the caffeine keeps us alert and awake initially, but when the caffeine wears off, we get a caffeine crash as the blocked adenosine rushes through our receptors again, making us feel really tight. Now I drink coffee every morning and around two to three times a day, but there are two things when it comes to caffeine timing that I find quite useful. Firstly, I try to avoid coffee for the first hour of the day. And the idea behind this is that it gives you a body enough time to naturally clear the adenosine that's left behind in your system. And secondly, to get better quality of sleep, I try to avoid drinking coffee or any other caffeinated drinks too late in the day, specifically after around 2 to 3 pm. Now caffeine has a half life of 5 to 6 hours, which is the time it takes for the caffeine levels in your system to drop by 50%. But it takes even longer than that after drinking caffeine for our adenosine to be working normally again. So to stop caffeine interfering with our sleep, Dr. Huberman recommends that we should avoid it 8 to 10 hours before our normal bed time. So stop drinking between 1 pm and 3 pm if your bed time is 11 pm. Matthew Walker, the author of why we sleep, is a bit more conservative and says aim for 10 to 12 hours. So basically only caffeine in the morning, but I personally stop around 3 pm. Everyone has different caffeine tolerances though, like some people can't drink any caffeine past 11 am without it messing with their sleep. But for other people, the cutoff point is more like 4 pm. There's a small percentage of people that can even have caffeine late at night and still fall asleep easily, but that probably still affects their sleep quality even if they get technically a full night sleep. And by the way, if you're enjoying this video so far, I'd love it if you could drop a little thumbs up on the thing apparently really helps us for the algorithm. Now this is potentially getting a bit overboard, but the sixth thing that I try to do every day is to go outside around an hour or so before sunset and get a good 10 to 30 minutes of evening sunlight. So the sunlight trick that we talked about earlier works in reverse. When the light sensitive melanops and neurons in your eye detect the specific color and intensity of evening sunlight, they send a signal to your circadian clock and it's getting to the end of the day and that sleep is coming. Again, try to be in direct sunlight if it'll possible because windows and other kind of barriers like sunglasses make the sunlight a lot less effective. So if you get the sun in the morning and in the evening, you give your internal clock consistent light anchors making it way easier to get into a healthy rhythm of waking up and going to sleep at the same time every day. Alright, so now it's evening. And for me, I try my very best not to expose myself to artificial lights after around 8 p.m. And I try to avoid viewing bright lights between 10 p.m. and 4 a.m. including a laptop screen and my computer monitor and my phone. The reason we want to avoid light is because bright artificial lights mimic the effect of bright sunlight somewhat, which like we've seen tells our brain that it's daytime and releases cortisol and FNFN that keeps us awake. And being awake in the evenings is exactly what we want to avoid. Now, scarily, the longer that we've been awake, the more sensitive we are to bright lights making us feel even more awake. So the later it gets in the evening, the higher the stakes. In fact, this 2018 study, which was published in the journal cell, which is a high quality journal, showed that light arriving to the eyes between 11 p.m. and 4 a.m. even suppressors duper mean. The thing that makes us feel good and is a natural antidepressant. And it also activates the herbenular, the disappointment nucleus in our brain. And so over the next few days, this lowers our mood and makes us feel more disappointed and actually can make it harder to learn new things. So for me personally, the way that I avoid all these lights is, I try to avoid going on the computer and be on 10 p.m. If I am with the computer, I try and dim this brightness setting on my computer down. I try and use the kind of flux night mode display setting on the Mac to try and avoid the blue light that comes in from the computer screen. I also try my best to avoid using my phone at night time. And instead, I use my Kindle, which is generally on a fairly dim dark mode warm light setting. Now, apparently the positioning of these artificial lights can make a difference because we're particularly sensitive to overhead lights. Because we've evolved to detect the light from the sunlight. And so having warm lights that are positioned low, like lamps and candles that are low down, instead of having the ceiling lights on. Apparently, it can make a difference to how effective a sleep can be. Okay, a really quick tip here. I always expect to feel alert around one hour before my natural bedtime. And I know that if I just read a book and stick to my normal habits, then I'll eventually feel sleepy again. Now, this is totally normal. And according to Dr. Hebenz podcast, this is a naturally occurring spike in wakefulness. So don't freak out if it happens. It's going to pass. Now, the final step in my sleep routine is keeping the room where I sleep nice and cool. Now, our bodies need a drop in temperature by 1 to 3 degrees to fall asleep and to stay asleep effectively. So here's what I do personally. Firstly, if I'm in a hotel room or anything that has air conditioning and thermostat, I generally set it quite low. Some people say that 19 degrees Celsius is the ideal. I find that that's still a bit warm for me. And I like to set it at like 16, 17 degrees, if I can. In my own home, I don't have air conditioning. And so I'll sometimes open the windows if it's particularly warm in the room. And I'll use a fan if it's particularly hot. Plus, I like the white noise of the fan, which helps me fall asleep. And this one's a bit extra, but I do also happen to have an 8-sleep mattress. I interview the founders vape sleep on my podcast a little while ago. We talked a lot about sleep. I'll link that episode down below if you want to check it out. But the 8-sleep mattress is basically like a mattress topo thing that has a liquid cooling system in it. And so I usually have that set to the colder setting. Honestly, something like that is pretty overkill. You really don't need it. It's pretty expensive. You can just leave a window open or just get a cheap-ass fan just to cool your body down to the temperature that it needs to be. And some people find that having a hot bath or a hot shower before bed really helps because it helps reduce your internal body temperature. So if you incorporate each of these 9 science-back tips from my routine, your day might look something like this. You'd have a regular bedtime and waking time so you'd get around 7-8 hours of sleep. You'd view the sun just after you get up and maybe do some exercises as well. You'd delay your caffeine consumption for around an hour after waking up and you'd stop drinking caffeine after around 2-3 pm. You might go for a walk and view evening sunlight for about 10 minutes just before sunset. You would dim all of your house lights just a few hours before bed and avoid any bright screens. You'd try and write out any spike in energy before your bedtime. And finally, you'd keep your bedroom cool so that you can fall asleep easily. Now I'll be honest, I don't do all of these things every day. I'd try my best to stick to them, but I don't beat myself up if I have a little bit of a lion or if I have coffee a little bit too early in the morning or a little bit too late in the day. And if you got to this video, you might like to check out this video over here, which is a video about why you might find yourself always tired and it's about 7 myths that are ruining your sleep. And so with this video and that video it's basically everything you need to know to have a fantastic sleep routine. Thank you so much for watching.
