# This Book Changed my Love Life
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kM0ZADKIXU8
The first 1,000 people to use this link will get a 1 month free trial of Skillshare: https://skl.sh/aliabdaal10211

This video is an overview of one of the best books I've read on dating and has genuinely changed the way I'm approaching my love life—How to Not Die Alone: The Surprising Science That Will Help You Find Love by Logan Ury. In this episode of Book Club we'll go over the 4 main reasons why dating in the modern day is hard, and then we'll go over 5 top tips that I got from the book to help with dating. Enjoy! 

Get the book here: https://geni.us/VilI6i

TIMESTAMPS
00:00 Intro
00:27 Why dating is hard - Personal identities
01:14 Why dating is hard - Too many options
02:00 Why dating is hard - Social media
02:59 Why dating is hard - It's a big decision
05:18 Tip #1 - Know your blind spots 
07:17 Tip #2 - Don't let perfect be the enemy of great
10:14 Tip #3 - Stop looking for prom dates
12:35 Tip #4 - Spread your wings
17:37 Tip #5 - Decide, don't slide

💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://go.aliabdaal.com/subscribe-sundaysnippets

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - 
 https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
🎬 YouTube for Beginners - Everything You Need To Know To Start  - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/YouTube-for-Beginners

MY CREATOR COURSES
🎬 Check out my free 7 day email course on how to become a part-time YouTuber: https://aliabdaal.com/part-time-youtuber-crash-course/
🏆 Creatorpreneur - My flagship course for scaling up your creative side-hustle → https://creatorpreneur.academy/course
🗣 Camera Confidence - My self-paced course on how to improve your creativity, career, or communication skills → https://cameraconfidence.aliabdaal.com/

MY FAVOURITE GEAR
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) -https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

🎙 Check out my weekly podcast, Deep Dive - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/ - It's also available on all podcast platforms, including Spotify, Apple Podcasts etc.

MY FAVOURITE TOOLS
🚀 VidIQ - How I optimise my YouTube videos - https://go.aliabdaal.com/vidiq
✍️ Shortform - The BEST summaries of books - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
📚  Readwise - How I remember what I read - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise
🎵  Epidemic Sound - Where I get my music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound

MY KEY LINKS
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com/
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I’m Ali, a YouTuber, podcaster, soon-to-be author and ex-Doctor working in London, UK. I make videos that explore the strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. I also have a weekly podcast called Deep Dive (https://www.youtube.com/channel/UChfo46ZNOV-vtehDc25A1Ug), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://go.aliabdaal.com/subscribe-sundaysnippets).

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, How To Not Die Alone: The Surprising Science That Will Help You Find Love, How To Not Die Alone, How To Find Love, How To Improve Your Love Life, Dating Tips, Logan Ury, relationship science, Dating Advice, Hinge, How To Find a Significant Other, book summary, How to Not Die Alone Book Summary, How To Not Die Alone Logan Ury, Modern Dating Tips, What Traits Matter in a Long Term Partner?, Online dating tips and tricks, best dating advice books, 
**Date:** 2021-11-09

## Transcript
 Hey friends, welcome back to the channel. So, I recently read How to Not to Die Alone by Logan Yuri and this book has genuinely changed how I'm approaching my love life. And so, in this episode of Book Club, the series where as you know, we distill and discuss highlights from some of my favorite books. We're going to start by talking about the four reasons why dating is difficult in the modern world. And then I'll be sharing five top tips that I got from this book. Really good book. You should read five top tips about how to date more effectively so that we can find love and all that fun stuff. Let's get into it. Pop one, why is dating so hard? So to be honest, every era has had some kind of issues when it comes to dating and finding love. It's one of the the foibles. I think that's the right word of the human experience. But what Logan says is that this like four main reasons why dating in the modern day in 2021, 2022, whenever you're watching this, why dating is particularly hard for us. Firstly, and this is probably a good thing. We do define our personal identities more so than we did in the past. In the past, there was a lot less personal agency. You would kind of have these expectations thrust on you. You'd become a doctor because your parents told you to become a doctor. You'd marry this person because your parents told you to marry that person because they happened to own the plot of farmland next to you. These days, we don't quite do that. Especially in the West, we are very individualistic. We want to build our own personal identities. And so in a way, the person we marry, the person like the way we find love, is a huge part of that personal identity thing which is kind of hard today. Secondly, it's hard because we've just got way too many options. Again, back in the day, you were just married the person that you met in your neighborhood, but now with all of the apps and trust me, I would know, I have premium accounts and all of the apps. With all the apps, this is way too much choice. This is concept in in socials like behavioral economics called the paradox of choice, which is that you would think that the more options you have, the easier it becomes to find the perfect option. But actually, in studies, if, for example, you give people a choice of four bits of jam to choose from, or a choice of 24 bits of jam to choose from, the people who are confronted with the 24 bits of jam are unlikely to make a decision about any of them. Whereas the people who are confronted with four are like, oh, strawberry jam sounds good. I'm going to take that. I'm not comparing dating to choosing a flavor of jam, but the point is we just have way too many options that are fingertips and that weirdly makes dating harder than we would think. Thirdly, we've got the social media thing. Now, this is a problem sometimes when it comes to dating because we see the highlight reels of other kind of couples. We see these pick people on Instagram with their really cute photos. We see these couples on YouTube during you during Q&A's. We see all these couple blogs. Been watching a lot of couple blogs recently, they don't ask why. And they really show the highlight reels of their lives. And so, when it comes to dating, it's like, oh my god, I need to be able to find someone for who my feel that sort, that sense of love, that those people that YouTube couples seems to show with one another are just in Gabriel. They're so cute together. Matt and Abby, they're so cute together. How do they do it? Monaco and Sam, oh my god, we see all these comparator things. And even if it's not like famous YouTuber a couple of bloggers, Casey and Candace, it's our friends and social media, you know, engagement photos, all that kind of stuff. It's so easy to compare our failures in dating with other people's highlight reels. Like, I'll be on the scenes with their highlight reels that makes trying to find the right person. This like really high stakes decision that that love look comparison just wasn't really there back in the day. And hopefully dating is quite hard because it's actually a pretty big decision. Like Cheryl Sandberg, the CEO of Facebook says famously that the person you marry is the single biggest decision you'll make in your career because it just has such a huge impact on your career your life or that kind of stuff. And so, finding love and retaining love and getting into a long-term relationship and like figuring out who that person is going to be is actually genuinely a very kind of high pressure decision that genuinely could change the trajectory of our lives. So, those are four reasons why dating is hard. I want to talk now about five top tips that I got from this book. But before I do that, I want to talk a little bit about why, why am I reading a book about relationships? To be honest, I think every single person in the world should be reading more and learning more and finding out more about relationships. Because as researchers shown and as our own experience shows, relationships are the single most important thing in our life. Not necessarily just romantic relationships, but also friendships, also relationships with family, relationships with colleagues. Relationships are the most important thing in life. Like, when you're lying on your deathbed, you're not going to be worrying about whether you put out an extra video or whether that person who sets something mean to you in high school is stuffy. You're going to be wanting to spend more time with the people who matter the people who you love. And I think relationships with this weird area whereby a lot of people are just sort of thinking, oh, you're meant to just make it up as you go along. I think people like the school of life, I'll land a baton, like the people who write about this stuff, authentic and Logan definitely going to add to my VIP list of relationship advisors. Because for such an important area of life, it's pretty weird that we don't think about it, that we don't talk about it, that we don't like theorize about it. If I think about myself, like, I enjoy reading books about relationships. And yet, I listened to it of the 100 or so podcasts I'm subscribed to. Maybe one or two are themed around relationships and a 98 of them are themed around how to be more productive, how to make more money, how to prolong your business, that kind of stuff, which is weird, right? Because if relationships are the thing, the main lever that we can move to contribute to our happiness, why are we not spending more time thinking about them? And so to be honest, moving forward on this channel, I want to talk about more about friendships, relationships, love that side of the human condition, which I haven't really talked about in the past, been reading about it for a long time. But I just think it's something so hugely important. And whenever people are like, oh my god, why would you read a book about love? Love is meant to be experienced, not to be read about. Yes, okay, fine. Love is meant to be experienced, but for such, for something so big, the person you marry, why wouldn't you read about it? That's my whole speed on this. This is a fantastic book. Let's not talk about kind of the five main points that resonated with me. And tip number one from the book is to know your blind spot. Now, the person who wrote this book, Logan Urey, is actually a relationship's therapist who is now head of relationship science at hinge, which is one of the famous dating apps that I've used to extensively and have premium accounts on hinge. If someone at hinge is watching this video, please reach out and sponsor my channel because like genuinely, 100%. Anyway, Logan is a relationship therapist and the way she talks about it is that we all have these dating blind spots. And she calls it the three dating tendencies. And the idea is that all of us fit into one of these categories, but we probably have traits from all three of the categories. The first type of dating tendency is the Romanticizer. This is the sort of person who kind of believes the whole soulmate stuff that are falling in love. It's like this magical thing, and I want to find my soulmate. And if I don't feel very strongly about someone, there's no spark and things aren't going to work. You know, I like it when I walk. Secondly, we have the hesitator. Now, this is the sort of person that thinks, you know what, I am not ready for dating just yet. If you're under 18, this doesn't apply for you. But, you know, this sort of person over the age of 18, we think, you know what, I'm not ready for dating just yet. I want to establish myself first. I want to lose weight. I want to get my six pack abs. I want to make sure I've got a job. I want to make sure I know what I'm doing with my life before I even consider getting into the dating marketplace. This is the hesitator. And thirdly, we've got the maximizer. Now, this is the sort of person who recognizes that dating is like a big deal and the person I marry is like a very, very big decision. And therefore, they want to try and maximize the score on all of the different traits that they're looking out for and find the person who most maximite sort of hits the highest score point on each of these, each of these different traits. And to be honest, I know quite a few people who are hesitators and romanticisers, but the vast majority of people, I know, including me, are very much maximizers. And in fact, she has a quiz early on in the book. So you can see, you can answer a few questions and figure out, like, are you a maximizer or a romanticizer? I am definitely a maximizer. And this is like a real problem. And I didn't quite realize it was such a problem until I did the questionnaire and I realized, oh my god, this is a thing. This is why I've been struggling with my love life because I'm too much of a maximizer across all these supposedly all these different qualities that I'm looking out for. Which brings us on to tip number two, which is we sold for the maximizer problem with tip number two, don't let perfect be the enemy of great. Now, the problem with being a maximizer, which I am and you possibly are as well, if you are watching this sort of video about the book summary, the problem with being a maximizer is that we tend to obsess over making the right decision. And we think that the more we analyze something, the more carefully we weigh up the options, the more options we give ourselves, the better and outcome we're going to get. But this is not necessarily true. And what Logan says is that what we should be trying to do is become, instead of a maximizer, a satisficer. And the idea here is that instead of trying to maximize trying to find the absolute perfect person you possibly can, you should try and find someone who is, like, good enough. And then work to make that relationship something that is absolutely fantastic. Now, that's not to say that you're just settled for the next person that you meet. But it is to say that if you find someone who meets your criteria and you get on with them, and the vibe is good, and you've kind of assessed them on the long term trade, the matter that we're going to talk about, once you've done that, you think, you know what, I'm going to commit to this person and you stop doing the whole, like, oh, there could be someone better out there. You know, well, I'm just going to keep my dating apps active just so I can see what's out there. Like, for example, if you wanted to watch something on Netflix, being a maximizer would be like, okay, I'm going to look through the entire category catalogue of absolutely everything is available in Netflix, I'm going to look at the reviews, I'm going to make sure I find the absolute perfect film, and only once I found the absolute perfect film, oh, wait, two hours a past, it's time for bed, because I know I don't have time to watch the film. That is like the maximizer approach to it. Whereas if you're a satisficer, you take a look at the front page, you think, hmm, that scroll a little bit, oh, that one looks good, reviews look good, let's go for that, and you don't worry about the fact that maybe if you've been scrolling for an extra 10 minutes, you might have found a film that's slightly better. At this point, you might be thinking, okay, well, finding something to watch on Netflix is not such a big deal. The person you're going to marry is actually a big deal, and surely it's better to be a maximizer in that than to be a satisficer, but interestingly, that is actually not true. So if we look at the studies, which Logan sights in the book, what she says is that the thing we're optimizing for is not, can we find the perfect partner, because there's no such thing as a perfect partner? The thing we're trying to optimize for is what is going to lead to long-term happiness in our relationship. And it turns out that even if you're a maximizer, if you find the perfect person, the fact that you're a maximizer and you're approaching this with a maximizing point of view means you're going to be less happy in that relationship than someone who is a satisficer. And so given that there are no real objective criteria about what makes a perfect romantic partner or a perfect spouse or a perfect life partner, whatever, given that we don't have any objective criteria like that, the only thing that matters is how we feel about the decision. And inevitably, if we are satisficing, we will feel better about it in the long run, and therefore do better in the relationship than if we're trying to maximise on that front. And there's a nice quote from a guy called Barry Schwartz, who wrote the book of a paradox of choice, where he writes, maximizers make good decisions and end up feeling bad about them, satisfices make good decisions and end up feeling good about them. So being a satisficer rather than a maximizer is one part of the equation, but it's not the only part of the equation. And the next thing is to actually figure out what sort of person we're looking for, which brings us on to tip number three, but I have a meeting to go to, so I'll be right back. Alright, and we're back, background's changed a little bit, but let's move on now to tip number three, which I've already heard that word. Anyway, let's move on to tip number three, let's move on to tip number three, which is to stop looking for prom dates. Let's keep in the mistake there, put a thing that's kind of cute. So this is concept, again, in psychology and behavioral economics called present bias. And that is the feeling that causes us to prioritise the short term over what actually matters in the long term. This is the reason why we procrastinate from all sorts of things in life. And interestingly, what Logan tells us is that we have exactly the same bias when it comes to relationships in that we tend to often prioritize short term things, compared to long term things. And she calls this looking for a prom date, rather than looking for a life partner. A prom date, as she says, is someone who looks great in pictures, someone who's really good looking, someone who makes us feel amazing, someone who we think we would like to be able to show off to our friends, and who can ultimately give us, you know, fairly short term amount of fun. That is kind of the prom date vibe. Whereas, if we're interested in finding a long term love, which is sort of the vibe of the book, rather than a short term fling type love, then the kind of traits that we need to be looking for are very different. Those are the traits of a life partner. Now, there's a few different traits that we should be looking at for, says Logan, if we're looking for a life partner, are three in particular that really resonated with me. Number one, we want to find someone who is emotionally stable and kind, and there's this book called The Science of Happily Ever After, by Ty Tashiro, I think. And in that book, we talk about the two most important traits that matter scientifically, when choosing a person, and that's that they be emotionally stable and that they are kind of kind and compassionate. Apparently, these are important things and key to long term success in a relationship, which is interesting for me. The second we ideally want to find someone with a growth mindset, growth mindset, relative to the fixed mindset, I've done a video about the book mindset, by Carol Dweck, I believe, over there, somewhere. Anyway, someone with a growth mindset, if there are problems in the relationship, someone with a growth mindset is more likely to want to work together to overcome those problems, because they believe they can grow into a healthy relationship, or they can improve as a person, or whatever, whereas someone with a fixed mindset is going to think, if there are problems in the relationship, then oh my god, their relationship must be terrible, and we'll call it quits fairly early on. And thirdly, she says we want to try and find someone who can fight well. Apparently, fighting is a pretty standard part of all relationships, and if someone who can fight well, I.e. communicate in a kind of kind, compassionate way, communicate clearly, not let their kind of emotions get like override kind of the way that they're approaching the conversation. If we can fight well ourselves and find someone else who can fight well, that also votes nicely for long-term relationships success, apparently. So now that we've slightly tweaked our approach today, saying we can move on to actually getting out there a dating, which brings us on to tip number four, spread your wings. Now, when it comes to actually going on dates, there are three important cardinal rules to keep in mind. Rule number one is that we don't actually know what we want. And yes, some of us might think that we know we want from a long-term partner, but as studies and times shown time and time again, I like the phrase, time and time. As studies have shown time and time again, the way the things that we think we want, do not correlate to the things that actually bring us long-term happiness for the most part. And one of the problems here is that when we when we think about this list of things that we know that we want, we find it easier to look at, look out for things that are easy to measure, because that's the stuff that we see in dating apps and stuff. Now, the issue with dating apps is that they can't really measure the traits that are actually important, like someone's emotional stableness, emotional stability, someone's kindness, someone's like growth mindset, whether someone is good fight. They're not going to measure those things. The things that measure are kind of height, what they look like in photos that they've chosen, like very specifically, what the Instagram fee looks like, what their occupation is, what university they went to, whether they drink or smoke or do drugs or whatever. And so when we're thinking of getting out there in the dating world, even if we're not using dating apps, which we should, or in that later, even if we're not using dating apps, we tend to judge against the superficial things that are more easier to measure on the surface. And the way to get round the stuff is to actually have a lower bar for the people that we're going to go on dates with. If we said too high a bar for it, we're judging that purely on superficial tendencies. It's like, oh, I love the way their eyes lilt in that photo of them. Therefore, I'm going to swipe right in them. That's probably a pretty superficial way to approach things. And certainly I've been guilty of approaching things in that kind of superficial mindset in the past, in something I'm trying to get better at. But the idea is that we're only really going to get to know a person once we're actually hanging out with them, as opposed to when we're seeing them on an app or on a WhatsApp or on like an email or like a, I don't know, wristart on tea or, you know, there's this thing in like Asian cultures where like the the mum's and stuff and the family will be like, oh, I've got a, I've got a son, I've got my friends got a daughter. Do you want to, do you want to see what the photos are like? Anyway, all that is all fairly superficial stuff. That's not really the stuff we want to be looking at, we want to try and get on a date to actually meet these people and see what they're like in real life. All right. So tip number two for once we're dating, is that the spark is BS. You know, the spark, you know, I think of like, oh, it was, it was love at first sight. Oh, I really felt a really strong spark when we first met. Apparently that's all BS. There's one study that she sites in the book that looked at 400 happily married like long-term successful relationship couples and found that only 11% of them felt that feeling on love at first sight. So we really shouldn't be aiming for love at first sight. It's not really a thing. But even if we do feel the spark and I've felt the spark with maybe a handful of people over my lifetime, even if we do feel the spark, that spark is not enough to sustain things. There's a reason they call it a spark because it goes very, very quickly. So what Logan says in the book is that we want to stop obsessing about this idea of the spark and instead focus on more on long-term life partner qualities that we see in the person like are they kind of the loyal are they emotionally stable that kind of stuff. And the way she describes it is almost like a slow burn. It's not like a spark but it's a slow burn. This is someone that we can grow to appreciate more and more and more as a long-term romantic prospect over time. And that brings us to tip number three for how to date effectively and that is to always go on a second date. And again, she decides this thing within psychology and behaviour of the book. It can only be called negativity bias which is that which is our tendency to overly think about the things that have gone badly. So we might have gone on a first date with someone and had two hours of a great time but maybe there was one occasion where they said something there was a little bit weird or one occasion where it's like oh the conversations a bit dead and when we're reflecting on that event we're going to have a bias towards the negative. We're going to think oh you know we're just not compatible because we had those three seconds of silence where I made a joke about Harry Potter and she didn't get what it was talking about because she's never read Harry Potter that's such a deal break of me that's not allowed that's I just love my own my own bad sir. That's just the that's our negativity bias speaking and so what Logan says is that we should always go on a second date because on a first day everyone's kind of being a bit weird and we should always give someone the chance of going on a second day provided they want to of course this is all a bad mutual consent. There's also a thing in psychology that we do which is bad called the fundamental attribution error and where we attribute a behavior that someone has exhibited to a personality trait. So for example if someone is five minutes late to a date we will do the fundamental attribution error and think oh this this is the sort of person who just doesn't respect people's time. That's obviously bad there's a zillion reasons as to why they might have been five minutes late for the date and we shouldn't over hype those reasons to create this like assessment of their personality based on this one small thing and so her advice is overall we should always go on the second date unless the person is clearly a psychopath. I'm not sure how I feel about this. At one point in life I had a three-day rule which is that I'm always going to go on at least three days of the person because hey you know if I think back to most of the people I've had crushes on at university and it's cool those weren't like love a first-site type crushes they were more like oh after a while of getting to know this person as a friend I started to develop feelings for them and I'm like oh she's actually really pretty that kind of vibe and I was like hmm I wonder if I should give this more of a chance when it comes to dating as I'm glad Logan does not advocate the three-day rule she advocates the two-day rule which is if you're going on a date with someone always go for a second date because you never know what might happen plus it's kind of fun and so we know how to change our mindsets around the dating thing we know how to do the dating thing appropriate with these three steps. The final thing she says like the final bit of the book is about how to actually transition that into a long-term relationship I'm not going to talk about that too much because I haven't got much experience with it but tip number five is decide don't slide and where she talks about it it's like couples usually have like two ways that they can approach taking it to the next level in their relationship that they can either decide actively or they can slide into it because it's just like our natural progression. Now sliding would be oh we've been on a few dates I guess I guess we're exclusive now or oh we've been dating for a few years I guess we're going to get married now or for example you know we've been dating for a few months maybe a few years now or maybe the pandemics coming up the why don't we just move in together these are all like slidingety type things whereas what she's advocating for and I think is very good life advice generally is you want to actively decide these very big things you want to sit down with your partner and draw up a pros and cons list and like really really actively talk about what could go wrong what we're what the expectations what are we hoping for from this what yeah just like making a plan because for these sorts of big decisions in other aspects of life we wouldn't just slide we gonna be like oh you know what I don't know might as well apply to university maybe that's a bit about example because a lot of people do slide into the university thing I can't think of another example of the top of my head but I just love the idea of decide don't slide really actively think about what you want from the relationship or they want from the relationship communicating expectations and stuff before making these big sort of decisions now if you're anything like me and you read a book about dating and it tells you to be more active about your dating life and to get out there and stuff you might be thinking something like well I just don't really have enough time for dating maybe a good full-time job maybe a worker's a doctor maybe I'm a youtuber on the side maybe I do podcast maybe I just want to spend time doing my hobbies hanging out with my friends if you're suffering from that issue where you feel like you don't have time to do the things that actually matter like dating and relationships and stuff you might like to check out my productivity class over at Skillshare who are very kindly sponsoring this video if you haven't heard my now Skillshare is a platform that has thousands of classes and also to topics I've got like 10 classes on Skillshare myself I have three classes themed around productivity and two classes on how to study for exams and even a class on how to be happier with lessons from stoicism in particular I think you'll get a lot of value from the productivity class especially if you're the sort of person who's watched at the end of this very long video about relationships you're probably a bit of a nerd you're probably benefit from the principles strategies and tools that I've been using for the last several years to be able to do all the stuff that I do and kind of stay productive while having fun along the way so check out my class in Skillshare so if that sounds up your street and you are one of the first 1000 people to hit the link in the video description you will get a free one month trial to Skillshare and in that time you can watch all of my classes including old free and productivity and stoicism one and whatever you're into along with all the other thousands of classes that they've got on Skillshare as well so thank you very much Skillshare for sponsoring this video and thank you very much for watching I hope you've enjoyed this video if you would like to go further down the rabbit hole of this sort of relationship with self the kind of stuff you might have to check out this video over here which is a video that was sort of prompted by me reading more relationships books which is about how I'm trying to become more okay with like self acceptance and self love and that kind of thing bit of a weird topic I don't need to talk about it but you might like to check that out that'll be linked over here thank you so much for watching have a great time have a great night hit the subscribe button if you aren't ready and I'll see you in the next video bye
