# A RIDICULOUSLY Productive Day in my Life
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KMskdqtR1yA
Today I'm bringing you a ridiculously productive day in my life. Title says it all. 

The Part-Time YouTuber Academy: https://academy.aliabdaal.com/

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
📚  How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali
What I Use For Analytics - https://go.aliabdaal.com/tubebuddy
🌐  My website platform (Ghost) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost
🎤  My podcast hosting platform (Transistor) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/transistor

OTHER RECOMMENDED COURSES
📔 Effortless Output with Roam Research - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/roam
📓 Building a Second Brain - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/basb

🎙 MY WEEKLY PODCAST - https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCdXpN-Z7LyTgc3OLo_Zw2Pg
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app. And we post clips + full episodes on the YouTube channel, so please subscribe to that!  

BE MY FRIEND:
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮  Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, day in the life vlog, playstation 5 unboxing, playstation 5, productivity, day in the life, junior doctor, ali abdaal leaving medicine, ali abdaal youtube, ali abdaal kindle, ali abdaal roommate, ali abdaal book, ali abdaal vlog, ali abdaal books, ali abdaal ipad, day in the life of a doctor, productivity tips, doctor day in the life, productivity 2020, junior doctor vlog, productivity apps, increase productivity, how to be productive, 
**Date:** 2021-01-20

## Transcript
 Hey friends, welcome back to another ridiculously productive day in my life. It's locked down in the UK, so I'm going to be doing lots of productive things around the house all day. The day starts at 7.30 when I wake up gruggly, lying in bed for a few minutes, being a total wasteman. After 10 minutes, I negotiate myself out of bed, remove my mouth tape and my invisible line braces, and hop into the shower to wake myself up. After the shower, I bull the kettle, empty the dishwasher, and make a cup of black coffee ready for the first productive activity of the day, my 8 am art lesson. I hope on zoom with my art teacher Alessandro, and we do some human anatomy practice on Procreate on the iPad. I'm using my overhead camera rig to show him what I'm doing, and he's giving me pointers as we go along. This is all working towards my 2021 goal of becoming decent at concept art, because I want to be able to illustrate scenes from my favorite fantasy books. We wrap up the lesson at 9.15 when I head into the kitchen to heat up my delectable breakfast of chicken sausage, eggs and beans, as part of my drive to eat healthily this year, on route to becoming a gym shark athlete. While it's warming up in the microwave, I do some cheeky mobility exercises, and then at 9.25 I sit down to eat my aeroplane food. I spent 10 minutes watching some videos from Karma Medic and Graham Stephan, and now that I've had my fix of YouTube for the day, it's time to get back to being productive, don't I just love my life. As some of you know, I'm in the process of writing the book, and so I've set myself the goal of writing 2000 words a day. So usually in the mornings, after my art lessons, I do just that, and today I'd bust out the MacBook, station myself in my corner of the living room, and do some typing away. While doing so, as usual, I'm listening to my study with me playlist and Spotify, which you'll find linked in the video description, this time through my new AirPods Max, which sound great, but are admittedly a tad overpriced. At the moment, I'm doing a deep dive into the social sciences research around the similarities and differences between happiness and meaning. What are the factors that make life meaningful? What are the factors that make life happy? There's a lot of overlap between those feelings, but most researchers do agree that they're subtly different, and so I'm in the process of coming to terms with various studies that have been done on the topic. I finished my writing session at 1030, having only written around 700 words. At this point, I've got in my calendar to do a home workout, but I procrastinate on my phone for half an hour instead. At 11am, I finally decide to stop being a waste man and do some exercise. Before I do so, I take a quick trip to the little boysroom, and then put some laundry on, so my actual workout starts a solid one hour after it was meant to at 1130. And so, I spend the next hour working my way towards becoming a Lune11 athlete. I start with a quick warm-up circuit, and then some kettlebell squat press, decline push-ups, and mountain climbers for three sets, and then kettlebell deadlift, single arm rows, and split squats for three sets. While doing this hardcore workout, I'm listening to the Pillars of the Earth, a new historical fiction series that I've started on audible. All right, so the workout's been done now, it's time to warm my top-aware meals, so I can get my 60 grams of protein, 50 grams of carbs, and apparently 24 grams of fat. To continue the journey to try and get a six pack at some point this year. While eating from one to two pm, I have two Zoom calls with strangers on the internet, one of whom is a doctor in London who wanted to chat about the value of coaching, and the other a clinical psychologist in Philadelphia who reached out to offer some perspectives on my life. At 2 pm, I make a cup of coffee, grab a banana, and do the most annoying thing in my life, which is hanging up the laundry. My house makes sheen, otherwise known as Lucifer, has ordered some pizza, and so I get tempted enough to have a single slice, which is all the macros I'm allowed for today. I'm finally ready to start filming a video at 235 pm, so I set up the camera, pretend to sort of clean my desk, just making sure all the mess is out of shot. Then I realised that my great-ish shirt is an acceptable on camera, so I changed to a blue shirt in jeans, which sheen helps me adjust, so it doesn't look too tight hopefully. What do you guys think of mine you look? I'm trying to dress a little less like a teenager, and a little more like a dude in his 20s, in pursuit of my 2021 goal of finding a wife, but because I'm a failure in life, I also get tempted by another slice of pizza, which I promise is my last pizza of the year, and then I get to filming the video. I finished the filming at 330 pm on the dot when I joined a mastermind call with some friends and business associates. This is a two-hour session that we do every month, where each person has 15 minutes to talk through any problems they're having in their business, and get advice from the group. Half an hour into the call, I hop into Hermione to drive over to anglia orthodontics. They very kindly hooked me up with these invisible line aligners to improve my winning smile again on route to finding a wife. And so today we've got a check-up and a session where Dr. Francis Scriven, the orthodontist, shaves some enamel off my teeth to give my teeth room to grow inwards. Afterwards, we look over the 3D scans of my teeth and see how we're progressing along with the treatment, which we're a third of the way through. After the appointment I drive by comb and arrive at 545 pm, at this point I make a cup of effervescent, decaffinated English breakfast tea for me and Shane, eat a banana, have a quick face time with mother, and then join homework club. homework club is a two-hour video making coworking session for alumni of my course, the part-time YouTuber Academy. We spend 30 minutes coming up with video topics, an hour scripting, and 30 minutes of brainstorming titles and thumbnails to help generate new video ideas each week. By the way, enrollment for our next cohort is now open, and so if you fancy joining the six-week live online course where I'll teach you all the secrets to being a part-time YouTuber, check out the link in the video description. At 7pm, after homework club, my team and I host a group call for the peer supporters of our part-time YouTuber Academy, planning out sessions for the second cohort. We hear from each of our peer supporters about what issues or students were having with their YouTube channels and how the sessions were being run so that we can keep doing what's working and improve or could be improved for the next cohort with starts in mid-February. At 8pm, the meeting's all wrapped up, and so she and I warm our respective dinners. Oh God, what is life? Yeah, what? After I just wipe the team pinning off the camera while I just sweep this up. What is life so hard? I just feel so depressed eating this sort of food, but this is apparently what you have to do when you're on a caloric restricted diet just out of these tupperware meals and yeah. Well, I'm gonna get my six-pack, it'll all have been worth it, am I right? Again, I'm depriving myself of real food and instead eating my tupperware meal, which has 60 grams of protein, 50 grams of carbs, and like 12 grams of fat. We eat while watching an episode of the office, which is our first time watching the show, thank you to everyone who suggested it in YouTube comments, no spoilers please. At 830, the show's finished and so I make us a cup of mint tea to wind down. While I'm pouring it, sheen also known as Lucifer asks if we should order a crepe for dessert. I've been depriving myself of proper food all day and feeling pretty hungry, so I give in to the temptation and order a crepe with bananas and strawberries. For half an hour until it arrives, I do some writing for my book, researching a psychological counseling technique called ACT. Food arrives at 910 and then at 915, I have my performance coaching cool with my friend and productivity coach Chris Sparks. We talk through my goals for 2021 and some of the potential struggles along the way in business and in my personal life, such as trying to get six pack abs while eating a huge crepe. We wrap up at 1015 pm. At this point, I'm supposed to do some more writing, but instead I end up being a total wasteman and eating the entirety of my crepe while watching friends. All right guys, it is 11 pm. I've been watching friends with Sheen for the last half an hour and I still need to write 1,350 words today to do my 2,000 words. But I just can't really be bothered because it's 11 o'clock and I want to find out what happens between Phoebe and Ursula, now that Ursula is dating Joey and I haven't seen that episode yet. So I'm just allowed it, you know? What's the point of setting these arbitrary all these goals? These goals are fairly arbitrary anyway, right? Like you know 2,000 words today. Who cares? I can just make it up tomorrow. I can do 23,300 words tomorrow and that will on average make up for the facts I've only done 750 today. So I think really that's just the way forward here. That is the way forward. More of the story, you shouldn't really set goals for yourself because you'll be excited about them for like five days and then on day six, you're going to hate yourself because you're not going to hate your goal. And that's okay because sleep is more important and mindfulness is more important and relaxation is more important and not burning out is more important. At least that's what I've read on the internet. So yeah, to make myself feel better after my gluttony and sloth, I decide to end the day with a cheeky online course on brilliant who are very kindly sponsoring this video. If you haven't heard, brilliant is a fantastic platform for online courses for maths, science and computer science. The course is a fun and engaging and interactive and they teach stuff in a really first principled way that really helps you understand what's really going on. These days I'm taking Brilliant's course on cryptocurrencies and trying to appreciate how cryptographic signatures work and how they fit into the algorithms that power currencies like Bitcoin. It's a great way of getting a deep understanding about how this stuff works and it's especially interesting in lights of Bitcoin and Ethereum's recent bullrun which has actually helped me recoup some of the money that I lost way back in 2017 with Bitcoin's previous bullrun followed by massive crash. If you're interested in learning how to code, Brilliant also have a great introductory and advanced course in Python, the world's most popular programming language. If that sounds up your street and you want to level up your brain and your knowledge in understanding of maths, science and computer science concepts for the new year, head over to brilliant.org forward slash Ali and the first 200 people will get 20% off the annual premium subscription. After some brilliant thing, it's 1115pm and chin and eye finished the day off by watching a few more episode to friends. If you like this video and thought it was productive, you're going to definitely want to check out my insanely productive Christmas Day vlog which will be linked right here for your convenience. Thank you for watching, stay safe and see you in the next video.
