# How I Failed in 2022
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=knPdMQ44jKc
Go to our sponsor https://betterhelp.com/aliabdaal for 10% off your first month of therapy with BetterHelp and get matched with a therapist who will listen and help.

It's been a mostly smooth ride for me as a YouTuber/entrepreneur since I started 5 years ago, but this year has provided some new challenges. So in this relatively long and rambly video I go through various 'failures' from the past year. Enjoy x

🍿WATCH NEXT:
My 'Creatorpreneur' Business Model: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sV5eDJib4HE&t=8s
My Biggest Rejections in Life: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qwywV8VhMkA&t=846s
How to Start a Business from Nothing: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=awnn-bqV_Tw
7 Side Hustles You Can Start: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4V2ZwgJw62I&t=343s

Timestamps:
0:00 Intro
2:48 Failure 1
16:05 Failure 2
23:29 Failure 3
25:34 Failure 4
29:08 Failure 5
34:22 Failure 6

💌  Sign up to my free weekly email newsletter - https://go.aliabdaal.com/subscribe-sundaysnippets

🎙 Check out my weekly podcast, Deep Dive where I interview entrepreneurs, creators and other inspiring people - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - 
 https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
🎬 YouTube for Beginners - Everything You Need To Know To Start  - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/YouTube-for-Beginners

MY CREATOR COURSES
🎬 Check out my free 7 day email course on how to become a part-time YouTuber: https://aliabdaal.com/part-time-youtuber-crash-course/
🏆 Creatorpreneur - My flagship course for scaling up your creative side-hustle → https://creatorpreneur.academy/course
🗣 Camera Confidence - My self-paced course on how to improve your creativity, career, or communication skills → https://cameraconfidence.aliabdaal.com/

MY FAVOURITE GEAR
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) -https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE TOOLS
🚀 VidIQ - How I optimise my YouTube videos - https://go.aliabdaal.com/vidiq
✍️ Shortform - The BEST summaries of books - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
📚  Readwise - How I remember what I read - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise
🎵  Epidemic Sound - Where I get my music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound

MY KEY LINKS
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com/
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I’m Ali, a YouTuber, podcaster, soon-to-be author and ex-Doctor working in London, UK. I make videos that explore the strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. I also have a weekly podcast called Deep Dive (https://www.youtube.com/channel/UChfo46ZNOV-vtehDc25A1Ug), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://go.aliabdaal.com/subscribe-sundaysnippets).

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, 
**Date:** 2022-12-16

## Transcript
 Hey friends, welcome back to the channel. So this is going to be a bit of a rambly chitchat video where I chat about some of the biggest failures that we have had as a business and me personally in 2022. As you guys know, if you've been following the channel for a while, I'd like to keep things as transparent as possible so that people can kind of generally learn from my experience at the ups and also the downs. You know, I've been a bit on YouTube like five and a half years now and been kind of documenting the process all this time going from medical school to working as a doctor to quitting the job, taking a break from medicine, deciding to leave medicine for good while this YouTube channel has been growing growing. And because I do these videos every year where I talk about how much money I've earned, I think it's probably easy from the outside to think of this as like, oh my god, like living the dream, everything is all rosy all the time. And it very much is living the dream, but everything is not all rosy all the time. And so I thought I would kind of sit down and talk a little bit about the things that have gone badly, the things that have gone less well, the failures, the learning opportunities from stuff that has happened in kind of the business this year. As usual, timestamps down below if you want to kind of skip around and this is probably going to be fairly long. So what else? Also, failure is a bit of a weird word, right? Because I mean, what is a failure? I guess a failure is where expectations don't match reality. It's like if you expect to, I don't know, win a gold medal anywhere in a silver medal, then that could could be seen as a failure, but you're still a silver a silver medalist. So I think a lot of the whole failure thing depends on your framing of the situation. And for me personally, I don't like to think of the word failure. I mean, this is like absolute standard in the field of personal development, but reframing failure as a learning experience instead of a failure. But hey, let's call the spade of spade and let's call these failures because why not? Even though there have been lessons learned from all of them. And just as an aside, this has actually been the first time in my life that I've actually seen a therapist and I found one through better help who are very kindly sponsoring this video. Better help is the world's largest therapy service and it's 100% online. And with better help, you can tap into a network of over 25,000 licensed and experienced therapists who can help you with a wide range of issues. To get started, you just answer a few questions about your needs and preferences with therapy, and that way better help can match you with the right therapist from the network. And then you can talk to your therapist in whatever way feels most comfortable to you. So it could be text, or chat, or phone, or video call, I used video call personally. You can message your therapist anytime and you can always schedule sessions whenever it's convenient for you and reschedule them if you need to, like I had to do on the twice with my. If the therapist that you get matched with isn't the right fit for you for whatever reason that you can switch therapists at any time with no additional cost. So with better help, you get the same professionalism and quality that you'd expect from an in-offest therapist. But it's a therapist who's custom-picked for you with way more flexibility on timings and scheduling and at a much more affordable price. So if that sounds good, and you would like to try out a therapist through better help, then head over to betterhelp.com forward slash Aliabdal and that will give you 10% off your first month. So thank you so much better help for sponsoring this video. The first one is that we are going to substantially miss our revenue target. This year was the first time in the business that we've had like a target for revenue and profit and profitability and all this kind of stuff, especially as we've kind of grown more people in the team, it has felt like it's more important to have those sort of targets. Whereas back in the day when it was just me or when or even when it was a handful of us, especially when this wasn't my full-time gig, when it was a part-time side hustle, I just never really needed to have any targets or any goals. Because it's like what if things are working as long as things are fun and as long as things are working, let's just keep on doing this thing. But then earlier this year and actually kind of towards the end of last year as well, you know, I mean, discussion with various coaches and stuff that was saying, you know, it's worth it's worth setting targets. Like, well, what are we actually aiming for here? And so at the start of the year, at the start of 2022, me and Angus, our general manager got together and we were like, all right cool, let's make some targets. We were like, you know what, we did like, I don't know, three million ish last year, pounds. Well, okay, cool, five million. Five million seems like a good number. And then we did some financial modeling. All right, cool to hit five million revenue. We need to be, we need to hit all these different things when it comes to sponsorships and add sense and course sales in particular because course sales are the biggest chunk of our revenue. And I think this year, well, I'm filming this at the end of November. Now, I don't know why I looked at my watch. I normally have a watch on. Probably we're going to do around 3.3 to 3.5 million in revenue. We're just still pretty good. Like, it's still utterly absurd. And if you told me a couple years ago that we'd be doing like a 3.5 million in revenue, I'd have absolutely lost my mind. But it's not five, it's not five million. So it's like, we've got this kind of 1.5 million deficit as it were of like missing a target, which to an extent feels like failure in some ways, but also I don't really like thinking about failure. So like in my mind, it doesn't really register as failure, but hey, we're going to call this pay to spade. Now, the issue, the real issue there was that when it came to the various financial modeling that we did as a business, it was based on hitting that 5 million target. So I'd like to aim for margins of 60% just fairly arbitrary, but that seems like a fairly fairly healthy margin. And so the theory was, if we can hit 5 million revenue, then 60% of that is 3 million and so we'd have 3 million of profit. You know, profit is the number that actually actually matters. This is operating profit or EBITDA, so pre-tax profits. So if for example we made 3 million in profit, 20% of that would disappear on corporation tax, for example. So 3 million pre-tax profit was what we were shooting for. Probably we're going to end up with more like 2 million of pre-tax profit, which is again, not bad, but definitely not what the target was. And I think the mistake was that we kind of assumed that, oh yeah, 5 million, that's the target. We're going to hit the target therefore we have 2 million to spend. And in my mind, there was this like very full sense of security of like, oh great, we've got 2 million to spend this year. But actually we didn't have 2 million to spend because like that was reliant on us hitting 5 million in revenue. And there was just part of me that having not done this before, just did not clock that, hey, let's keep our spending conservative and keep the figures that we're going for, conservative, so that even in the worst case scenarios, we're still very, very profitable, rather than in the best case scenario, then we're kind of we're aiming at that level of profitability. So the lesson that I've taken away from there is that it's all well and good, having a goal, having a stretch goal, having a stretch target. But like halfway through the year, when we realized that, oh my god, there's no way we're going to hit this, there's revenue target. That was when me and Angus kind of got a spreadsheet together. We did like worst case scenario, best case scenario, middleing case scenario. And that was when we realized, oh okay, cool. Like we should have done this at the start of the year. Like it's completely point is just having a single target. We should have had made conservative estimates, made conservative budgets around, okay, what if our course only sells 10% of the places we think it does? What if we only get two sponsors a month, what if, dot, dot, dot, and run the numbers based on that? Because I think we are probably overspent in terms of having a previous office space and stuff, just thinking that kind of the revenue would just continue to rise without us having to do anything. And I think partly one of the one of the interesting things for me is that so far up until this point, it hasn't felt particularly hard. It sort of felt like every year. But just virtue of just doing basic things like showing up consistently and making videos, the business just kept on growing and growing and growing and it never really felt like effort. Whereas this year, this last sort of 12 18 months is the first time in this kind of journey of YouTube that it actually has felt hard. I think that's because it's only the last 12 18 months that I felt out of my depth. In terms of what's needed to be done, because to be honest, making YouTube videos, I never found particularly hard. Like I was good at tech. I knew how to teach myself video editing and cameras and stuff. I like tech. Teaching stuff on video, I never found particularly hard, because teaching was my jam, building the initial business to a team of like two or three people wasn't particularly hard because I kind of done that before with my previous business. And kind of getting into this six figures sort of up to a million pound revenue range. Also, never felt that hard because I'd kind of done it before. But trying to go from one million to five million and trying to grow the team from like three to 20. And it's like those were all like challenges that I've never faced before. And that felt hard. It was like, oh my God, like this is no longer as easy a journey as this YouTube thing has been to date. And I just didn't, I didn't have the experience, didn't have the knowledge, didn't have the understanding to of what it takes to run a business. And so a lot of these failures feel like a lot of learning opportunities as well. And I think the other thing interesting here that I sometimes reflect on is that idea of like happiness is expectations minus reality. And previously, when I never had any expectations or targets for the YouTube channel and for this business, it was like super smooth sailing all the way because anything was a bonus. But as soon as we started having targets and expectations and now it's like let's plug an arbitrary number out of thin air like five million and let's try and hit that number. Now that in a way, makes the business at least for me less fun because now it's about chasing an external metric that's outside of my control. And some people really like targets, some people like the kind of, I don't know, adrenaline rush they get from like chasing a big target. But for me, I don't think I do. And I think for me, it's more like, I'd much rather, I'd much rather make less money and have a more chilled out time or I can do what I enjoy and still make decent money. Like, you know, two million profit is nothing at all to scoff out. But going for three million four million and five million, speaking to people who have done 10, 20 million revenue with their businesses. And it's just a lot of work. And you've got a really, and I think to get to those levels, you have to really want it and also be really good at the thing. And maybe this is just me convincing myself, but I actually don't think I want it. This is another realization that I've had recently, which is really trying to answer this question of when is enough enough. You know, we were going for five million revenue this year. We're going to hit 3.5. Okay, cool. So let's say we hit 3.5 and 2 million profit. What about next year? Should we go 2.5? Should we go 3 million? Should we go 4? Should we go 5? Honestly, what I realized is in conversation with like my coaching and everything is I'm actually very kind like, this is, this is a good place to be. Like, okay, I'm going to sound weird. Like, if you're watching this in the video and like, you know, very much first world probleming. Um, which is why it kind of feels weird to make a video like this, I think just on a bit of a tangent back when the channel was making less money. It was, it was kind of easier to talk about it, because even when, for example, we were making like, I don't know, 10k a month. That's still like a huge amount of money. But 10k a month is not the same as 200k a month, whereas like, one of those numbers is like high, but reasonable 10k a month. And the other one is absolutely absurd. For people that don't have experience of running a business. I'm hoping if you're, if you're here watching this, you will forgive me to vote for throwing these absurd numbers out there and kind of thinking of them as like a negative thing, but, you know, hopefully you can see where I'm coming from here. Like, it did feel kind of weird, whereby even though this year we're probably going to make like 2 million in profit, they're still part of me that feels like that's a failure because the business didn't grow as much as they wanted it to. But coming back to this question of like, when is enough enough? I've done so much journaling about this over the last few months. And yeah, I realized that actually I am already at the point of enough. And there is now, I now don't feel like I have a need to grow the business anymore. Like, there's always stuff we could be doing. I keep getting emails from people every day being like, hey, you could be doing x, y, and z, you could be hiring all these people. And suddenly in the past, I thought that what I wanted was, I don't know, a team of 50 people and like a whole office and like, all of this stuff, because that seemed cool. And that seemed fun. But where I've landed on now is actually I really like, I really like being a doer rather than being a manager, or rather than being a leader, per se. I don't really like the, I don't really like running a business. I enjoy spending my time reading, writing and teaching. And I enjoy making videos, I enjoy doing podcasts, I enjoy writing, I enjoy researching, I enjoy reading academic papers and figuring out how I can turn that into videos. I don't really enjoy like vision planning the business and setting objectives and key results for the team and setting key performance indicators and like managing a team. And that kind of started that, that is not, is like objectively not fun. And so my, the thing that I've been thinking about a lot is this question of when is enough enough? Like, are we at that point of enough in which case let's optimize for really embracing being a, quote, lifestyle business rather than trying to grow beyond that point. And we've been working with a coach called Daniel Priestley recently who's written a bunch of really good books that have gone to bookshelf. One of the things he talks about is that generally if you're optimizing for fun, freedom and flexibility, what you want is a lifestyle boutique business. Like a lifestyle business that's doing at least a hundred thousand revenue per employee per year and that has like fewer than 12 people. Like 12 seems to be like the magic number where beyond 12, you're kind of too big to be small and too small to be big. I'll up until you get to like 40 people when you've already got the systems and now you're like properly big. But between 12 and 40 what he is, what he calls the desert. And we were very much at that point where I was, I felt like all of my time was being spent on managing and like trying to figure out how to be a team leader and a bunch of stuff that I didn't actually want to do compared to now where I, I feel like now we're on the other side of that. I realize that I don't want more than a certain type of a certain amount of growth. And so I actually can spend all my time either writing or filming videos. And like and this has only really happened in the last couple of months where I look at my calendar and everything on my calendar I feel like hell yeah, I'm super excited about this thing. Whereas before, a lot of my calendar was meetings and stuff and the meetings were fun and it was nice interacting with people and it was like felt exciting. But it just didn't like if I, if I could design my life however I wanted, however I would want, it would not involve leading and managing a team maybe leading a team if I don't have to do anything about it. But like basically I enjoyed doing rather than managing and that was a realization that I had over time. But it does also feel kind of we had this whole expectations reality thing. And so one thing that I think I want to do for next year is yes we're going to have targets but I want those targets to be quite conservative and I want the worst case scenarios to still result in a very profitable business that is very successful successful, meaning profitable in my, in my book. So that I can spend my time doing the things that I love which is writing and filming and reading rather than trying to manage a team and trying to figure out how to grow a revenue. Because generally like for me I find I'm happiest when I'm just focused on how can I make a video that's useful to someone. Rather than how can I optimize a marketing funnel so that we can make more more revenue. Like that stuff doesn't really interest me like it used to and the thing I'd like if I could just have a life where all I do is show up and just try and teach cool stuff and learn cool stuff that's like me living my best life. And so that's kind of the setup we've now gotten to in the business where anger basically runs the whole business side of things. We've got like half of our team that's working on our kind of courses and our usual academy and stuff and trying to serve our students and customer support and all that kind of stuff. And then we've got the other half of our team which is basically helping me to do the content stuff. So we've got Becky also a media manager who's like helping put stuff on Twitter and TikTok and LinkedIn and all of those kind of things but essentially half the team supports me in being able to make free videos and stick them on the internet and the other half of the team focuses on kind of the monetization on the business and the less I need to think about monetization the happier I am and the more I'm doing the things that I actually care about. So I guess long moral of the story from this is if you're running a business or rather no I'm not gonna phrase it like that. I'm gonna phrase it as like advice to myself which would be be conservative in your estimates trying to keep your expectations really low when it comes to your business and if you are having to hit particular revenue targets that are quite ambitious in order to sustain the business that is a very scary place to be and it is actually more fun having a business that's making less money and more profit than it is having a business that's making more revenue and kind of the where the profit margins are are going down over time because that feels scary and unsustainable whereas you know most of us only need a certain amount of money to survive if I could make six figures doing what I love that's me living my living my best life so trying to go very much beyond that point and trying to grow for the sake of growth is probably not the way forward okay this is a bit of ramble but that's fine I guess big failure number two beyond kind of missing revenue targets was and again depends on who definitely should have failure but we ended up starting like a few major projects and then scrapping them and this was really like annoying for everyone in the team because they'd put in so much work into these projects and then I was like after a while you know what now screw it we don't want to do this in particular there were three projects that we did and then scrapped one was something called the part-time creator academy the idea behind this was this this was meant to be a YouTube channel that would teach people how to be creators and the idea was that we would have a cast of people like I do some videos Elizabeth would do some videos Amy would do some videos Gordon would do some videos like and we'd get various of our friends to do videos where we basically teach everything about how to be a creator and we spent like I don't know six months planning the sale and making the branding and hiring a logo designer to make a logo paying like 10k for different logo designs and eventually once we got around to actually making a handful of videos that was when for me the realization was like oh my god like this is a lot of work it takes so much work to run a YouTube channel let alone two and if trying to start a second one and grow it from scratch that was when I realized that actually this is not worth it the this is not the sort of business I want to run where you know half of our team is spending all of their time trying to grow a completely separate YouTube channel just so that we can diversify away from me and the team was already at capacity with like all the stuff we were already doing and we added this on top of it and I remember having a conversation with I think it was like Angus and Jamie and we I just said hey guys what if we were to just scrap this project how would everyone feel and there was a palpable sense of like relief in the room and like that would feel it would be it would be a relief if we scrap this project and so we scrapped the project scrapped a few other things try to daily vlog for a month in fairness that was the one month experiment and you know decided not to continue it after a month for various reasons we had this thing called the creator printer which we were trying to build up into its own brand again trying to teach people how to be creators like without me being overly involved because really like one of the things that is a problem a problem with a business like this is that it's all very reliant on me yes quite passive income but like there's no there's really no such thing as passive income and this business is reliant on me continuing to show up and continuing to make videos that are relevant to people and if the relevance kind of suddenly drops or if I get hit by bust or something like that or if for some reason I decided I want to make videos anymore or if the audience decides you know what we don't really like Ali anymore we don't watch the videos anymore suddenly everything in the else in the business collapses and that feels scary because it's not a very diversified anti fragile business and so we assumed we were like oh cool let's build business assets outside of being reliant on me as like a main driver so can we get the team to be involved in teaching people how to be creators and stuff like that and I think the theory was sound in that of course it's good to have a diversified business but we ran into the problem of you know I think I think they call this line extension in like the 12 minute of the laws marketing where you're good at one thing and then you think all right cool I'm good at that one thing let me try and be good at this other thing and this other thing and this other thing and it's really hard to even be good at one thing let alone try and be good at multiple things which is why a lot of companies fail when they when they start to go outside of their lane and they start to try new products and new things and Mr Beast talked about this in an interview one time he said one of the biggest mistakes he sees creators make is that they get big on YouTube and then they start doing other things they start like I don't know a restaurant thing or software thing or this or that or this or that and they neglect their YouTube channel and they realize afterwards that oh all of this like diversification that we thought we had if the YouTube channel dies that's the foundation of the business that's gone and then the ordent all of the other businesses die and so I think we kind of fell into that trap of and again it's it's it's hard to call this a failure because these were all very much learning opportunities and kind of experiments but I think we went too far down the route of line extension and the problem that I the mistake that I made is not actually knowing what I wanted part of me wanted this idea of a small lifestyle business where optimizing for fun freedom and flexibility where I can do what I want I can read write and teach and just make decent money doing it and another part of me was like oh but it would be really nice to have like a bigger business where we're doing maybe 10 million in revenue where but we have a bigger team because that would be fun and it's like those are two very different kind of visions for a business and visions for life and I was kind of pulling the team into different directions on the one hand I was like oh I only want to make a video when I feel like here I just want to do what I love and make like reasonable amount of money and on the other hand I was like oh we should diversify and all these things and make all these different projects and then maybe get 10 million revenue maybe we could sell the business one day and I've realized now that I actually don't care about that second bigger thing I care much more about kind of just living having a lifestyle fun freedom flexibility and so a lot of these scrapped projects were a failure were like I think had I known that the thing that I want ultimately is a lifestyle business where I don't have to work too hard and I can do what I want and just focus on helping people we would not have gone down these different roads that we ended up going down and I think another mistake there was in essentially in planning too much like with this creator academy channel we planning it for like I don't know six to eight months had the idea like a year and a half ago and only started executing on it like a lot later thinking that oh okay if we planned it really well then then it's going to go well but actually you know it's like you can't you can't steer a stationary ship like you learn a hundred times more by doing the thing than you do by planning to do the thing and I think this is one of the good things that when we tried the daily vlog project so we had like a you know on my second channel we did vlogs every day for 30 30 days and I was very much thinking you know let's plan this out it's plot this out but Gordon I videographer was like you know what screw it let's just do the thing and I'm sure we'll let we'll get data by by by by doing the thing and I was like okay cool let's do it and I think that bias towards action was really really really helpful because by doing the thing for 30 days and committing to it that hey it's just a 30 day experiment we got so much data to ultimately decide that this is not the project that we wanted to go down I think we could have spent another six months planning that and it wouldn't really have changed the result the issue there is that like you know every every entrepreneur has seems to have a bias towards action but there there is a trade-off between action and it's it's like this type of between like planning stuff enough and not planning stuff enough weirdly it's like I wouldn't want to say that the lesson there is just always jump to do the action because always jumping to do the action means that you know we've had various problems that are stemmed from meal with jumping to do the action but similarly we've also had problems stemming from trying to plan too much and so it seems like there's this like middle ground here which you can never learn from a book you can only ever learn from doing the thing and doing the bit and running a business repeatedly which is why you know the most successful founders are like the second time founders and which is why it's so valuable having like coaches and external advice from people who have run businesses who have that that like tacit knowledge that comes from actually being in the thing which you can't really get from doing a business degree or reading a bunch of business books like I've done the other mistake that I've made definitely over the last kind of 12 to 18 months is getting the balance wrong between between authoritarianness and democracy as it were or like giving people autonomy and learning people do what they want in the team because people like autonomy and stuff and that's good versus me actually having a strong like you know strong and stable leadership having a clear vision of what I want and I think yeah the mistake I made was in not recognizing the importance of me having my own like vision for the tip for the business and kind of hoping that my team members would tell me what what we should do and they and they did or would be like hey Garrett what do you think we should do about x and he would say something I'd be like okay that's reasonable let's do that and then we'd start doing that and there's only like three months later that I would actually sit down and think about it be like do I really want to be doing that and then it'd be like no I don't really want to be doing that and now Garth wasted three months of effort into this thing which ultimately I should have just sat down and thought about and decided actually actively figure out what the vision is and this again seems to be like a almost a tight robe that entrepreneurs work which is the balance between having having a strong vision but also giving your team autonomy to execute on particular things and I think the answer I think the answer there the thing that reconciles it is it just is that vision piece it's me as the leader as the owner of the business I need to know where we're going and then I can be agnostic about how we get there but crucially I do need to know where we're going and what I realized especially in the last few weeks in particular talking to various team members about this is that I thought that people want to work in a business where they have 100% autonomy where they can just do whatever they want and they've all basically said to me it's like no no we like autonomy but we also like knowing where we're going so like you know given that it's your business tell us where you want to go and then we'll try and get there and we'll have autonomy getting there but like we can't tell you where you want to go because your business at the end of the day and I think that was the mistake that I made and not being sufficiently sufficiently like vision led as as a leader and instead sort of being pulled in multiple different directions by the opinions of various people around me whereas all everyone else all or anyone is doing is sort of trying their best to give input and then it was my job to basically synthesize all that do a bunch of soul searching and figure out what I personally wanted and then like communicate that to the team which I failed to do until very recently when I realized actually I do just want a lifestyle business rather than trying to go big I think another mistake related to this which is you know very much a lesson that I would recommend for any entrepreneur is that it is very useful to spend at least at least several hours every week just thinking you know this is a thing in the book traction which talks about how to run a business and it's like one of the hallmarks one of the five hallmarks of being an effective leader is having at least an hour every single week where you just sit down with a piece of paper and you just think about think about business and you think about the vision and you plan this is sort of working on the business rather than working in the business and I think with my kind of inexperience in managing and leading and stuff ended up in a place where for most of this year a lot of my time was being spent working in the business and just being very like in the weeds and on the ground that was the dure part of me that enjoyed the writing and the filming and stuff but also kind of micromanaging people and all this all this kind of stuff and actually not making the time so actually not having the time I don't like not having the time not making the time to take a step back and think strategically about the business as a whole and again this is again one of the weirdly as I as I'm talking about this I okay firstly this is going to be super amy but I think people who have run businesses might might vibe with me on this like the balance between the balance between strategy and execution because the common mistake that beginners to business make is too much strategy not enough execution let me make my business plan let me make my website let me get business cards let me do my one page business plan whatever whatever whatever now you do financial modeling for the next five years so I can pitch it to people and most entrepreneurs who've run successful businesses know that all of that is just BS at the start and it's all about execution but then there also comes a point when you're scaling up where actually continuing to just try and execute execute execute is no longer the thing that will move the needle and what you need is people who take the step back and think strategically and at the point where you have traction strategy and vision becomes really really important and I think I was very much in execution mode for way longer than I should have been because that was how I got the business off the ground to begin with and so we're like like with a lot of these things like there's a sweet spot and a different parts of the journey the amount like a different part of the journey the sweet spot changes at the start of a business journey when you're starting to build an audience when you're starting to build a business you just have to do the thing you have to pick up the phone and ring people you have to do all the hard work it's not really hard but you have to do all the work but then as you're scaling up you have to you have to actively do less of the work and focus more on the vision of the strategy and I think the mistake I made was not recognizing that shift enough and focus still focusing too much and just sort of on the ground to hamster wheeling like what what course we're making this week what sponsored videos coming out next week how are we doing this how are we doing this which meant that when it came to making decisions about large projects like the creator printer or the direction of the business I was like oh I don't have time to think about the vision of the business like I'm focused on what's what's an exponent video but actually what the team needed for me was for me to sit down and think about the direction of the business rather than worry about the next sponsored video and it was only really a few months ago where two months ago I was on an airplane didn't have Wi-Fi I just had my iPad I ended up doing like 10,000 words worth of journaling to figure out so this question of like where is this business going and that was what prompted me to realize I don't care about growth I care about optimizing for a lifestyle business where I can just focus on making content and the business is staying so that rather than us trying to go for you know multiple tens of millions of revenue which you know who knows if that could even happen but I have actively decided after all this journaling that at least for now that is not that's not the direction we want to take the business okay a couple other things to talk about I think another big failure that I I've made I've had is a failure in delegation again again again there's a there's a sweet spot here it's like at the start of this YouTube channel and the business I was doing absolutely everything myself and then two years in outsourced editing to Christian and that was amazing and then Angus came on and it's like helped started helping with some of the research for some of the videos and in those early stages delegating freed up so much of my own time to focus on what I actually enjoyed and what I cared about I think the mistake I made was about a year ago deciding you know what what's the bottleneck to producing more videos writing great so let's just hire a bunch of writers and then they can write videos for me and I can just read from a teleprompter and the theory was there is like in theory yes of course if writing is the bottleneck and you know I'm not that good a writer other people can write so it's like great let's get people to write videos and I'll just read from a teleprompter the issue was that that I think was over over delegating it was abdication rather than delegation and what I didn't realise is that A I enjoy the process of synthesis and teaching and making videos myself B I think I'm quite good at it and that's how we've got into this point like for the last first five years of making this YouTube channel basically all the videos are me just riffing on bullet points riffing on stuff from personal experience and things that I'm very familiar with so that I can I can kind of talk about them on video and kind of teach them or document them or whatever and we did a few videos or attempted to do a few videos where writers other writers had researched and written scripts and I was reading from a teleprompter and that felt really bad I would I would have to spend hours like tweaking the script just to make sure I actually liked it and then I realised that well it takes me six hours to edit the script that someone else's wrote whereas I could have just drafted this video myself in like half an hour one hour two hours of research and just done it myself and this is kind of goes against common business advice which says that hey you should delegate more and one of one piece of advice that I'd read is that if someone else can do can do the thing 70% as well as you can then you as the leader should delegate that thing but that's actually not black and white and what I realised is that there are some things in a business in a in a team in a company whatever that are like unique strengths, unique abilities kind of core focuses and there are some things where it is important for that thing to be done at 100%. It doesn't it doesn't really matter like like for example if a writer is turning a video I've made into a blog post it doesn't really matter if that blog post is you know not 100% the way I would have written it but it does matter if the video is not 100% however how I would want it because the video is the core part of the business and that's the thing that I'm good at and that's the thing that's gotten us here and so the mistake I made was in almost over delegating the videos these days we don't have anyone writing the videos ready um other than like some of the podcast videos that we have where kind of Amberna's will like weave bullet points together and kind of pick out sound bites from the podcast episodes to be like okay point number one we want this sound bite this sound bite but I'll do the kind of filling in of like weaving them together we're also kind of now in the process of hiring researchers because I think I think there is value in having help with researching videos like there's all these videos that I want to do but I don't have time to troll through the scientific literature and find the papers myself so if we hired high-ed research assistants they could kind of help with that and kind of feed me stuff but ultimately I realize that the thing I want to do and probably I have to do is write the videos myself because no one else can do that synthesis of knowledge and to kind of pretend to be me like no one else can think for me as it were as again this sounds weird I it's it it to me it's it's it's sort of sounds like I'm saying hey I'm I have the special power I have the special ability no one else can execute can do this like I can but it kind of is true at least for this YouTube channel the thing that people subscribe to is my own thoughts and opinions rather than the thoughts and opinions of a writer who and then reading out from a teleprompter and I thought I could do the teleprompter thing but we tried it once twice and it was just absolutely nightmare every time and so I've gone back to writing all of the videos myself basically but now we're still trying to add some level of research and stuff so still trying to figure this out like what is the sweet spot of delegation um you might you know if you're if you're watching this and you haven't run a business you might be thinking well of course you should just write everything yourself that if you're watching this and you have run a business you might be thinking well actually you know there is value and delegation like it's it's important to as part of scaling up as don't know we're still trying to figure out the sweet spot of where I feel proud of the videos and I feel like they're actually good and that they're authentic to what I want to say like I really want to do a video about trying to figure out how to uncover your core values which is a thing that's part of like ACT except an acceptance and commitment therapy and a few other kind of schools of positive psychology but I don't want to be the one trolling through like 300 papers to try and figure out what are the interesting ones I want someone else to troll through 300 papers and figure out the interesting ones and then I read the interesting ones like stuff like that where I think there's a level of delegation that's helpful but not going not going to the point where I'm feeling like oh I can just read a script from a teleprompter and someone else can write a video like I would and I think the final kind of major failure of having the business no idea how long this video is but what else final fanomative failure I've had is just actually in terms of my own time management which feels weird given that I'm supposed to be the productivity guru time management guy but as I got kind of involved and overly involved with like the micromanaging and day-to-day management of the team I stopped making the time for the things that actually mattered I eat writing and filming and actually this year we filmed even though we've had a bigger team we've filmed like half as many videos as we as we did the year before which is just a bit a bit absurd because like and I I think all of it basically comes down to me spending way too much of my time trying to micromanage people and not enough time just sitting in front of the camera and speaking from the heart like this video has basically well well has very little prep to it I have written a few kind of bullet points of things I want to want to talk about and now I'm just kind of talking about them which is why this is particularly long and randomly video but this is how I always make videos there's how I've been making videos for the last five years and just pick a topic that I think might be helpful to someone right if you bullet points and then I just kind of speak from the heart and I was I've been doing that for like five years and then I tried being to businessy about it to operationalize too much of like well let's think about titles and thumbnails before doing everything else let's like write a script let's like craft the hook all of this kind of stuff and all of that overthinking and micromanagement with the team resulted in me actually not making the time just sit down and film the videos. Similarly before I used to spend some amount of my time writing these days I'm kind of working on the book like the book is like the major project that's been in my life for the last year since kind of confirming the book publication deal and it's the thing that I've made the least amount of time for and I had a moment where the writer to Rachel a few months ago where she was like hey so you know you're saying that this book is the highest priority thing in your life or in your work but if you look at your calendar it seems to be the lowest priority thing in your calendar so what's going on there and that was just so true it's like every day it seemed like there was another urgent thing that I had to get involved with where I wasn't making the time for the things that were actually important and so now what I'm trying to do is just like very much protect the writing my writing time and my filming time and if there's a call with someone if there's a meeting it can fit around those things and if it can't fit around those things then the thing does not happen and everything that I actually could have done this two years ago three years ago five years ago I have always had control over my calendar since doing this YouTube stuff but I've acted as if I haven't and again like Gordon I videographer would often say to me I'd be like oh Gordon like I feel like I don't have time to do blah blah blah blah and he'd be like dude you can decide your calendar you can do whatever you want tell these people to go away like you know whether it was external calls or even canceling on some podcast interviews that we were doing because I needed to film the video I think I've I've realized this year in particular that it's my job to God my own time and people will be okay with it like people are very chill when I say no to things now but in the past I used to say yes to a lot of things and then regret saying yes to them and I still kind of have that problem to an extent but now I just now the calendar is blocked out where it's like four hours in the morning for writing three hours of filming everything else can fit around that and if it can't then it doesn't happen and so really I think the the key there that I would tell myself is figure out what are the most important things and actively protect your time for those most important things because the urgent is rarely important and the important is rarely urgent but the urgent things will take over the things that are important and not urgent because there's stuff always just finds a way into the calendar anyway that brings us to the end of this video if you liked it if you've gone to this point I would love it if you can leave a clover emoji and if you want my leaving comment as well like you know given that you've watched the whole video like what what was the most useful thing here like there's been long and right randomly I'm not sure to what extent this is actually useful for anyone because you know someone said the other day like I saw a video from someone being like I don't I don't watch any of the other videos anymore I was like okay interesting I was like why is that and in the video he basically said that you know back in the day he was more at my level he was like a student and doing the thing and this guy was a student probably but now that he's like kind of running this multi million pound business or whatever now he feels like he's less like relatable to normal people and I really can't I really can't fault that it's like when I was at in medical school I learned way better from people who were like one year ahead of me than from someone who was like 10 years ahead of me or like from the professor or whatever and it's like these days I'm learning from people that have like 5 million 10 million dollar businesses and I don't really read any kind of generic kind of basic business advice anymore because it's completely irrelevant at this point and so it's more the advanced stuff and similarly it's like I don't know to what extent continuing to make videos like this is actually helpful to people because at this point where I'm like well 3.5 versus 5 million investors 10 million revenue and like all the issues with like leadership and vision and stuff that's actually not relevant to I suspect the vast majority of people who watch this channel so I'm not saying this because I'm like please tell me these videos valuable I'm saying like genuinely to what extent was this video useful like what was the most useful bit what would you have like to hear more of what would you maybe have like to hear less of because I'm trying to figure out like I'm keen on kind of continuing to document the journey of growing this business or building some business hopefully maybe not growing the business maybe the decline of the business whatever happens next year I'm keen to continue documenting things but I am also keen for things to be useful so yeah if you've got to this point please leave a comment like what is useful about this kind of stuff should I keep on doing it or should I just continue with the I don't know productivity personal development type stuff anyway thank you so much watching have a great day I'll see you next time bye bye haha oh my goodness my stool just collapsed on me what the hell
