# My Favourite Mac Apps in 2020 | What's on my MacBook Pro?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Kppgzbun71I
Get a 30-day free trial of CuriosityStream - https://curiositystream.com/ali and use the code ALI at checkout! 

If you sign up to CuriosityStream, you also get access to Nebula for free, where I'll be posting exclusive content that you won't find on YouTube.

My Nebula profile: https://watchnebula.com/aliabdaal

Hey guys, today I'll be taking you through my favourite Mac apps in 2020. I use these apps on a daily basis and they vastly improve my life and help with productivity. 

00:35 The Lubricating Jelly - Alfred, Moom
03:55 The Note-Taking Toolbox - Notion, Roam Research, Evernote, Drafts, Notability, Bear, Ulysses
11:11 The 4 Essentials for Getting Stuff Done - Things 3, Superhuman, Fantastical, Google Drive
15:42 The Productive Socializing Suite - WhatsApp, Messages, Slack, Discord
19:43 The Content Creation Machine - Final Cut Pro X, Logic Pro X, Screenflow, Ecamm, Adobe CC

Check out my video editing class on Skillshare - https://skl.sh/2W7nabS
Check out Khe Hy - https://radreads.co/
Forte Labs - https://fortelabs.co/
My Favourite Mac apps 2018 - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ukSniYSWIvU

If you want to find out more about how I use Notion, check out these videos:
My Favourite Productivity App for Students - Notion https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ODl5FOMu8kI
How I use Notion as a Resonance Calendar - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lKYBB-Uw1IM
My 2019 Annual Review using Notion - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ck5JOj4TlM4
My Favourite Note-Taking App for Students - Notion (2020) - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ONG26-2mIHU

--------

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
😃  How to be Happier - Stoicism Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/stoicism

TOOLS OF THE TRADE:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk
📚  How I remember what I read - Readwise - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali
What I Use For Analytics - https://go.aliabdaal.com/tubebuddy
🌐 My website platform (Ghost) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost

OTHER RECOMMENDED COURSES
📔 Effortless Output with Roam Research - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/roam
📓 Building a Second Brain - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/basb

🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, what's on my mac, what's on my macbook, best macbook apps, what's on my macbook air, best macos apps 2020, macos apps for productivity, productivity apps for mac, things 3 review, fantastical review, favorite macos apps, favorite mac apps, essential macbook apps, what to get on my macbook, what apps to use on mac, what apps to have on mac, great macbook apps, top mac apps, top macbook apps, top 10 mac apps, macbook apps, macbook apps 2020, 
**Date:** 2020-05-05

## Transcript
 So this five categories of apps that I'm going to take you through in this video. We've got the lubricating jelly, the note taking toolbox, the four essentials for getting stuff done, the productive socializing suite, and finally the content creation machine. Let's get into it. A friend's welcome back to the channel. If you knew here, my name is Ali. I'm a doctor working in Cambridge and on this channel, we share the principles, strategies, and tools that help us live happier, more productive lives. And one of the fundamental components of my productivity arsenal is the MacBook Pro. And in this video, I'm going to be talking you through lots of different apps that I've got to help supercharge my productivity, be more organized, get stuff done, and create content like an absolute machine. And let's start with category number one, which is the lubricating jelly. And there are two apps in this list. By far, the most important app, the app that I cannot live without on my Mac, is called Alfred. Alfred is basically a replacement for the spotlight search function on a Mac. So what I do is I hit command space bar, and this Alfred window rocks up. And then I can do whatever I want using the Alfred window. And this is basically how I navigate my Mac. And it's a big part of why I'm so productive on my Mac, because I don't bother wasting time by moving the mouse around. And by clicking on things, because that's a total waste of time. Instead, I use Alfred to find everything. So let's say I want to search Google. I will just go command space bar. And we have search Google. Let's say I don't want to do that. Let's say I want to find a file. Normally, the process for finding a file would be an absolute ball ache, because you have to click on finder. We have to go in like Google Drive. You have to click in basically every time you want to open a file, you're wasting like a minute of your life. And that adds up over a long period of time to just be not a very pleasant experience at all. But without for it, you can do command space bar, type into the window. You start off with a space and now you can search for any file on your computer. Let's say I wanted to find the video of me singing a song from two years ago. I can just type in BUDA. And oh, here we go. Budapest 2018 July and this is the file. Let's say I want to open an app rather than doing this whole pinch thingy and trying to find the app, or rather than unhiding the dog and clicking through the dog, which again would waste valuable seconds of my life every time. I just go on Alfred. And I type in the first few letters of the app. Boom. Sort it. It's just like an absolutely incredible invention. Find all of this stuff. And actually, if we look at my Alfred stats, which are going to be opening through Alfred usage. This is in the last 28 days. Since 21st always 2018, which was when I got this MacBook, Alfred has been used to 20,830 times on average 33.5 times a day. And like, you know, whenever this was about two weeks ago, I was on my computer a lot of that day. I used Alfred 200 and one times that saved at least maybe 10 minutes of my life. But if you can save 10 minutes every day when you're on the computer. Basically, the reason I love Alfred is that a big part of productivity when using a machine is trying to minimise the time between you thinking that you want to do something on the computer and then that thing being done. So if I think I want to Google something, I want to be able to Google it as quickly as possible. If I think I want to open a file or do some work or send an email, all that stuff needs to happen as efficiently as possible. Otherwise, I'm just wasting time. And Alfred is like the key lubricating jelly, which is, you know, it just makes the whole process of using this Mac just infinitely smoother. And it is always the very first thing I ever install when I get a new computer. The second component of my lubricating jelly setup is an app called Moom. And Moom is fantastic, because it basically lets you swipe windows to the sides of the screen. So if I open up Safari, I can drag it and it goes over there. If I open Notion or I've got the plan for this video, I can drag it and it would go over there. And if I want to, I can actually do this with keyboard shortcut. So let's open, I don't know, bear, for example. And I can hit a shortcut key. And I've got keyboard shortcuts set up so that I can automatically snap windows to their appropriate sections without really having to click anything. And this is particularly handy when I'm on my 49 inch altruite monitor because I've got different social shortcuts to have like a triple window setup, to have a quadruple window setup, to have like a six window setup, there's all kind of different ways that you can use Moom. And it's just one of the ways in which again, it's all about minimizing the time between thought and action. I don't want to have to drag a window to the side of the screen. I want to just be able to do a bang and bang keyboard shortcut and it just appears and I can get on with doing the thing that I want to be doing. All right. So the next category is the note taking toolbox and we've got seven apps in this category. Now people always ask me in YouTube comments and Instagram DMs and on the streets. I like why do you use so many note taking apps what the hell is wrong with you? Surely you're making more work for yourself by having all these note taking apps. Shouldn't you just be focusing on taking notes rather than people? All the all this sort of stuff. But the way I think about this is that these apps are all just a toolbox. Apps are not useful in their own regard. They're useful because they're tools that let us accomplish something greater than that. So when it comes to using a computer, using my Mac, I consider myself a professional carpenter. And if you saw a professional carpenter with their toolbox, you would think, oh make, why do you have 18 different screwdrivers? Don't you just need one screwdriver? The carpenter would be like, bro, I'm a professional carpenter. You know, each screwdriver? Yeah, find the raw screwdrivers, but they all serve a slightly different purpose. And for me, the reason I have five kind of active note taking apps that I use is because they all do serve a different kind of purpose. We have different apps for everything like why we're looking for this one ultimate, holy grail note taking out that does absolutely everything. It's all about embracing the toolbox. And so that's why I have so many note taking apps. So the first one I'm going to talk about is notion, notion is one of my favorite apps of all time. I have made five videos about notion on my YouTube channel. Another like seven or eight videos about notion on workflow, my series on Nebula, more about that in a little bit. So I'm not going to talk about notion too much, but I basically use it for project management for various things. So when it comes to video schedules, when it comes to online classes, when it comes to my website, book reviews, you know, keeping track of the stuff that I enjoy, keeping track of Liz, Angus and Christian, my team members, keeping track of like basically I use notion for so much stuff in my life. I even used to keep track of my workouts until like, you know, every day, you know, write something I'm grateful for. I've made loads of videos about that. So I'll put things to all of those down in the video description. But notion is my note taking up mostly for project management. Now recently, I have started using one not recently about six weeks ago. I started using another app. Now this is an app called Rome Research and my friend Thomas Frank has made a lovely video about Rome. Again, link in the video description about that. Rome research is sort of a note taking up, but it's for research. It's kind of the thinking. It's the app that I use for my thinking. So every day, I would write kind of daily note and there's all sorts of features in Rome. So for example, I can say time, currently filming the what's on my MacBook video. And now you saw that I put double square brackets here and now what's on my MacBook has become a link. And Rome has a really interesting system of kind of linking. The basically means that as you, as you're writing notes, you can easily link them to other notes. And ultimately, what that does is it gives you kind of a broad kind of graph, a graph overview of all of your notes. Basically, like Rome is trying to replicate the way that knowledge is actually organized in our brains. It's not really organized in terms of notebooks and dividers and notes. It's more organized in terms of disparate things that are all linked to one another. And so Rome is amazing for that. It's way beyond the scope of this video to go in depth into Rome. But yeah, you can find loads of information on Thomas Frank's video. If you want to see a detailed look of how I use Rome, I've got like six videos available on my workflow series on Nebula. Now, if you don't know, Nebula is a streaming platform that's made by me and a bunch of other of my creative friends. And on Nebula, I post exclusive videos that you won't find on YouTube. Usually that are a little bit more nerdy, a little bit more niche. Like, for example, you know, spending an hour going over Rome and why I love it. That's a bit too niche for YouTube for now. And so I tend to post those sorts of videos on there that are a little bit too detailed to actually be put on YouTube because YouTube I like to kind of appeal to any wider audience. Anyway, at the moment there's about 15-ish videos in my workflow series where I take you through my workflow for using these productivity apps in various different ways. And the easiest way to get access to Nebula for these workflow videos along with a few other exclusives that I've got along with a load of other exclusive videos from other creators is to sign up to CuriosityStream who are very kindly sponsoring this video. CuriosityStream is the world's leading documentary streaming subscription platform, founded by John Hendrix, is the founder of the Discovery Channel. And on CuriosityStream, you can find documentaries covering like health, business, science, technology, history, geography. Basically, anything you can think of. And the great thing is that if you sign up to CuriosityStream for like $3 a month or $20 a year, which is absolutely nothing, you also get free access to Nebula. So you that this is literally like the best deal in streaming. And so if you care about how I use all these apps kind of more specifically, a lot more niche, you should definitely do that on the details in the video description. That's an end move on with the video. So that was a Roman notion that's an end move on to Evernote, which I actually still use as a note taking up. And you might be wondering why because Evernote is like old and bloated and stuff, but actually Evernote is fantastic because it's that there is still no app that handles everything you throw at it just as well as Evernote does. So you know, if I want to, it's basically like kind of the the long-term memory for my second brain. So I use motion for like product management. I use Rome for like you know thinking and research and things. But if there's ever anything I need to store for later. So for example documents and letters and seats and images and bookmarks, you know, I can just chuck them into Evernote. So I've got this in box and there's a dot in box that basically has everything in it. And then at some but like, you know, every couple of months, I will just organize these into the different notebooks. So these are kind of notebooks for various things that I'm interested in. It's just nice having Evernote as sort of this layer, the long-term memory layer of my second brain. And for example, if I'm writing notes on paper in my in my notebook, it's really hard to scan those into Rome because it rooms not very good at that or notion which is not very good at that. But Evernote, take a picture, chuck it in automatically. It just works absolutely amazingly. So that's what Evernote's useful. Fourthly we have an app called a draft. Now draft is basically a very quick capturing note taking a and I use drafts when I need to take note of something kind of in the moment. But I can't be bothered to wait for notion to load them on iOS. Rome doesn't really have an iOS app yet. Evernote is a bit slow and bloated. Draft is just amazing. Yeah, I can actually dictate stuff into drafts from my Apple Watch. So for example, if I'm listening to a podcast in the car and I've got my watch on, I can just dictate some notes into it and then it'll come up and drafts. And then every now and then I'll look through my drafts in box and I'll chuck stuff into Evernote or chuck stuff into notion or chuck stuff into Rome, kind of depending on what the stuff is. So drafts is my tool for quick capture. It's excellent for that. And then we have no turbidity, which is actually the app that I use more often than not on the iPad because most ability is the best app for handwrite handwritten note taking. And at some point I'll be doing a comparison between no turbidity and good notes, but basically I prefer no turbidity. It's good for handwriting. I don't often use the Mac version, but it's nice having it on my Mac in just in case I need to bring up my notes. So for example, I will often make notes about videos that I want to do, if I'm on a plane or if I'm just kind of figure out the figuring stuff out, I will take those notes handwritten using the iPad pro and Apple Pencil and then there in no turbidity and then I can kind of do whatever I want with them. Sometimes I put these into notion of screenshots, sometimes I put them into Rome, it's typed up, sometimes I put them into Evernote. It kind of depends, but this is just another part of the toolbox, but this is how I deal with handwritten information because Rome notion and Evernote are not very good at the handwriting side of things. Finally, there are two more that I want to talk about and that is Bear and Eudices. Eudices is pretty good for as like a general writing thing and Bear used to be my kind of general writing app where I would take notes on Bear, but drafts has sort of replaced the functionality of Bear for me. And ever since I started using Rome, I've kind of stopped using Eudices because there's not an easy way to link stuff together on Eudices. I'm still trying to figure out if I need these two apps and if there's a way for them to fit into my workflow, but at the moment I don't really use Bear and Eudices that much. So those were the apps in my note taking toolbox. Let's now move on to the four essentials that everyone needs to get things done and that is a to-do list manager, an email client, a file system and a calendar. And so let's go through those in turn. So the app that I use for my to-do list is things three. I've experimented with a lot of these over the years, but the one that I ultimately kind of keep going back to is things three. And things are just so nice. It's one of the most beautifully designed Mac and iOS and iPad OS apps that I've ever used in my life. It's just such an absolute joy. So on the side you've got these areas, so I've got life of air, so I've got health, people, I've got videos, I've got hustle, medicine, ingestion, which is kind of where I keep track of content on the I need to watch, music, hobbies, and a bucket list. So these are kind of areas of my life and then within these areas you can have projects. So we've got medical application code, we've got liberty medics, which is the thing that I'm working on. Throughout the day, what I do is I add stuff into my inbox. So for example, with a hotkey control spacebar, I can type in a new to-do. And then that goes into my inbox. Or let's say I'm on my friend K. He's website about productivity and I want to kind of make a note of something to do with that. What I can do is I can do control shift spacebar. And it automatically creates a new to-do, but it creates it with the context. So it automatically links to the website that I was on or whatever app I mean, which is really handy. So remember, so contact K about doing another video. That would be an easy way to add stuff to things. And then I don't really think about where it goes and things. It just goes in my inbox. And then once a day in the mornings, I'll usually go through my inbox and kind of categorize stuff into the different projects. So this one I can do command shift M, which is a hotkey, hotkey is a very important. Let's put that into videos, find, and let's stop being a total waste man that we can move that into life OS. Everyone can build a Twitter audience, there's a hustle, lace sort of study in the video and chat around about articles. That's this one. So if I want, I can use the keyboard if I want to use mouse, if I can drag stuff on my iPad, I don't know. I feel just like really nice. And this is how I kind of keep track of my to-dos. And the way that I do this is that every day stuff that I need to do is I mark this today. And that's only the stuff that I absolutely have to get done on a given day. But if I finish those things, then what I do is I've got this any time list where stuff doesn't have a deadline. Because most of the stuff I do doesn't really have a deadline. And so I'll dip into my any time list to kind of do more things. And then I've got some day list, which is stuff that I don't want to do in a particular week. It doesn't really matter what to do this time to use as long as you have one. I've tried out to do this over the years. I haven't really tried out omnifocus. It's a bit too much, I think. So yeah, that's my nit-taking out. But secondly, everyone needs an email client. And the one that I use is called Superhuman. Superhuman unfortunately is a Gmail client that costs $13 a month. It's worth it for me because I spend a lot of time in emails. And it's like, by far, the fastest email experience I've ever used in my life. So superhuman is great. As long as you have some kind of email client, it doesn't really matter what it is. Like, you can easily get by by just using Gmail and Safari or Chrome or using Spark Mail or using, I don't know, outlook. There's all sorts of email clients. I have tried at least 10 of them over the last few years. And since I discovered superhuman, I've never really looked back. So that is very nice. Thirdly, everyone needs a calendar in the one that I use is fantastical or fantastic hell. Mostly because it's got nice natural language processing and I've been using fantastical for a few years now. It is a bit expensive, but hey, I have no qualms of paying for apps that improve my life. So what I can do with fantastical is, it's actually got an Alfred integration. So I can write, count, and it'll also massively recognize all the different components within that. And actually, I can send a calendar in advice, add event, present, or whatever. And it's a very easy way for me to add stuff to my calendar without really thinking about it. And of course, they've got an app for iOS and iPad OS as well. And even the Apple Watch, so it's a nice app that integrates very nicely with the Apple ecosystem. And finally, everyone needs some kind of cloud storage solution. That sounds very enterprisey. Well, um, if you're not currently using a cloud storage thing, you're definitely living life completely wrong, because you don't want to be one of those people that has everything important on your hard drive, and then for some reason you're computer breaks are getting stolen. Like, basically, for me, my entire life is on Google Drive and Google Drive is what I use for this. So, uh, I have my Google Drive folder, and within Google Drive, I've got like a ton of folders, and basically, I think I'm using like four terabytes of Google Drive storage space, just because of all the stuff that I've got in it. And I also have a Google Drive business account for my business stuff that I share with my team members, where we can upload videos and download videos. And basically, like, everything is organized through Google Drive. And so when I'd recommend, I've tried out Dropbox, I kind of prefer Google Drive. It's got nice apps, it kind of works. But again, it doesn't really matter what specifically you use as long as you're using some kind of cloud storage thingy. All right, let's not talk about five apps in the productive socializing suite. So what does this mean? So, basically, like, socializing is important, relationships are the most important thing in the world. But it's nice to be able to socialize in a productive fashion. Uh, it is not productive, replying to messages from my phone, because I type it 150 words per minute on my laptop, but I type it like 50 words per minute on my phone. It's just, you know, night and day difference between how efficient I can be with chatting to people on my phone versus on my laptop. So basically, I want to be, like, any time someone sends me message, I want to be able to reply to it from my Mac. So, the most important app for this is WhatsApp web. So, again, I'm opening with Alfred. If someone sends me WhatsApp message, I've got like all my group chats, all my chats. Like, it just makes perfect sense to be able to reply to it from my Mac rather than having to reply to it from WhatsApp. And it absolutely amazes me how many people don't know that this is a feature of WhatsApp. Like, you can just quadruple the number of people that you can respond to in a given amount of time just by using WhatsApp web. It's incredible. We also have eye message or rather messages, I think it's called these days. And again, I never reply to eye messages from my phone unless I'm not an eye desk, kind of more with that eye desk. So, I can always reply to eye messages from my Mac. And this is one of the main reasons why I love the Apple ecosystem is because stuff like this just works so seamlessly together. I think Android has been trying for the last few years to create some sort of unified messaging platform that lets you reply to text messages from your computer. But so far as far as I know it hasn't worked, let me know in the comments if something miraculously has changed. But yeah, eye messages fantastic. Most of my friends use iPhone. So, it's so much easier for us to message each other with eye message rather than having to send an actual text or what's that message. So, yeah, the fact that message is available on desktop is fantastic. Thirdly, we have Slack. Now, I use Slack for loader things. So, I use Slack to chat with my team members, Angus Christian, and Liz about various things. And that's how we keep track of all our projects, all the stuff that we're working on. But I'm also part of a few different Slack groups. The public ones that I'd recommend you join us firstly, 4T labs. I'm not sure how public this is, but you should join 4T labs. This is run by my internet friend T.R. 4T, who runs an online course called Building a Second Brain, which is very good. And one called RadReads. Like, hey, he who recently featured on this YouTube channel. And I think, I think I think these Slack teams are open to everyone. But let's look at RadReads, for example. I'm sure he won't mind me sharing this. You know, announcements, books, entrepreneurship, national dependence, intros, miscellaneous money, newsletters productivity, promote feedback. Like, it's just like a bunch of cool people doing interesting things, joining the Slack Slack team. So, it sort of feels on the Slack community. And then the standard, which is my YouTube agency, there's pretty okay YouTubers, which is a bunch of the YouTubers. And then there's the A team, which is what I call my kind of squad. So, I use Slack many hours each day just to kind of chat to people. Number four, I guess, would be discord. I don't really use discord a huge amount. I tried setting up like a sort of server for my fans. But it just had way too many people to keep up with. And I found that I was never logging into discord just because I'm not a fan of how the app works. You can't really have threaded replies. It feels, and no offense to anyone who uses discord. But it feels like an app for kids, whereas Slack feels like an app for grown-ups. Like, people have grown-up chats on Slack. People have kiddie chats on Discord. And I'm not like bashing the kids or anything. You know, discord is fine. And, you know, these guys are created this new, like, the bunker group. I'll put a link in the video description if you want to join it. So, occasionally, I'll chat to people on here. But in general, I prefer to use Slack for most things, because it's just a little bit more legit. It's not like general chitchat about like, I mean, it can be like Slack does have channels for gaming and discussing general chitchat. But it's just not as spammy as discord is. Like, firstly, in terms of the user interface. But also, in terms of, like, Slack is designed to be an app for work, whereas Discord is designed to be an app for gamers to just kind of chat. The kind of vibe that you get on these two different apps is marked the different. Like, people take Slack more seriously than they take discord. You wouldn't get people spamming on Slack because it's considered unprofessional and not legit, whereas you get two people spamming on Discord. So, I don't use Discord a huge amount, but, you know, I am part of this server and occasionally to chat to people on it. And finally, I've got Zoom and Skype, which is an optically interesting. So, let's move on to the final category. And that is the apps in my content creation machine. I think that's what I call it at the start of the video. The most important app in here is Final Cut Pro is the app that I use for editing, but using Final Cut for the last three years, basically. I've created a class on Skillshare about how to edit and Final Cut. These days, I don't really do a lot of my own editing anymore, but I will still dabble with Final Cut occasionally, if I need to do a kind of a few quick edits to something that someone else made, or if I'm making a video of myself singing for Instagram. So, like actually earlier today, when I was procrastinating from filming this video, I picked up the guitar and I filmed myself singing American Pie by Don McLean. And editing in Final Cut, and now it's on Instagram, and on IGTV or whatever. But yeah, Final Cut is amazing. I'll put a link in the video description to my Skillshare class on it if you want to learn Final Cut. On top of Final Cut, as part of the content creation machine, we have Logic Pro 10. I use Logic for two things. Firstly, and most importantly, it's editing my weekly podcast. Me and my brother, if you don't know, have a weekly podcast called Not Over Thinking, that you can find on all podcast platforms, a lot of that last. And I use Logic to just kind of tweak the sounds a bit and to cut out all the silences, so that it feels like a more coherent video, then both of us pausing a lot to kind of gather our thoughts, so I use Logic for that. And I'm also trying to get into music production, so I've started dabbling with Logic in terms of an arranging covers of popular songs, which is something I want to dabble with a little bit more. Then we have Screen Flow, which is the very app that I'm actually using to record the screen cast right now. Screen Flow is the best thing that I've found on the Mac for doing screen cast, and you can zoom in to stuff nicely, so I use Screen Flow for all of my screen cast and tutorials and things. We also have E-CAM, which is my new favorite app for live streaming, so I've got a few different screens set out, and things like Skype automatically connect with E-CAM. So, for example, I recently into the live stream with Noah Kagan, from okdog.com, and that worked out really nicely because E-CAM is just so beautiful to use on a Mac. I think it's $80, but absolutely worth every penny. And finally, I subscribe to the Adobe Creative Cloud, the whole package. The ones that I use most often are Adobe Audition. I use that to extend soundtracks for videos and to do audio editing a little bit. I dabble with Photoshop and Illustrator. I used to use Photoshop a lot more back in the day when I was super into web design and graphic design, but these days I don't really do a lot of that. But even so, it's still nice to have Photoshop and Illustrator to be able to mock up a quick logo for a project, or just kind of put some ideas onto some kind of graphic design package. Like I said before, if you want to hear more details about how I use Rome, how I use notion, how I use insta paper and readwise and ever note and castro and like a few different aspects of my workflow, that's all available on Nebula, which you can sign up to with a CuriosityStream trial link in the video description more details there. If you like this video, you might also like to check out my video on what apps I've got on my iPad, because I actually use a lot of the same apps on my Mac, as on my iPad. And in that video, I talk about kind of five different categories of apps that are slightly different to these ones and how that fits in with my life. So, thank you very much for watching, and I'll see you in the next video. Bye bye.
