# The Book That Changed How I Spend Money
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kQA27U_K_UE
The first 1,000 people to use the link or my code aliabdaal06221 will get a 1 month free trial of Skillshare: https://skl.sh/aliabdaal06221

So I read this book called Die with Zero and the basic concept is that it’s possible to save up way too much money. Bill Perkins reckons that we should all aim to have $0 in our bank account, give or take, by the time we die, which is what I'm exploring in this episode of Book Club.

Die With Zero: Getting All You Can from Your Money and Your Life - https://geni.us/vZGAu8H
The Best Book I've Ever Read about Making Money: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Gx2vyi4JcV0&ab_channel=AliAbdaal
Previous Book Club videos: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL7BImOT2srcE-wLIlCcgTCa_jznOZZLwS

00:00 Intro
01:49 Why you should save less
02:03 Earning power
02:38 Memory dividends
03:23 Old age
04:32 Objection 1 - What if I run out of money?
05:05 Objection 2 - What about the kids?
05:59 Objection 3 - What about charity?
06:41 Tip 1 - Time bucket your life
07:53 Tip 2 - Be bold, not foolish
09:02 Weaknesses with the book

Submit your video ideas and if we pick your video, we'll send you $100 -  https://aliabdaal.typeform.com/video-ideas

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

PART-TIME YOUTUBER ACADEMY:
🍿 My 6-week live online course - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ptya_aliabdaal

CREATORPRENEUR
💰 My flag-ship course for scaling up your creative side-hustle - https://creatorpreneur.academy/course

YOUTUBE FOR BEGINNERS COURSE
📸 This is for anyone who'd like to start a YouTube channel. You'll learn everything you need to get started as a YouTuber including how to script, shoot, and edit your first video - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/YouTube-for-Beginners

MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
✍️ The best summaries of books (Shortform) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
📚  How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound

🎙 Deep Dive podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/
The podcast that delves into the minds of entrepreneurs, creators and other inspiring people to uncover the philosophies, strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. You can find it by searching “Deep Dive” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/friendzone/
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
💙  The Friendzone Discord - https://discord.gg/Dh2kGavffd
🎮  Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I’m Ali, a YouTuber, podcaster, soon-to-be author and ex-Doctor working in London, UK. I make videos that explore the strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. I also have a weekly podcast called Deep Dive (https://www.youtube.com/channel/UChfo46ZNOV-vtehDc25A1Ug), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://email.aliabdaal.com).


GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, die with zero, die, with, zero, book, club, summary, die with zero book summary, how to make money, how to save money, money tips, saving money, the psychology of money audiobook, how to manage your money, money making advice, book review, book club, 15 money rules i follow to build and keep wealth, money saving hacks, how to build wealth, saving money tips, how to save, saving money motivation, saving money hacks, personal finance, 
**Date:** 2022-06-30

## Transcript
 If you've got any money left in your bank account by the time you die, you have done something wrong. That is the core message of this book, die with zero. And it's pretty controversial, but it's actually genuinely changed my approach to spending and saving money, which is why we're talking about it in this episode of Book Club. The ongoing series where we distill and discuss highlights from some of my favorite books. What is the core argument here? Well, what Bill Perkins says, the author of the book, is that we all need to make money to survive, like buying food and like paying rent and stuff. And once we've covered our basic needs, then we use that time and money that we've got left over from survival, to essentially buy more meaningful experiences and fulfilling experiences, like traveling or going to the cinema or smashing the like button for the YouTube algorithm. Now, if we assume that beyond having the basics covered life is about having fulfilling and enriching and meaningful experiences, then in an ideal world, we would just trade in our life energy, directly for those experiences. But in the real world, we have this thing called money as a middleman between life energy and fulfilling experiences. Now, most of us don't know when we're going to die, but let's say we happen to die at the age of 85, let's say $10,000 left in the bank. That money represents two things. So firstly, it's the extra several months that we worked to earn that post tax $10,000. And secondly, that 10K represents all of the experiences that we didn't spend that money on, like going on five holidays or 50 fancy restaurant meals or even just a few extra months of retirement. Bill Perkins would basically say that all of this life energy that we traded has basically been wasted, because all of that money that we earned is just gathering dust, and it's not useful to us at all once we're dead. Now, this raises a bunch of questions like, what if you run out of money when you're old? What about leaving money to your kids? What about giving money to charity? And these are all good questions that we're going to cover in this video. Bill is very careful to mention in the book that if you have no disposable income, then by definition, you need to spend your money right now just to survive, so you're probably already using your money as efficiently as you can, in which case this book is really not for you right now. Bill thinks that, especially when we're around 20s and 30s, that we should spend more money on fun, exciting things, like going on adventures, and doing cool stuff with friends and attending you geotronements all around the world. And there are three main reasons for this. Earning power, memory dividends, and all age. The first reason for investing in experiences early is that our earning power generally increases as we get older. So what seems like a big chunk of money when we're 20 years old is much less significant when we're 40 years old with the health, some kids, and established career, and a lot more money coming in. Now, this is a crucial insight. Here we can see that as our earning power goes up, our happiness from spending $20 or whatever that number is actually goes down over time. And so if you're young, i.e. in your teens or your 20s, then in a way you don't really need to overly obsess about saving lots of money, because that money could be better spent on experiences right now, rather than that same amount of money being spent on experiences, 40 years from now, where it's going to matter to you a lot less. The idea here is that every year, good experiences that we've had in the past, give us a return on investment, because every positive experience we have also creates memories in addition to the experience itself. If, for example, you and your friends go on this amazing two-month hike through Italy, when you're 20 years old, then you'll probably have at least 50 more years to enjoy those memories, and reminisce on the trip whenever you're hanging out, and reflect on the lessons you've learned from it and all of that fun stuff. Now, if instead, you decided that you weren't going to take that two-month trip and instead hustle at work for an extra two months to make a little bit more money to save up a little bit more money, and then you would go on that trip when you're 40 years old, for example, then yes, sure you'll be a little bit more financially secure, because of that extra two months of earnings, but you'll have missed out on almost 20 years of good memories and extra life experience and good vibes as well. When we're old, then we naturally can't do all of the things that we actually want to do, and even if we can afford it, we might not be fit and healthy enough to actually really enjoy the thing. So if we were to create this kind of graph, then this is generally what our spending power looks like as we're getting older, and this is generally what our health looks like as we get older as well. And if you're in slightly worse health, it might even look something like that. And basically it's almost an inverse relationship between how much money we can make over time and how healthy we actually are to enjoy that experience as we get older. All right, so basically what he's saying so far is spend lots of money on experiences when you're young. Now that does seem a bit suspicious, but one thing he says repeatedly is that his whole vibe is I'm not actually telling you to literally die with zero in the back account. I'm just saying that if you think of it as a big idea and that you are aiming to die with zero, then it actually makes you think twice about what you're doing with your money and what you're doing with your life. Because to be honest, for most of us, if we are high earners, then we tend to have this very profound tendency to over-save and undespend because we are very risk-averse, and we tend to think that hey, making money and saving it for the future is way more important than enjoying it right now. Now this book doesn't have all of the answers but any means, but let's talk about some of the common objections to this idea to basically spend more money. Objection number one, what if I run out of money? This is the idea of long-gevity risk and really the whole point of saving is that it's usually so late you can get a house because society has told us that we need to buy a house and be so that we don't run out of money when we're older. Nobody wants to die early, but no one wants to die after their retirement money runs out either. But the thing is, apparently, most people who do save actually save way too much and spend much less during their retirement than they thought. Bill Perkins' sites are a bunch of figures and studies and stuff in the book, which you're more than welcome to check out if you want. But the main point is that depending on various things, we fear running out of money a lot more than it's actually likely that we will genuinely run out of money. Objection number two, what about the kids? Surely, dying with zero is a really selfish thing to do because surely you want to leave money to your kid, right? Well, what Bill says and I totally agree is that if you do want to give money to your kids, you could give it to them when they're young, rather than when you die. Because if we only give away money when we die, then our kids will be around 60 when they get their inheritance. And this is bad because when you're 60 years old and you get a big windfall, it doesn't actually help you that much because at that point you're already established, you've already got a job, you've got your own earning power and you can enjoy that money a lot less when you're 60, whereas if you get that big windfall of money when you're somewhere between 25 and 35, that general age group, then that windfall is ridiculously helpful. And now you can do things like put down and deposit on a house or invest in starting your own company or afford to have kids, now that you have some kind of financial safety net. And actually having those amazing life experiences instead of grinding away your 20s, trying to make rent and potentially making bad decisions like choosing a job you don't like because you need the money to survive. Objection number three, what about charity? The same thing goes for charity to be honest. Charities need money right now. People are dying in the world right now. The environment is suffering right now. And so waiting until you die to then arbitrarily give away money to charity at that day is a bit pointless. You might as well give money to charities again while you're alive. And this is very much an idea that Bill talks about in the book. Die with zero does not mean do not give any money to good causes, do not give any money to your kids. It means do it before you die because it's way more effective before you die than after you die. Okay, so those were the main objections and now we know the main idea of the book that we should be a little bit less concerned with trying to save loads of money that we'll never spend. And it's done lean towards a little bit more towards spending money and actually allowing ourselves to spend money on those experiences, especially when we are. Let's now look at some concrete things that we can do with that information. Tip one, time bucket your life. This is a really cool thing that he talks about in the book. Basically the idea is that at each stage of our life we're going to have different levels of the three main resources that we need for good life experiences and those three resources are free time money and health. If we made a diagram showing how much of each thing we have at different stages of our life on average it would look something like this. When we're young we are generally time millionaires as they say we have loads of time and we have loads of health but we have very little money. When we say 31 to 60 years old on average we have a decent amount of time, decent amount of health and a decent amount of money. And generally when we are 60 plus we probably have loads of money and loads of time but not that much health and energy. And so what Bill says and I very much agree with this I think it's great advice is that it does make sense to have different time buckets for each part of your life so that you can use these resources most appropriately at each different stage. Here's how it works on paper. Bill says that you should chop your life into these chunks of five to ten years and then decide what experiences you'd like to have in each part. If you really want a cyclical across Asia or get into rock climbing or skiing or whatever you should probably try and do that before you're 50 years old while you're definitely fit an active enough to actually do it and if there's expensive but nonactive things that you'd like to do someday but which aren't a priority right now then it makes sense to put them down for when you're older and you have plenty of time and money and don't need so much energy for example a cruise. Tip number two the bold not foolish. Bill's second piece of practical advice in the book is that we should take our biggest risks when we're young and don't have much to lose. If for example you take a calculated risk when you're young then you've got a lot more time to build yourself back up if it fails and you've got a whole lifetime where you can enjoy the profits if the risk pays off and so this risk reward ratio is very asymmetric with the reward very much in your favorite when you're young. For example if you gamble a thousand dollars on starting a small business when you're 20 and it fails then who cares you can easily earn that money back in the future because you can always make more money but you can never make more time but if the business actually takes off then it might actually boost your financial life to the proverbial moon as our crypto friends say and the same thing goes for moving to a new city or some other big life decision that has some kind of big upside but that is a bit of a risk. If it doesn't go well you've still got plenty of time to recover. Provide you take that risk when you're young. Bill also points out that the downside of not even taking the chance is emotional. Potentially a lifetime of wondering what if and so even if things don't turn out successfully we usually learn from that and we usually have positive memories of times when we gave something 100% of our efforts even though it was a bit of a risk and then when we're older these big financial risks are you generally not worth taking because it can leave us with not enough money to retire and not enough time to make that money back. So I really like this book and I think there are some interesting lessons that we can learn from it provided we don't take it too literally and don't get too but heard that oh my god he's telling me to spend more money and my circumstances it means I can't spend that money and like the whole point of these non-fiction self-help books is that they can give us ideas for what we could do with our life if we want to follow them but you don't have to he's not forcing anyone to follow this method and so I think there is like you have to take this kind of stuff with a bit of a pinch of salt but there's a few things where I kind of disagree with some of the stuff that he says firstly money does not necessarily equal the life energy. This is Bill's main point at the start of the book that the money in your bank account equals your life energy but with passive income for example a small initial effort considerable and can create more and more wealth almost effortlessly. For example if you follow the advice of another book that I reviewed called the Millionaire Fastlane linked up there somewhere and you end up growing these kind of passive income money trees as they say then you could theoretically end up as a millionaire with loads of money in your account we've out necessarily having worked a day beyond your 30th birthday and that money then doesn't actually represent significant wasted life energy in the same way as for example working 50 years in a job that you really hate. With me for example I spend a bunch of my youth working but to be honest building a business making websites growing this YouTube channel playing World Warcraft interviewing people on a podcast this is all still technically work but I would still do these things even if I won the lottery because I love doing them so much and so I don't really see that as an exchange of money for life energy. Secondly money equals optionality so liquidity I eat having easily accessible cash in the bank or in safe investments is a big asset in itself because you can act quickly and decisively if some kind of cool opportunity comes up or if there is some kind of sudden emergency basically you keep your options open and so yeah optionality is good but as Bill says in the book there is a risk of going too far with it and someone might completely rationally hold on to a large amount of money all the way up to their death just to keep their options open and then obviously it's not at all useful to you if you haven't exercised that option before you die and then finally the third weakness I see in the book is that he talks a lot about spending your money on experiences but not enough about investing your money in education which is exactly what you can do if you sign up with Skillshare who are very kindly sponsoring this video you must have heard this by now I talk about Skillshare all the time fantastic platform with online classes on all sorts of topics from business entrepreneurship to cooking to YouTube to video editing to interior design and the best bit is that if you sign up for an account on Skillshare which you can do by hitting the link in the video description then you'll get a one month free trial and in that one month you can watch any of the classes that I have personally got on Skillshare currently I've got like 10 of them three of them are about productivity so there's productivity principles productivity tools and productivity for creators so if you're interested in how to get more from your life energy and stuff then you can check out those classes if you've got one about how to edit videos in Final Cut Pro and how to triple your typing speed again if you were interested in that kind of thing you should definitely check out my own classes on Skillshare and then within that one month free trial you can also watch any other class on Skillshare to your hearts content so yeah if you happen to be one of the first 1,000 people to hit the link in the video description then you get that free one month trial to Skillshare and you can check out all of my classes and learn much more about the stuff that I teach on the platform so thank you very much Skillshare for sponsoring this video and if you enjoyed this video and you'd like to make more money that you can then spend on meaningful and fulfilling life experiences then you might like to check out this video over here which is seven side hustle passive income you type ideas that you can start right now so thank you so much for watching do hit the subscribe button and I'll see you in the next video bye bye
