# Why Motivation is a Myth
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kzAuvOr-YsM
Get FREE access to my Productivity Masterclass here: https://skl.sh/aliabdaal11

In this episode of book club we're talking about The Motivation Myth by Jeff Haden. We look at how most people understand (or misunderstand) motivation, whether too much emphasis is placed on it and how to get started without needing any.

Get the book here:
(UK) https://amzn.to/38caRQf
(US) https://amzn.to/3igE6pK

--------

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
😃  How to be Happier - Stoicism Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/stoicism

TOOLS OF THE TRADE:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk
📚  How I remember what I read - Readwise - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali
What I Use For Analytics - https://go.aliabdaal.com/tubebuddy
🌐 My website platform (Ghost) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost

OTHER RECOMMENDED COURSES
📔 Effortless Output with Roam Research - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/roam
📓 Building a Second Brain - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/basb

🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, motivation myth, book club, jeff haden, do i need motivation, how to get motivation, motivation to study, how to get motivated, how to achieve goals, is motivation real, how to get motivation to lose weight, motivation, motivational video, jeff haden the motivation myth, how to be motivated, motivational, best motivational video, 2020 motivational video, 2020 motivation, the motivation myth, motivation for success, self discipline affirmations, 
**Date:** 2020-07-01

## Transcript
 When we're being unproductive and wasting our time, we like to tell ourselves that what's missing is motivation. Intuitively, we think that to get something done, like writing that essay or working on that project, we need to sum up some mystical energy, this mental or emotional state, this motivation that gives us the spark to get started. But what if we've misunderstood the idea of motivation? What if we could reframe the idea and structure our lives in a way where we'd never need to worry about motivation ever again? Hey friends, welcome back to the channel into this next episode of Book Club, the series where we distill and discuss highlights and ideas from some of my favorite books. And today we're talking about the motivation myth by Jeff Hayden, how hired she was really set themselves up to win. And it's a book that tries to debunk some of the popular myths around motivation, hence the title. And it talks about how we can kind of restruct our lives in a way that helps us be happier, healthier and more productive, which is what we're all about on this channel, which is fantastic. Using examples from his own life, along with lots of inspirational people that he's interviewed during his career, Jeff explains why we've all misunderstood motivation. And then he uses this theory as a springboard to discuss other issues linked to success and happiness. Motivation is something you can create yourself. But in effort, you will improve, you will make progress. That feels good, and that gives you enough motivation to carry you to the next day, so that you can get up and do whatever it is on your plan. Although there's loads of snippets of wisdom in the book, we're going to split this video up into three core ideas. We'll start by looking at why motivation is not the spark, then we'll look at processes over goals and finally why being a jack of all trades is the best way to live life. The first idea and the premise of the whole book is based around is the idea that motivation is not the spark. This is the ultimate motivation myth. It's this idea that we all have where we think we need motivation to get something done. If you're anything like me, you know, you might watch a motivational YouTube video or a really motivational quote or see someone's topless photo and Instagram and think, yes, I'm motivated. I've got the motivation to get that body. I want to look like Zac Efron. But if you're anything like me, that motivation never lasts. And Jeff actually causes out in the book very nicely. He says that for most of us, motivation is a sugar rush that never lasts. And instead, he says that there is only one recipe for gaining motivation, success. Specifically, the dopamine hit we get when we observe ourselves making progress. The main idea is that motivation doesn't lead to action. Instead, action leads to success, which leads to motivation, which prompts action, which generates more success and more motivation. And this creates a positive dopamine driven feedback loop. It's these tiny doses of success that give us the motivation that we need to continue. And so with this model, motivation isn't based on like wishing and hoping that we're going to get this activation energy to do the thing. Instead, it's based on this reality that we're creating for ourselves where we're doing the thing. We're getting some more successes with generating those dopamine hits on our brain. And that is encouraging us to continue doing the thing. Something this all up in a nice piffy, tweetable sound bite. Motivation isn't a spark. Motivation is the fire that starts burning after you manually painfully cooks it into existence. And it feeds on the satisfaction of seeing yourself make progress. And genuinely, this is actually a life-changing insight. Like for me, when I first realized this idea that I didn't need motivation to do something. Like motivation was a myth that actually I should do the thing. And then motivation will naturally follow. It just opened up so many doors for like all of the different things I can do in life without relying on motivation. But that's all well and good. Let's say we've accepted that motivation comes after we start to make progress. But how do we start making that progress in the first place? And that is where the second theme of the book comes in. We're often told that to get the motivation to do something which should set some kind of goal. The common wisdom is that when we have an end goal, we'll have something to concentrate on. A motivating force to get us started. But once again, Jeff tells us that this theory is misguided. He says that there's nothing wrong with having a goal, but just having a goal isn't enough. Like for me, just having a goal to run a marathon is not actually going to get me across the finish line. Instead, success depends on our process. When we focus on process, we build the foundations for our success. And therefore, we generate the momentum and the positive feedback loop that maintains the sustainable fire of motivation. As Jeff says, if you dedicate yourself to working your process, you will make progress and then success is inevitable. So if we're trying to run a marathon, for example, the goal would be, I want to run the marathon, but that's fine. But then we forget about the goal. Instead, focus on the process. The process of every day, I'm going to do a certain amount of kilometers on miles or whatever it runs do. And in the book, he's got loads of tips about how we stay on track with the whole process thing. One of my favorite ones is using the power of language. Like when we're doing anything that's hard, we are going to be tempted to stray from the process. Like for me starting this YouTube channel, the process is, I'm going to make one or two videos a week. And it's very, very tempting to stray from that because all other things in life come up. But actually one way of keeping ourselves on track and one thing that I found very helpful is by changing our language, so moving from I can't to I don't. So I can't is a decision that we made that based on external processes. Like I can't afford a Tesla Model S. It's like the external reality, like I physically don't have enough money to spare to buy a Tesla Model S. Like it is outside of my control, I can't do it. And in this money example, it might be true, and there's nothing I can do about it for now. But actually there's a lot of areas in life where we say I can't, when we actually do have it in our control. Like for example, I might say, I can't eat that cake because I'm on a diet. And that will just subtly reinforce that it's an external thing. It's not like an internally generated decision. And so inevitably I'm going to end up caving and I'm going to eat the cake because I've said I can't. And the trick that we can do to kind of get over this is to replace I can't with I don't because I don't is much more a personal lifestyle identity type decision rather than an external forces type decision. Like if I say I don't eat unhealthy meals, I'm reinforcing to myself that I'm a healthy person. Therefore I don't eat unhealthy meals. If I say I don't drink, that is reinforcing that this is my identity. If I said I can't drink, it's sort of in good so I can't drink because I'm driving tonight. I can't drink because I'm pregnant. It's, you know, it's an external force. It's not an identity based thing. So whenever I can, if I ever find myself using the phrase I can't, like, then I switch it around to, I don't. So like, I can't eat that McDonald's drive through. I don't eat McDonald's drive through because I'm going to look like a gym shock athlete one day. And this is my identity. This is who I am. And so after reading books like motivation myth and atomic habits, the way that I think of goals now is that yeah, you set a goal but then you completely forget about the goal and you focus on the process instead and you can read the motivation myth to get loads of other tips about this. And on that note, maybe if for you, you know, getting started with something or sort of sticking to the process is a difficult thing. You might like to check out my brand new class on Skillshare about the principles of productivity. In the class, we start by defining what productivity actually means with my patented productivity equation. And then we talk about the three myths, the three laws, and the three powers of productivity. And this is one part of a three part kind of series that I'm doing on Skillshare all about productivity because the question I get asked most of all outside of anything else is how are you so productive? How do you do all of this stuff? How are you so cool? If you click the link in the video description, you can sign up to a two month free trial of Skillshare if for some reason you don't have an account already. And then you can watch this new productivity class where I take you through, have to be more productive. You can also check out my classes on how to study effectively for exams, how to memorize anything, flashcards, how to edit videos, exactly like this one. I've got loads of stuff like sort of hours and hours of content on Skillshare and you should definitely sign up to Skillshare too. Watch all of that because it'll be good. Once it travels over, the premium subscription is less than $10 a month and it is totally worth it like I pay for Skillshare even though I'm a Skillshare teacher and this sponsor my videos and stuff. But like it's just so good like you can just learn anything on Skillshare and fantastic. So thanks for Skillshare for sponsoring this video. Anyway, now that we talked about the importance of process, the final idea that we're going to talk about in this video is how we can turn our process driven mindset to become as Jeff says serial achievers. And again, our mate Jeff is being a bit of a contrary in here because the conventional wisdom is that we should try and be specialized and get like get like really good at like one thing and that tends to be what most traditional metrics of like success and accomplishment are defined by like how good can you be in one specific field. But Jeff says that we should instead be thinking like generalists rather than specialist. This advice makes me feel pretty good because this idea of becoming a jack of all trades is something I've been preaching to myself and anyone who listen for the past decade. Like there are so many different skills that we can learn that will synergize with each other and a lot of times like innovation in any specific field. It doesn't come from being super, super, super specialized in that one field because then you sort of have a tunnel vision kind of you've got your blinders on. Instead it comes from sort of combining innovation from multiple different fields. So if you are a generalist, if you're a multi-disciplinary sort of person, you can then combine these things in interesting ways to make a company or invent something cool or just make loads of money or do whatever you want. And in the book, Jeff actually says that we should all try and become an ant person like someone who is this and this and this and that like you know when I like it night in bed, I think to myself you know what, I'm a doctor and youtuber and podcast and blogger and musician and magician and I try and sort of stack these like ants onto my identity for various different reasons you know we might talk about inferiority complex. We might talk about the need to impress other people but that's a topic for another video. The point is Jeff agrees with me. It's good to be an ant person rather than just a single sort of single specialized individual. Jeff uses Venus Williams example. Alongside being an absolute legend at tennis, she's been really successful as an entrepreneur with her active wear brand. It's not just some celebrity vanity projects apparently she's heavily involved in the business and she's even taken extra degrees to improve her skill set and to give us something to work on when she retires from tennis. So that's all fine. This idea that we should all try and be learning all these different skills and stacking up all these different kind of bits of our identity. But to be honest, maybe you've got a full-time job, maybe you're saving lives as your day job and it might be quite hard to actually make the time to come home from work and then produce incredible high quality life-changing youtube videos for example. But actually Jeff has got a solution for us. He says that we don't have to do all of this at once and this is actually great because what Jeff says which kind of really resonates with me is that you can get pretty good like almost world cars at almost anything in like five to seven years. And so if we kind of split up our lives into these five to seven year segments like I'm 26 now hopefully got like 12 of these five to seven year segments at least left in my life if the whole anti-aging thing doesn't go the direction that it's sort of heading. That means that for me like I can become like really, really good at like another 12 different things because I'll have like five years to work on them. And I think that's really cool right because especially working in a traditional field like medicine. Usually doctors kind of do their thing and then that's the only thing that they do. And very occasionally you'll get doctors to do stuff on the side and that's really cool. But if we think of our lives in these sort of five to seven year chunks it means that you know I can become a talented dancer or I can become a gym shock athlete or I can become a uh I don't know touring music and like this is so many things I can do. There are so many things that we can do when we think about our lives in those sorts of seasons and I think that's one of the one of the fun ideas from the book. And actually in the book Jeff says that becoming this sort of multi-faceted absolute legend it doesn't just help us in our professional lives. It also helps us like personally. Professionally it means that we're not necessarily restricted to any one career like again to use myself as an example because I'm a narcissistic twat. I'm taking a break from medicine like a one-year sabbatical from medicine in August 2020 and I can do that because I've got these other businesses and this YouTube channel and stuff that make money on the side which gives me the freedom to explore other interests and that's a freedom that a lot of other colleagues that I have people who are also taking time off they don't necessarily have that because instead they have to kind of do locals and do extra shifts to actually make money. But apparently on the personal side as well Jeff says that a lot of the people that he's interviewed it seems like the people who are the happiest in his estimation are the people who have got these sort of this and this and this and that like who have different facets of their identity and their sort of their their lives so they're not overly reliant in any one thing to be going well. I'm not sure how much I buy this like it just seems a little bit strange that stacking up skills is a recipe for happiness but hey maybe that's just the radical liberal side of me talking and maybe this is actually legit. And anyway like success and achievement and accomplishment they all kind of mean different things to different people. We all have different definitions of it but the point is that whatever our definition of success if we set the goal to whatever however we want to get there and then we forget about it and focus on the process and treat motivation as a myth and instead rely on kind of doing action making progress and relying on the dopamine to sustain us then that'll be a recipe for living a healthier, happier, more productive life. As Jeff writes that you'll past inform your future but don't let it define your future. We should forget about relying on some form of motivational spark to kickstart us into action it'll never come. Think about what you want to become, set your goals both personal and professional and start focusing on the process to achieving them. As he says in the book your dreams are important but your plan is what will allow you to achieve your goals and live out your dreams. Don't wait for motivation, get started, work your plan. When you do you'll find all the motivation that you need. Thank you so much for watching.
