# Why you struggle to stay motivated.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l-0FD5NDWLU
Go to our sponsor https://betterhelp.com/aliabdaal for 10% off your first month of therapy with BetterHelp and get matched with a therapist who will listen and help.

I've always been fascinated by motivation and what drives us as humans, and recently I've dived deep into the topic for my book about productivity, but also through reading Freely Determined by Kennon M. Sheldon. So in this video I go over this book and the 4 main types of motivation, and share 5 practical tips on how to stay motivated for whatever it is you want to do. Enjoy x

🎙 Check out my weekly podcast, Deep Dive where I interview entrepreneurs, creators and other inspiring people - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/

🍿WATCH NEXT:
Why Motivation is a Myth: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kzAuvOr-YsM
How to Beat Procrastination: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RP0oVOH4Zz4
5 Tips to Beat Procrastination: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t0VqCDP0rnQ
My Top 10 Time Management Tips: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iONDebHX9qk

⌚️Timestamps:
0:00 Introduction
0:56 Introjected Motivation
1:24 Identified Motivation
2:59 Willpower & Discipline
5:55 Intrinsic Motivation is Fragile
7:55 5 Tips to Stay Motivated

💌  Sign up to my free weekly email newsletter - https://go.aliabdaal.com/subscribe-sundaysnippets

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - 
 https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
🎬 YouTube for Beginners - Everything You Need To Know To Start  - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/YouTube-for-Beginners

MY CREATOR COURSES
🎬 Check out my free 7 day email course on how to become a part-time YouTuber: https://aliabdaal.com/part-time-youtuber-crash-course/
🏆 Creatorpreneur - My flagship course for scaling up your creative side-hustle → https://creatorpreneur.academy/course
🗣 Camera Confidence - My self-paced course on how to improve your creativity, career, or communication skills → https://cameraconfidence.aliabdaal.com/

MY FAVOURITE GEAR
🧑‍💻My MacBook Skin (& other tech): https://dbrand.com/palettes
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) -https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE TOOLS
🚀 VidIQ - How I optimise my YouTube videos - https://go.aliabdaal.com/vidiq
✍️ Shortform - The BEST summaries of books - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
📚  Readwise - How I remember what I read - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise
🎵  Epidemic Sound - Where I get my music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound

MY KEY LINKS
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com/
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I’m Ali, a YouTuber, podcaster, soon-to-be author and ex-Doctor working in London, UK. I make videos that explore the strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. I also have a weekly podcast called Deep Dive (https://www.youtube.com/channel/UChfo46ZNOV-vtehDc25A1Ug), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://go.aliabdaal.com/subscribe-sundaysnippets).

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, motivation, motivation myth, book club, jeff haden, do i need motivation, how to get motivation, motivation to study, how to get motivated, how to achieve goals, is motivation real, how to get motivation to lose weight, motivational video, jeff haden the motivation myth, how to be motivated, motivational, best motivational video, 2020 motivational video, 2020 motivation, the motivation myth, motivation for success, self discipline affirmations, motiaton, 
**Date:** 2023-03-14

## Transcript
 Right, so if we want to understand why we struggle with motivation, we need to understand the four different types of motivation along the motivation spectrum. Okay, so on one end of the spectrum, we have pure intrinsic motivation. This is where you are motivated to do something purely for the joy of doing the thing. You're doing it because it's fun. Intrinsic motivation is video games and hanging out with friends and watching Netflix. We're not doing the thing to get ahead in life, we're doing it because it's just inherently enjoyable. Then on the other end of the spectrum, we have pure extrinsic motivation. This is where the reason you're doing something is 100% to gain a reward or to avoid some kind of punishment. For example, paying a parking fine. No one enjoys paying a parking fine. It's not intrinsically motivating. It's purely intrinsically motivating because you don't want to get letters from the deck collection agency and you don't want to end up in prison. In this video, I want to talk about two other types of motivation along the spectrum that you might not have come across before. And those are identified motivation and introjected motivation. And understanding these four different types of motivation and where they lie along the motivation spectrum is I think the key to staying more motivated with whatever you want to do. So let's define these things. So introjected motivation is where the reason you're doing something is because you would personally feel a sense of shame or guilt if you didn't do the thing. This is the people that say, I'm studying for my exam because if I don't study, I feel guilty because I know my parents have sacrificed a lot for my education. And I don't enjoy the exam. I'm not even sure if I actually want to do this degree, but I'm doing it because I feel really guilty if I didn't. It's not like your parents are going to whip you with a stick if you didn't study for that exam. But it is a form of motivation where you're kind of feeling guilty, you're kind of beating yourself up for not doing the thing. And then along the spectrum we have identified motivation. And identified motivation is the key to staying motivated to do things that you actually don't like doing. And identified motivation is where the reason you're doing the thing is not because the thing is inherently pleasurable and enjoyable. But the reason you're doing the thing is because you've integrated within yourself the importance of doing the thing. And that this whole thing intrinsic extrinsic motivation, understanding what motivates us, is part of a theory in psychology called self-determination theory, which these two guys DC and Ryan came up with in the 1960s. And for the last 50, 60 years this has been the primary theory in psychology to actually understand motivation. Within self-determination theory there is a mini theory called organismic integration theory, bit of a mouthful. And that is the theory that explains this concept of identified motivation. Now for this video I'm going to be citing evidence from self-determination theory, but I'm also going to be referencing this book freely determined by Professor Kenan Sheldon, who's also a researcher in the field of motivation. Now most of this book talks about the concepts of free will and determinism and behaviorism and stuff, but there's one chapter within it that just blew the my freaking mind when it came to understanding motivation. And that chapter I think is chapter four is where I kind of got this stuff from. And then I read a bunch of papers as well that Professor Sheldon sites at the end of the book. And now I feel like I have a way better understanding of how motivation works. Anyway, all that citation aside, really understanding identified motivation is the ultimate key to staying motivated. So coming back to our exam analogy, identified motivation is I'm studying for this exam. It's not intrinsically enjoyable to study for this exam. But to me, becoming a doctor at the end of this six years of my medical degree is really important. I've integrated that identity into my sense of self. It's not that external forces are telling me I have to become a doctor, but I genuinely want that thing. Now I want to take a little bit of a side at the moment to talk about the idea of willpower and discipline. There is one school of philosophy which I, you know, used to subscribe to, which is that motivation is a myth. And today we're talking about the motivation made screw motivation. What you need is discipline. What you need is willpower. Do the hard things even when you don't feel like it. You're a f***, you don't do the hard thing. There's a very kind of punitive and like whip-based form of motivation. And that works for a lot of people, but it also doesn't work for like an absolute ton more people. And so the reason why I think it's important to understand the stuff around self-determination theory and motivation is because if you, like me, are one of those people that struggle with the side you have discipline, and you kind of don't want to be suffering through life, then it's worth understanding actually where motivation comes from rather than trying to kind of jackhammer all the way through it using this constructive discipline. Obviously discipline is still important, and there are some areas where micro-discipline or micro-willpower is needed, but the main thing we want to try and do to stay more motivated is to generate identified motivation, or in an absolutely dream world, in a dream world, in a dream world, you would actually enjoy the thing. So for me, when I was in med school, I found a way to actually enjoy studying for exams. I did things to make it more intrinsically motivating. I got my friends together, we would all study in the same library. I color-coded my timetables so it felt like I was making more progress. I would have Lord of the Rings and parts of the Caribbean playing through my headphones so that it felt like I was in more of an adventure. I would go around to different coffee shops and libraries around Cambridge so that it would feel as if I'm having a bit more fun. And all of those things were things that I tried to do to make studying for exams more intrinsically enjoyable, more pleasurable, more motivating. Now this whole video is about reasons why you might not be feeling motivated and how to get over those. But one big thing that we're not discussing in this video is the emotional and mental health side of that equation where you might not be feeling motivated because there's some issues that you might find it worth discussing with a therapist. And if you're looking for one of those, then you might like to check out better help who are very kindly sponsoring this video. Now better help is the world's largest therapy service and it's 100% online. They let you tap into a network of over 25,000 licensed and experienced therapists who can help you with a whole wide range of issues. And to get started, you just answer a few questions about your needs in preferences and therapy. And that way better help can match you with the right therapist from their network. You can message your therapist at any time and you can schedule sessions whenever it's convenient for you. And if your therapist is not right for you for whatever reason, you can switch to another one completely free of charge. Now I actually tried one of the better help therapists a few months ago when I was having a few like uncertain thoughts about like my YouTube channel and what direction I'm taking to business. And even though the guy had no experience of actually running a business, the fact that he was the therapist meant that he was able to kind of talk through the problems with me. And I found that just having that half an hour session where we actually just went through these issues really helped me in getting clarity on what I wanted in terms of the direction that my life was going. And with better help, you basically get the same vibe and professionalism of an in-person therapist, but it's way more affordable and it's way more flexible because you can do it online. Anyway, if any of that sounds up your street and you'd like to try a therapist on better help, then head over to betterhelp.com forward-flash-alien-thall, that's best for help HELP. And if you use that link, which is also in the video description, then you get 10% off your first month. That's better help.com forward-flash-alien-thall, and thank you so much for helping me with this video. Intrinsic motivation is fragile. Even when something starts off as being fun, it often does not stay that way. Being a YouTuber, started off on a state for me as being fun, because I was making videos for fun, it was great banter, and stuff. But eventually you get to a point where, like, I want to stay consistent, I need to grow my channel. I don't feel like it. It's not fun anymore. Similarly, people that go to the gym have this thing where it's normally going to the gym as fun, but there are some days where you just don't feel like it. That is where your Intrinsic motivation has run out. Now at this point, if you want to stay motivated, you either rely on willpower and discipline and great to know that kind of stuff, or you try and find a way to be like hang on. How do I connect this to my internal sense of self so that I actually personally fundamentally care about the result that I'm striving for? And the answer here is in one word. And that word is autonomy. Autonomy is a fancy way of saying ownership or control. And for our motivation to feel like it's more intrinsic rather than extrinsic, we have to feel as if we have control over the outcome, we have control over the process, we have control over the mindset that we approach the thing with. So if, for example, you're studying a university degree because your parents are forcing you to study that university degree, that is taking autonomy away from you. And there's so many studies that have shown that if you take autonomy away from kids, like parents that force their children to play the piano, then the kid will lose the intrinsic joy and motivation they had for the thing in the first place. You often see this when it comes to religion and culture as well and actually can excite a bunch of evidence, which is super interesting papers you can check them out if you want to. Like generally if you're an immigrant to a country, your family will want you to retain some elements of your culture and or your religion. And the more heavy-handed people are with like forcing you to, pray five times a day or whatever the thing might be or like go to church on weekends or whatever, the more likely the kid is to rebel against that because they feel that autonomy is being taken away from them. And they feel like, okay, I'm going to church because I feel guilty, I'm going to the most because I have to rather than because I want to. And actually a bunch of these studies interestingly show that if parents are more autonomy supportive where they support the child's autonomy and don't force them into doing things that they don't want to do, then the child is actually way more likely to internally generate this identified motivation to feel as if they themselves want to stay connected to their culture or to their religion. For example, so what does this mean for us? Having understood these four different types of motivation, how do we actually stay motivated for things? Well, as we talked about the key is identified motivation. And within that we want to set what's called self-concordant goals. When we're setting a goal, we want to be asking ourselves, why do I actually want to do this thing? And the more we can connect that to a sense of autonomy, I'm doing this because I choose to, I'm doing it because I actually want the outcome personally. No one is forcing me to, society is not forcing me to. This is actually what I want. The more likely we are to be able to integrate that within our sense of self, the more likely we are to have identified motivation, which is a quick better form of venture extrinsic motivation compared to interjected or pure external motivation. Strategy number two that we can use to help generate identified motivation is when we're feeling that our motivation for a thing is running dry. That's when we need to try and consciously remind ourselves that we actually genuinely care about the outcome. For example, when I don't feel like going to the gym, I sit down and I spend five minutes negotiating with myself in my head and reminding myself that no, getting fit and taking care of my health is genuinely something I'm interested in. I imagine myself at the age of 50 or 60 wanting to play with my grandkids. And I imagine that I really want to have a body that's like flexible and mobile and that can do those things. And so I'm trying my best to cognitively and somewhat emotionally remind myself that I actually care about the reward at the end of this and I care about the reason why I'm going to the gym rather than just because going to the gym is inherently pleasurable. Strategy number three for generating more identified motivation and therefore staying motivated in the long term is to set identity based goals. So again to use the gym example, this is not I want to go to the gym so I can have six pack abs because that is kind of extrinsic. It's kind of external, but it's not really an identity. It's I want to go to the gym because I want to be and I am the sort of person who takes care of my health. And this is a strategy that I've been using for the last few weeks to get more into cooking. And so I set myself the identity goal of becoming a cooking adventurer. Cooking adventurer, whether he'll do that me. I don't know, it's just a phrase that I made up, but it's an identity that I aspire to have. I would like to be the sort of person that that treats cooking as if it's a bit of an adventure and that has fun while doing it. But ultimately the reason I've been more motivated to do cooking in the last few weeks that I ever had before in my life is because I think I've set an identity based goal for it. Strategy number four, genuinely trying to find a way to make the thing more intrinsically motivating. This is something that Professor Andrew Hewman talks about in the Hewman Lab podcast. In those moments of the most intense friction, you tell yourself, this is very painful and because it's painful, it will evoke an increase in dopamine release later, but you also have to tell yourself that in that moment you are doing it by choice and you're doing it because you love it. When you can try and associate reward with the challenge of the task itself, where you can genuinely try and get enjoyment out of the the heavy lift that you're doing at the gym or that kind of brain work you're putting yourself through to study for your exam. When you can trick your brain into thinking that that's genuinely fun, then over time, it genuinely starts to be fun and you start looking forward to the challenge of the thing itself rather than to the reward at the end. And that's absolutely amazing because now you've generated almost unlimited intrinsic motivation for the thing. And strategy number five here is really about mindset because one of the key things that we see from the literature around autonomy is that you can convince yourself that you actually do have more control in a situation than you think. And even if you don't have control over the process, you know, you can't do things in a way you have to follow a certain step by step guide, you can always have control over your mindset. You can always take autonomy over your own mind. But whenever I find myself thinking I have to do something, I replace that with either I get to do the thing or I'm choosing to do the thing. Because fundamentally, no one ever has to do anything. Like I don't have to go to work. Like when I was working, I didn't have to go to work every morning. Well, I did because if I didn't go to work, I would lose my job, I'd lose my medical license stuff. But if I can convince myself that I'm choosing to go to work, or even better that I get to go to work, or even better that I am blessed to be able to go to the hospital and save lives every day. Now, even if every other thing about my life stays absolutely the same and like the circumstances of the job have not changed, and I feel like I actually don't have autonomy over the outcome or the process, at least I've taken control and ownership and autonomy over the mindset with which I'm approaching the thing. And that makes it far more likely that I'd be able to generate this magical identified motivation for the task rather than having to rely on pure extrinsic motivation and infrejective motivation, which generally feel pretty bad. Sometimes even when we have identified motivation for doing a thing, it's still a bit of a struggle to get started, and this is where procrastination comes in. And if you want tips on how to beat that level of procrastination, you can check out this video over here, which is all about my guide on how to beat procrastination. Thank you so much for watching, and I'll see you in the next one. Bye-bye.
