# My Favourite iPad Pro Apps
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l2DeCc0GkBg
Rosetta Stone - http://bit.ly/RosettaStonexAli
- Use the coupon code ALI50 to get 50% off 😁

In this video, I talk through some of my favourite apps for my iPad Pro. Enjoy xx

💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking 

📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

TIMESTAMPS

00:21 - Productivity and Utilities - Outlook, Fantastical, Things
01:20 - Learning and Education - Rosetta Stone, Quizlet, Google Sheets
03:38 - Writing - Day One, Notability, Bear, Evernote, Ulysses
05:41 - Reading - Kindle, Pocket, Unread
06:52 - Music and Photo - Sight Reading Factory, Tabs HD, Lightroom CC

🎬 My online course on video editing - https://skl.sh/32TpEvm
🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal


Who am I:

I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

My most popular videos:

- How I take notes on my iPad Pro in medical school - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=waR3xBDHMqw
- Mu 2018 university desk setup - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zdew7At9S2U
- How to study for exams - Evidence based revision tips - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ukLnPbIffxE
- Study with Me + My revision method - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yiRYn97GJhM
- iPad Pro vs iPad (2018) comparison for college / university students - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tIdU4Sw6a5Y
**Keywords:** ipad, ipad pro, ipad apps, ipad apps 2019, ipad pro apps, ipad pro apps 2019, best ipad apps, whats on my ipad, ali abdaal, ipad app review, ipad 2019, 
**Date:** 2019-01-20

## Transcript
 Hey guys, welcome back to the channel. If you're new here, my name is Ali. I'm a junior doctor working in Cambridge and a very happy new year to you. We're going to be kicking off 2019 with this video where I'm going to be taking a through some of my favorite apps on my iPad Pro and as usual everything is going to be mentioned in timestamps and categorized by category in the video description and in the pinned comment so you can skip around if you like it. But yeah, let's just jump into it. Alright, so we'll start by just blitzing through some of the general productivity slash utility apps that I use. So Microsoft Outlook is my email client of choice. It gets a job done. It's pretty it's fast. It works. The calendar app that I use is called Fantasical and the nice thing about that is that it's got good natural language processing which means I could type meeting with Prof Sprout tomorrow 5pm at costor or something like that and it will just recognise all the different elements of that event and I'll be able to add it to my calendar with a single click. So that's why I like using Fantasical and the app that I use for my to-do list is called things. I use this on my Mac and my iPhone as well and you know it's just nice. You can split up your to-do lists into different areas of your life. So six med is my company. YouTube obviously and all these different categories of videos that I want to make. And you know you can add notes to that and it really makes adding stuff to my to-do list a pleasure which is good because then it gets out of my head and into the app and that means I don't have to think about what I need to do. I can just kind of go on the app and see a list in front of me. Alright, so let's now talk about the apps that I use for learning an educational stuff and top of this list is Rosetta Stone who are very kindly sponsoring this video and I've been using Rosetta Stone to learn Japanese for the last few months. I started learning Japanese because I went there on a research program in my second year of medical school and then really enjoyed myself but then I thought at some point I'd like to do some kind of medical placement in Japan and it's kind of useful to be able to speak Japanese if you want to do medical stuff there. So one of my new years resolutions for 2019 is to try and do a little bit of Japanese every day using the app. So if I'm on the toilet or something I'll just bust out Rosetta Stone in my phone or if I'm just sitting at my desk or if I'm at work and I've got nothing to do for five or ten minutes I'll just bust it out on the iPad and just work through some of the lessons. It makes it quite easy. It's quite fun. You get these like little points at the end of every section and it's quite nicely gamified so using the app doesn't feel like work. If you're interested in learning a language you can use my coupon code which will be linked over here and in the video description and if you use the discount you can get Rosetta Stone for just five pounds a month and yeah it does cost money but I think if you're serious about learning a language that's a price well with paying another app I'm going to be using for learning this year is Quizlet which is a flash card app. It's an alternative to Ankey I used to use Ankey Medical School but I've now switched to Quizlet because I think the interface is slightly nicer and it looks a little bit prettier and I'm going to be using Quizlet to prepare for some of my postgraduate medical exams so that's either going to be the MRCOG which is the exam for obstetrics and gynecology or is going to be the MRCP which is the membership of the Royal College of Physicians. I haven't quite decided yet which kind of specialty I want to go down. Previously I fully thought I was going to go for obstetrics but now I'm considering maybe going for a cute medicine or emergency medicine so depending on what I decide with that I'll be using Quizlet as my flash card app of choice to kind of work towards these postgraduate medical exams. Another app that I use for learning regularly is actually Google Sheets and I actually use that as a sort of flash card alternative when I don't want to go through the rigmarole of making a flash card on Quizlet or Ankey. I just write myself questions on the side of a Google Sheet. So for example this is my Active Requels spreadsheet for 2018 and I've got some questions written on the side with colour coding based on whether I got them right last time I tried it and then I've got the answers written in white text in the in column number B and then you can see the answer is at the bottom so if I need to look at the answer I can see it and I'll be doing a much more detailed video about exactly how I use Google Sheets in the next couple of weeks hopefully. Let's talk about apps that I use for writing now and there are five in this category and I actually use all of them on an almost daily basis. The first one is day one which is what I use for journaling so I write down stuff about my day and add some photos and I also have like a little journal for nice comments so I screenshot all the nice comments that people have given me and I put them into this. So then when I'm feeling sad I can just browse through some of the nice comments that you guys have sent. So day one is my journaling app of choice. If I'm making handwritten notes then the app I use is no-tability and no-tability is wonderful. It's very easy to use the Apple Pencil to write stuff by hand and I also use it to store like textbooks and just store my to-do lists for stuff that I have to do at work each day and again I'll do a much more detailed video about that and I'll put a link up there to a video that I made last year. I've got quite popular about exactly how I use no-tability to take notes when I was a medical student. Thirdly the app I use for like every day just typed out notes is bear writer so for example if I'm planning out a YouTube video or something like that I'd make a little bear document and the nice thing about bear is that it's very nice interface it feels very cool and I quite enjoy writing on it and I also use it to track things like my gym workouts and it's just like a very nice, simple, easy-to-use mock-down based writing app that doesn't have all the bells and whistles that's something like Evernote does. Speaking of Evernote that's another app that I use regularly but I think this year I'm only really going to be using Evernote for my medical work related stuff. So for example if I'm preparing for my MRCP or MRCOG exam then I'll be making my kind of main notes in Evernote like typed up stuff and like drawing different resources together but I won't really be using it as a general note taking out like I have in the past because I prefer bear for that purpose. And finally an app that I use on a weekly basis is Udoses which is what I use to write my weekly email and use letters and my blog posts which you can check out in the link in the description below and yeah it's just really nice to write in you can write in Markdown and you can write in different styles and the nice thing about this is that it's a very distraction-free writing experience and it's kind of just a pleasure to write on it so okay friends it's how I start all of my emails and you can check out the previous issues of my email newsletter if you feel like it. All right let's talk about apps that I use for reading now and on this list there are three things firstly there's the Kindle app. I don't actually read much on my iPad because I have an actual Kindle for that and I think the experience of reading a book on the actual Kindle is much much better than reading that same book on the Kindle app on the iPad but one thing that's nice about the Kindle app on the iPad is that it's very easy to flick around through books and to see my highlights and notes so for example from atomic habits these are all my highlights it's quite a few highlights and if I ever need something or need some inspiration for an email or a blog post I can just kind of quickly browse through my highlights and you know it's just it's just right there so this is kind of my main purpose for having Kindle on my iPad secondly I use pocket on my iPhone and my iPad to save articles that I want to read but I don't have time there and then to read so I save those to my pocket and finally the RSS reader that I use on my iPad is called on-red so I follow about 50 different blogs and it's a pain in the bump going on every website and such a complete waste of time so something like on-red just you know it's an RSS feed aggregator it aggregates all the different blog posts that I follow and if I want to I can sort of sorted by categories so you know doctors medical ethics minimalism money productivity and stuff like that so that is the RSS reader of choice all right three more apps that I want to mention two of them are related to music one of them is site reading factory which is the app that I'm using to practice my site reading on the piano and then I think about that is that it just randomly generates different pieces of music based on a difficulty level and if you set a key so I can just select a key um a difficulty level and it would create a random piece of music for me which then I can use on a piano and kind of play along and then I can play along with a metronome and all this sort of stuff and then if I want I can just refresh it and it generates an entirely new piece of music which has just been really good for learning site reading although it is more boring than playing through pieces that I already know but hey what can you do? Secondly in the music department we've got tabs HD which I also got my iPhone and it's just the indispensable resource to get guitar tabs or piano chords for pretty much any song in the world so if I'm doing a jam session with my friends or if I'm bored at home and I just want to sing a song I can just type in the name of the song I don't know let's fields of gold by sting and it just tells me the chords and I can play the chords while singing along and add you know happiness and joy to my life and hopefully to the lives of my neighbors as well finally the app that I use for editing photos for my Instagram is the Lightroom CC and I usually take photos on my drone or on my phone or on my camera and raw format and then I transfer them to the iPad using the SD card or using AirDrop or whatever and then I'll be able to edit them using Lightroom um and Lightroom is like a really nice interface it feels very natural to edit photos using using Lightroom and using kind of gesture controls and using the Apple Pencil to change things like contrast exposure this that and the other so this for example is the river Nile from my trip to Sudan from a few days ago and this is the before edited version this is the after edited version having changed a few of the colors and up the contrast a little bit so yeah Lightroom is the app that I use for photo editing alright so that was a roundup of some of my favorite apps for the iPad for 2019 I hope you enjoyed it if you like the video please give it a thumbs up if you haven't subscribed to the channel yet then please consider doing so have a lovely day and I will see you in the next video goodbye
