# CORONAVIRUS vs. The Flu - A Comparison
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=l5nr-SnRsK8
In this video I'm gonna do a basic comparison of the Coronavirus against the flu (influenza). All this information is based on research done up to March 10, 2020.

Edinburgh University research: https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6815659/
Donald Trump conference: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wi35088F1Ns&t=513s

💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking 
📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

My Spotify profile - https://open.spotify.com/user/1111404728?si=7QYptBTLREWbU1OCHHxrBw

🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal

Who am I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 


If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭
**Keywords:** coronavirus, covid-19, covid19, what is coronavirus, coronavirus basics, coronavirus outbreak, news, coronavirus update, coronavirus symptoms, coronavirus pandemic, center for disease control, coronavirus prevention, coronavirus latest news, novel coronavirus, coronavirus explained, virus protection, corona virus, how to avoid coronavirus, avoid coronavirus, coronavirus spread, coronavirus transmission, coronavirus against the flu, corona virus vs the flu, influenza coronavirus, 
**Date:** 2020-03-11

## Transcript
 So one of the interesting things that seems to be coming up quite often in this whole coronavirus crisis is the similarities and differences between coronavirus or Covid-19 and the bog standard seasonal flu influenza that we get every year. Some people are saying that this novel coronavirus is a lot more deadly, but we've got other people including me in previous videos, sort of implying that actually the standard seasonal flu kills loads of people every year and no one bats an eyelid over that. So in this video I want to discuss the issue with hopefully a little bit more nuanced than I did in a previous video so we're going to be talking about the similarities and differences between coronavirus and the seasonal flu in terms of symptoms in terms of treatment and most excitingly in terms of the mortality statistics and how bad each of these things are for you from the information we've got so far. Okay so point number one is about the symptoms. How do you know whether you have coronavirus, Covid-19 or whether you just have the seasonal flu? And honestly the truth is just based on symptoms alone, it's really quite hard to know. So this table is drawn up from information from the World Health Organization and from the National Health Service, the NHS of the UK. And you'll see that the symptoms of Covid-19 versus the seasonal flu are pretty common. The main things in Covid-19 seem to be a fever and dry cough, but to be honest you also get those with the flu. And yeah because the both respiratory viruses essentially there's a lot of overlap in the symptoms. Interestingly the WHO is estimating that the incubation period of Covid-19 is about 14 days. Are you that's the amount of time that it can stay in your system before it starts to give you symptoms? Whereas with the standard seasonal flu the incubation time is a lot shorter to people estimate about three days ish between catching the virus and developing symptoms. But again it's really hard to tell the difference between the two just on the basis of that. Like how will you know when you caught the virus and how will you be able to save for certain when you started developing symptoms of the thing? And we can't really use that as a differentiator between whether we've got Covid-19 or whether we've got the standard flu. And as usual different countries have different ways of resolving the conundrum. So in the UK for example we've got the NHS one on one helpline but you can call up and if you think you might have the flu or you might have Covid-19 they'll be able to guide you appropriately and one of the things they check is you know have you traveled to this list of countries, have you had contact with anyone who's confirmed to have Covid-19 which massively increases your own risk of getting it. Whereas if you've just got the symptoms but you don't have any of the epidemiological factors then it's more likely to be the flu rather than Covid-19. But the main message here is that you really can't tell just based on symptoms alone so please do whichever country you're in contact your local health care provider do not go into hospital thinking you have Covid-19 because then you're just going to be infecting other people. I'm sure every country will have their own systems for doing the test in an isolated space. So for example in the UK we've got these kind of coronavirus pods outside most hospitals. People use dry through services where you can just drive in your car someone will swab your mouth and then they'll do the test without you running the risk of infecting other people. Okay so we've said that the symptoms of the two are basically the same but what about the treatments and how does that differ? Firstly in terms of medication antibiotics will not work because antibiotics are antibacterial agents and both Covid-19 coronavirus and the seasonal flu are caused by viruses and antibiotics do not work against viruses so there is literally no point in taking antibiotics if you think you have either of them. Antivirus are a bit more complicated so in China in the US and in a few other countries they're working on trials where they're trying out drugs that we know work against some viruses like HIV and try to see whether they might work against coronavirus as well. In terms of the seasonal flu we do have a drug called Osil Tamavir or Tamiflu that is sometimes given to patients who have severe symptoms within the first 48 hours but unfortunately we don't really have an analogue to Tamiflu in the coronavirus COVID-19 cases. Secondly in terms of vaccines there is a big difference between COVID-19 and the flu. The flu does have a vaccine whereas coronavirus COVID-19 I'm just going to call it COVID-19. COVID-19 does not have a vaccine just yet. People are estimating that it'll be at least 12 to 18 months before we get a vaccine developed and in circulation for COVID-19. Whereas the vaccine kind of system for the seasonal flu is very well established in every year scientists around the world figure out what that that year's kind of common dangerous strain of the seasonal flu is going to be and make a vaccine against that and at least in the UK that gets given to a loaded people. So for example people who work in healthcare settings I get the flu vaccine every year. People who are old people who have other medical problems there's also a criteria for who can get the vaccine and in fact in the UK if you want you can just go get the vaccine even if you don't fit into the criteria. So so far it's sounding like there's not a lot we can do about coronavirus. We don't have any medication that works against it. We're trying out some antivirals and the hope fingers crossed that they might work and we don't have a vaccine for it. And in fact with COVID-19 the only thing we can really do is offer supportive treatment for the people who need it. So supportive treatment basically means helping your body to breathe while your body naturally fights against the disease. So this is what they do in intensive care. Sometimes with things like mechanical ventilation, sometimes with assisted ventilation it helps the patient breathe essentially like maintaining the respiratory function while they're immune system is fighting of the virus. This is pretty similar to the treatment for seasonal flu as well. So every year thousands of patients are hospitalized because of the seasonal flu and again the management is mostly supportive. They can end up on ventilatory support basically helping them breathing while they're in body fights of the virus. The good news is that in the case of COVID-19 and also in the case of the flu most people the majority 80% around 80% for COVID-19 will have mild symptoms which means they don't need help with their breathing. But the bad news is that even though only about 15 to 20% of the patients actually get severe complications as a result of COVID-19 the fact that it's going around and growing at an exponential rate means that depending on how many people it infects in the population the number of beds in hospitals that can provide ventilatory support might be a limiting factor. So in Italy for example where there are currently 9172 confirmed cases of COVID-19 as of the 10th of March when I'm recording this video we've seen a few comments from Italian doctors specialising in intensive care via Twitter and Facebook and stuff that are saying that the country has run out of intensive care beds to the point where you know elective operations are having to be cancelled and operating theatres are being converted into intensive care units because they just need so many more ITU beds in order to deal with the load of the virus. Now this is actually very concerning. In the UK for example at the moment we only have 373 confirmed cases of COVID-19 and again the majority of those are going to be mild. But there are more and more people starting to get admitted into intensive care in order to provide an ventilatory support. So if the virus spreads around the UK to the extent that it has an Italy or maybe worse there is a risk that we might run out of intensive care beds and that would cause an enormous load on the healthcare system and that would mean that there would be some patients who need respiratory support but who physically can't get it because all of the beds are full. At the moment thankfully we're not quite there in the UK but we know that Italy is basically as developed as the UK in terms of a healthcare system possibly even more and they are really really struggling to deal with the implications of the coronavirus and in fact in Italy apparently the hospitals are strapped to 200% of the normal capacity which is completely unsustainable for any reasonable length of time. Okay so we've looked at the symptoms and the possible treatments for COVID-19 and the seasonal flu. Let's now compare them mortality rates like which of those is actually more dangerous so far. Firstly seasonal flu according to research from the University of Edinburgh hits around 40 million people each year around the world 40 million of which around 400,000 people die every year but that gives us a mortality figure of less than 1%. You might even have seen a glorious leader President Donald Trump talking about this idea in a recent news conference. He said that in America alone the standard seasonal flu kills between 25,069,000 people per year and estimates that over the last 10 years 360,000 people have died of the seasonal flu in America. Now in this case President Trump's statistics are broadly accurate and when you compare those tens of thousands of people in America alone who die each year from the flu compared to the 23 people who have died so far from COVID-19, that seems like a very large number of the standard flu compared to a very small number of deaths caused by COVID-19. But unfortunately there are some other statistics that paint a less optimistic picture of COVID-19. So you know how we said that the mortality rate for the seasonal flu is about 1%. If we look at the figures for COVID-19 so far off the 116,558 confirmed cases we have 4,90 deaths which puts the mortality rate around about 3 and a bit per cent. So based on the data so far COVID-19 is about 3 times more likely to kill you than the seasonal flu in fairness and something that will complicate this debate a little bit is the fact that that figure is probably a little bit too high. So for example Professor Chris Witte who is the chief medical officer of England he says that actually the overall mortality rate for COVID-19 is probably closer to 1% if not less than 1%. Which have put it at a similar footing to the seasonal flu. And the reason why that's not accounted for in the data so far is that because a disproportion number of cases were in the few bay province of China, which is where the outbreak first started and that was not quite prepared to deal with the ramifications of the disease and the fact that there are so many cases that are probably roaming around that haven't been tested officially for COVID-19. So remember these 116,558 confirmed cases so far are just that they are confirmed cases that people who have had the test and who have tested positive for it. So in reality the number of people who actually have the condition but just have mild symptoms like 80% of people infected with a virus do might not even know that they have the disease at all and therefore wouldn't be accounted for in that overall confirmed cases estimate. The other thing to keep in mind that isn't really mentioned when people talk about this whole flu versus coronavirus thing is the fact that we know what the flu is, we know it's natural progression, we've developed vaccines for it, we've got treatments for it, we know what the score is and yeah it's unfortunate that every of 40 million people get infected by it and 400,000 people will die from it but it is the enemy that we know about. Whereas the problem at the moment is that coronavirus COVID-19 is the enemy that we don't know about. We don't really know a lot about it yet. We know roughly some details, we know vaguely what kind of symptoms it causes and we do thankfully have a test that confirms or rejects whether or whether or not you have the condition. But we don't have any treatments, we don't have any vaccines, we don't know how quickly it's going to spread, we don't even really know for certain how COVID-19 is spread, our best theory which I think is probably right is that it's an airborne virus particle disease but it's not 100% confirmed yet. So yeah COVID-19 is a massive great area and the fact that it seems to be accelerating at an exponential rate like every day we're seeing more and more cases and the fact that a lot of the world isn't yet prepared for dealing with it and in fact a lot of the world isn't even really taking it seriously. All that means that we're dealing with an enemy here that we really don't know much about and that could be a lot worse than we've anticipated. So this comparison between coronavirus and the flu, yes it works on some levels but it usually fails to appreciate the fact that it's a lot easier to deal with something you know about like the flu. It's a lot harder to deal with something you don't know about that is spreading through society, seemingly like wildfire and that is causing problems already for first world healthcare systems that are not able to cope with it. Finally just quickly talking about the effects and society of coronavirus versus the flu. Yeah every year 40 million people get the flu 40 or 40 thousand people dive it but like really no one actually cares like we don't stop events the global financial markets don't shut down we don't close schools and businesses and stuff because of the flu. We certainly don't put entire countries into lockdown because of the flu. On the other hand because of COVID-19 because of the uncertainty that's been surrounding it about like we don't really know how long the incubation period is we don't really know how quickly it's going to spread. All of these factors mean that we're taking as a society and it's a good thing that we are taking lots of precautions to try and delay its spread or even contain its spread. And so for example around the world there's been a huge list of high-profile events that would involve mass gatherings of people you'll see them a list over there somewhere. All these events have had to be cancelled because of the coronavirus. This talk that the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Tokyo 2020 are going to be cancelled it's talk that you're a 2020 the football tournament is also going to be cancelled and on top of this we've also got the economic impact of the coronavirus which we've never really before seen with without break of the seasonal flu. So for example the stock market has taken an absolute dive over the last few days to weeks to the point where people are comparing it to the 2008 financial crisis and on a more micro scale like if you get businesses and schools and communities shutting down obviously that's going to have an impact on society far more so with COVID-19 than these seasonal flu does. So that was an outline of the similarities and differences between the two as usual we want to be hashtag alert not anxious. Panicking is never the right solution but with the information that's been coming out every day this is seeming like more and more of a global threat and so we really should take it seriously and we certainly shouldn't be using the comparison with the seasonal flu as a reason for being complacent about the threat of the coronavirus. As usual you'll find links in the video description to more helpful resources on the topic. Stay healthy, stay happy and hopefully I'll see you in the next video. Bye bye.
