# 15 Books To Read to Change Your Life
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lCrMAtbBUJA
To improve your thinking and learn new skills, visit https://brilliant.org/ali and sign up for free. The first 200 people will get 20% off the annual Premium subscription :)

In this video, I talk through 15 of my favourite books that I read in 2021. If you're looking for some recommendations for the New Year, I'd 100% recommend everything on this list. Enjoy!

To get a free bullet-point summary every time I read a book in 2022, sign up to my newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/ :) 

Four Thousand Weeks - https://geni.us/qxNSz
Unconditional Parenting - https://geni.us/QN22
Never Split the Difference - https://geni.us/d7z9PsL
Die With Zero - https://geni.us/mNpp3
Happy Sexy Millionaire - https://geni.us/1wRHTk
Can’t Hurt Me - https://geni.us/PYKqw
Educated - https://geni.us/fL69kAP
How to Not Die Alone - https://geni.us/sFemNR
The Millionaire Fastlane - https://geni.us/Xyqz
Traction - https://geni.us/JINW
It Doesn’t Have to be Crazy at Work - https://geni.us/f9S8S4
The Great CEO Within - https://geni.us/jrMmh
The New One Minute Manager - https://geni.us/7BzbAhR
The Four Obsessions of an Extraordinary Executive - https://geni.us/pbz0q

00:00 Intro
00:20 Four Thousand Weeks
01:32 Unconditional Parenting
04:58 Never Split the Difference
06:15 Die With Zero
09:41 Happy Sexy Millionaire
11:19 Can’t Hurt Me
12:37 Educated
13:33 How to Not Die Alone
13:53 The Millionaire Fastlane
14:45 Traction
16:33 It Doesn’t Have to be Crazy at Work
18:05 The Great CEO Within
18:38 The New One Minute Manager
19:13 The Four Obsessions of an Extraordinary Executive

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

PART-TIME YOUTUBER ACADEMY:
🍿 My 6-week live online course - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ptya_aliabdaal

MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
✍️ The best summaries of books (Shortform) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
📚  How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
Deep Dive Podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/
The podcast that delves into the minds of entrepreneurs, creators and other inspiring people to uncover the philosophies, strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. You can find it by searching “Deep Dive with Ali Abdaal” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc).
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali

🎙 Deep Dive podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/
The podcast that delves into the minds of entrepreneurs, creators and other inspiring people to uncover the philosophies, strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. You can find it by searching “Deep Dive” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮  Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I’m Ali, a YouTuber, podcaster, soon-to-be author and ex-Doctor working in London, UK. I make videos that explore the strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. I also have a weekly podcast called Deep Dive (https://www.youtube.com/channel/UChfo46ZNOV-vtehDc25A1Ug), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).


GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, Ali abdaal Reading, Ali Abdaal Books, Books, Best Books to Read in 2022, Best Books of 2021, ali abdaal productivity, books to read in 2022, life changing books, book recommendations 2021, book recommendations, books to read, best books, Ali Abdaal How To Read More, How To Read More, books that will change your life, 
**Date:** 2022-01-07

## Transcript
 Hey friends, welcome back to the channel. Today we are going to do a little bit of an annual roundup of 15 books that I read this year that have had some sort of impact on me. We're going to go over 10 books that had an impact on my personal life in terms of dating relationships, mindset, productivity, and general good vibes about really living a happy healthy life. And five books that had a big impact on the business as a whole, let's go into it. The first one is 4,000 weeks by all of a bookman. Now this is subtitle time and how to use it, and it's sort of like a productivity book about like time management. But it's not really, it's like a philosophical approach to time management. And really, his whole vibe is that life is finite. We're all going to die someday. And therefore the way that we choose to manage our time and be intentional with the small time we have on this earth is like really important. But also he like rails against the classic productivity guru stuff about like you can do everything if you manage your to do this properly. His vibe is more like, look, let's just accept that we're never going to actually make the time for all the things that we actually want to do. And let's be okay with that. And let's keep that in mind as we figure out what to do with our time. So it's really good. It was very heartwarming. I listened to an older bull. And I actually interviewing him on my deep dive podcast, link below if you haven't subscribed to the deep dive podcast. But the thing I took away from this was really just being a little kind of to myself when it came to things like productivity and time management. And if I don't get all the things I wanted to do done in the given day, if I end up not responding to people on email or what's happened stuff, it's like, ah, that's okay. In a dream world, that would be on top of absolutely everything. And I'd be crushing it on all across all fronts and replied to everyone within three seconds of them sending me a message. But in the real world, that's not going to happen. And it's just cool to be okay with that. So I thought this was a very nice fresh take on the whole productivity thing that I really enjoyed. All right, next on the list, we have unconditional parenting by Alfie Cohen. Now, Alfie Cohen is a child psychologist. Also, it might be weird that I'm reading a book of that parenting. But genuinely, I think this book is really interesting. If you're a parent, but also if you're not a parent because if you've ever been a kid and ever had parents who parented you in a particular way or another, it'll be interesting to hear what the evidence is around some of these practices. And basically the whole vibe of unconditional parenting is that there is a type of parenting conditional parenting kind of, which is where a child feels as if they are loved for the things that they do, rather than for who they are. And so things like praise, apparently praise is problematic. And one of the things that Alfie talks about is how when we praise children like, oh, well, Don Johnny, you did really well in that math test. Johnny starts to associate his own self worth with him doing well in the math test. Well, Don Johnny, you played with someone else and you shared and they start to associate like, yeah, they start to stop feeling as if they are loved for who they are, but instead feel as if they're loved for what they do. And that's like super interesting. So like praise is a bad, apparently punishment is bad, apparently rewards are bad as well. And just like a really, really engaging read, I listen to an audible like with most of these books. And he kind of talks about loving children without strings attached. And talks about how it's kind of weird the way that we treat children as being kind of an extension of their parents, not really having any autonomy, not really having any rights. And so the book hasn't really changed anything about the way I'm approaching my life right now, although it will be interesting when I hopefully come to being a parent at some point. But it has been very interesting in giving me another perspective on kind of the challenges of being a parent and how much of a sort of psychological mind-filled it can be. Really good book. I've been recommending to everyone and everyone I've recommended to who's read it has said, oh, this is actually really good. So yeah, check it out. All right, the next is a book that I've re-read this year called Models by Mark Manson. Now, Mark Manson is a famous author at this point. Famous for the subtle art of not giving a f*** at another New York Times best seller and he's like this very mainstream author who actually co-wrote Will Smith's autobiography, which is kind of interesting. But not many people know that in an in a previous life, Mark Manson was like a dating coach from men. And this book came out I think around 2011, it's all it's basically all about how you attract women but do it through honesty. So like before this book came out, the whole pickup artist movement, the books around that thing, also I've heard, what was all about kind of techniques and strategies and hacks and tricks to kind of trick women into sleeping with you and all that kind of stuff. Then Mark Manson comes along and basically his whole spiel is that if you want to attract the woman of your dreams or if you want to get a decent life partner, you should become the sort of person who a good person would be attracted to. And so you should work on yourself and become more authentic and become like open work and show your vulnerability and maybe like go to the gym a bit and like dress a bit better and like you know be authentic in conversation and be more vulnerable and open up a bit more. And I recently reread this because I first read this many many years ago. It's just really, really, really good. It's not like what you would think. It's very like mainstream acceptable. He talks about female and LGB LGBT readers as well at the start and yeah, it's just actually sick. And I think in the past, I've definitely been guilty of feeling like I had to kind of change myself to where when I was on dates and in relationships and stuff to become more like I don't know some caricature of what I thought like an alpha male looked like and stuff. For recently I realized I've come around the idea that actually is being yourself and being your authentic self and being open and vulnerable and honest and stuff is by far a better approach. So thank you models by Mark Manson for being a guide into those waters in like an interesting way. So yeah, if you are a dude looking to find a life partner, won't recommend models. If you're not a dude looking for a life partner, it's still kind of interesting but it's kind of more applied to dudes looking for life partners. So yeah, check it out. All right, next we have the book never split the difference negotiating as if your life depended on it by Chris Voss, who was apparently an FBI hostage negotiator for like 15 years before he wrote the book. This is sick. So most of these nonfiction books they are like the big idea books where they have one central big idea and then the rest of the book just sort of justifies that idea. This is not one of those books. It does have a central thesis and that central thesis is that when we're negotiating and actually he talks about how it's not just about negotiating hostages but like a lot of different conversations in life on negotiations like when you negotiate with you know someone to buy a car when you negotiate with a spouse when you negotiate with your kids together into bedtime. These are only negotiations and in fact the best way to negotiate is recognizing that the decisions people make are emotional rather than logical. And so you want to appeal to the emotional side of their brains into their hearts and rather than they're being just one big idea that he explains a bunch of times. There's nine different chapters and each of them has nine very counterintuitive interesting methods or techniques or tricks or principles you can apply when negotiating with people to a more likely gateway one. And there's a bunch of really interesting tactics like mirroring and calculated empathy and why actually instead of about trying to get to yes you know like make them say yes multiple times you actually want to make them say no because it makes people feel more comfortable. This is a book that I have written I've listened to twice already on all the ball and every time I do I get more and more insights from it so this is definitely one that I'm going to reread but yeah never split the difference negotiating as if you're left depending on it. Next we have the book dire with zero getting or you can from your money and your life by bullet perkins. This is also really good. This is kind of a change the way that I approach thinking about money and the central idea of the book is that we want to aim to die with zero in our back accounts and if we die with anything more than zero in our back accounts then we have done something wrong. It's cool model is that like in an ideal world we we have this life energy you know the energy that we have in our life and we would ideally like to trade that life energy for fulfilling and meaningful experiences with our friends and family but we can't do this direct one for one trade because mostly fulfilling experiences do cost some amount of money maybe they don't have to cost the world but they do cost some amount of money and so we often have to do this intermediate step like we have life energy we convert it into money by working a job and then we convert that money into life experiences and this point isn't that we should just convert all of our money into life experiences because that's the only thing that matters but this point is that most of us especially if we're successful in whatever way you want to find that get to a point where we are so focused on saving and accumulating wealth that we failed to realise that actually money has literally zero benefit when you are dead and this is a thing that people on the deathbed realise that you know you could have 10 million quid at that point like a hundred million or a billion like it wouldn't make any difference to your life because you can no longer enjoy that money and so you know what if you waited until 70 to start spending money hmm probably you're not ideal what about 60 what about 50 and it's kind of point in the book is that we shouldn't just like make loads of money and wait until we're retired when our bodies are kind of breaking down to then spend the money and enjoy it we should try and enjoy life as we're going through it and I really liked how the message of the book is this idea of journey before destination that yes there is value in saving for a rainy day and all that stuff and putting stuff in investments and working hard right now so you can enjoy the rewards later but it's also a balance between making sure we're also enjoying ourselves in the here and now because what we don't want to do is get to our deathbeds and think ah damn I wish I hadn't worked so hard maybe I could have quit my job 10 years earlier because I actually had enough money in the bank of five years earlier because I actually had enough money to do well and I actually could have taken that trip that I really wanted to take I've mentioned this to few friends this thing of dive with zero two things always what about the kids being like well if you dive with zero then you're not going to leave any money to your kids he answers there's there's a whole chapter called what about the kids basically his vibe is that if you actually want to give money to your kids as a form of inheritance don't give it when you are dead because when you're dead your kids are probably in their 50s or 60s and they can't actually use the money as well as they could when they were in their 20s or 30s and it's weird because like in America the average age of inheritance is like 60 something it's just this weird societal thing that we do where it's like oh when I'm dead then I will give my money to my kids he's like no you should please give the money when they're young and they can actually use it for a deposit on a house or their first car or anything like that similarly with charity charities need money right now they will also probably need money 50 years from now but if you have money to give charities right now you should give it because plenty of people are dying in the world who can benefit from that money don't wait until your deathbed to suddenly decide you're going to donate to charity that is not a virtuous thing to do given that your charities need the money now and so once you've given to charity once you've given to your kids while you're alive the point is you should end up with zero and you're back account by the time that you die I think it's really interesting it's kind of I think I'm very much a save for a rainy day type person and I don't like to spend money although it doesn't look like it maybe I'm looking around the camera camera stuff around here I don't really like to spend money I always feel like I should be saving for a rainy day and I often have this kind of fear that I'm going to end up broken homeless and stuff and to be honest now that the YouTube channel isn't this business is going well I'm way beyond that point of having enough and so what I don't know from the book is that I should be more okay with enjoying life not feeling like I have to work at 120 miles per hour every single day to make even more money but actually that I can't take the time to enjoy life with friends and family and things like that so really really really enjoy the book fantastic passage next we have this book happy sexy millionaire by Steven Bartlett Steven Bartlett is a chap he's a fantastic chap he interviewed me on his podcast really really friendly guys ridiculously successful sold his company like 300 million or something became the youngest dragon on in the UK's Dragon's Den which is like the UK version of Shark Tank apparently that's the thing but the book is really good I'll read out an excerpt from back as an 18 year old black broke lonely insecure university dropout from a bad crop family I wrote in my diary that I wanted to be a happy sexy millionaire by the age of 25 by 25 I was a multimillionaire having created a business worth over $300 million. I runically in achieving everything I set up to I learned that I was wrong about almost everything the world had lied to me it lied to me about how you attain fulfillment love and success why those things matter and what those words actually mean genuinely like really good book um a bunch of interesting childhood it's also like really nicely designed like there's a bunch of these like bits where there's like quotes and diagrams and stuff talk about social media we talk about figuring out what you want from life finding your values you are not what happened to you you are how you chose to handle it and there's a really good metaphor never trade you happiness for a career money external validation popularity of status the ultimate goal is happiness your wealth success fame and accomplishments will only be worthwhile if they serve that goal yeah fantastic messages message all around and there's a really there's a really good model towards the end of the book where he talks about thinking about time in terms of chips like we have a hundred and twelve hours each week of waking time and we have a hundred and twelve chips every week that we can choose to deploy and every hour we have to choose what we do with a chip of time kind of like being on the poker table or whatever you have to play a chip every hour although that's not it works yeah just thinking about time in the in that very concrete way has helped me be a little bit more intentional with having spending my time but yeah fantastic book overall love it I'm going to definitely reread this really good stuff well done student next we have a book by David Goggins called Kant hurt me master your mind and defy the odds and this is like David Goggins sort of memoir he's like a navy seal guy whose famous for like doing ridiculous like Iron Man Ultraman those sorts of athletic things they talks about kind of how like his childhood of like poverty and physical abuse and racism in America and a bunch of other really messed up stuff and it's such an inspiring and like hot wrenching story and I hadn't really seen much of David Goggins stuff I sort of seen a few like parodies about him apparently you know he apparently does talk while doing pull-ups and stuff and it's sort of seen a few parodies of that but then I listen to the oldie book and I was like this is actually so sick and I was like so inspired by the story and you know a big part of his message is that we can you know sounds a bit cliche but like we can set out to achieve anything if we want it enough if our mind you know suitably embraces discomfort and embraces the pain the more we push through the pain the more we embrace it the more we love it the more likely we are to succeed at whatever we want to do and I don't quite agree with the entire message which is that like hey suffer now and live your life as a champion kind of stuff but because I'm less about that suffering narrative personally and I'm kind of soft so like you know I don't really like going for runs when it's cold or going for runs at all but it was just like a really really really inspiring read and again everyone I've recommended this to has read it and been like okay this is actually really sick so yeah check it out can't hurt me by David Goggins next we have the book educated by Tara Westover this is really interesting it's not fiction but it's a memoir and it's not really like a self-help book like you know you don't like learn any practical practical take action will take away from it but it's still really interesting it's like the story of this girl called Tara who grew up in a woman family in like Utah I think where they're living on this mountain and the family are preparing for the end of days because they think in like the year 2012 something the world is going to end and so they're like preparing for that and you know she doesn't have a birth certificate doesn't go to school she like you know father doesn't believe in hospitals and so the family gets ill and no one ever gets to a hospital because they think hospitals are evil and as she grows older like her father becomes really radical her brother becomes like really really violent and then it's like the story of how she ends up going to school and it's going to university and just the struggles along the way and again like really hot wrenching and rending in places hot warming and others uh really good book um yep great stuff then we have this book how to not die alone now I've already made a video about this which will be linked up there and down in the video description so you can check it out this book has single-handedly transformed my love life and has changed the way that I approach dating and relationships and stuff I'm not going to talk about too much because I've done a whole video talking about it it's like 15 as long as you can totally check it out yeah I want to not die alone what a fantastic title I've been recommending this to so many friends oh hand at number 10 we have the Millionaire Fastlane by MJ Demarco again I have done a video about this already so I'll link that up here and down there I want to talk about it much it's a bit of a click-baity title I'll be honest the Millionaire Fastlane but genuinely it's probably the best book I've ever read on how to kind of grow wealth and how to get rich by building a business so he distinguishes between the slow lane and the Fastlane and the slow lane approach to wealth building is the whole but it's probably the thing that your parents will have told you you know go to college get a good job save up a lot of money get a house get in the property ladder maybe put some money in stocks and over time when you're 65 then you'll be rich that's the very slow lane approached by wealth building whereas where he talks about is the Fastlane which talks about how you can build a business that works for you rather than you necessarily working for the business and how you can become quite rich quickly and by quickly he means like within five to ten years rather than within 50 years I really good book I'll link my proper book that episode about it in the video description if you want to check it out so those were 10 books that had an effect on my personal life let's talk about five books that had an impact on my business and the main one for this year is traction by Juno Whitman get a grip on your business me and the team stumbled across this about six months ago and it's just completely changed the game for our business so before I feel like I didn't really know anything about running a business and I was kind of making shut up as I went along and it was quite chaotic and you know at one point we had like four of us maybe this time like this time last year there were three and a half members of the team and everything worked all right because we know it was all a bit chaotic but there was only at three of us and like Elizabeth was working part time so like stuff was getting done because there were we were small enough that we could make things happen then we started hiring some more people and then very quickly found that we actually didn't have a way of running like just didn't know how to run a business and then I came across this book because a few friends recommended it and it just like immediately everything that I was reading and listening to the book is like you know the guy who wrote it could see read my mind and everything he was saying he was like you know you're probably having this problem in your business where blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah oh my god Juno you're right how did you know and it lays out a very practical systematic step-by-step way of running a business in terms of these six key structures and to be honest like I don't know a couple of years ago I'd never have imagined that I'd be the sort of person who would read a business book which is all about structuring your business and we're also working with one of their official coaches who charge us like a $2,500 per day for like a day of coaching but it's really really really really good and he has like a money-back guarantee that he's like look if you ever feel that this is not valuable you just don't have to pay me but we've obviously just go and go and so much value out of the system out of the book out of the coaches so I'm very very very bullish on this and this is the book then I'd recommend to anyone I know who has a business that has more than like three three employees or three team members because I think this will transform the way that you think about it. The only problem with traction is that it's a very like rigid hierarchical way of running a business which is totally fine because it works but there is another one and that's an extra on the list called it doesn't have to be crazy at work by these guys called Jason and David who run a company the US called Basecamp which is like this project management software. Now it doesn't have to be crazy at work is much more kind of my like the way that I would want to run a business which is about basically the whole thing is that look your business is not your life all of this thing about like hustling and like you know working on like stupid hours like it's all just BS you know you can do a lot of good work for 40 hours a week you don't have to put in 80 hours a week just I don't know make the shareholder happy you don't have to try and get investment you don't have to have meetings all the time you don't have to be busy busy busy busy busy busy all around the clock you can build a business that's a bit more calm that doesn't have to be crazy and I already vibe with this because the way that I want to build build my business is less about like you know metrics and targets and KPIs and we've got to grow every year and and more like hey you know this is all about building a cool lifestyle this is about helping people while being profitable while having fun let's not like go overboard on the whole like metric realization of life where admittedly traction is very like pro metrics like everything everyone should have a number everyone should be trapped how you hire and fire people is based on whether they hit the numbers I think that has its place but there's like a really nice kind of vibe which is a bit more calm and I kind of prefer the vibe of it doesn't have to be crazy at work so we're trying to do some kind of middle ground these days between like a hierarchical systematic approach which is helpful for things like accountability and clarity for team members but also trying to bear in mind that you know just to job at the end of the day like it's not and it's not anyone's life except mine and it shouldn't be anyone's life maybe except mine and that's yeah we should just be a bit more chill about the whole thing next we have a great title although great CEO within the tactical guide to company building this broadly seems to be aimed at like tech CEOs but there was a bunch of stuff in this that was genuinely really helpful in terms of like what a CEO should do with that time and how they should manage their calendar and how they should think about firing and building a team and building a culture and a bunch of stuff that I just never knew before before I read this talks about decision making and transparency and like how to be a good leader and I need to read slash listen to this multiple times because there's just so much really good stuff in it and it's such a small book and very very readable so yeah this will be next on my real listening list next we have this book the new one minute manager which is again it's a really really tiny book all about how to be a manager basically boils it down to three things one minute goals one minute praising the one minute redirects and I knew nothing about how to be a manager before I read this and a couple of other books and I'm like okay this manager thing isn't so bad I'm still learning I still suck at it like to be honest and I'm trying to do less of it as the business grows so I can focus on the content so that other team members like Angus can focus on like the team management side of things but yeah new one-minute manager probably yeah completely game-changing in terms of like how short it was to read and how much value it had on helping me develop as manager and finally we have another leadership book love it the four obsessions of an extraordinary executive a leadership feeble by Pat Lindsay Odie and if you told me a few years ago I'd be reading a book called the four obsessions of an extraordinary executive I mean I think what the hell you want like why the hell would I ever read a book called that that just sounds like dry and boring as hell but genuinely it's really good again it's very short like these business books they tend to be quite short and they tend to be the tend to speak in stories and it basically talks about how to be a really good team leader there's basically only four things you have to do and most of them are around just like giving people clarity of what's expected of them and over communicating that over and over and over again and one of the main challenges and learnings I've had growing this business over the last year is the fact that really so many problems stem from a lack of clarity and a lack of communication and I thought I thought I needed something like oh yeah communications important everyone says that and then you hire people and you have a team and you're like damn no one told me how important this communication stuff was and how like it's really important just over a communicate all of the things uh and the more you over communicate all of the things like where the business is going and what the values are and all that jazz the more things start to align and so you know for the last six months I feel like I've been sort of all over the place with running this business but now now that I've read all the stuff now that we've started to apply it now that we have the right team around us I feel like my personal life is much more chill and much more happy because everything in the business is kind of streamlined and moving in the same direction so yeah for obsessions extraordinary executive definitely recommend if you are a leader or a manager of any kind all right so if you've gone to this bit of the video then you're probably the sort of person that actually enjoys stretching themselves mentally learning new skills trying out new things and so you should definitely check out brilliant who are very kindly sponsoring this video brilliant is a fantastic online platform with courses in maths, science and computer science and the courses are genuinely some of the best I've ever taken on those topics and that teach you the topic in a very first principles interactive kind of way rather than the way that we get taught in school which is very like didactic and like being told to do certain things brilliant doesn't do any of that it's like genuinely really fun and what they do is they teach you a little bit and they build on top of it and they ask you questions about it so you genuinely feel as if you are learning as you're going along and this is the same model that's used in universities like Oxford and Cambridge via their tutorial and supervision system you kind of learn a little bit you build on it you ask questions and it feels really fun and engaging and interactive some of my favorite courses on brilliant are the computer science ones as some of you guys know when I was applying to med school I was actually thinking of applying to computer science instead because there was always super into computers and coding and stuff and ended up going for med school in the end but I always kind of thought hmm what if I did a degree in computer science or what if I actually knew stuff about algorithms and programming and things and so through the courses and brilliant like you know the introduction to algorithms the introduction to new on networks the introduction to crypto introduction to python I've gone through all these courses and I feel like my own knowledge of computer science has leveled up so much then it would have been had I not done these or just profound random videos on YouTube instead if that sounds up your straight and you want to level up your skills in maths or science or computer science or maybe even all three then head over to brilliant.org forward slash alley and the first 200 people to hit that link which is also in the video description we'll get 20% off the annual premium subscription so thank you very much brilliant for sponsoring this video now as I was going through my list of books for this year I realized I actually did not read a lot of fiction this year normally I read a ton of fiction but because I wasn't commuting anywhere because we were in lockdown for most of the year I didn't listen to any fiction audiobooks except I did really listen to the missed born series by Brandon Sanderson just one of my favorite series of all time 100% recommended everyone on the fiction front start to the book the final empire it looks really thick it is kind of thick but I'd recommend it as a audiobook it's absolutely sick and I also finished listening to rhythm of war which is the fourth book of the storm light archive series that starts with the way of kings again by Brandon Sanderson Brandon Sanderson is my favorite author of all time so if you haven't checked him out and if you're interested in maybe dabbling in fiction check out miss spawn it's like you know abutile the last airbender it's like that but on steroids it's absolutely sick um I might even do another a third real listening to it because it's just so good and then I'm gonna do a reread of the storm light archive as well I don't know there's all these are the books out there but these ones are just so sick that I just absolutely love them anyway that's a wrap up of my annual review of my 15 plus two favorite books that I read in 2021 if you want to check out some of my more videos about how I read so many books I usually read somewhere between about 80 and 120 per year there's a little playlist over here I has all my top tips on how to read more books if you're into that kind of stuff thank you so much for watching have a great evening and I'll see you in the next video bye
