# My Geriatric Medicine Placement - Junior Doctor Vlog #02
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lFAm7HZ8gTg
In this very long and niche video, I talk about my 2nd 4-month placement of being a doctor. I was on the geriatric (elderly) medicine team, and so I talk through an overview of what the speciality does, outline what a standard day looked like, and reflect on some learning points. Enjoy xx

💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking 

📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal
- Podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking

🎶 Where I get my music from (amazing for YouTubers) - http://share.epidemicsound.com/ali
📝My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://paperlike.com/ali

🎬 My online course on video editing - https://skl.sh/32TpEvm
🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal

Who am I:

I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com  

My most popular videos:

- How I take notes on my iPad Pro in medical school - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=waR3xBDHMqw
- How to study for exams - Evidence based revision tips - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ukLnPbIffxE
- How I ranked 1st at Cambridge University - The Essay Memorisation Framework - https://youtu.be/-46Vyiwat_Y
- My productivity desk setup - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rApxWtDIRAM
**Keywords:** geriatrics (medical specialty), older adults, junior doctor, doctor vlog, day in the life of a doctor, life as a doctor, medical vlog, cambridge medicine, cambridge medicine vlog, ali abdaal, junior doctor vlog, med vlog, doctor vlogging, internal medicine, life as a junior doctor, life of a doctor, 
**Date:** 2019-05-27

## Transcript
 Hey guys, welcome back to the channel. If you're new here, my name is Ali. I'm a junior doctor working in Cambridge and this video is going to be a kind of rambling chatty look back at what my second placement of being a junior doctor was like and that was when I was on the geriatrics ward. So I've got my cup of peppermint tea and I'm just going to be talking through firstly what DME or department of medicine for the elderly or geriatrics like what that does as a placement what sort of patients we look after. Secondly, I'll talk a little bit about what a standard day was like for me as an F1 junior doctor that is, you know, my first year out of medical school for those of you who want familiar with the system in the UK. And then I'll spend the final part of the video reflecting a bit about the stuff I learned generally what the experience was like and maybe talking about a couple of patients here and there. You just claim as to begin with whenever I do any of these videos where I talk about what my job is actually like I sometimes mention patients but I want to make it clear that when I mentioned patients are often what I will do is I will obviously use fake names, use fake genders and ages and stuff and most of the time if I do mention a patient it's not actually a real patient that I'm talking about it's a hypothetical patient that I have amalgamated from lots of other different patient experiences so that it maintains confidentiality. Overall the points I'm making will still be the same but I don't want to refer to specific individual cases of people just because you know it's you know all confidentiality thing is it's quite important obviously. But yeah I'm going to keep it as real as possible I fully appreciate that this sort of video is not going to be interesting to the vast majority of people but maybe if you're a medical applicant if you're a medical student if you're interested in what the actual day to day life of a doctor is like then you might like to watch and hopefully might be vaguely interesting. Yeah let's just get into it. Let's start with what DME or geriatric as a specialty actually does and in my hospital we look after patients mostly who are over the age of 75 although I think our average age on our ward was kind of low 80s to mid 80s. Patients over the age of 75 who have medical problems and by medical problems I'm talking distinct from surgical problems so usually if someone has a surgical problem that's something like for example the fractured hip that needs fixing or a ruptured appendix that requires an operation you know stuff like that that requires a surgical operation to fix. But often patients who are very elderly very frail would not be fit for surgery. So for example they might have so much wrong with them that the risks of the surgery whatever that is would outweigh the potential benefits. So often we go with what we call conservative management or medical management i.e. you know let's say someone falls over and they're 98 and they're they've got heart disease and kidney disease and they've got dementia. We're not likely to actually operate on them instead we would manage it conservatively with pain killers and with you know plastic costs or whatever. So that cuts out as it were all the potentially surgical candidates who would end up on specialty surgery wards. And the nice thing about geriatrics as a specialty is that we cover pretty much every medical problem that happens to exist in an elderly person. So for example let's say we had there was an 85 year old who had heart failure and needed to be offloaded because she had fluid and lungs fluid on legs. Often she wouldn't go to the cardiology ward for that she would come to the geriatrics ward because and then we'd manage the cardiology side of it from there. We needed to would be able to consult with a cardiologist we'd be able to refer the patient to get them seen by the cardiology team if we need it in opinion. But for the most part we would be managing that patient. So yeah pretty much any medical problem from any organ system you know we we we had patient with patients with some neurological problems we had patients with chest infections of fairly common respiratory problem. We had loads of patients with heart failure we had patients who had heart attacks and therefore had heart failure as a result of those. We had patients with gastroenteritis with peptic ulcers with all sorts of problems. You know the the only thing that was common to them all was that they were all mostly over the age of 75. Another major issue that we had to contend with was that a lot of our patients had and or rather have dementia. So I think so within dementia we've got things like Alzheimer's disease we've got vascular dementia. A fair few had Parkinson's disease as well although we did have a specialty Parkinson's disease ward which wasn't the one I was on so most of the time I saw patients with dementia. I think most of the time over half of our patients had dementia of one form or another and dementia can affect people in different ways. For example we had one lady who was completely lucid able to hold a conversation and able to remember everything you know that the fact that she was in hospital and the fact that we were doctors and all of that stuff able to recognize her friends and family. But the way that her dementia showed itself was that she had her stuffed animals by her bedside and was convinced that they were real. So you got to her and ask her how she was doing and she'd say oh I'm doing great thank you very much for asking Tom over here has been really good. He's been looking after Peter in Madrid and the other children. She referred to them as her children and she'd have them kind of laid out on the bed and it was just it was it was in a very sweet way like I think. If I had dementia if I had to have dementia that's the sort of dementia I would like to have whereby I still remember people and places and things but you know. What harm does it really cause someone if they if they believe that the stuffed animals are reals and and it seems like those things brought her quite a lot of joy so that was kind of one aspect of dementia. In some other patients it would manifest as you know verbal sometimes occasionally physical aggression towards the staff and towards the families. We had a couple of patients who were admitted because they had a chest infection you know something fairly standard that can be fixed with antibiotics. But then they ended up staying on the ward for an extended period of time because their families couldn't cope with them at home. So let's say you've got like a 90-year-old gentleman who's got dementia and who's being verbally and physically aggressive towards his 94-year-old wife at home. The wife has got loads of medical problems, heart failure, can you fade it whatever and she can no longer cope with the behavior of the husband. And then at that point when the husband gets admitted to hospital it's down to us to safely plan the discharge in a way that is safe for both the husband and his wife. So often in those circumstances we'd be referring the patients on to something like a nursing home or at the very least we'd be getting carers who come in to people's houses. And this is an aspect of medicine that I didn't really appreciate until I did geriatrics as a specialty. And one of the really great things about the UK which I don't think is true of many other healthcare systems is just how much money and how much effort we put into the whole social side of things. Like if someone isn't hospital and we know that if we discharge them home they're just going to have another fall or something. Then we need to organize the carers to come in and look after them. For example there are some patients who we potentially would dementia who are going to forget to take their medications. In that case we would then organize for carers to come in once a day in the morning to get them to take the medication. Equally there might be some patients who are fairly okay around the house but unable to cook for themselves because they're a fire hazard or whatever. In that case we might organize meals and wheels like a meal delivery service. We might organize carers to come in three times a day to help them with their meals. Maybe the morning that help them get washed and get dressed maybe at night that helped talk them into bed. So in terms of the carers coming to their own home front the most we could offer was carers coming in four times a day. And for some of our patients we had two carers coming in four times a day. So this is clearly costing the state quite a lot of money but it's something that we regard as important because I think in a lot of other countries. But you know it just wouldn't be the case that the state would front the cost of the huge cost of this sort of health care. So let's say there's a patient who needs 24-7 supervision because they're unsafe and they're just going to have a fall if they ever walk that type of thing. Often those patients we'd end up sending to a residential home or a nursing home where they can have carers who are there at all time they'll have train nurses that sort of thing. This was another big thing that I learned on geriatrics that often a lot of our patients would be sitting on the ward. Like completely medically fine from a medical point of view like it was nothing wrong with them as such. But they were just awaiting some kind of discharge planning thing to be done for them. So we as the doctors would sort of at the medical side but then we had a whole team behind us who would help sort out the social side of things. So we had the occupational therapist who'd be doing assessments like you know, kind of the patient safely use a kitchen do they know where everything is kept are they able to wash themselves that sort of thing. We have the physiotherapist who'd be making assessments like can they climb upstairs safely can they kind of walk up and down the corridor what sort of equipment do they need help with to walk. And these guys would be making assessments as to how safe the patient would be to go home and if they're not safe to go home by themselves independently then what level of care would they need. And then once these guys have made their assessments they would then submit their reports about each individual patient to the higher up discharge planning people and then the discharge planning team would take over and we're trying sort out the care sort out the care homes sort out the nursing home all this sort of stuff. And this is sort of stuff that we didn't really learn much about in medical school but I only really started to appreciate more of when I actually became a doctor. But yeah those were the sorts of problems that we dealt with often there were medical things that we could fix sometimes with with medication. Often on a background of things like dementia which meant that communication was a bit more difficult and that we'd have to go through all this discharge planning stuff before we can get someone home. Like it wasn't as simple as for example in an emergency emergency department someone comes in with that's a broken arm you give them a plaster cast you give them a appointment to come to fragile clinic and you send them home. Instead it would be these patients with really complex medical problems and social and care needs and they'd be coming in and we'd try and sort out some of their medical problems without causing too many other medicine. causing too many other medical problems and hopefully once all of that is done then we can start initiating the process of discharge planning. But because in the NHS today because of the whole aging population thing that's happening in the UK and a lot of people say due to lack of funding and budget cuts and all this stuff. Often there weren't enough for example care homeplaces available for the patients. So we'd have some patients who'd be sitting in hospital waiting for a care home place to open up. And hospital is not really an ideal place for for these sorts of patients to be. Especially when you're elderly and frail. If you're sitting in hospital for an extended period of time you're essentially sitting duck for some kind of chest infection to take hold a hospital acquired pneumonia. And you find that the longer people stay in hospital the longer they're more likely to stay in hospital. So this was something that we really tried hard to avoid. And on my what it was nice we had a pretty solid team of discharge planning. We had occupational therapists physiotherapists. And what we do is every morning we'd have a meeting with these guys. So I'm not going to talk about what a standard day at work was. And all the shift for me would be getting in at half past eight and leaving at six p.m. So what was that like three now nine and a half hours is that right? Yeah and we'd have about maybe a half an hour lunch break in the middle of the day. So that was a standard day shift. And sometimes it'd be on call. So it would be from half past eight in the morning up until a nine p.m. at night. So between the hours of six and nine p.m. I'd be covering all of the various geriatrics wards. We're thinking we had like six of them. So any problems that arose during this three hours I would be called for. Whereas for the rest of the day I'd just be dealing with my own ward. So we'd get in a half past eight and at nine o'clock we would have a team meeting with pretty much everyone on the ward. So we'd have the medical team, i.e., me, the junior doctor, the registrar who is my immediate senior and the consultant who is in charge of all the patients. So it would be the three of us from the medical team that would be the physiotherapist, the occupational therapist. There would be some discharge planning nurses. There would be the head charge nurse. There would be the ward clerk. All these different people who have these different functions within the team will get together. And we'd go through our list of patients one at a time and catch up on where we are with those patients. So for example, if a patient still had something medical going on, we'd be like, okay, the first patient is Mr Smith and bed A1. He's got a community acquired pneumonia. He's on day three of his antibiotics. We've been giving him a hangover. We've been giving him cohomoxiclav. And we're hoping he'll be medically fit in the next two days. His blood tests have been improving. His CRP's coming down. His white cell counts coming down. He hasn't spiked any temperatures in the last couple of days. So we're hoping to get him medically fit in two days from now. And then the ward clerk would make a note of the medically fit date two days from now. And that would be a cue for the discharge planning team to be like, okay, we should now start thinking about how this patient is going to get home. Are they independent? Do they need any care? All of that sort of stuff? Then the physiotherapist and the occupational therapist and the discharge planning nurse would chime in and say, Oh, actually, he was completely independent. He hasn't got dementia. He's completely fine. He can just send him home. We don't have any discharge planning issues. Or alternatively, as was far more likely, that'd be like, okay, well, he came in when he had Careless three times a day. But we don't think he's coping with his careless three times a day. So maybe we'll have to increase that to four times a day. Also, because he's in hospital, the care is now stopped. So there's going to be a bit of a delay until we restart his care package. We might even have to think about moving him to a nursing home because there's no one else at home. And he doesn't have any support in the community. So there'll be these sorts of discussions that would be happening about every patient in the morning with the medical team and with the other allied health care professionals. And that would take us up until about 930 sometimes even 10 o'clock. But that was a really good thing to do because it meant that we're all in the same page. We know exactly what we have to do with each of the patients. Then from 10 o'clock up until about 1 pm, we would do the ward round. And the ward round is where the doctors go around and see every single patient individually. So on some days, that would be with the consultant. I think Mondays and Thursdays with the consultant ward round days. And then Tuesdays, Wednesdays and Fridays would be with the registrar. So the consultant would be doing their own clinics or whatever and be available in case of emergencies. But it would be the registrar who's in charge of running the ward round. And when we see a standard patient on the ward round, it would be a case of a high, how you're doing, you know, having a read through their notes on the computer system. And then having a look at their blood results, having a look at their vital signs from overnight to make sure they hadn't suddenly spike the temperature, which might be a sign of infection. Make sure there weren't suddenly getting breathless, suddenly having a high heart rate, which can also be a sign of things going wrong in the body. So often, we would say, obstable, the observations or vital signs would be stable. You know, changes there. We would look at the blood tests. If they're having blood tests, often if patients are being treated for an infection, they'll have daily blood tests for their inflammatory markers. So things like their serious active protein and their white cell count are markers of infection, markers of inflammation. And so, if those are coming down, that's a sign that are antibiotics. Or whatever medical management we're doing is working. So we look through the obbs. We look through the bloods. We say hello to the patient. Find out how they're doing, how they're feeling, you know, any problems overnight, any questions. And we'll try and spend a few minutes with each patient. And then we'd go around all 30 patients in our particular ward. And as issues arose, we'd be writing down on our medical notes, all of the, you know, the various plans. And I'd be making a separate note on my iPad for each patient as to what specific jobs I need to do. So, for example, for one patient, I might need to call cardiology because we're having issues with their fluid and die racist, trying to offload their fluid. For another patient, I might need to book a CT scan because they've got abdominal pain and we're not sure why. For another patient, I might need to do a digital rectal exam because they've been constipated for the last four days. We're not quite sure why. We've been giving them a few laxatives, but they still haven't moved their bowels. At that point, we then need someone, most likely the junior doctor, to do a rectal examination. That involves putting a finger into the back passage and feeling if there are any masses or if there's any very, very hard stool. If there's not, and there often wasn't, then we can give what's called a suppository. So, that is a pill that goes up the bum and encourages people to poo. Because when you constipated for several days at a time, that's not good. It's not good for the body. Your blood test can become abnormal. It's a common cause of confusion, acutely. So, that was actually quite a common problem that we had to deal with. And, I think, on my time on geriatrics, I've done more rectal examinations than I've done on any other ward. But, you know, it's an important thing. Someone's going to do it. It's going to be done. Yeah, so we'd see every patient, we'd make a plan for them, and I would make a list of all the jobs and things that I had to do. So, then this would last up until about lunchtime, then we'd break for lunch at about one o'clock, and after catching up with all the patients, and after doing all the various urgent things that need to do. Often, when it comes to arranging things like CT scans or x-rays, that's the sort of thing you want to be doing earlier in the day rather than later, because the CT scaners are often, you know, they've got a whole queue of people and they have to triage who needs a scan the most. Equally, if it's something a bit more rogue, like an MRI scan, then there's only certain slots each day, and so you want to get those requests in early. So that would involve putting a request on the system, and then giving a call to radiology and say, Hi, my name's Ali, I'm the geriatrics F1. Could I please talk to you about a CT scan? And then they would say, okay, what's the patient's number, and you'd give the patient's a hospital identify number, and then they'd say, okay, what's the story? And you say, okay, well, this is Mr. Smith, he's an 85-year-old gentleman. He came into hospital with a hospital with a community acquired pneumonia. He's been on five days of antibiotics, we've treated him. However, now he's complaining of abdominal pain, and he's got diarrhea. We've tested this tool, it's not, it's negative for C-diff, but we're not really sure what else is going on. The abdomen, we're concerned, possibly about a colitis picture, because he's got some kind of history of inflammatory bowel disease, would you be okay to do a CT scan? I hope for the radiologist would say, yeah, okay, that's fine, I'll protocol it, and they'll be done in some point today. But a lot of the time, they might push back against that request. So, one, semi-annoying thing about being a junior doctor that didn't really happen much on geriatrics, but definitely happens on my surgical placement, is that is this whole issue of requesting CT scans. So, like, when you're going around with the consultant in the morning, there'd be like, oh, this patient's got abdominal pain, let's do a CT. And then you as a doctor would have to work out why specifically you're doing the CT. You could just ask the consultant there and then, but sometimes it's a bit of a, it's a bit of an iffy request to where there's to the where we're going to kind of let an abdominal pain, we're not really sure what the diagnosis is. And for the most part, it's recommended that if you are doing some kind of scan, that you have a diagnosis in mind, and the scan helps you either sort of confirm or reject that diagnosis. But often when it comes to abdominal CTs, we're like, our reason is that we really have no idea what's going on. We can't find a cause and we just want to do a CT scan. So, it's a case of negotiating it with the radiologist and kind of telling them the things that you know they're going to want to hear. And at the start on my first placement of, you know, in of cardiology when like in August 2018, I found it really hard to negotiate scans, but over time as I've become more experienced, I've started to preempt towards sort of questions that are going to ask, you know, if you're doing a CT scan on someone that involves injecting contrast into one of their veins. And contrast apparently is bad for the kidneys, although the evidence of this about this is kind of mixed. But the radiologist always wants to know what's the patient's creatine and creatine is a marker of kidney function. So, that's the sort of thing that at the start of my, you know, role as a doctor, I would have had to actively look it up. But now, if I call someone for a CT, I know what their creatine is off the top of the head, so that when they ask me, I can just read it off immediately. So, I was talking about the sort of urgent issues that we had to do. Obviously, if a patient was acutely on well, we'd be sorting them out first. But requesting investigations, requesting scans was something that we'd be doing before lunch, and then we'd break for lunch, and then after lunch, we'd be when we can have a fairly chill time in the doctor's office, getting most of the other jobs done. So, that would involve phoning up other specialties to get opinions. It might involve requesting some non-urgent scans. It might involve doing some rectal examinations and prescribing some animals, or some repositories that help people open the bells. It might involve, for example, asking the nurses to do an ECG or put a catheter in. And for the most part, on our geriatric placement, we'd be sitting in the doctor's office, which is banging the middle of the ward, and we'd be mostly able to do stuff on the computer. So, the really nice thing about my hospital is that a lot of, like, all of the investigations, all of the blood tests can be requested on the computer system. So, you can pretty much run your whole patient thing from a computer. Obviously, we'd see the patients in the morning, and we'd see them in person. If anything needed to be done in person, or if we needed to talk to a family, or if anything was going wrong, but for the most part, we can do all of our things from a computer and from a phone, which is really nice. And it kind of meant that the afternoon was a pretty chill time. Towards the second half of it, when I started getting to know everyone, I started bringing a little Bluetooth speaker in, and I'd have my Spotify study with me playlist open in the background of the doctor's office. There would be playing some nice, like, film instrumentals, or, you know, video games, soundtracks, and this sort of stuff. And that was just a way of making the paperwork that we had to do on the computers a little bit more pleasant. And then, also, the afternoon's, we'd be doing things like this charge letters, and prescribing medications for patients going home. And quite often on geriatric, so we'd be talking to families. So this was something that I really enjoyed doing. And I didn't realise I would enjoy as much of that did, and I'm really glad, really thankful for the communication skills teaching that we had at Cambridge, that prepared us really well for talking to families, for doing things like breaking bad news. Occasionally, I'd be having discussions with family members, where I'd be explaining that, like, we've kind of done everything we can for your relative at this point. There's nothing more we can do for them. And we'd like to keep them comfortable rather than focus on actively treating them, because we don't think that's going to be in the best interest. So those were quite difficult conversations, but also very rewarding, because I thought personally that I did those conversations quite well. Occasionally, we'd also have families who were annoyed at certain things. For example, they might have complaints about the patient's previous care home, and, you know, felt that they didn't get the right care. They might have felt that, you know, on the wards, they weren't given enough information. So it would be down to me or whoever else was on the ward at the time to have these conversations and to apologise to the families if we do anything wrong, which explained what the management plan was going forward. And yeah, for the most part, I really enjoyed having those conversations. So that was one of the things I most looked forward to about, you know, the afternoon sessions on the job. Yeah, and that was pretty much a day on the life. So yeah, that was pretty much a day in the life. Morning, ward round, afternoon, doing all the jobs. And actually, often, because we only had the patients in our wards deal with, and on some days, you know, a lot of the patients would be medically fit for discharge and just awaiting discharge planning stuff. You know, often we'd have days where the final one, two, three hours of the day, there was nothing to do, really. We'd done all the jobs, we'd done all the requests, so we'd done all the discharge letters for, you know, a few days in advance. So then, you know, we'd end up just chatting, chatting amongst each other in the doctors office, talking to the registrars, getting some career career advice, getting some life advice. One thing I quite enjoyed doing was quizzing the registrars about their loved lives and how they met their partners and how that was going. And I'm not sure how they felt about it, but they all, you know, engaged with that discussion. So that was a fun little thing that we used to do in the evenings when there was nothing to do on the ward. So what did I learn from the experience of being on geriatric performance? So I think one of the most important things was just this, you know, as I mentioned at the start, this appreciation for the role of discharge planning and the role of social care and how important that is in the provision of healthcare in the NHS in the UK. I just never really appreciated just how much effort goes into getting patients, carers, getting patients, nursing home, getting patients, residential homes. And just the staggering amount of money that the UK health service spends on making all this stuff happen. But equally on the other side of the same coin, I began to appreciate what people mean when they talk about cuts to social care and cuts to the health service. Because it really wasn't anyone, anyone's fault that the patients were sitting on a ward for two weeks at a time waiting for a care home. It was just that the system was stretched to the point that we just couldn't provide a care home for people immediately. And you had to wait for other people to vacate or you had to even wait for somebody to die for a care home place to become available. All these sorts of factors that in an ideal world, if we had unlimited funding, if the health service and the social care service had unlimited funding, you know, as soon as the patient is ready for discharge, they would have a discharge destination waiting for them. Unfortunately, that's not the case in reality. We have to contend with budget cuts, but that whole side of things was, you know, aside that we as the doctors didn't really need to get involved with. Thankfully, we were focused on the medical side and we had a whole discharge planning team of allied health care professionals behind us who would worry about that side of stuff. Another thing that I really kind of appreciated for the first time on geriatrics, just how bad dementia is and I really don't want to get dementia. And I hadn't really appreciated it before that point. I don't really ever heard about dementia on, you know, in the media and on the news and stuff. But seeing it day in and day out, it really makes you feel thankful for youth and cognitive power and stuff like, often with our patients, we'd be doing these cognitive tests on them. So there's something called the Montreal cognitive assessment, the mocker, where you get them, where they get a score out of 30, I think, or is it 100, I can't remember, like, one of these abbreviations. But they get a score and you ask them to do things like, can you draw a cube and can you copy this out? Can you draw a clock face and put it at 10 past five? Can you point, can you tell me what these three animals are? Can you remember these numbers? You know, so little things like that and we'd give them a score out of 30 and just like, even with the patients who didn't have an official diagnosis of dementia, there were a lot of patients who had what we call mild cognitive impairment. And those are the sorts of patients that were very lucid could easily hold a conversation with you, could have a chat about anything. And then suddenly, you know, when you ask them to do, for example, a maths problem, they just couldn't do it. And the really sad cases were when there were people who had been in, you know, like had had clearly been very educated and clearly could have done this stuff when they were younger. Now they're 85 and they're visibly frustrated that they can't figure out how to draw this cube and they know that they should be able to do it, but the brain just isn't letting them. And that was like a really interesting, but also sad part of being on geriatrics. And one of the consultants that I was with sent us, sent around some, a scientific paper talking about the evidence behind multi-petiment supplementation. So often our patients would be on vitamin B supplements because they're vitamin B levels, although. And in this paper, I was talking about how having the appropriate levels of all the vitamins in your body is a protective factor against dementia. So from that day onwards, I started taking a vitamin supplement. I was like, you know, I wanted to do everything I can to avoid getting dementia on an order. So literally whatever it takes, I would take vitamin supplements. I would do anything. I'll do Sudoku if I have to because this is just not. It's not, it's not ideal. And finally I suppose one thing that I appreciated on my geriatrics placement more than any others is just. The, the importance and this is going to sound kind of corny. The importance of seeing the patient as a whole and not just tunnel vision, single mind literally trying to treat their medical problems. Because we did have some patients like we had a really, we had very elderly lady who, um, who had like a very issue issue issue. She was, she was medically fit for discharge, um, awaiting some kind of care home for like four weeks on the ward. And she had some kind of odd abnormality in her blood that might have suggested some kind of hematological malignancies or maybe a leukemia or a lymphoma. And the normal way to investigate that would be to do a barrage of blood tests, maybe even do a bone marrow biopsy. All the very invasive things. And initially I got kind of excited. I was like, oh, this is interesting. This blood test finding could correspond to this type of leukemia, this type of lymphoma. But then on talking about this to the register or the consultants, you know, they kind of explained that, yeah, it could. But realistically, what are we going to do? Do we really want to put a patient through all of these tests just to find out they've got some kind of leukemia? And they're too old and frail to deal with the chemotherapy and there's no surgical options like, what's it going to accomplish by doing these tests? And I appreciate the idea that we, I mean, while it's interesting from our perspective as doctors to run tests on people to see what they have. We shouldn't be subjecting people to test just for our own curiosity and we should always, you know, obviously keep the patient in mind. And if there's something that's not going to help a patient, there's no need to put them through a test unless they're consenting to it in which case it's fine. But yeah. So that was a very long and rambly review, I suppose, of my geriatric placement. So that was between January and May. No, no, no, between December and March. So December 2018 to March 2019 was when I was on geriatric. So that was placement two of my F1 year. So I'm currently on my surgical placement. So I'll do another video about that towards the end of it. And then next year, I'll be moving to a smaller hospital in the air Cambridge, or I'll be doing psychiatry, Ops and Giny and Struct Medicine, so for four months at a time. And then life is going to get very interesting because then the whole world will be my oyster and I wouldn't have any. I won't be tied down to full time employment, then I can decide what to apply for. At the moment, I'm thinking probably emergency medicine, but we'll see anything could happen. So yeah. Thank you for watching. If you're still with us this far, then that's also my really hope you enjoyed this video. If you liked the video, please give it a thumbs up. If you haven't subscribed to the channel, then please consider doing so. Have a lovely day, and I'll see you in the next video. Bye bye. Thank you.
