# BMAT Physics - Electricity + Formulae | BMAT Crash Course Online
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LHaIPyTVelc
In this video, we're talking through the basics + formulae that you need to know for the BMAT physics electricity questions. Enjoy xx

1. My online BMAT video course (75+ videos) = https://courses.aliabdaal.com/bmat-crash-course-online
2. 6med BMAT Crash Course (Classroom) - https://6med.co.uk/bmat-crash-course
3. BMAT Ninja (Online question bank) - https://bmat.ninja

💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking 

📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

📝My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://paperlike.com/ali
🎶 Where I get my music from (amazing for YouTubers) - http://share.epidemicsound.com/ali

🎬 My online course on video editing - https://skl.sh/32TpEvm
🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal


Who am I:

I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

My most popular videos:

- How I take notes on my iPad Pro in medical school - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=waR3xBDHMqw
- Mu 2018 university desk setup - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zdew7At9S2U
- How to study for exams - Evidence based revision tips - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ukLnPbIffxE
- Study with Me + My revision method - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yiRYn97GJhM
- iPad Pro vs iPad (2018) comparison for college / university students - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tIdU4Sw6a5Y
**Keywords:** bmat, bmat physics, physics, physics electricity, bmat electricity, bmat section 2, ali abdaal, 
**Date:** 2018-10-04

## Transcript
 Hey guys, welcome back to the channel. If you're new here, my name is Ali. I'm a junior doctor working in Cambridge and I'm also the co-founder of a company called Sixmet and we've been running courses for the B-MAT, the UK cat and interviews to help students get into medical school for hundreds of students every year since 2013. And in this video, I'm going to be showing you an excerpt from my online B-MAT crash course, which is like a 75 plus video series that pretty much guides you through everything that you need to know to do well in the B-MAT, at least, you know, on the technique and the theory side so that you can then put it into practice by doing practice papers yourself. So I know a lot of people who are taking the B-MAT don't do a little physics and who might struggle with physics. So in the course, there are about 20, it will exactly 20 videos on physics and this is one of them in this video we're talking about electricity and I'm going to be introducing you to the basic definitions and the basic formula that you need, because quite a lot of B-MAT physics is pretty much just about memorizing the formulae and if you can do that and apply them in the questions then you can get most of the marks right. There are a few other videos that are available free so I'll put the details of the online course in the description below so you can have a look through those. Yes, we'll disclosure the course does cost money if you want to access all 75 plus videos but if money is an issue or if you're from a low income background or anything like that we've got a ton of bursaries and like half of the people who end up, you know, getting getting the course and not getting some sort of discount or another thorough bursary system. So yeah, without further ado, here is the video on the basics of physics in electricity, specifically aimed at people taking the B-MAT and you can see in the description for links to the online course if you want to watch the rest of the videos. Enjoy. Okay, so welcome to the physics module of this course and in this video we're going to be talking about electricity. Now electricity is probably the most important topic in B-MAT physics because they tend to ask like two questions about it every year, at least they have over the last few years. So I'm really understanding in electricity is like a reasonably doable and across these videos we're going to go over everything you need to know for electricity and be the questions that come up for electricity. Once you've understood it, I'll recently straight forward like it's just a series of formally that you have to learn and a series of principles about series and parallel circuits that you have to understand. So in this video let's talk about kind of the basics of electricity and the formulae that we need to know. Now this kind of two ways of approaching this. Firstly, you could just memorize a list of formulae and you're probably be alright. But I want to go a little bit beyond that and I want to try and teach you a little bit of the understanding part of electricity because then like if you can visualize it in your head stuff becomes a lot easier and you have to memorize a lot a lot fewer things than if you just memorize the formulae. But we're going to go over the formulae anyway as well of course. So let's kick things off with a few definitions and the first thing that we want to know is charge. Now charge is a weird, a weird thing to define. I'm not going to bother too much for that. Charge is basically a physical property of stuff. That means it exerts a force in an electromagnetic field. That sounds complicated. Don't worry about it. It really doesn't matter what charge means. We could think of charge as the flow of electrons. The important thing about charge is that it's given the symbol Q. So Q is what would appear in a formula that denotes charge not C. If you see the word C in a formulae it does not mean charge. We need to be considered we need to get into the habit of using the standard standard symbols for all these things because those are the ones that are in the formulae anyway. So charge is the flow of electrons and it's measured in Q-loms which has the symbols C. Now this is confusing. Like I said in a formulae you will see Q as being the thing that refers to charge. You will never see the word Q-loms in a formulae or C meaning Q-loms in a formulae because that's like saying you know speed equals distance over time is the formula speed equals distance over time. It's not speed equals centimeters over time. Right? So you would use the quantity rather than the unit and this is a point that I'm going to keep going back to and it might seem obvious but this trips up a lot of people and when we teach the course in real life we always get people that write C for charge and that's so confusing. Please don't do that. Please write Q for charge whenever you're writing the formulae and let's move on to current. So current is basically the rate of flow of charge or as I thought you think of it it's the speed of electrons. It's how fast electrons are traveling in a circuit. Current is given the symbol i. Again this is confusing. Please like always refer to current as i when you're writing stuff down or in the formulae never ever refer to current as C because it's just the most confusing thing in the world. Anyway current is measured in amps and amps are given the symbol of a then we want a third definition and that is voltage. A voltage is the easy the symbol is V and the unit is volts which symbol is V as well so that's less confusing. Now voltage is another word for voltage is potential difference but voltage I like to think of it as basically a measure of energy. It is the amount of energy the amount of pushing power the electrons have as they go through stuff in a circuit. Now having defined all of those things there are some formulae that I want to introduce to you and I'm going to write them in different color. So these are the formulae that we need to know for electricity. So the first one is V equals E over Q. That is voltage equals energy divided by charge. Energy is measured in joules. Charge is measured in Q lumps. So V equals E over Q is formulae number one that we pretty much have to memorize and keep in a heads at all times. formulae number two is as we said the current is the rate of flow of charge it's the speed of electrons. So I equals Q over T. Current equals charge over time and time is given lowercase T and is measured in seconds. If you see time in minutes in the example question you need to multiply by 16 convert it into seconds because you know they're trying to catch you they're trying to catch you out there. And in fact I'm just going to annotate that current is a measure of speed and voltage is a measure of energy. And I think that's something really useful to keep in a mind because that's really going to help conceptualize things easier when we talk about series in parallel circuits. Current is the measure of speed voltage is a measure of energy. So the next thing we need to define is resistance. Resistance is quite hard to define. It's just like the resistance to the push of electrons. It's hard to define it without using the word resistance. But I'm sure we'll kind of understand what resistance means. A high resistance means it's harder to get through anything. So resistance is given the symbol R and it's measured in the unit ohms and again you will always see R in a formula you will never see the omega symbol for ohms in a formula. So the symbol for resistance is R the unit of resistance is ohms and that's an important thing to keep in mind. And at this point we can introduce ourselves to formula number three which is ohms though probably the most famous formula in all of electricity that's V equals IR. Voltage equals current times resistance. Okay one more thing we need to define and that is power. So have a think about what is the symbol for power? And the symbol for power is P. P is what you would see in a formula and the unit of power is what's which has a symbol W. So there's that all joke that what is the unit of power. Huh get it what is the unit of my. So power is defined as the rate of transfer of energy which sounds complicated but I just like to think of it as like how how much energy you are using per second. So basically energy per second. So that needs a formula number four that we have to memorize and that is P equals E over T. Power equals energy over time. So the amount of energy you're the electrons are transferring in the case of electricity per second. Now there is a fifth formula for power and that is also important and that formula number five is P equals IV. Power equals current times voltage and actually if you use formulas one to four you can rearrange that and you're pretty much get energy over time. But P equals IV is a really important one to memorize because that often comes up in the beam out as an electricity formula that we have to plug numbers into. And finally formula number six is sort of a combination of number of formula four and five. So technically it's not even a six formula because you can derive it from four and five. But I think it's useful to remember because it has come up in the past and it's quite easy to and that formula is E equals I TV. Easy enough energy measured in joules is current multiplied by time multiplied by voltage E equals I TV and that's easy to remember because I TV is a TV channel in the UK if you're watching this internationally you might know that. So these are the six formula the six basic electricity formula we need to know. We've introduced those please please please memorize those please memorize the symbols and the units because those are really important. It's really important that time is always measured in seconds. It's really important that volts and amps are measured in volts and current is measured in volts and amps. Power is measured in watts not kilowatts not megawatts just watts. We need to memorize these formula and we've gone over some of the definitions. We've explained that current is a measure of speed okay voltage is a measure of energy and power is like energy over time like how much energy you're transferring per second and resistances is resistance. So hopefully that's been helpful. In the next video we're going to introduce some questions and we can go over these in a lot more detail because I'll show you the method for answering pretty much every physics question to be met. We'll apply these formulae and we'll hopefully get a lot of marks in the beam at just by using these formulae and sticking numbers into them. So thanks for watching I'll see you in the next video. All right so that was me explaining some of the basics of beam at physics specifically the electricity stuff and there's links in the description to the beam at crash course online which is my 75 plus part video series. The beam at crash course which is our classroom course that runs across the UK and in a few other countries every year but also a link to beam at Ninja which is a website that me and a few friends made a few years ago that is like an online question back for for the beam at. So hopefully found that useful if you did if you give the video a thumbs up if you haven't subscribed to the channel yet please consider doing so. Have a lovely day and I'll see you in the next video and good luck with the beam at if you're taking it and you're future.
