# How I use Notion as a Resonance Calendar
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lKYBB-Uw1IM
Sign up to Notion here - https://go.aliabdaal.com/notion

Download Notion and get my Resonance Calendar template: http://bit.ly/alinotiontemplate

In this video, we go through how I use Notion as a resonance calendar to keep track of and reflect on the various things that I read, watch and listen to. Enjoy xx

LINKS
1. My Resonance Calendar Template - https://www.notion.so/notion/Resonance-Calendar-d505c818a6ef45d1900f26cb447e6029
2. My interview on the Alternative CV podcast (How to overcome fear, put yourself out there and get started) - https://alternativecv.fm/acv01-how-to-overcome-fear-put-yourself-out-there-and-get-started-ali-abdaal-part-1/
3. My 2nd interview on the Alternative CV podcast (Focus on systems, not goals) - https://alternativecv.fm/acv02-focus-on-systems-not-goals-ali-abdaal-part-2/
4. Drafts app - https://getdrafts.com/

--------

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
😃  How to be Happier - Stoicism Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/stoicism

TOOLS OF THE TRADE:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk
📚  How I remember what I read - Readwise - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali
What I Use For Analytics - https://go.aliabdaal.com/tubebuddy
🌐 My website platform (Ghost) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost

OTHER RECOMMENDED COURSES
📔 Effortless Output with Roam Research - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/roam
📓 Building a Second Brain - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/basb

🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** notion, notion app, keep productive, how to use notion, notion tutorial, notion setup, ali abdaal, thomas frank, notion hq, notion app review, productivity apps, keep productive notion, notion app tutorial, notion.so setup, notion apps, resonance calendar, 
**Date:** 2019-10-19

## Transcript
 Hey friends, welcome back to the channel. If you're new here, my name is Ali and I'm a doctor working in Cambridge and in this video, I'm going to show you how I use the app notion to be more reflective about the stuff that I read, watch, and listen to. Now, before discovering this method, I used to spend absolutely ages listening to podcasts, reading books, watching videos about like business entrepreneurship, productivity, self-improvement, all that stuff and it was that classic trap of consuming too much stuff but not really acting or reflecting on any of it. But all of that changed when I discovered this amazing method that I like to call my resonance calendar. So let's dive in and I'll show you exactly what that looks like. So this is what my resonance calendar looks like at the moment. And the idea is that any time I read, watch or listen to anything that resonates with me. That's kind of my bar. Anything that resonates with me, I will drop it into the resonance calendar and I'll take some notes on it. So for example, if we look at this episode of the farmstreet podcast called The Great Game, this was June 03 2019 at 11pm, clearly I was listening to it quite late and I've got these various notes. So at timestamp 2305, I wrote Happiness isn't found by seeking it. It's found by being engaged in the world. And sort of that's me writing down the stuff that the the guest on the podcast was saying because I, in that particular thing resonated with me, equally at timestamp 27, how can I add fun and delight to the person in front of me? That was the stuff that we're talking about and at the time I thought, oh, this is some pretty legit stuff. Why don't I make a few notes on it and shove it into my resonance calendar? And as we can see here, I've tagged it with podcast because it's a podcast episode and life because I think this is pretty legit life advice. I'll talk more about the tags in just a moment. And let's take another example. This is an article that I read in March about the paramethered for organizing digital information by my productivity guru to a tiagre forte. And what happens when you share an article into notion is that it just gives you the whole article a little bit of automatically copies and pastes the entire article into notion. So you can always come back to it without having to go back to the website. And here I've added some notes on it about the various ways in which I'm going to be applying this to my own life. So previously, what would have otherwise just been, I read an article and think, oh, that's kind of cool and never do anything about it. Now at least I'm writing down my thoughts and ideas and writing down what I plan to do with the information. So that was a quick overview of what this resonance calendar actually looks like. I'll expand more on that in just a sec. But first, let's talk about how we actually get stuff into the resonance calendar. Firstly, we can use the notion web clipper add-on thing for Chrome. So let's say if I go in my own website and I find an article that say resonates with me using notion as a resonance calendar. When did I write this? I wrote this in March 2019. So if you sign up to my email newsletter, which I send weekly, then you can keep up to date with this sort of stuff and you can find out about these use cases six months before I actually make a video about them. Anyway, let's say I discovered this article on Keystone habits that I wrote in February, again, as part of the email newsletter. And I was talking about something that James Clear wrote in a topic habits. But whatever, I can put that straight into notion using the notion web clipper. So I click this little notion icon here. I can add some notes to it. So I've made my few notes and then I hit enter and that goes immediately into my resonance calendar. And so if I open that notion, we see immediately Keystone habits and here are my notes about it that are formatically. So yeah, here are some notes about the article. What I'm planning to do with it. So it's copied and pasted the entire article into notion and it's written my notes above it. So that one I'm returning to it, I can see exactly what I wrote. So that's what I use if I'm reading stuff on Chrome and I want to get it into notion. More often than not, I tend to be reading or consuming stuff on my iPhone or on my iPad. And so let's have a look here. Let's say I'm on Castro, which is my podcast app of choice. And I'm listening to the alternative CB podcast, which is run by one of my friends. And oh, just go into that late. Let's take this episode episode one, which is how to overcome fear. Put yourself out there and get started, which is a two-part interview with me, or I talk about all this sort of stuff. Let's say I was listening to that. Again, I put a link in the video description to you. You want to check it out. I could hit this little share button and then the shared dialogue opens up. And I could message it to people that I message stuff to, or I can share it directly into notion. And it's all, it gets added to my resonance calendar. And if I want to, I can sort of change this to all the various databases that I've got with a notion, but because resonance calendar is the one that I always just add things to. That's the first one that comes up. I can write the titles. So I can say I can say I'll lead interview on a CV podcast, whatever it doesn't matter if this type is. And I can write if you notice about this. And then what I want, I can hit save. And that's gone. And if we look immediately on notion, which is synced across all my devices, here we go. I'll use interview on the ACV podcast. Let's fix the typo. Let's hit enter just fix the formatting. And yeah, here we go. Here are some notes that I wrote about this incredible interview. And here are the show notes, which automatically get populated here, which is just really handy because now when I return to this, I can immediately see all the references and all the links from this podcast. And normally when I take notes on podcasts, I like to refer to the timestamps. So that let's say in six months time, I'm making a YouTube video and referencing this podcast. I know exactly where the timestamp is. And I can get a clip from the podcast and shove it into my YouTube video. So that was method number two for getting stuff into the resonance calendar. And then the third, and I think most interesting way that I get stuff into the resonance calendar is actually by using my Apple Watch. Now often when I'm listening to podcasts, I'm listening to them at double speed. And I'm listening to them in the car, which means like, yeah, I could stop by the side of the road and write down notes on my phone if I really want to. And I do sometimes do that. But recently I've discovered this app and drafts for the Apple Watch. Here we go. This is my Apple Watch. This is the app and drafts. So I can tap on that. And then I can hit this record button and I can do this while driving so that it just just two taps. And then while I'm on drafts, I can record anything that I want to say about this podcast. And as you can see, it is automatically transcribing that into text in quite a reasonable fashion if I'm honest. Then I hit done. And then that gets saved to my drafts in box. And then I can open up drafts on my Mac. And usually it's things reasonably. And here we go. We've got the draft that's synced to Mac. And so if I want to add something to the root to the resonance calendar, I just hit the new button. And then I have to do, I do have to manually input this information. So I would write a doll interview with or something like that. I'd find the URL. And then I would just copy and paste the notes from draft into notion. And then I would archive the draft using a keyboard shortcut. And this would be the way, like, there is a bit of manual labor. And I would like it. At some point, I'm sure notion is going to open up the API and you automatically be able to add stuff from drafts into notion. But for now, I think just copying and pasting it from one window into another is a very reasonable way of doing it. And it also means that I can then quick capture all the ideas that I have while I'm driving without having to, you know, stop the car on the side of the road, get my phone out, and then get late for work. So that's how I get stuff into notion. And now when it's in notion, I can use various fancy filtering features of notion to make it more useful and more organized. And often what I'll do is because I tag stuff there. And then I can answer questions like, if a friend is asking me, hey, what podcasts would you recommend? I can be like, how funny you should ask, why don't I use this filter add a filter? Let's see, tags, contains podcasts. And now when I filter it by that, it's showing me all of the podcasts that have resonated with me over the last, I don't know, since when was the first one? Since March 23, 2019, when I first discovered notion in this residence calendar thing, or if we clear that filter, let's say I'm writing an article or working on a YouTube video about productivity, I could just type in the word productivity on the search thing. And it would also magically find all of my tags that I've been tagged with productivity, but also all of my residence calendar items that just have the word productivity in them somewhere. And that just makes it a lot easier for me to create content about productivity because now all of my stuff about productivity, everything that I've ever read or listened to or can or watched. That's resonated with me about productivity is now in this residence calendar. There's another pretty high tech feature of notion that I do use quite often. And that's the ability to add related database items to the residence calendar. So I'll show you what I mean by that. So at the moment, this whole residence calendar thing is a database. And because notion is based on the notion, of databases, it means you can have different views depending on what you want to see. So this is the list view where I'm just looking at the title of the note and the tags. I could also view it in calendar mode if I really wanted to. That's how I started doing this initially. So here we go, June 2019 was when I put a load of stuff into this because for some reason I was just consuming lots of content. And we can see that across across the calendar, I can see the stuff that I consumed, which I guess would be quite a nice way to look at things over time. I've also got my table. And what the table does is that it lets me add links to ideas from the calendar. So I've got the second database called ideas. And these are ideas for either blog posts or email newsletters or articles or video scripts that I might make at some point further down the line. And some of these are my own ideas, but actually the majority of them are ideas that I've picked up through reading, listening and watching to stuff. And so I like to link to the original source. And there's a very easy way of doing that. So for example, let's take this one decision-making windows versus doors, this was on the Ariana Simpson episode of the my first million podcast by the hustle. And I've got this property within this database that I call resonance link. And that means I can link items in my resonance calendar to these idea items. So if I search for Simpson, that should come up. Here we go. Ariana Simpson learned the Bitcoin believer. And I can add this as a resonance link to this particular idea. And that's useful. If I come across this idea, I can see where the source of it was. But it's also useful because if I go back on the resonance calendar and look in the table mode. Now at this point, if I go on a specific item, I can see all of the related notes related ideas that I'd have been linked to that all in one place. And so this really good. This means that if I'm writing my weekly email newsletter and deciding, you know, I usually pick three or four things that I enjoyed that week that I want to share with the audience. This is going to be quite high up on the list because 1, 2, 3, 4, 5. There were five different ideas that I generated from this one podcast. And now these ideas can then later be turned into blog posts and articles and stuff. So again, if we go back to my ideas database, I just love showing the stuff off because I think it's really cool. And I go into refinery mode. This is the Kanban view that notion has. So we've got no status, which is just where all the ideas go. We've got idea, we've got draft, we've got email, we've got published. So actually this Windows versus doors one, it starts off under no status. And then I can drag it over into idea when it's something that I'm actively thinking about draft, when I'm actually writing something about it. And email, when I've thought about turning it into an email newsletter, and then published when it becomes a blog post on my website. So I like to think of this as the refinery. I call it refinery because I think I'm cool. As a sort of a refinery for ideas, I get the ideas either self-generated or from other sources that I consume. And then it goes through different layers of the refinery, ultimately turning into a blog post. And I suppose I'll have one of a here called a video. So if I turn a particular thing into a video, then that's one step further along the pipeline as it were. And then I think about this is that, and I fully recommend that anyone does this who creates any kind of content at all, because every Sunday when I sit down to write my weekly email newsletter, which again, you can subscribe to with a link down below. Back in the day, I used to start with a blank slate. I used to think, oh crap, I need to write something today, watch it, I write. And it would take me an hour or two to think of something of the top of my head, turn it into a like a reasonable coherent few paragraphs and send it out. But now, instead of starting with a blank slate, I can just think, hmm, I need to write an email today. And earlier today, I thought exactly that, and I looked down my list. And earlier today, I actually wrote this windows versus doors one. And then this idea, which I got from the podcast, became an issue of my weekly email, and yes, that's it. So that was, you know, that whole process took me about 20 minutes whereas before it would have taken like an hour or two, because I'm not starting from scratch, thankfully I've got my resonance calendar where I've added notes and stuff to everything that has resonated with me over the past few months. So yeah, that was quick run through of how I use notion as a resonance calendar. I use notion for a ton of other things as well, and I'm going to be sort of making videos over time about that. But I think the great thing about the resonance calendar is since I started doing this in March 2019, it's really encouraged me to be a lot more reflective about the stuff that I'm consuming and actively think about a how can apply it to my own life and how I can change my behavior based on it. But be also because I'm a content creator, it lets me think about how to take those ideas from other sources and apply my own lens and know my own perspective to them and then release them out into the world as my own little creations and stuff. And obviously I link back to the original sources and it's quite nice doing this sort of thing because now whenever I write an article that's based on someone's blog or on someone's podcast or a feature in a video, I can treat them saying, hey, I wrote this thing that features your work and is of speaks and glowing terms about it, you should check it out. And then these people who I admire and want to connect with and stuff see my tweet. And like, this guy's giving me free publicity. This is awesome. So like overall, a lot of good things have happened in my life just because of this resonance calendar. So if you want to check out this resonance calendar, I'll put a link to it down in the video description. And the great thing about notion is that you can make any of your pages public if you want to and you can make your templates public. So this is now a public template. You can now click on it in the video description and then you can duplicate it into your own notion account, which means you can just get this template for free. Just to do whatever you like with and you can modify it to suit your own goals or whatever you want to do with it and you can just add stuff to it over time. And on the notion website, you'll find a ton of other templates. This is really cool personal wiki one that's used by Ben, one of the notion marketing team. And that's something that I'm going to be experimenting a lot with as well. And I really like just browsing through the templates and seeing all the various use cases for notion. But yeah, that was my resonance calendar link in the video description. And yeah, that's pretty much at the end of the video. Thank you very much for watching. If you like this video, you should check out a playlist over there somewhere of my other notion related videos and productivity related videos that you might like as well. So thanks for watching. Have a great day and I'll see you in the next video. Bye bye.
