# 9 Passive Income Ideas - How I Make $27k per Week
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M5y69v1RbU0
The first 1000 people to use this link will get 30% off an annual Skillshare Premium Membership: https://skl.sh/aliabdaal04211 - and you can check out my brand new Productivity for Creators class too! 

If you want to start and grow a YouTube channel, you might want to join the last ever cohort of my course the Part Time YouTuber Academy, check it out here: https://go.aliabdaal.com/cohort8youtube

In this video I'll be going over 9 passive income ideas with real world examples, some of which have enabled me to earn around $27,000 a week.

Links
1. Freetrade Stocks and Shares (UK) - https://magic.freetrade.io/join/ali-abdaal 
2. Weebull Stocks (USA) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/webull
3. Sheen's podcast - https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCuNc0j9dER2_AOORpCcFS-g/videos
4. Not Overthinking YouTube Channel - https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCdXpN-Z7LyTgc3OLo_Zw2Pg
5. Pat Flynn's affiliate marketing course - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/pat-flynn-affiliate
6. Traf - https://twitter.com/traf?s=20
7. Oliur -  @Oliur / UltraLinx  and  @Oliur Online  
8. Ness Labs -  @Anne-Laure Le Cunff   - https://nesslabs.com
9. Hannah Witton -  @Hannah Witton  

🍿WATCH NEXT:
How to Build the Ultimate Productivity System: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T6hmdrsLQj8&list=PL7BImOT2srcED6c2hbR5JBlPoFEhwvjtn&index=1&t=61s
How to Invest for Beginners: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gFQNPmLKj1k&list=PL7BImOT2srcED6c2hbR5JBlPoFEhwvjtn&index=9&t=1386s
How I Manage My Time: 10 Time Management Tips: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iONDebHX9qk&list=PL7BImOT2srcED6c2hbR5JBlPoFEhwvjtn&index=2&t=1s

00:00 Intro
02:20 Investing in stocks and shares
07:07 Starting a YouTube channel
10:36 Starting a podcast
13:35 Becoming an affiliate marketer
16:50 Selling a digital product
18:53 Selling a course
23:36 Building a membership community
26:12 Automating a business
28:00 Building an app or website

💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://go.aliabdaal.com/subscribe-sundaysnippets

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - 
 https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
🎬 YouTube for Beginners - Everything You Need To Know To Start  - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/YouTube-for-Beginners

MY CREATOR COURSES
🎬 Part-Time YouTuber Academy - My 6-week live online course on becoming a part-time YouTuber → https://go.aliabdaal.com/parttimeyoutuberacademy
🏆 Creatorpreneur - My flagship course for scaling up your creative side-hustle → https://creatorpreneur.academy/course
🗣 Camera Confidence - My self-paced course on how to improve your creativity, career, or communication skills → https://cameraconfidence.aliabdaal.com/

MY FAVOURITE GEAR
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) -https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

🎙 Check out my weekly podcast, Deep Dive - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/ - It's also available on all podcast platforms, including Spotify, Apple Podcasts etc.

MY FAVOURITE TOOLS
🚀 VidIQ - How I optimise my YouTube videos - https://go.aliabdaal.com/vidiq

✍️ Shortform - The BEST summaries of books - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform

📚  Readwise - How I remember what I read - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise

🎵  Epidemic Sound - Where I get my music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound

MY KEY LINKS
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com/
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I’m Ali, a YouTuber, podcaster, soon-to-be author and ex-Doctor working in London, UK. I make videos that explore the strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. I also have a weekly podcast called Deep Dive (https://www.youtube.com/channel/UChfo46ZNOV-vtehDc25A1Ug), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://go.aliabdaal.com/subscribe-sundaysnippets).

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, passive income, how to make passive income, business ideas 2021, how to make money online, making money online, side gigs, how to make money, passive income ideas, passive income 2021, make passive income, passive income online, passive income 2020, how to make money on youtube, how to make passive income online, passive income streams, smart passive income, how to earn money online, passive income ideas 2021, make money online 2021, 
**Date:** 2021-04-15

## Transcript
 Hey friends, welcome back to the channel. In this video, we're going to talk about 9 different ways that you can make passive income. And for each of those, I'm going to talk about how hard is to get started, how hard it is to make $100 a month from it, and how hard it is to maintain once you've created the thing in the first place. For me and my business, these 9 different sources generate around $27,000 per week, these days with a varying degrees of passiveness. And obviously this has taken me like 8 years to build up, so don't expect to be hitting those sorts of numbers when you first get started. But this is the video that I wish I would have had when I started my financial independence journey many, many, many years ago. Let's go for it. Alright, so when I say passive income, I always air quotes it because there is really no such thing as passive income. There is no way to make money without doing anything at all. But when I say passive income, what I mean is that it's money that is not directly tied to our time. So let's say you were to write a book. If you write a book, you publish a book, that book is now in bookshelves. You've done the work kind of once to write and publish the book. But now, anytime the book sells, you make money from royalties, that is passive income. You could literally be making money while you sleep because you've created this thing, which is out in the world, which is generating income for you. The other thing with passive income is that it always takes a very long time to get going. So if you see any ads before this video talking about how you can get rich quick by whatever scheme, or if you see people in the comments pretending to be me saying, oh my god, here's how you can get rich quick with crypto. What's up this number? That is all a scam. It's not going to work. There is no way to get rich quick. It is not a thing. So if you're looking for a get rich quick scheme, those things just don't exist. So you might as well not even try. And the way I think of this is that ultimately money is just a medium for exchanging value. The only way to make money is to provide value. And the only way to make passive income, passive money, is to provide value in a way that is not directly tied to your time. So please please do not try and join a get rich quick scheme. They don't exist. I've had lots of messages over their years from people who have tried signing up to a get rich quick crypto scheme, or a gambling scheme, or a hey, here is how you kind of play poker online. None of these things ever work. People always end up losing money. The only way to make money is by providing value. And so let's talk about the nine different ways that you could provide value if you wanted to. Just before we dive in, I want to tell you that I have just launched my brand new Skillshare class about productivity for creators how to start a successful side hustle. That's linked to the video description. Skillshare is sponsoring this video. I'll tell you more about Skillshare later on. But I want to plug my own class because I think it's genuinely really good. And people really like it. And it'll help you get tips on how you can start side hustles in your spare time. Anyway, let's get into the video. All right. So let's kick things off with investing in stocks and shares. And in this context, the way that we provide value is by offering up our money. Providing money and investing in a service is in a way giving a form of value. And so when we give our money to a company in the form of buying their stocks, it makes sense that we would get some kind of return for that investment. And we're starting with this because investing in stocks is the easiest way to make any kind of passive income. If you have any sorts of savings and they're sitting in a savings account earning 0.01% interest, they're not really doing very much for you. Whereas, if you had those stay savings and put them in stocks, you could potentially be earning passive income from the money that's otherwise just sitting there. Now, I've got a whole video called the Ultimate Guide to Investing in Stocks and Shares for beginners, which is going to be linked over there somewhere. So that is a solid half an hour long introduction to stocks and exactly how they work. But the thing that I recommend for most beginners as a non-financial advisor in, this is not financial advice, purely for entertainment purposes only, or so people say, or at least the thing that I do is that basically all my money that's in stocks and shares is invested in index funds. Now an index fund is something like the S&P 500. And when you invest, let's say a thousand dollars in the S&P 500, that basically means that your thousand dollars is distributed amongst the top 500 biggest companies in the US. So, you know, weighted by how big they are. So like, you know, 2% of it would be an apple, 2% in Facebook, 2% in Google, 2% in Microsoft. And then you probably want to have heard of the 500th company on the list, but basically all the big US companies you've heard of, you end up investing in all of them a little bit at a time. So if you want to get started with that, all you need to do is sign up to a stock broker. If you're in the US, you can use a weeble. I think I've got a link in the description. If you're in the UK, you can use free trade or Vanguard. Basically, whatever country you're in, just google the phrase best stock broker platform, your country name, and you'll find something that works for you. And then it's very easy to be able to invest in an index fund. So, within our famous side hustle assessment matrix, we're going to give the difficulty of starting a one-star rating, one out of five. It's very, very easy to get started with stocks. How hard is it to make a hundred dollars a month by investing in stocks and shares? Oh, this kind of depends because it depends on the performance of the stock market overall. So, in the last 12 months from 2020 to 2021, the S&P 500 is actually increased by about 50%. That is a lot. It's like gone up by a solid 50% despite COVID and everything going on. So, if in April 2020, you had invested $2,400 in the S&P 500. The fact that it's gone up by 50% means you would have made a hundred dollars a month. But, obviously, this is not the way to look at it because, you know, things can go up and down, and the stock market has different levels of performance depending on what time period you're looking at. But, if we average out the last 30 to 50 years, the S&P 500 has had a roughly 10.0% return, which means every year, on average, over the long term, it goes up by around 10%. This is not inflation adjusted for any economist among us. And so, if we do some back of the envelope calculations, if we want to earn a hundred dollars a month, passively, three stocks and shares, we would need around about $12,000, invested in the S&P 500 to make that 10% $1,200 a year, which is a hundred dollars a month. But, as I talk about in that video about stocks over time, we have compounding. And so, if you put in $7,500 in the S&P 500 and you left it there for five years, then five years later, you would be making roughly $100 a month if we go by this average figure of 10% a year. Or, if you invested $5,000 in the S&P 500, then 10 years later, you'd be making a hundred dollars a month in purely passive income, again, assuming the 10% average. So, overall, how hard is it really to make a hundred dollars a month in passive income from stocks and shares? Well, it kind of just depends on how hard is it for you to make $5,700 or $12,000 in savings and put them into a stock market index fund. And, crucially, this is money that you shouldn't need to touch in the next five to 10 years at least. So, basically, how easy is it for you to them to make that sort of money? Obviously, varies massively depending on which country you're in and what your circumstances are and what your job is. But, if you're in the UK or the US where the median kind of average salaries around about $50,000 something like that, then, again, depending on your circumstances, it's not that hard to get $10,000 in savings. Obviously, if you're supporting a family of 15 people on $50,000, it's different. If you're a single person, again, it's different. But, I'm going to give this roughly a three out of five star rating for difficulty of getting a hundred dollars a month. Obviously, if you live in a country like India where the average salary is $3,600 a year, it's very, very difficult to make $10,000 in savings overall. And, finally, the third category in our side hustle assessment matrix is how hard is it to maintain this income once you've set it up in the first place? And, we're going to give this a one star out of five, because once you've got the money in, you just like, set it and forget it, and it's not that hard to maintain. There are other sources of passive income that require higher degrees of maintenance over time. But, stocks and shares is a very, very easy way to make passive income. And, to use my personal example, these days, my stocks and shares portfolio, which I've been investing in since 2015, is now worth around about $350,000. And, the vast majority of that is in the S&P 500 index fund. Now, I can't be bothered to work out the actual inflation adjusted returns for that. But, again, if we assume a very, very rough average of 10% a year, then that average is out to around $682 per week in purely passive income. All right, idea number two, for generating passive income is to start a YouTube channel. This is something I specialize in, because I'm here on YouTube, and I actually teach a course called the Puntime YouTuber Academy, links in the video description where I teach people how to do this sort of thing. So, let's use our side hustle assessment matrix and we'll talk about this. How hard is it to start a YouTube channel? Well, I'm going to give this one out of five stars, because it's actually very, very easy to start a YouTube channel. You just go on YouTube.com, you click create a channel, and you can upload videos by just filming with your phone and uploading it. In reality, it's a lot harder to make good videos and making good videos as how you grow on YouTube, but getting started on YouTube is very, very, very, very straightforward. The real question is how hard is it to actually make real money from YouTube? So, again, let's say we want to make $100 a month in passive income. What does that look like? Well, firstly, to be eligible for monetization on YouTube, you need 1,000 subscribers and 4,000 hours of watch time. It took me six months and 52 videos to get my first 1000 subscribers. And if we look at the averages, it actually takes on average 90 something videos to get 2000 subscribers. So, that's quite hard. If you're thinking, you're going to start a YouTube channel and start making money from day one. You know, that's basically not going to happen. It took me 52 videos, six months to get there. So, if people message me, I, I want to start a YouTube channel, I was like, look, you have to be able to put in the effort and do this for a very long period of time, at least once a week, I say for at least two years before you can expect anything in return. But let's say you've hit your 1000 subscribers in your 4,000 hours of watch time. How hard is it to actually make a hundred dollars a month? Well, on average, the kind of revenue per thousand views on YouTube is around about two dollars. So, this varies massively, but let's say on average about two dollars per thousand views. Therefore, if you want to make a hundred dollars a month, you need 50,000 views on YouTube to make a hundred dollars a month. Let's say you make one video per week and let's assume you're not getting any traffic on your older videos. That means every video you make needs to get around about $12,500. And very roughly, the average YouTube channel can expect around about 20% of their subscribers to equal the average view count for each video. So, on YouTube, if you had 62,000 subscribers, very roughly, very average, you can expect 20% of them at your 12,500 views on each video. And assuming you have no evergreen content of the long term, you would need around about 60,000 subscribers to be making a hundred dollars a month. In reality, you make a hundred dollars a month, a lot before 60,000 subscribers. I think I was making a hundred dollars a month when I had like 10,000 something subscribers, like it was it was fairly early on. But when it comes to assessing how hard is this to do, I'm going to give this a four out of five stars. It's actually very hard to make compelling YouTube videos. And it's very easy to get started, but it's hard to do well. It's totally worth it. It's a great skill set. It's really fun. You get to meet people across the internet. You get to learn how to talk to a camera and how to film and video edit. And it's really great, but it's very hard to actually make money from YouTube. Finally, in terms of effort to maintain, like actually getting that first of thousands of subscribers is a lot harder than keeping it growing. Because once you've got a thousand subscribers and once your channel is growing, it means you've landed on a formula that works. And so maintaining it then becomes easier than starting from scratch. And so in our side hustle assessment matrix, we're going to give maintenance of a YouTube channel passive income stream to be read about two out of five stars. To use my example, I made 70 videos before I started making any money from YouTube AdSense. And these days, the YouTube channel makes around about $12,000 a month in passive income from YouTube AdSense. Now, again, this is not entirely passive because I keep on uploading new videos. But actually, the bulk of the amount of money that we generate from ads, is from older videos rather than videos that are uploaded this month. So with that caveat, $12,000 a month of passive income is run about $3,000 a week thanks to this YouTube channel. And thanks to you guys for supporting it in all that stuff. There are other ways of monetizing YouTube, like brand deals and like selling merch and this all other other sort of stuff, but it doesn't really count as passive income through YouTube, which is why I'm not including this in this side hustle assessment matrix. Idea number three for making passive income is to start a podcast. This is generally easier than starting a YouTube channel. Although growing a podcast is a lot harder than growing a YouTube channel because podcasts themselves don't really have a algorithm that's helping them grow. In fact, a lot of podcasts grow by having a YouTube channel, which is kind of weird. Right, so how hard is it to start a podcast? Well, again, one out of five stars. It's very very easy to start a podcast, go on anchor.fm and you can literally use your phone and you can pass your phone around between you and your friends and you can start a podcast. You can use a web site called Riverside.fm that I recently invested in as an agent investor. Riverside makes it very easy to record remote podcast interviews. It's very very easy to start a podcast. But how hard is it to make $100 a month in passive income from a podcast? Well, again, this is not quite passive income because the way podcasts does make money is by relying on brand deals. There is no YouTube ad cents for podcasts. And so you need a sponsorship or a brand deal to make any money for your podcast, generally speaking. And apparently you can expect to make around $18 for a 30 second ad in a podcast and $25 per thousand views or a thousand listens for a 60 second ad. So if you want to make $100 a month and assuming you have a stream of sponsorships who are giving you that level of sponsorship deal based on your download numbers, you would need around a thousand downloads per episode if you have a weekly podcast. So you would have four thousand downloads a month. And if you're putting a 60 second ad in there for $25 per thousand views, that would make you round about $100 a month. By having a thousand downloads per episode in four episodes per month. This makes the question, how hard is it to get a thousand downloads per month? Well, it's a lot harder to get a thousand podcast downloads per month than it is to get a thousand YouTube views per month because again, YouTube has so much distribution built in. It's different to podcasts also loads more people on YouTube than on podcasts. But if we look at the stats, then it's the top 20% of podcasts in the world. They get on average more than a thousand downloads per episode. To use a friend of mine as an example, my housemate Sheen started her own podcast around five months ago. There will be a link to that in the description if you want to check it out. And on average, her podcast gets round about 400 to 500 downloads per episode. This is not bad at all, especially considering she started five months ago and had zero audience when she started, so she didn't have the unfair advantage that I did when starting my own podcast, for example. And because she's just launched season two of a podcast and has just started posting videos about it on YouTube, that will really help the podcast grow. And I'm pretty sure that in the next six months, she'll be she'll be getting to a point where she can quite easily make $100 a month from her podcast. So I'm going back to our side hustle assessment matrix, starting a podcast, one out of five stars, making $100 a month. I'm going to give that a three out of five stars because it's hard, but not as hard as maybe monetizing on YouTube where you have this minimum threshold. And finally maintenance. Well, it's not really passive income because you do have to keep on making podcast episodes because the brand deals are associated with that. But again, once you've stumbled on a formula that works, once you know how to be a podcaster, it's easier to continue going once you've already gotten started. As is the case with most things. And so in terms of maintenance of the podcast, I'm going to give that two stars. To use me as an example, so me and my brother have a podcast called Not Over Thinking, link in the video description if you want to check it out. But we make around about $625 per week from the podcast overall from brand deals and from our membership. All right. So idea number four for generating passive income is to become an affiliate marketer. A affiliate marketing means that you are selling other people's products, but you're getting a percentage of the sales from those products. Now, apparently, 48% of affiliate marketers globally earned $20,000 a year, which is $1,660 a month, which is actually not bad at all. Like people are doing very well with affiliate marketing overall. So how hard is it to get started with affiliate marketing? Well, I'm going to give this a two out of five stars. Basically, you can just sign up to an affiliate program like Amazon Associates. So Amazon have the ruin affiliate program, which I think is probably the biggest in the world. And then once you have your little special links, you can post those on your website, or on Twitter, or on social media, or whatever. And if people buy the product through your link, or in fact buy any product on Amazon through your link, you'll get like some tiny percentage of the sales. So pretty easy to get started with affiliate marketing, but how hard is it to make $100 a month? Well, this is actually kind of hard. So let's say you had a product that was $50 that you were trying to sell and you were getting 5% commission on it. That would be pretty good. Amazon doesn't offer nearly as much as 5% it offers like two or three percent something like that. And let's say your average conversion rate are people visiting the thing versus people actually buying the product after visiting the thing. Let's say that's 1% which is pretty reasonable for a conversion rate. You would need 8,000 visits to your website or whatever to make $100 a month. It's actually quite hard to get 8,000 visits per month to your website to a specific product page. And generally doing well in affiliate marketing requires lots of upfront effort in terms of either building an audience or building such a domain authority in whatever space you're in, that you're sort of organically getting traffic. Now, other than Amazon, there are a few other affiliate programs that I'm part of. One of them is Skillshare, who are currently sponsoring this video. I'll tell you about the sponsor segment later, but Skillshare, I have an interesting affiliate program where if you refer someone to sign up to a free trial of Skillshare, you can get $7 in affiliate commission just for that thing. So if you wanted to make $100 a month from affiliates, you would need 15 people every month to sign up for Skillshare with your affiliate link thing. How hard is it to get 15 people a month to sign up with your affiliate link? Well, it's not that hard if you have an audience. And it's not that hard if you have your own classes on Skillshare, like I do, I have like nine of them. And so if I want to make money through Skillshare affiliates, I can just tell people, hey guys, I can tell you that guys are just released my latest Skillshare class productivity for creators, how to start a successful site hustle, so there will be a link in the video description if you want to check that out. Like that would be, hopefully some of you will see that. We'll click on that link in the description, and then that will be me getting some affiliate income from Skillshare for this video. So going back to our site hustle assessment matrix, how hard is it to make $100 a month? I'm going to give this a 3.5 star rating because again, you need an audience. And as we always talk about on this channel, the way you build an audience is by creating useful content, putting it for free on the internet once a week and doing this for at least two years. If you just follow those three steps, I guarantee you'll have an audience and you'll be able to make some kind of money through this passive income but that's quite hard to do. No one sticks to it for at least two years, so we'll give that a 3.5 star rating. But the good news is once you've created it and once you've started making money from affiliates, it's actually quite easy to maintain because especially if you have evergreen content, the sort that isn't relying on like current affairs or the latest news, the sort that people might search for over a long period of time, this becomes like relatively reasonable passive income. Now if we look at me in my business, these days from Skillshare, we make around about $11,000 per month in affiliate income, which approximates to around $2,750 per week. And from Amazon, on average, like it's around about $450 a month from the Amazon UK store and a little bit more from the US and Canada. Alright, method number five of making passive income is by selling digital products. Now these are products that you create once like an ebook or a download or an app or something like that. So you create it once and then you can sell it multiple times because selling digital products doesn't usually have any cost associated with it. One really good example is this guy called TREF who I follow in Twitter, who made an iOS 14 icon set and sold it for like $30 a pop a few months ago and ended up making I think like $300,000 in the course of like a few weeks, just because loads of people around the world wanted to buy his icon pack. So he put the work into creating the pack and now he's selling it for lots of money. Another example is my youtuber friend Oliar who has made, as he says, $700,000 from selling his website tumblr themes since 2014. So he made the website themes for tumblr, he sells them and he makes $700,000 on average, or overall since since 2014. That's pretty cool. So how hard is it to get started making digital products? I mean anyone can write an ebook, an ebook counts as a digital product. So I'm going to give this a two star rating to out of five stars, but obviously like again money is an exchange of value. So the thing that you're selling, you have to be providing enough value to compensate to make up for the price that you're selling it for. And that's often quite hard, especially if you don't have an experience in this sort of field. And how hard is it to make $100 a month? Well, you know, it's very easy to create an ebook, but it's a whole different board game trying to get people to actually buy your ebook or buy your icon set or buy your app or buy your website themes. And because the market around the stuff is so competitive, like you have to be genuinely really good to get people to buy your stuff. And the way you get people to pay you money for something is that you identify a problem that they have. You solve that problem and then you charge money for it. And if you can do those three things, then it's, you know, I wouldn't say it's easy to make $100 a month, but it's very doable to make $100 a month. You just genuinely have to have something that solves a pain point that other people are willing to pay for. So we're going to give this a three out of five stars to make $100 a month from selling digital products. And finally, in terms of maintenance, we're going to give this a two out of five stars because usually you do have to maintain your product a little bit, but it's often easier to do like it's much easier to maintain a product than creating a product in the first place. Idea number six for passive income generation is to create an online course. Now online course is sort of like a digital product, but generally online courses are in video format. In fact, this whole video is so long. It could basically have been an entire online course. Maybe I'll do one about this very topic. And in terms of getting started, we're going to give the starting difficulty a two out of five stars. Because it's not that hard making on online course, but generally you do need to know how to do video. So, you know, you actually could have filmed an online course on your iPhone or phone, whatever phone you're using. If you're one of those Android heathens, stick a phone on the side, talk to the phone, teach something. So it's not hard creating one, but in terms of making $100 a month, again, at that point your course needs to actually be good. And the only reason people will pay for it is if the course is actually good. Now, you kind of avoid having to charge for your online courses by using a website like Skillshare, who are very kindly sponsoring this video. I have tons of classes in Skillshare. I think we've got nine on them in total. I've been teaching on Skillshare since September 2019. And I've actually just released my new online course called Productivity for Creators. How to start a successful side hustle where I teach you, the internet, how you can create your own side hustle in your spare time without quitting your job. If you want to check this out, then the first 1,000 people to click the link in the video description will get 30% off the annual Skillshare premium membership. This is actually a really good deal. I pay for Skillshare. I've been paying it for it for it for years. Even after I start teaching on it, because there's genuinely a fantastic place to learn stuff. They've got thousands of classes and all sorts of other topics, but you should definitely check out mine like the nine that I've got. There are three around productivity now. Like the fundamentals of productivity, the sort of productivity equation, which is how I think of productivity and productivity for creators. I have two on how you can study for exams. If you're in school, if you've got exams to prepare for those, apparently you're really good. They've got very high ratings. And if you've already had a free trial of Skillshare, then you can still use that offer. That if you're one of the first 1,000 people to hit the link in the video description, you'll get 30% off the premium membership. And you can check out my class, which I have to say is pretty good. Anyway, thank you Skillshare for sponsoring this video. But genuinely, Skillshare is a great place to teach stuff because you can teach things on Skillshare without directly having to charge for them, which is why I love putting my courses on Skillshare. It's kind of like having something on Netflix in that the end user does not have to pay directly for the product. And the other nice thing about Skillshare is that it's like the, it's, it's sort of like YouTube in that anyone can upload a class to Skillshare provided it needs certain quality requirements. And so it's a lot easier than having to make your own website and create your own courses platform and all that kind of stuff. So pretty easy to start. We're going to give this a 2 out of 5, but how hard is it to make $100 a month from teaching online courses? Now, this kind of depends. Yeah, if you're going down the Skillshare route, then to make $100 a month on Skillshare, you need around about 1,700 minutes of watch time, which is 28 hours of watch time. So if you have a 1 hour class on Skillshare, you need 28 students to take that class every month and watch it with a premium membership, roughly very broadly speaking. And that will give you round about $100 a month, at least those are based on my figures over the last like two years of being on Skillshare. Now, how hard is it to get 28 people a month watching your class? Well, if your class is actually pretty good, it shouldn't be too hard to get 28 people a month watching it. If you have an existing audience, it's very easy to get 28 people a month watching it because people already know like and trust you, hopefully. And so they'll watch your stuff and give you a shot because you've already built that good will with them. But the nice, again, the nice thing about Skillshare is a platform is that they have like their own algorithm, so the good stuff rises to the top. So if you genuinely have a really, really, really good class and you put it on Skillshare, then even if you don't have an audience, there is still a high chance that if the class is actually good and people watch it a lot and people recommend it and give it high ratings, it will rise to the top and it will start getting recommended to people who find it on the Skillshare homepage or who search for it specifically. The other way of making $100 a month from a course is to just charge $100 for a course. And then if you do that, you just need one sale every month. So how hard is it to get one person a month to buy your course? Well, again, if it's good, you know, the world of online education is exploding so much every year and more and more money is being spent online education, especially with the whole pandemic stuff. So if you have any valuable skill that you can teach, I think courses are one of the best and easier or easiest, or one of the best ways of making passive income because it's fun to create a course, you can teach stuff, you don't need that many technical skills like making a website or anything like that, just shove it on Skillshare and then people can take your course and learn on the internet and like, you know, it's just cool overall. And the nice thing is that once you've made the course and once you're making $100 a month from it, maintaining that level is actually quite easy. We're going to give that a two out of five stars because generally you don't need to update the course that often and you can do that once in a while and you just need to make sure you're getting a reasonable amount of traffic to it and hopefully that traffic will grow over time. These days, the vast majority of my online courses at least the very passive ones are hosted on Skillshare and it's kind of ridiculous, but these days they make around about $60,000 to $65,000 per month in purely passive income, like I literally do nothing for my Skillshare glasses once I've made them other than reply to comments and other than occasionally plug them in videos and that's like $60,000 a month in passive income. That means this is around about $15,000 per week and this makes up the bulk of the $27,000 a week that this business currently generates in purely passive income. Idea number seven for passive income is by creating some corner some kind of paid membership or community model. Now again, this is generally a bad idea, unless you have an existing audience, which we keep coming back to, like everything becomes easier when you have an existing audience by creating content that has been valuable over a long period of time, very consistently, that audience knows likes and trusts you and so when you say, hey guys, sign up to my Patreon, then some people are likely to do that thing. The other way of doing a membership is by creating a value proposition that is so compelling that people will be willing to pay for a community like service for this. If we use Patreon as an example, my friend Hannah Witten, who's a YouTuber, she's got around about 600,000 subscribers in YouTube and I think she has around 600 patrons, 626 last time I checked, which means if we look in a Patreon stats, which a public she's making somewhere between $25,000 or like $3,000 per month in passive income from this audience. But it's like 600 people, out of an audience of 600,000. So one in a thousand of her subscribers have signed up to her Patreon. So clearly, you know, if those stats are true across the board and they kind of are, if you look at Maddie Vellows Patreon as well, you need a big audience to make a significant amount of money for Patreon. Again, this sort of depends on how much you're charging for them and exactly what value you're writing. Another example of a paid membership community is my friend Anlore, who runs a website called Nest Labs and they have a paid membership community, which is $5 a month, and she started this when one was in summer of 2019, she had zero audience at the time, and she just wrote a hundred blog posts over a hundred working days and built up an audience. Such that in March 2020, when she launched a membership, she had some paying members for it initially. And I think last month, she's just passed $100,000 a year in annual recurring revenue, which is pretty awesome, from something that started less than two years ago. So how easy is it to start a membership program? Well, it's actually very easy. We can give this a one star because it's very easy to start one. You just make an account on some kind of membership platform like Patreon. But to make a hundred dollars a month, you need to provide a hundred dollars a month worth of value. And that's actually quite hard to do. We're going to give that a four out of five stars. But the nice thing is again, once you've got that formula, once you're making a hundred dollars a month, it's actually a lot easier to maintain it because the way the economics of membership communities work, is provided you keep showing up and providing value in some capacity, you know, people have already signed up for the thing. So it's not too hard to maintain that level of support that you're offering them. For this business, we have a membership community for our part-time YouTuber Academy for the alumni, which is called the part-time YouTuber in a circle, and we make roughly $2,800 a week from this membership community. It's not very passive. We run like three or four events per week, along with like twice a day, co-working events on Zoom, and we have lots of stuff going on. So it takes a lot of work, but $2,800 a week is pretty good for a membership community. All right nearly there. So idea number eight for generating passive income is creating a business that sells goods or services, and then automating or delegating aspects of that business so that the income that you generate from it is reasonably passive. This is a stuff that Tim Ferriss talks a lot about in the four-hour work week where there are a lot of businesses that you could make where you're selling a good or selling a service, and then you can delegate outsource or to make an intelligent ways to make the income passive. So again, using my friend Oli Ores and example on his YouTube channel, he talks about his $1 million Shopify store. He designs manufacturers and sells these really cool vegan leather kind of desk accessories and bags and mouse pads and that kind of stuff. And this was loads of work in setting up, but now he's got a team of three other people that manage the business. And so he spends proportionally less of his time running that business. And so it's sort of passive income for him, even though these days he still does spend around 10 hours a week maintaining things. Equally if you're going down the service route, I've got a friend who runs Instagram and Facebook ads marketing agency where he has clients who pay him some, I think, a few hundred dollars per month to manage their Facebook and Instagram ads. And for him, it's like a small amount of work initially to set up the Facebook and Instagram ads. But then it's sort of automated and he's got a team around it and he's using things like Zapier to automate aspects of that business. So that each month, he has to do a very small amount of actual work to keep it ticking along. So these are different ways of generating passive income from a kind of good or service space business. But it's quite hard to get started with the stuff. To get started, we're going to give this a four out of five star rating because again, you need to create a business and it's quite hard to make a business that genuinely provides value. Equally, we're going to give it a four out of five star rating for making a hundred dollars a month in revenue because again, you have to be able to provide value. And providing value is hard. It's not as easy as making an account in a stock's platform. Just putting some money in, you actually have to give value to people which is kind of hard. But the nice thing is once you get started, like with anything, maintenance is a little bit easier. So we're going to give that a three out of five star rating. Finally, idea number nine for generating passive income is to build an app or a website or some kind of software product that you can offer either as one off or more likely these days as a subscription service. And there's a whole category of this called SaaS software as a service. Now, if you look at the website IndyHacker.com, there are literally hundreds of examples of people who have built software businesses that are making passive income and they share the revenue numbers and they tell you how they got started and they give you that tips. In fact, I was recently interviewed on an episode of the IndyHacker's podcast, which is really cool because I've been listening to it for years and like, before I'm in the website for years, and I was interviewed around the concept of starting a lot of line course, like the part time YouTuber Academy. Now, I've had a bit of personal experience with this. So, when I was at university, I made a website called Bemat Ninja and UK Cat Ninja. So, a software as a service, it was a question bank for medical applicants applying to medical school to help them do well in the admissions tests. And this was something that me and my brother coded completely from scratch. Here I both know how to code. We learned when we were young. And so we worked over the summer of 2015 to make these things happen. I think in year one, we made about $10,000 and in year five last year it was around $25,000 from Bemat Ninja. So, you know, it's pretty good money, but it was a lot of work to set these things up. And so, in terms of starting out, I'm going to give this a five out of five star racing because to make an app. It's actually quite hard. You have to know how to code for the most part. You have to be able to offer something compelling and you have to actually build it, which takes a lot of work and is very hard, but it's a lot of fun. And then once you've made it, I'm going to give $100 a month difficulty a four star rating because again, it's easy, well, easy enough. You can make an app, but then getting people to pay for the app is an entirely different kind of fish. So, we're going to give that four stars. But the nice thing is, like with everything maintenance is a little bit easier so we're going to give that a three-star rating. If you like this video and you want to get started with your own entrepreneurship, passive income, e-generating journey on the internet. I check out this short playlist over here, which is some of my favorite videos that I've made around tips for entrepreneurs. How I got started creating my businesses from scratch, how I learned to code that sort of stuff. That's all in the playlist of you here. Thank you so much for watching and I'll see you in the next video. Bye-bye.
