# AWAY Weekender Bag Review
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M6mFP3NzxrQ
Away Luggage - http://fbuy.me/mYL1l (this link should give you $20 off in the USA, and also gives me $20 off my next Away purchase lol)

In this video I'm reviewing the ridiculously expensive AWAY Weekender Bag. This bag has been my weekend companion for several months now and so I thought I'd put this together to help anyone considering buying it. Enjoy xx

💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking 

📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

📝My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://paperlike.com/ali
🎶 Where I get my music from (amazing for YouTubers) - http://share.epidemicsound.com/ali

🎬 My online course on video editing - https://skl.sh/32TpEvm
🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal

Who am I:

I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

My most popular videos:

- How I take notes on my iPad Pro in medical school - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=waR3xBDHMqw
- How to study for exams - Evidence based revision tips - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ukLnPbIffxE
- How I ranked 1st at Cambridge University - The Essay Memorisation Framework - https://youtu.be/-46Vyiwat_Y
- My productivity desk setup - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rApxWtDIRAM
**Keywords:** away luggage, away luggage review, away travel, best luggage, travel bag, away weekender, away weekender review, away weekender bag, away weekender bag review, weekend bag, weekender bag, weekender, ali abdaal, whats in my bag, away backpack, away suitcase, 
**Date:** 2019-07-05

## Transcript
 Hey guys, welcome back to the channel. If you're new here, my name is Ali. I'm a junior doctor working in Cambridge and in this video I'm gonna be reviewing the away we kinder bag Thing, this is a shiny new bag that I got a few weeks ago and I've been using it every weekend to do various trips And I'm absolutely in love with the thing. I think it's absolutely fantastic This is not sponsored in any way. Unfortunately a way if you feel like sponsoring my channel Please let me know cuz I love your stuff, but yeah, this is a completely unbiased review I bought this myself. It was not hashtag gifted. It was not hashtag spawn anything like that I'm gonna split up this video into three parts. Firstly, I'll talk about why I think this a bag like this is useful Then I'll talk about the specific features of this bag and then finally we'll talk about whether it's worth the money and how to How to think about whether it's worth the money because it's 250 dollars or 250 pounds that's a large amount of money to spend on a bag But there's a few different ways we can think about it and I'll talk about that right at the end of the video And as usual with all my videos time stamps are going to be in the description and in the pinned comment So you can skip around the video if you feel like it you don't have to watch all of it But yeah, let's just get started Okay, so the first question is why is a weekend bag useful and I've been trying to find the perfect weekend bag at least for the last year Because I have a problem that whenever I go away for a week for the for the weekend or if I'm going home to my family Homes and Albans previously I only really had a choice of two bags. I could either use my kind of daily backpack These days it's a peak design everyday backpack 20 liters This is a really nice backpack. It's fantastic for day trips possibly for a weekend trip But like if I'm taking my camera and my drone There is absolutely no way I can fit for example an extra pair of shoes or a towel or very many clothes While I love the peak design bag, it doesn't quite work for weekend trips and the second option was the away carry on This is again by away. I love this thing I have put it through so much abuse over the last two years It survives like an absolute champ taking it through the deserts of Sudan and to Iceland and all the other sort of places But you know This is not the sort of bag you want to be taking Just do someone's house for the weekend because it looks like you don't know how to pack like So I've been looking for a decent middle ground between the two and I knew that I wanted a bag like this But the problem I had with every other bag that I looked at and I did look at a lot and I got targeted loads of Instagram ads about these bags Is that I never had the right pockets to put my stuff it? I needed a pocket for the laptop and I needed preferably a pocket for shoes And for some reason it's so hard to find one of these weekend bags that actually gives you a pocket for the laptop That's why this thing is great. This thing has markedly reduced the friction Do taking weekend trips and now when I go home just an ovens for the weekend I shock everything into this. I know exactly where everything goes and it means that I save about 20 minutes of my life When I'm packing for home because I don't have to make that decision of Which bag should I take this time around? I just chuck everything into the weekend I can fit whatever I want to fit in it and yeah, then I just pop it in the car and and drive home Okay, so the main reasons I like it is I alluded to earlier Basically, it's got a ton of pockets that are incredibly useful. So let's start with the main pocket It's got a laptop pocket. This is just amazing. When I'm taking my laptop and I'm gonna obviously Gonna be taking it for the weekend because why would you spend a weekend with that? You know without your laptop? I can just pop in and it goes into this pocket And It's up and now I've got a laptop that is always going to be in this pocket and this pocket perfectly fits a 15 inch The other two really cool pockets this has is firstly it's got this pocket Which coincidentally is the perfect size for an iPad and obviously I'm taking my iPad pro with me everywhere I go so that just slots beautifully into that pocket when you zip up and it feels like it was a pocket made for an iPad This pocket is also kind of cool in that it's got this like keychain like device thing Which you can hang your keys on and stuff. I use that occasionally so I don't forget my keys And pocket number three is a tiny pocket over here. That is the perfect size for an Amazon Kindle because obviously I'm gonna take my Kindle with me everywhere I go people sometimes ask why I don't just read on the iPad or on my phone But I've got a video coming out about the soon if it's not out already Basically really on a Kindle is a ten times better experience if you're reading a book Then reading on my iPad or a screen so I take my Kindle with me everywhere I go and it just slots Absolutely perfectly into this tiny pocket over here and in that pocket I usually also stick my wallet so that just slots into there I don't really use my wallet for anything. I have the apple watch to pay for everything because the UK is amazing and everywhere Accepted apple pain contact for us, but just in case I have to get a card up for any reason I have my wallet in that pocket and if I'm going abroad, I put my passport in that pocket as well So already the fact that this bag has very thoughtfully included a pocket for a laptop and iPad and a Kindle or whatever else other stuff You want to stick into this pocket. It makes me very inclined to like the company behind it because clearly they are thinking ahead and Thinking about the needs of the modern traveler as pretentious as that sounds. It's also got a pocket for shoes Oh, it's over here. This is pretty sick. He like open there open this bit And something you can put your shoes in and this used to be a problem for me like, yeah, it's kind of hot and I'm therefore I kind of want to have a change of clothes so I want to be able to on the weekend change into my shorts and a t-shirt But the sort of shoes that I wear with my jeans don't really go with shorts so I can't I quite like to keep a pair of boot shoes with me But previously I had no way of carrying them unless I was going to bust out my big ass carry on suitcase Which would make me look like an absolute fool I'm not being able to pack light so the fact that this has a little pocket for shoes is so convenient I chuck my boot shoes in there to chuck my uh in little and mini ankle socks You know those socks that you wear with boot shoes, so it doesn't look like you're wearing socks Those are just right in there and then I don't have to think about them I just know that anywhere I go for the weekend I have the option of changing into my t-shirt and shorts and then finally we've got the main pocket The main pocket is kind of what you'd expect. It's just a big main pocket and apparently this bag has the same capacity If you filled it up as one of these It's kind of hard to believe but I mean it's always fit everything. I wanted to fit in it and it's never let me down This has three other little pockets inside it. It's got these two Dividery sort of pockets where I usually shove chargers and stuff to separate my electronics from everything else It's got a zip pocket That I sometimes store coins in. I might use my pause put my pause put in there if I was particularly worried about it But it's quite handy having a zip pocket and then we've just got a main open pocket Which is kind of what you want with a bag like this that can just fit a load of stuff So if you're like me and you're using packing cubes you can just pile stuff into the packing cube There's one of the peak design packing cubes and you just check it in there I think they sell packing cubes in the away website as well But to be honest you can still fit a ton more stuff so you know scrubs more scrubs Underwear underwear more underwear these are the unique low eras of underwear as my favorite ones by the way Again hashtag not sponsored unfortunately unique look if you want to sponsor me Let me know more scrubs, you know if I'm ever going on some kind of medical trip more underwear T shirt number one T shirt number two number three I mean there's still about half of the space left in this bag to just pile in as many as as much stuff as you want If I wanted to I could chuck the camera in there I'm not because I'm filming with the camera. Actually I have a spell. I have a spell Yeah, like if I want to I can just take the camera shove it into the bag You know what let's say I'm going to a friend's house for the weekend and we want to play some board games or grab Avalan or articulate I can shove it back into the bag as well and It's still got so much more space. Let's take this lush term notebook that everything you've been writing on that can go in there You know what I want a real book. Let's take a real book. Let's shove it into there and there's still so much more space left in this bag And I've got like five T shirts five underwear three scrubs at ton of other stuff and It zips up nicely and you have a bag And obviously the heaviness of the bag depends on how much stuff you put in it On that with the bag on its own doesn't weigh very much at all and these little shoulder strapy things Are detachable which is again quite handy. So if you know you're just going to be holding it You can just attach the shoulder straps and you can chuck these into the bag or into one of the pockets or whatever you want And then you get a bag that is you know, it's quite classy. Oh, it's quite heavy now, but it's quite classy It just kind of looks like this and Can do we want with the bag drop it in the boot of your car take it away for the weekend Yeah, this bag is awesome. Is there anything I don't like about it? I mean I got this in the natural canvas color. I suspect after many years of use This is gonna get dirty but I suspect I can just take it to the dry cleaners or chuck it in the washing machine and I'll be absolutely fine Also, I mean Kind of what I was thinking is that one of the one of the nice aesthetic things about a bag like this is that the more you use it the more aged it looks I suppose that might be a nice little and nice look to have But yeah, that's the only thing about it that I would say is a drawback otherwise is very well designed Very thoughtfully designed bag for the modern traveler And now we come to the real question is a bag really worth 250 pounds or 250 dollars. It's quite hard to justify And when it comes to Judging the amount of money we spend on certain things there are a few different concepts that we should we we should keep in the bag of our minds number one is the idea of diminishing returns that you know You could get a bag almost as good as this for about 30 pounds You know the difference between 30 pounds and 250 pounds It does not get you very much more bag It just increases the convenience slightly like I've never found a bag A weekend bag that has all of these pockets. So I suppose what for me what I'm paying for is the convenience and the reduction of friction Then the question becomes is that convenience and reduction of friction really worth 250 pounds and it sort of depends on how you define worth it I think it is and the reason I think it is is because of how often I'm going to be using this bag I take weekend trips home on all my like almost on a weekly basis You know, I work during the week and then I'd go home for the weekend or go to a friend's place for the weekend and therefore Any time I can shave off friction in that process of going somewhere for the weekend That is going to be better for my life in the long run like let's say I'm taking I don't know 30 weekend trips either home or I'm holiday a year That's not unfeasible this 52 weeks in a year That's everything 30 of those trips and I'm shaving off let's say 10 minutes of my time in each trip That's 30 times 10 what's that 300 that's like five hours in my life I value my time at far more than 50 pounds an hour so by saving five hours in my life Just across one year I've already paid for this device this bag rather I think we should also keep in mind Something that I mentioned in my old iPad review videos that you may or minute of seeing is that we want to be spending our money Where we want to be spending our time so the example I gave is that let's say I bought a new sofa The sofa is not very comfortable. I don't spend a lot of time on the sofa But let's say I bought a new sofa from Ikea John Lewis or whatever because it was more comfortable All that would do is encourage me to spend more time on the sofa and that's not really something I want to be doing Let's say I bought a Tesla for your for example, you know, all that would do is encourage me to spend more time driving Which is again not what what I want to be doing Equally if I bought a new TV I probably want at some point. I don't have a TV in the house But let's say bought a TV that would encourage me to spend time watching TV Which is not quite what I want to be doing in my life, but buying a bag like this or buying a bag like this Or buying a bag like this like in the past I would have thought these are far too expensive for just a bag but As corny as it sounds, this is not just a bag This is a travel companion that encourages me to travel It makes it easier for me to travel and there have been so many actually the main reason I bought this one This was like 300 quick. This is like a ridiculous price to pay for a suitcase But my brother got one as well and Everyone we know who's got one of these absolutely loves them and the reason they love them is because they say it makes It kind of makes packing into a joyful experience and if you can make packing a joyful experience You just more likely to go away on on trips abroad if we think about this idea Spend your money where you want to spend your time then I think spending a large amount of money on an accessory that encourages you to travel is worth it Because travel is you know The travel has so many benefits like you know Learning experience broadening your horizons whatnot and having something that encourages you to take more trips Rather than thinking your trips is like, oh crap I've got a pack these days when I'm going home for the weekend I think oh awesome. I can chuck stuff into this bag. I feel happy when I'm packing It just makes the experience a bit nicer and therefore anything that can encourage me to do more things that will add more value to my life like traveling Are potentially going to be worth it So on those three different axes, you know firstly is the fact of diminishing returns Yeah, honestly the difference between a 50 pound bag and a 250 pound bag is not that great The main difference is the reduction of friction and the fact that it's kind of looks cool But the main thing is the friction the factors go all the pockets to put all my gear in so I don't have to think about it That saves me a lot of time over the long run and secondly I want to be spending my money where I want to be spending my time This sort of bag encourages me to leave the house more encourages me to travel and therefore Yes, 250 pounds is a lot of money, but you know I'm in the position where I've got a full-time job. I've got a side income through YouTube and my side businesses I can comfortably afford the 250 pounds So if you're also in that position where you could feasibly see yourself spending 250 quater 250 dollars on a bag Then it would be worth it for you that is how I justify the purchase Of course on the other side, there is the idea that we all have this purchase justification machine in our heads and you know any time We buy something we can erect all of these various reasons as to why it was a logical purchase rather than a purely You know status-seeking purchase or a purely hedonistic purchase honestly I think the main value of this is functional rather than aesthetics the main reason I bought it was for a reduction of friction But maybe that's just a story. I'm telling myself to be okay. What's spending money on this? I don't know. I think it's worth it for me. You'll have to decide if it's worth it for you If you do get it you won't be disappointed. I think they also have like a 100-day return policy so like you can buy it try it and if you don't like it you just return it It's not that hard that was a review of the weekend bag a way we can do a bag. I hope you liked it If you want to buy this bag, I'll put a link in the video description at some point if away Ever reach out to me and offer me like a discount code or something. I'll put that in the video description as well fingers crossed guys if you're watching this But yeah, thanks for watching if you liked the video please give it a thumbs up if you haven't subscribed to the channel Then please consider doing so have a lovely day. I'm lovely. We can do all and I'll see you in the next video. Bye
