# My Productive Birthday in Lockdown - Day in the Life Vlog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M_bCVdB1jRY
Last week I celebrated my 26th birthday but sadly, due to the lockdown, I had to celebrate it all on my own. Here is what I got up to...

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
😃  How to be Happier - Stoicism Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/stoicism

MY GEAR:
🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️ My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://iqunix.store/ali 
📝My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://paperlike.com/ali 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking
 
📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

CONTACT ME:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, day in the life, lockdown vlog, indian youtuber, productive day in my life, morning routines 2020, morning routines for school, day in the life of a college student, day in the life of a doctor, a day in the life, doctor vlog, junior doctor, life as a doctor, study with me, day in my life, doctor day in the life, 
**Date:** 2020-05-17

## Transcript
 Hey friends, welcome back to the vlog. Today I'm celebrating my 26th birthday in lockdown, all on my own, so let's have some fun. I wake up at 10 a.m. when I immediately rush to the bathroom for a wonderfully loose embellish. I think courtesy of the birthday cake that my brother dropped off last night. It was his first time baking and the cake was a little bit medium rare, but it's a thought that counts, so thank you for the cake, Tamor. By 1040 I've shawed and changed, and now I'm on a mission. There's a guy coming from DHL to collect a parcel this morning that I need to return, but I need to print out a label for it. The problem is that my printer's been gathering dust for the past 10 years since I've gone paperless with the iPad in an attempt to save the environment and boost Apple's stock price. I dig out the printer and then realise that, of course, it's missing the power cable, so I hunt around the house, thinking, why could I possibly have put this power cable and cursing myself for being so disorganised? Magically, I manage to find a power cable that somehow works, and then I realise I'm missing the USB cable, and obviously it's not a standard USB port, but one of those weird square shaped ones. So again, I curse myself and continue looking for all the drawers, just as I've given up hope and stop planning the apology I'm going to be delivering to the DHL driver, I realise that my piano keyboard thing actually has a USB cable connected to it, and low and behold, it somehow fits the printer. All that's left now is to find some printer paper, which, again, obviously I don't have, and so I rip out pages from a medical booklet that teaches us how to save lives in a cardiac arrest situation, but hey, desperate times, desperate measures. So I print the first page and absolutely nothing happens, the printer makes some printing noise, but there's no ink on the paper. Just as I'm about to kick myself again, my computer troubleshooting mind kicks in, and I print a random page from Safari to see what happens, and somehow that works, but everything's printed in blue ink. I realise that maybe the printer's run out of black ink, so I need to print these black and white labels in color somehow. So, using the skills that I learned at the age of 14 with pirated software, I bring the labels into Photoshop and adjust the hue and saturation with colorized turned on to automatically make all the black ink turn blue instead, and then when I hit the print button it finally works. Heading a sigh of relief, I wrap up the package, stick the labels on it, and hope that I won't need to use this bloody printer in the next 10 years. Now, it's 11.30, and having wasted the last 40 minutes of my life for returning this package, I can finally get to doing something that's actually useful, but, obviously, instead of doing anything useful, I sit on the sofa and reply to various birthday what's at messages because I'm so popular, and then watch a random Instagram stories for another half an hour. Thank you, David Dobrik, for continuing to entertain us during lockdown. At 1215, I decided to stop being a complete wasteman, and head over to the desk to have a Zoom meeting with my team to plan out what we're doing with videos and Skillshare classes over the next few weeks. By the way, if you haven't seen my Skillshare classes about how to stop for exams and how to edit videos with Final Cut Pro, then you should check those out, link in the video description. Then I do a token bit of piano practice working on my skills at Reading Music by trying to play the Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone soundtrack. I then spend the next hour cutting my nails, moisturizing my face, watching some yes theory videos on YouTube, and chatting to one of my old university friends who's now a teacher in London. At 2pm, I get the overhead rig ready for next week's video, which is all about how to make money online, and we're going to be trying to do different camera angles here just to add a little bit of masala to the video. That's all done by 3pm when I get a massive delivery of a ton of Amazon boxes, so let's switch over to a male time with Dr. Ali. Hello friends, welcome back to male time with Dr. Ali. Let's see what we've got in store for us today. So we're starting off with, oh, it meets the monitor, so I can start cooking properly. That's nice. This is a birthday present from some of my university friends. I think it's like an insulated coffee mug or something like that. Thanks very much, you guys. All right, okay, we have got some hand wash, we have some mixing bowls, some new pens, let's put those over there. Maverick by Riccardo Semler. This was something that my buddy Noah Kagan recommended. So that'll be on the teri list. Next we have a Dyser Chopper type thing, and this is a series of these little tiny teeny tiny witty bowls which the pros use in cooking shows and stuff to like store spices and things. So this is like, again part of my cooking plan. Oh yes, a large amount of kitchen roll. I didn't realize all of this many, I thought it was going to, I thought it would eight, eight kitchen rolls, not toilet paper, I'm not hoarding toilet paper, so I've had, I ordered that already. That is this episode of Mail Time. Thank you so much for watching. After my little Mail Time Session, I decided you procrastinate for another 10 minutes by watching Alpha M's latest video called Do This When A Girl Smiles At You. I'll report back and let you guys know if that ever happens. And then finally at 330 pm, I get off the sofa and finish off the voiceover for the next week's video about how to make money online. First, I set up the show SM7B connected to the cloud lifter and the focus rights Scarlet 2i4 audio interface, then I open up Logic Pro 10 and read off the script that I've wrote in Notion. Once that's done, I upload the file to the shared Google Drive that I've got with my team, and that's everything I need to do for this video over for the time being. At 4pm, I decide the house needs cleaning because the crap has been piling up in the living room for the past few weeks of lockdown, so I put on some country music on the home pod and get to work. I make sure to set up my fancy slider thingy for this so we can get this moving time lapse sort of shot, need a bit of work, but I think it looks alright. So that's all done by 5pm and the final official order of business for the day is to shoot a thumbnail for this how to make money online video. That means I need to wear my dirty t-shirt from yesterday when I filmed the bulk of the video. The things I do for content am I right. From 5pm, I shoot various thumbnails in various ridiculous poses, first with my pink t-shirt holding up some credit cards and checks from Amazon, then in my pink t-shirt with cake, and then in my grey t-shirt with cake. I dropped these photos into Lightroom for some retouching to make myself look nicer, and chuck two of these photos onto Instagram with a plan to save one for the money video thumbnail and another for the thumbnail of this very vlog. By the way, please follow me on Instagram because if you're not, you're missing out on this fire content. At 630, I have a FaceTime call with a friend who's got a bespoke goods leatherworking business to figure out how we can collaborate on some merch, then at 7pm I spent half an hour continuing just in guitars music theory course, another 15 minutes practicing some more piano, and then 15 minutes chatting to my grandma in Pakistan on WhatsApp video. Now it's 8pm and I decide I'm going to write the rest of the day off because I've been reasonably productive and it's my birthday, so I can treat myself to some Netflix and chill, so I order a cheeky take away from 5 guys and end up watching many episodes of money highest back to back, amazing sugar as you should check it out. A few hours later, after wrenching myself away from the iPad because I've got work tomorrow, I brush my teeth, wash my face, take my tablets, moisturize my face, and head into bed for some reflection and reading on the iPad Pro. I start by asking myself what's the most story worthy moment of my day, which I write a brief note about in Notion, and I spend half an hour of so before bed reading the book Storyworthy by Matthew Dix, where I got this exercise from, and then tweeting about it. By the way, you should also follow me on Twitter because I tweet notes from books that I read and podcast that I listen to if you care about that sort of thing. Anyway, that's the end of the video. Thank you very much for watching and good night.
