# How to Live more Intentionally
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=m_Rz7mY8Lyc
The first 1,000 people to use this link will get a 1 month free trial of Skillshare: https://skl.sh/aliabdaal07211

In this video I'll be going over some ancient wisdom principles that have helped me live more intentionally. 

00:00 Intro
00:33 Wisdom
02:21 Temperance
03:56 Courage
06:04 Justice

Derren Brown - Happy https://geni.us/95Qr78p
Ryan Holiday - The Obstacle is the Way https://geni.us/bUAZK
William Irvine - A Guide to the Good Life https://geni.us/Zjll

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

PART-TIME YOUTUBER ACADEMY:
🍿 My 6-week live online course - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ptya_aliabdaal
CREATORPRENEUR
💰 My flag-ship course for scaling up your creative side-hustle - https://creatorpreneur.academy/course


YOUTUBE FOR BEGINNERS COURSE
📸 This is for anyone who'd like to start a YouTube channel. You'll learn everything you need to get started as a YouTuber including how to script, shoot, and edit your first video - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/YouTube-for-Beginners



MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
✍️ The best summaries of books (Shortform) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
📚  How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
Deep Dive Podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/
The podcast that delves into the minds of entrepreneurs, creators and other inspiring people to uncover the philosophies, strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. You can find it by searching “Deep Dive with Ali Abdaal” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc).
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali

🎙 Deep Dive podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/
The podcast that delves into the minds of entrepreneurs, creators and other inspiring people to uncover the philosophies, strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. You can find it by searching “Deep Dive” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮  Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I’m Ali, a YouTuber, podcaster, soon-to-be author and ex-Doctor working in London, UK. I make videos that explore the strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, intentional living, simple living, personal development, how to live more intentionally, slow living lifestyle, how to simplify your life, how to live intentionally, intentional life, stoicism, stoic wisdom, simple habits, stoicism philosophy, stoicism motivation, stoicism explained, stoic wisdom quotes, stoic wisdom for modern life, personal growth, personal development books, how to live life intentionally, live intentionally, lifestyle design, 
**Date:** 2021-07-07

## Transcript
 What does it mean to live intentionally? I've been thinking about this question a lot recently, as I've been working out what I want to do with my life. It's not an easy question to answer, and I'm sure the answer is probably different for each one of us, but there's a framework based on stoic philosophy that I found quite helpful, and hopefully it can help you too. So according to the stoics, living a good life is about finding the right combination and balancing out the four different stoic virtues. And so in this video, we're going to go over each one of those in turn, and I'll show you how it kind of fits into my life, how I think about it. And maybe you'll get some ideas for how potentially you can live more intentionally, as well, if that's a sort of thing that you're into. The first stoic virtue is wisdom. And you might have come across this thing called the serenity prayer, which goes something like, God grant me the serenity to accept that which I cannot change. The courage to change what I can and the wisdom to know the difference. The way the stoics will talk about wisdom is that wisdom is about recognizing the difference between the stop that is good, the stop that is not good, and the stuff that is indifferent. Now, the category of good and not good is all pretty obvious. Like, stuff that is good is living virtually and being a nice person, and not being a dick, and that kind of stuff, and the stuff that is bad is obviously the bad things like lying, and greed, and pride, and, you know, seven deadly sins type stuff. The thing I personally find most useful from the stoics within this category of wisdom is this other category of what are the things that are indifferent. Like, they're neither good nor bad. They're completely indifferent to the way we think about them. And the things that should fall into this category of indifference are things like money, and success, and possessions, and number of subscribers on YouTube, and whether that girl likes me back, all of these should be indifference. But as Darren Brown writes in the book Happy, the stoics called them preferred indifference. So they want like, oh, you know, money is bad, and like, you know, having love in your life is bad, and like, you know, having a cool thing is bad. Instead, all of these things are preferred indifference. Like, they prefer to have them than not, but ultimately, like, fundamentally, they're indifference to whether or not they actually have them. Now, I'm not saying that I'm great at this. Like, obviously, I want to make more money. I want more subscribers on YouTube. I want that girl to text me back. But anytime, I start like, fixating on these things too much. I like to remind myself, you know, the voice of Darren Brown is in my, is in my mind being like, this is a preferred indifference. I am fundamentally indifferent to whether I have this thing or not. But it would be nice if, if, if I had the thing. And I think a lot of us can get this kind of stress in our life, where we're chasing these things thinking that they are good. We're not recognizing that they're fundamentally indifferent, and those are not the things that make a good life as the stoics would say. The second stoic virtue is called temperance. And basically, this means moderation. Which is all things like, you know, self-restraint and self-discipline and self-control. And it's broadly about balancing short-term pleasures with, like, the things that are good for us in the long-term. So, if you're someone who doesn't show temperance, then, you know, greed and the gluttony, and, you know, instant gratification. And these sorts of people would procrastinate a lot as well, apparently. I think I do pretty well on the temperance front, because I've sort of trained myself over time to get more joy and meaning out of things that are more long-term beneficial than, then, short-term pleasurable. So, for example, if I, I don't know, binge play world of warcraft for four hours, or watch a Netflix series for four hours, I feel pretty good about it at the time, but then afterwards, I always have that nagging sense of, that wasn't really that satisfying. Whereas, if instead, I learned a new song on the guitar, and it takes me three hours to kind of get the chords right and to stop my fingers from bleeding, because I've been trying to play too hard. Then, I feel better about it, even though it wasn't as fun in the moment, but one way that I'm trying to improve on the temperance front is I think sometimes I take this, like, I have to be productive thing too far. Like, I'm going on a weekend trip to the Lake District with some friends this evening. And already I'm kind of thinking that, okay, cool. So, if tomorrow I wake up early, a few hours early before anyone else does, then I'll be able to spend this few hours writing or doing some stuff working on the business, and then we can go on the hike that we're planning to go on. I think a big part of my mind is always racing to try and do things that are productive, or that are creating economic value of some sort. And I need to get better at recognizing the need to take a step back and take a break, and I think that would come under this temperance stuff as well. Thirdly, in terms of stoic virtues, we have the concept of courage. This is something Durham Brown and Ryan Holliday, and William O'Brien talk a lot about, as well, in their books. And the stoics would say that courage is not the elimination of fear and desire and anxiety. Instead, it's feeling fear, desire and anxiety, and acting in the right way anyway. Thankfully, I feel like I'm not a particularly anxious person, and so there's not really something I have to worry about day-to-day. But I do sometimes feel fear about stuff, and when I think about the teachings of stoicism, I always kind of remind myself that when I feel fear, that's usually when I should lean into doing the thing that I'm feeling scared of. For example, a few months ago, I was setting up an online course, the Part Time Eagerbroker Academy, which has been going for a while now. And before setting this up, before launching it to the public, I had this deep sense of fear of like, what if no one signs up, what if it's really bad, what if I'm super out of my death, and having read all this stoicism stuff over the years, as soon as I kind of felt that feeling of fear, I was like, oh crap, now I basically have to do it because I know I couldn't live with myself if I didn't do something because of the fear. But on this note, one way in which I'm trying to improve is that I think I often shy away from difficult conversations because of this feeling of fear. Like, now that we've got a team of 10 people in my business, I'm starting to get into the realm where I know we're going to have conversations about like salaries and about expectations and about targets and about our people really performing at the standard that we want them to be performing at. And this feels really, really, really, really scary. And I've historically kind of shot away from those conversations thinking, oh, it's fine. You know, as long as the numbers are going up, as long as the business is doing well, who cares about any of this stuff. But every kind of good leader or mentor I've spoken to, who I think does a good job in running their business and managing their team, they've all said to me that you're going to feel the fear and you have to lean into it and have those conversations anyway. And you do a lot of preparation for them. And so this is something I'm struggling with, but it's an error in which I'm trying to get over the fear of being a not nice person or the fear of being thought to be, like, mean or something like that. And instead acting sort of in service of the business or in service of the rest of the team members or other things like that. And finally, we have the stoic virtue of justice. Now, in stoicism, justice is a bit broader than like, you know, justice in our legal system and in our language. Instead, they saw justice as being our duty to society or duty to our fellow man. And broadly the way that I think of justice is that when I, if I want to live intentionally, I want to act in ways that are useful to other people. And there's an interesting idea that I came across in one of these books. I can't quite remember which one. Maybe it was this one. Um, it's the idea that like this difference between happiness and meaning, where happiness is like, you know, enjoyment of life in the short term, whereas meaning is like, what, how are you to find meaning? But meaning generally can be simplified to being useful to other people. So we're, we're happy ourselves when we're having fun. But we feel alive is a more meaningful and more fulfilling if we are useful to other people. And that ties in with the stoic concept of justice, doing the right thing, you know, doing our duty to our fellow man and benefiting our society overall. Those, those ones, specific example from a few weeks ago where, you know, for the last few months, we've been running this, uh, paid membership, like monthly membership, community thing, uh, as part of the alumni program for a part of Nutrigore Academy course. And it was going all right, like we were holding events each week and we were charging people around 50 to $100 a month for it. But over time, we saw that the kind of attendance at the events was dwindling, and maybe people weren't getting as much value from the community as we were hoping they would. And so that was a choice of making a difficult decision between, do I act in service of myself or do I act in service of kind of the community as a whole? And so what we ended up doing was canceling this membership thing and refunding about $100,000 of fees, basically any money that anyone had ever paid for this. And so they'd got the last six months of benefits completely for free. And that felt pretty good, like, you know, we lost $120,000 or something from the top line revenue for the business, but it was fine because it was like doing the right thing. And it was like, you know, tied in with the stoicism stuff. And so I was genuinely thinking about this concept of justice. Well, I was thinking, oh, you know, this is probably the right decision to make. So overall, I don't know. I haven't figured out this concept of how to live intentionally, but I found over the years that reading books specifically about stoicism really have helped. These are three that I would recommend in particular. The first one I read was William Irvine's Guide to the Good Life. Then I read Happy Birthday and Brown. And then I discovered Optical Is The Way by Ryan Holiday. Optical Is The Way is probably the most accessible to easiest one to read. Derm Brown is a little bit verbose and is a very kind of British academic kind of start of writing. But it's probably my favorite one out of the three. They've got pretty good summaries of some of these books on short form, which is my favorite way to read summaries of books that I do on a daily basis. Link in the video description. And if you're interested in this stoicism stuff, anyone here more about how specifically I apply the teachings of stoicism to my life, I actually have a whole class on this on Skillshare, who are very kindly sponsoring this video. In this class, me and my friend Sam, who is a philosophy graduate from Cambridge and teachers philosophy at a secondary school, we talk about the principles of stoicism, and we give you practical examples of exactly how we use these different facets of stoicism into our life. So we talk a lot about this thing called the Tri-Cosomy of Control. We talk about negative visualization, one of these other kind of stoic principles that they talk about in the books. If you want to check out the class, then hit the link in the video description. And if you're one of the first thousand people to hit that link, you'll get a free one month trial of Skillshare premium. And in that one month trial, you can check out any of the thousands of classes on Skillshare, including I think I've got like nine or ten classes on Skillshare now. Three of them are themed around productivity, two of them are around how to study for exams. This one about stoicism. So during your free trial, you can watch all of these to your heart's content. And recently, my friend and magic coach Matthew Lamote, his released Skillshare class about how to handle cards like a pro. He's a professional magician and one of the best magicians in the UK. And he teaches you how to do fun, funky stuff like springs and shuffles, and all this cool stuff with the day of cards that I've been learning over the years that you can try learning as well, if you like. So thank you Skillshare for sponsoring this video. And if you like this one, you might like to check out this video over here, which is me and my friend Sam talking about 10 ways in which stoicism has made us happier. Thank you so much for watching. Have a great time. And I'll see you in the next video. Bye-bye.
