# Revealing ALL My Investments at 27
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MgI6iquuuzA
In this video I'll be going over each part of my investment portfolio, along with revealing a few lessons I've learned over the last few years of investing.

Want to work with us? Apply here: https://apply.workable.com/aliabdaal/

Sign up to Freetrade using my link: https://t.co/n7Sq031Tjg?amp=1

Crypto is easy: https://cryptoiseasy.substack.com/
Riverside FM: https://riverside.fm/
Peek: https://www.joinpeek.io/
Studystream: https://www.studystream.live/
Heights: https://www.yourheights.com/

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

PART-TIME YOUTUBER ACADEMY:
🍿 My 6-week live online course - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ptya_aliabdaal

MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
✍️ The best summaries of books (Shortform) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
📚  How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
Deep Dive Podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/
The podcast that delves into the minds of entrepreneurs, creators and other inspiring people to uncover the philosophies, strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. You can find it by searching “Deep Dive with Ali Abdaal” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc).
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali

🎙 Deep Dive podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/
The podcast that delves into the minds of entrepreneurs, creators and other inspiring people to uncover the philosophies, strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. You can find it by searching “Deep Dive” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮  Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I’m Ali, a YouTuber, podcaster, soon-to-be author and ex-Doctor working in London, UK. I make videos that explore the strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, investment portfolio, investing for beginners, how to invest, stock portfolio, stock market investing, how to invest in stocks, how to build wealth, financial freedom, graham stephan, stock investment, financial education, personal finance, investing in stocks, my stock portfolio, how to make passive income, investing for beginners warren buffett, investing for beginners 2021, how to invest money, stock market basics, how to save money, 
**Date:** 2021-08-15

## Transcript
 In this video, I'm going to talk you through my entire investment portfolio that I've been building up since I started investing in 2015. We'll talk about stocks and shares, index funds, crypto, real estate, angel investments and startups, and a few other bits and bobs. And I'll share the lessons I've learned along the way investing in each of these asset classes. So if you're thinking of getting started with investing, or even if you're a seasoned pro, hopefully there'll be something in here that you can fingers crossed, theoretically, hopefully learn from. And before we get started, I'll say the usual caveats that I always say when I'm making a video associated with money. And that is number one, this is not financial advice. It's purely for informational slash entertainment purposes only. Generally, I have no idea what the hell I'm talking about. I've read a few blog posts and a few books about like money and investing and stuff. But beyond that, I don't know anything. So please take every single thing I say with a huge bucket of salt. Having at number two, we are still sadly in the middle of a pandemic where people have been struggling financially and have lost their jobs. The point of this video is not to hashtag flex. And to be honest, my investment portfolio is nowhere near as impressive as other YouTubers like OnRigic and Graham Steffins are so you can check out those if you really want to see a flex. But whatever the case, especially if you or people that you know have been struggling financially, it's often not useful for our own mental health to compare ourselves to other people and to see kind of what they're doing. So please consider this a trigger warning. I'm going to be talking candidly about money. I think it's a good thing to do overall. I think it's a net positive that more of us should talk about money. But whatever the case, I trust that you know that a few of the sort of person who will find yourself kind of going into that spiral of comparing yourself with other people. Please don't watch this video. You don't have to. I'm not forcing you. No one's like propping your eyes up and with a magic stick or anything like that. There are many better things you could do with your time. Many better videos you can watch on YouTube. It's probably a few suggested right there. Don't watch this video. Please, if you're in that book. And caveat number three, this stuff has taken a long amount of time to build up. I have been making money on the internet since the since the age of 13. And I had seven years worth of failed businesses before the age of 19. In my second year of med school, I finally made a business that actually succeeded and actually made an interesting amount of money. And so what you're going to see in this video is seven years worth of trying and failing to build businesses. And then another six, seven years on top of that of building on top of something that's been successful. And to be honest, when you do anything for 13, 14 years, you're probably going to get pretty good at it. But the point I'm making is that this is not a get rich, quick scheme kind of thing. And in the slightest, this is very much a long game. But it's fun. And so if you're at the start of your journey, don't be disheartened. It takes a while. But hopefully, if you keep at it, then maybe good things will happen further down the line. So with all that said, let's get started with the investment portfolio and let's start with stocks and shares. I've been investing in stocks and shares since 2015, when I first decided to get started with investing. And I've got a video over there, which is the ultimate guide on how to get started investing in stocks and shares, which is a half an hour long introduction. Basically, everything you need to know to get started with this sort of stuff. With in stocks and shares, there are broadly two types of things that I invest in. Number one is index funds. And number two is individual stocks. So index funds, firstly, I mostly invest. Well, basically, all my money is in the S&P 500. This is an index fund, which is made up of the 500 biggest companies in the U.S. And so what that means is that if you invest, let's say $1,000 into the S&P 500, then like $40 will go to Apple, $30 will go to Google or alphabet. Some $20 will go to Microsoft, $20 to Amazon. So it's like all these big companies. And by investing in the index fund, it's almost as if you are putting a small amount of money into each of these big companies, weighted by their market cap. I help big the companies. Why do I invest in index funds? Well, because Warren Buffett says so, and because every financial advice type book that I've ever read says so, there's no point in trying to pick individual stocks and trying to beat the market because that's not really a thing. Far more details in my investment video. But let me show you how much I've got. So basically, I'm with two providers. The first one is called Charles Stanley Direct based in the UK. And that was what I first got started with investing. And so far, I have put in $75,959 into my ISO, which is an individual saving account or something like that. It's like a tax-free wrapper in the UK whereby every year you can put $20,000 into that. And then any gains you make are completely tax-free. So I've been maxing out my ISO since 2015, which is why this has a decent amount of money in it. And its current value is $124,960. And so the change in value is $49,000. Now, this is pretty staggering. This means that I've just been putting money into this account and then completely forgetting about it. And over the last six years of putting money into this account, it's made $49,000. That is utterly ridiculous. And that's sort of why I got started with investing in 2015 because before that point, if I made any money, it was just sitting in my back account and depreciating things to inflation every year. But as soon as I started putting money in this index fund, it was like that money was making more money and I literally did not have to do anything. All I had to do was go through the effort of making the account in the first place and making sure I put money into it every month or every year. So that was Charles Stanley Direct. But then a few years ago, a vanguard decided to open up their investment portfolio platform to investors in the UK. Now, vanguard is probably the biggest, most reputable company around index funds. And so when they made a UK branch that was open to retail investors in the UK, I was like, all right, cool, let's open an account with vanguard. And so I've got two accounts with vanguard. I've got an ISO, which is, again, the tax-free rapper type thing. And I've got a general account, which is a taxable investment account. So once you've maxed up the ISO and you're no longer allowed to have tax-free, share investments in the UK at that point, you can put money into a general account where when you make money off of it and you get money out of it, you're liable to capital gains tax and a bunch of other stuff. Anyway, so far, I've put in three years worth of money into the ISO. So I've put in 60,000, so 20,000 for the last three years. And it's current value, the ISO is 73,902. So by investing 60K over the last three years, I have made 13K on top of that, which is kind of nice. And in the general account, I've put in, I think, around about 55K. And it's value is 74K right now. And so, again, by putting 55,000 into this account, and then just forgetting about it, like, I never ever, ever log into this. And I don't even look at my account, because it's one of those set it and forget it things. You just put money in and then you forget about it. And it's like, once a year, if I need to count, if I need to count my money, I log into the account, but like, oh, this is cool. I've just, this money has just been making money passively. And so overall, in my Vanguard account, which is entirely the S&P 500, I've got 148,329 pounds of which 33.8K came from just the gains of putting money into the index fund. And then a few months ago, I decided to double with trading individual stocks, because I came across this app called free trade, which is a UK app on how you can buy individual stocks, and free trade is pretty good. Let me show you what my free trade portfolio thingy magic it looks like. And the really cool thing about free trade is that if you sign up to free trade, you get this special link and if someone else signed up to free trade using your special link, then you both get a free stock. And so, because I share my link in some of my videos and not Instagram occasionally, I have eight free shares to claim. So let's see what free shares I've got. Oh, a free share of fuel cell, clean energy fuels, Asia Pacific, Barrett, SMFG, never heard of it. S4 capital, British land, auto trader, I've heard of auto trader. And so that's like more friends, more free shares go away. Anyway, I'll put my free share link in the video description. If you're in the UK and you sign up to free trade, we both get a free share and then you can share your link with other people and get free shares. It's kind of cool. Anyway, in total, I've got 27,794 pounds in individual stocks, which is up by 7.7K since I started investing way back whenever it was. A common one I started. It was in December 2020. So I've been investing in individual stocks in free trade for about eight months at this point. If you want to have a quick look at my investment, so we've got Tesla, Shopify, MP materials, the NASDAQ 100, Netflix, Teladoc, Fastly, Fiverr, Etsy, MongoDB, collectus, bloody hell, that's a lot of lost a lot of money, putter capital. And then the rest of them are all the free shares that I've got on over the years from just people signing up to my thing. Oh, I've got a free share of Apple at one point. That was kind of cool. Apple's gone up at 10%. Yeah. So just a bunch of this random stuff that you just get when you get random free shares through free trade. Like, I didn't actually, you know, set out to invest in all of these individual stocks, but hey, I've got a lot of them kind of sitting around. The problem with this individual stock thing is that I actually, I have actually lost money on my investments since I started investing in individual stocks. The only reason I've gained money is because of this free share thing. Like, you know, Shopify has gone up 35% MP materials, but like, I've actually lost a bunch of money, like Teladoc. I put in £2,000 into Teladoc. And it's now worth £1,300. Like, it's a lost 34%. Fastly, I put in 2K. It's now worth 1.2K. It's insane. Collectus, I put in a thousand. It's now worth 400. So I've lost 58% on that. Basically, all of these books, all of these financial advice books, we'll say that don't bother investing in individual stocks. Because you're competing against institutional investors who like have their big ass computers and whose full-time job it is to invest in individual stocks. And as a retail investor, as a random dude on the street like I am, there's no way I can feasibly beat the market. There's no way I can actually compete against these older people without insider knowledge, which insider trading, it's kind of illegal. And so everyone says, and Warren Buffett says this as well, they're just into investor index funds. You know, if you invest in all of the top 500 companies in the US, chances are, then then your investment gains are going to go up as the market goes up, but it's genuinely very hard to beat the market. And I was thinking, you know what, let me find some stockpicks on like the monthly full and let me, you know, I'm going to invest in Tesla, because I believe in Tesla, I'm going to invest in Apple, because I invest, I believe in Apple, etc, etc. And after I've actually lost money, I've actually lost money. Whereas I've never lost money investing in index funds, because it just tracks the market and the market always goes up. And so since this has happened, I kind of, I kind of view doubling with individual stocks as being more like a fun thing to do on the side. And I'm quite happy to put aside 10, let's say, 10% of my stocks portfolio to just dabble with individual stocks. But I fully expect that there's no way I'm going to beat the market. I'm probably going to lose money, but it's kind of fun. And so 90% of all of my stocks and shares are in the S&P 500 in the next fund. And 10% I dabble with on free trade, and to be honest, I make most of the money from free trade just through the free shares link. So yeah, free shared link in the video description if you want to check it out. A few lessons about what I've learned investing in stocks. So number one, I really should have started earlier. I actually started making money in like 2013, 2014, with my business that was successful. But it took me two years of having money sitting in my back account doing nothing for me to think, I should probably invest this money. Like I did have that for that thought process earlier on in like 2013 and 14 as well. But something stopped me from thinking about investing. So in my head, it was like, oh, this feels really hard. I don't have to get started. It feels really risky. I don't want to lose my money. All of these like stupid thoughts were floating around in my mind. And that meant that I actually started investing two years later. Then I could have done. And so I sort of wish I'd started earlier. Secondly, I've realized over the last six years of investing that you cannot time the market. And therefore don't bother trying. And this is really nice phrase, time in the market is more important than timing the market. And I know so many people who wanted to get started with investing and investing in an index fund. But they were like, oh, the S&P 500 is currently at an all-time high. I'm just going to wait a few weeks for it to go down. And then I'll put money in when the market goes down. And what these people are doing is trying to time the market. Like no one can time the market is literally impossible. And therefore the advice which is not advice is just just put money in and forget about it for 10 years. And the market will just always go up over time. Again, more details about that in my video up there. The market will just go up over time and trying to time the market is always a fool's errand. In fact, one of my mates who will be unnamed. Like about 18 months ago when we first kind of got talking, I was saying to him, hey, if you consider starting an investment account and he was like, oh, you know, I've been thinking about it, maybe I will, maybe I won't. Never bothered signing up for the account, maybe signed up for the account, never put money in it. He would have literally doubled his money. He would have had like a 60% gain in the last 18 months. If he just, I don't know, signed up for the account there and then it takes about 30 seconds on a vanguard or something. And I actually just put the first bit of money into it. Because often when it comes to investing, just putting that first $100 a thousand dollars is the hardest part. And then you do it and you realize, oh, this is actually not so bad. And it becomes very easy to then top up your investments over time. Let's say, I don't know, you get money from a birthday or you do an extra shift at work and you've got the spare cash lying around. It becomes so much easier to say, hey, you know what, let me do something sensible and put 20% of it in my stocks portfolio. Because at that point, you know what it's like, you know, how easy it is, you know, you can do it with a few taps on the app. And so, I don't know, if you're in that position watching this video where you've been thinking about getting started with investing, just haven't really gotten around to it, then now, you know, the best time to start investing was 10 years ago, but the second best time is right now. So, in total, we've got 300,990 pounds ish in stocks and shares, mostly in the S&P 500, but a little bit dabbling in individual stocks like Tesla and Shopify and a little bit Apple. Let's now move on to the crypto aspect of my portfolio. Again, I've got a whole video about a link over there and in the video description about how I lost $56,000 trading Bitcoin. I started investing investing in Bitcoin in around about 2017 when the market was going up and in the market crashed and I lost a load of money. And then, crucially, I had to take money out, I had to sell and realize those losses so that I could afford the deposit on this flat that I'm currently living in. And so, my crypto portfolio was looking very, very in the red. It was like minus $60,000 for the last four years, but crypto has recently done a rally. And so, here is a screenshot of my portfolio on CoinTracker, which is a website that aggregates a bunch of different crypto wallets. And at the moment, the portfolio valuation is £92,903, which is a 7.8% increase. So, I've made £6,700 from crypto over the last four years. This is like, this is great because you can see from this graph here, I was so in the red for such a long time where I had put in like $90,000 or like $60,000 to crypto and it was worth like $12,000. So, that was quite demoralizing for a long time. But now, again, with crypto, I've decided I'm just going to set it and forget it. So, I just have a weekly order or a buy some Bitcoin, buy some Ethereum, buy some Cardano for all of all things. And I just sort of, it takes money out of my account and I've kind of forgotten that it's there, which means over time, hopefully I'm doing the thing of dollar cost averaging, buying crypto a little bit at a time, with no intention of selling it for a very, very long time, trying to hold on to those diamond hands. And if you're interested in the portfolio allocation, you know, I've got about 50k in Ethereum, 34k Bitcoin, 4k in Litecoin, not doing very well, 3k in Cardano, not doing very well at all, and 500k in Dogecoin, which has lost 50% of its values since I started investing in it. So, Ethereum, Ethereum has been good to me. Ethereum has been pretty good, because the thing I didn't sell back in 2017 was Ethereum. So, I had some Ethereum from way back then, which has kind of gone up in value over time. Let's talk about what I've learned in investing in crypto again, all of like a much, much more details in that video about how I lost $55,000 and the lessons I've learned from it. But the most important things are like number one, what I've learned from it is don't try and date trade. It's a terrible idea. If you want to get involved in crypto, then just buy and hold, because you can't beat the market when it comes to date trading. Secondly, I really view crypto as being gambling. I was like, it's pure 100% gambling, it's not an investment, it's actually just me gambling with my money. And so, I'd make sure that I'm not putting any money into crypto, that I might need in the next like five years. And listen number three for investing in crypto is and general investments is don't get emotional, like a big part of why I put in so much money in 2017 was because I was like, you know, that fear of missing out. The crypto was going to the moon and I wanted to get in on it. And then like when it crashed, it was like, it was, it was a stupid, like all of my decisions around crypto in 2017 were 100% emotional. These days, I treat it like more of a rational investor. There is this newsletter that I subscribe to called crypto is easy. The guy there has a plan. He's done the numbers. I just follow his plan and I just kind of do what he tells me to do. So if you want to check out crypto is easy, not an affiliate link, not sponsored or anything, but that's the newsletter that I use for my crypto plan personally. So we've talked about stocks and shares and we've talked about crypto and so the total value is around about 390k or something like that at the moment. Let's not talk about real estate. So the thing with real estate is that it takes a very long time to get started. And so up until about six months ago, the only real estate I owned was this flat, which has a mortgage on it, which is a joint mortgage that I have between me and my brother. We got this mortgage in 2018. And so the purchase price of the house was 370,000 pounds. We put in a 55,000 pound deposit. And so far I've paid back around 30k of the mortgage. And so there's around about 85,000 pounds of equity tied up in this house. But it's got a mortgage on it. And I usually have a lodger living with me and I've got my cousin living with me kind of further down the line and so on and so on. But I don't really consider this to be much of an investment. I mean, I think the 85k that's in the house is a reasonable investment. And the fact that I've been living with a lodger means that on the rent that I'm saving from living in this house and the fact that I've got a lodger living with me who's paying me rent, I get around about a 16% return every year, which is pretty solid like that's not bad at all. And so I really only consider the 85k of equity that I've got in the house as being an investment. The rest of it, it's all part of the mortgage anyway, and the value of the house hasn't really increased very much in the last three years. And so yeah, let's call it, let's call it 85k in real estate. But quite excitingly, I'm in the process of buying another three flats to use as rental properties. The amount of paperwork it takes to get this sort of stuff sorted doesn't absolutely nightmare, so we're still going through the paperwork for all three of those. But that's because like since this YouTube channel and the business around, it's been making decent amounts of money, mostly over the last year or year and a half. I've now kind of started putting some of that money into real estate. So I'll make a video about it when it's all kind of sorted, but right now we're just in the paperwork stage, trying to figure out how to get like bicellet mortgages under a limited company. And although there's all this sort of really complicated stuff in the UK around how to actually invest in real estate in terms of rental properties. And so if we take the 85 equity that we've got in the house that takes our total up to something like 470k or something like that, there'll be the number actual calculator on the site, which actually has the numbers because I can't do quick maths. Let's not talk about angel investments. Now what is an angel investment? An angel investment is when an individual, I don't know what's called angel. It's just a bit self-aggrandizing. Now basically when an individual investor invests in early stage startups. So through this YouTube channel, I've actually gotten emails from people who are starting companies and are looking for investment and want me to invest in their companies. And especially if it's products that I already use and I already like, I speak to the founders and they seem cool and they sent me their pitch deck and I'm like, oh cool, I'll invest a little bit of money in this company. I can't tell you how much I've invested in the companies. It's not that much, but so far I've invested in four companies. I'll put links to all of them in the video description. The first one is Riverside.fm. I've been using Riverside for the last year to record my podcast and so I reached out to the guys we got talking and I invested in the company. So did great a video about Riverside coming at some point soon. Check it out linked in the video description. Secondly a company called Peak. This is a company based in the UK. It's fairly new. They're trying to make reading a more social experience and so they think reached out to me initially and then we got talking and they're really cool. So I invested in them and I'll be using their product extensively as as it improves and once it goes out of beta. Thirdly we have study stream which is like this live coworking type group where I've done I've dabbled with a few study stream sessions but it seems like a really great model and so I invested in them and fourthly one that's fairly recent investing in a company called Heights which is like a braincare supplement thing that I've been kind of dabbling with and became mates with like the founder the other day and decided to invest in the company and so I'm fairly new to this whole like ancient investment thing. I know a lot of youtubers do it. I know like Casey Nye start, Mark has Brownlee and KVHD. These guys are all like big ancient investors which they don't really talk about on their youtube channels I guess there's I don't I don't know are there rules against it? I don't think there are rules against it. Usually people have pretty public about that sort of stuff but yeah it's it's a new area that I'm dabbling in and so if anyone has any advice reach out to me on Twitter like I'd love to speak to people who actually do ancient investments because I don't really know what I'm doing. I'm just trying to invest in companies that I think are cool and trying to be do my best to add value to them either as an advisor or as like promoting their stuff on my youtube channel or whatever. Next we have the asset class of cash cash is an asset class. I know Graeme Stefan talks about how he always has like a million dollar plus like of cash just sitting in the bank account waiting for him to pound some kind of real estate deal. I'm nowhere near as sophisticated as that. I don't really like the whole real estate thing that's slow and annoying and I basically carry zero cash. In fact I hit my overdraft the other day because I just never have any cash in my current account because any cash I do have is either in the business account or it's in investments and so I keep them very very little cash on my person at any given moment and to be honest my expenses aren't really that big. Any tech that I buy for the business is a business expense and the only thing I've already spent money on is like these Ralph Lauren shirts recently and like takeaway and so my salary through the business kind of helps with that but what's kind of interesting is that because again because of the success of the kind of the magical internet YouTube money machine we've got actually a bunch of cash sitting in the company account doing absolutely nothing right now and so I was speaking to Ben Francis the founder of Jim Sharp the other day interviewed him on my podcast which is going to be launching soon. I was talking to him about this this thing and he was kind of joking that we're holding cash in the business and we've got to do something useful with that cash and so right now we're actually in the process of hiring around eight or ten people for the business. By the way I'll put a link to our jobs page in the video description if you want to check it out. If you're interested in joining the team if you're based in London come work for us is kind of fun and we're just trying to figure out better uses for that cash which is currently just sitting in the bank account depreciating via inflation every year. Now the final asset class that I want to talk about is digital assets. Now most people wouldn't consider this to be a standard asset class like standard asset classes of stocks in real estate and crypto these days but actually if we think of like what is an investment an investment is something that you put money into initially and it it makes money for you which stocks do which real estate does it actually digital assets do that as well and so it wasn't an example of a digital asset an example of a digital asset is for example a YouTube video so when you make a YouTube video and it's out there on the internet people can watch that video well while you're sleeping and you make money throughout sense on that YouTube video and so in fact let's have a look at our YouTube analytics let's say let's look at the last 90 days so the add sense on this channel has generated in the last 90 days alone one hundred and twenty one thousand nine hundred and three dollars just in the last 90 days that is absolutely absurd and if we look at where that money is coming from last 90 days okay this is a passive income videos which made 47,559 that's insane that video came out in April so I put the work into making that video back in April and then my team edited it very nicely but that video is its own digital asset in that it's like an investment it's been putting money and I'll pocket every day since then because every day people are watching this video and therefore it's making money nonsense the ultimate guide to investing in stocks I made that video in October 2020 so for the last year that video has been as an asset class making passive income and that's made 4,800 dollars in the last 90 days nine eight habits it made me millionaire bit of a clickbait title apologies but I made that in June couple of months ago in the last 90 days it's made 3,000 how to build a website 2,000 how it type fast 2,000 how managed my time writing online answering uncomfortable questions from a personal assistant is made 1,600 dollars in the last 90 days 1500 1200 and so like YouTube videos are an asset class and most people don't think of them as such but like if an investment is something that puts money in your pocket then anytime you make a YouTube video you are investing in yourself you're you're putting a digital asset out there online which if it's evergreen content could be making you money for a very long time and so in fact there are still a bunch of videos on here which I made like two or three years ago that are still making money and the amount of return you can get on this like obviously now that the YouTube channel is quite big this is much higher than it was but it just goes to show that if one video can make a few thousand dollars a month and like you know if you're really lucky a good real estate property will make a few thousand dollars in a year then the sort of treating digital assets as the run asset class makes a lot of sense and equally there's online courses as well I'm not going to show you the online courses portfolio but we've got a bunch of classes on Skillshare I'm just sponsoring this video and they're not but I'll put some links in the video description if you want to check them out bunch of classes on Skillshare I put the work into making the class once and so for example if we use my I I have an online class on Skillshare about how to edit videos with final cut pro I made the class in September 2019 so two years ago at every single month since then it's been making somewhere between 2005 thousand dollars per month in pure passive income without really any promotion on my part that is absolutely insane that's a class that took me one day to film and took a freelance for two days to edit and it's been making somewhere between two and five k every single month without me having to do anything this is completely absurd and it's you just don't get those sorts of returns with the normal asset classes like stocks and shares in real estate maybe you get them in crypto but it's a lot less consistent than that and so generally when I think about investments I think there's like the traditional stuff like real estate stocks and shares crypto and then there's the non-traditional stuff there's the stuff where it's almost like playing a game right where if you're kind of a level one character if you're like the default character the thing the only real thing you can invest in is stocks and shares because you can get started with like $10 a hundred dollars as you level up and as you get more money you can then start you unlock the category of real estate because to invest in real estate you actually need a decent amount of money to start up because you need the deposit on the house which is usually 25% of the value of the house at least it is in the UK but I think there's like an extra an extra level here whereby if you're a creator and you have an audience on the internet that unlocks the asset class of online courses and YouTube videos and e-books and digital downloads and even physical products my friend Oliar has a physical product store where again that that is an asset class he's building a business a business is an asset a business is an investment and so overall if we exclude all the digital stuff maybe there's just a 500k ish in my investment portfolio it's nowhere near as fancy as some other big YouTubers are but I've made a bunch of mistakes investing over the years and hopefully that will increase over time but really when I think about investing I do think more about the digital asset classes than I do about things like real estate and stocks I do I view real estate and stocks is being kind of like a if all else fails and if YouTube crashes and if my internet if I get cancelled in my internet career has gone at least the stocks and the real estate thing will still be there but really I think more most of the games are to be had in the digital realm so that's it hopefully found this video interesting if you're interested in getting started investing in stocks and shares you should definitely check out this video over here which is my ultimate guide on investing in stocks loads of people have seen that and we've got emails from people but like oh my god thank you so much this video changed my life I've started investing in land I'm I'm an investor now so thanks so much for watching do hit the subscribe button if you aren't already and I'll see you in the next video bye bye
