# WE HAVE A COOL NAME | Medical Students Making an App - Episode 2
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MhUljoWSzSk
Today we talk about how we did some quick market research, came up with an awesome name, bought the domain and slapped together a very quick website.

CUT AND PASTE - www.cutandpaste.ac
**Keywords:** Surgical Logbook, Medical students, medical student, app, surgery, surgery app, medical student app, med student app, medic app, how to make an app, 
**Date:** 2017-07-28

## Transcript
 Hi everyone and thanks for tuning in. Today we started our project with three things. Firstly we did our Marky Research. Secondly we came up with a name. Thirdly we set up a quick website. Yeah and we're going to talk more about it right off to the central. So first Marky Research immediately five things came up. So our first reaction was perhaps all we got into a saturated market. But then we kind of looked more at these other things on the market. We realized that quite a few of them were last updated in 2012. And there was nothing that was exactly a copy of what we wanted. Although there were some depth in close. And we kind of had a bit of a discussion about whether we should continue with this and decide that actually what we're offering is a free, simple, easy to use. So a little bit of a platform thing. Specifically, an only four medical student that doesn't need any of the bills and whistles that doctors have to deal with when making their own surgical lipids. So we thought we'd just go full steam hypothesis. One of the problems with many of the apps that we found already is that they seem to charge on the nervous subscription. And this kind of puts a lot of people up. The next thing we had to do was come up with a name. And we spent a little bit of time brainstorming this. The first thing we thought we should be made is the standard surgical portfolio. surgical model. Like my surgical logbook.com. So she logged her engine and variations on that thing. The problem with this is just even hearing that or saying the word gives you a sort of nightmare effect. It just sounds really boring. Like who wants to create a product called my surgical e-popo. So we were on my surgical e-popo.com not many people. So instead what we decided was that we had a little bit of batter to the name and to the website and to whatever we ended up doing with this. We wanted to be a little bit tongue-in-cheek, but obviously not offensive. We want to not take ourselves too seriously. So we tried to brainstorm ideas with some names. You said we didn't want to be too offensive. The first few were a bit soft white-white. So we had cut it wrong. Slice the dice. But then we came up with cut and paste. And this seems to be relatively legit. Cut, but the surgical side of the thing. Cut and paste because it's got something to take an inputting data and connotations. And it rolls on the tongue quite nicely. Yeah, when I first heard cut and paste I was like, you know what? I think that's the word. It takes a fun approach to surgery. You know, a lot of people call it cutting as it were. And essentially what we're doing is we are spending in data. So we're basically cutting and basically real life. So that was the name. The next step for any kind of happening kind of business like the any kind of website is that you've got to find a domain name. IE, you know, kind of paste.com would have been absolutely perfect. Unfortunately, kind of paste.com was not available. No one was kind of paste or credit UK or kind of paste or net or dot org. Dot IO was available. And that has to be used for like taking things. And there were things like kind of paste.x was that. Oh, kind of paste. WTF. All the way through decided against. But then Ben had a great idea. No, it's not a great idea. It's just we thought what are people used to that might might be easy to use. It rolls off the time quite well. And because we're aiming at a medical students. Why not something like that? Dot AC. This is a commonly used domain name for universities and education services in the UK. So we went on name cheap.com and paste.ac and found there's 25 pounds here. Which we're happy to split between us and invest into this business. If we can call it an investment. So now this app is called the cut and paste. And our website is kind of paste.ac. Isn't that fun? So we came up with a name. And I went out to grab a copy and came back. And the website was done. Which surprises me greatly. So if you're watching this and you've got this far. Please visit our website. www.cutandpaste.ac.c. And if you'd like to join the mailing list, you can put your email address in. And we'll send you email every now and then when we make progress on the website. And we'll let you know when it's ready to launch your seat. And we promise we won't fall by. You and those are no to spam. So thank you very much for watching. We hope you gained something from this video. Please go on to the link to the follow us and join our mailing list. And we look forward to seeing you soon in the next video. Bye. Bye. See you tomorrow. That's fine. Good evening. Good evening.
