# Final year begins - Cambridge University medical student VLOG #01
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MpevcHafHZI
First vlog of final year. Still learning the ropes with this whole vlogging thing, and trying not to care if people think I'm weird for carrying a camera around and talking to it. 

Who am I:

I'm Ali, a final year medical student at Emmanuel College, Cambridge. This vlogging thing seems quite fun so I'll be vlogging life and other things throughout the year. I'm pretty into music and coding as well, so maybe there'll be some of that on this channel.

Follow me plssss:
- Snapchat: aliabdaal
- Twitter - https://twitter.com/AliAbdaal
- Instagram - https://instagram.com/AliAbdaal
- Website - www.aliabdaal.com
**Keywords:** Cambridge medicine, Cambridge medical student, Cambridge medicine vlog, Cambridge medical student vlog, medical student, medicine vlog, medicine, medical student vlog, Oxbridge, Oxford, Cambridge, cambridge medicine, oxford medicine, bmat, 6med, bmat crash course, bmat tips, ukcat, medicine interviews, 
**Date:** 2017-09-02

## Transcript
 Welcome back to the channel. My name is Ali and this is the first day of our final year of being medical students at Cambridge University It's been an absolutely incredible five years so far, and we've just got one more year to go before we officially become doctors in August 2018 And the plan for this year is to vlog some aspects of what life is like as a final year medical student Because it's the first day we started off with like an introduction to final year lecture Where they told us about the aims of this year, what we should be trying to get out of it And it's really quite exciting, I mean, fourth and fifth year at the first two years of clinical school The result of actually being a doctor wasn't really it wasn't really on my mind anyway It was more about fulfilling the short term aims trying to get through the exams doing a few projects here and there that sort of thing But this year it's very different because we're only a year away from actually becoming doctors So now it's not really about trying to maximize the market exams It's about trying to learn the business of being a doctor learn how life and awards work starts sort of thing So yeah, I'm really looking forward to it, and I'm hoping to vlog the experiences throughout the year every time something Something very interesting happens and I think the target audience is going to be pretty much myself about six, seven years ago When I was thinking of applying to medicine when I was thinking about applying to Cambridge And I would have liked to see what you know the life of a medical student is like because life in clinical school There's very different to life in undergraduate medicine And I think the clinical school part of it is something that we don't really get much exposure to When we're actually applying we just kind of focus on the undergrad part, the lectures, the supervisions Rather than all the stuff about being on placement in hospital We're about halfway through the day, we started off with a series of lectures all of which were actually quite good One of the somewhat interesting side effects of most people having cars in clinical school And also I was going on elective for nine weeks at a time Is that very often the batteries run right? So if we're going to do some jumpstarting of cannabis car Do you not want to be seeing doing some of this as well, you know, meet yourself, see you a bit Machure man like you can do stuff see where you could just copy me All right, so all needs to use up the next thing I'd be open this Two hours later Hey there we go Okay, so it's 11pm We just finished watching Game of Thrones, and now I reckon it's time to start. And now I reckon it's time to call it a day. It's been a fantastic start to the new year. We had some fun lectures in the morning, spend the rest of the day, jump starting a car, and moving all the stuff back into my room. So yeah, things have been pretty good. I think I'm going to be experimenting with different formats of this vlog for the next few episodes. So if you like it please let me know in the comments how it is. If you've got any advice and any kind of feedback, again please let me know. I really appreciate it. Thank you very much for watching, and I'll see you in the next one. Bye! Thanks for watching!
