# I Read 2,216 Resumes. Here’s How You Stand Out 🚀
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MqXjqOy-TA8
Head to https://80000hours.org/ali to start planning a career that is meaningful, fulfilling, and helps solve one of the world’s most pressing problems. Make your 80,000 hours count.

Hey friends, so I’ve recently been hiring a bunch of people for my business. I’ve read literally thousands of applications and in my opinion know what to look for in an incredible candidate. So in this video I’m going to tell you exactly what you need to do when you’re applying for a job to get into that 1% of people who actually get hired. Enjoy :)

If you want to put your new skills into practice, we have a few roles currently open if you're interested in joining the team: https://apply.workable.com/aliabdaal/?lng=en

Elizabeth's channel: https://www.youtube.com/c/ElizabethFilips4
Jamie's channel: https://www.youtube.com/JamieWhiffen
Gordon's channel: https://www.youtube.com/c/gordongreenhorn
The Third Door: https://geni.us/DvGZ

00:00 The Third Door
01:11 Slide into people’s DMs
02:44 Be an opportunist
04:04 Make it easy for them to say yes
05:58 Build a portfolio
09:08 Keep it short
10:20 Lead with value
12:33 Go above and beyond in your application
15:00 Understand the vibe
16:58 Please don’t bullshit
19:06 Write for clarity rather than impressiveness
20:22 Dial in your level of enthusiasm
22:44 Be paranoid
24:29 Consider video applications
26:43 Do the thing really well

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

PART-TIME YOUTUBER ACADEMY:
🍿 My 6-week live online course - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ptya_aliabdaal

CREATORPRENEUR
💰 My flag-ship course for scaling up your creative side-hustle - https://creatorpreneur.academy/course

YOUTUBE FOR BEGINNERS COURSE
📸 This is for anyone who'd like to start a YouTube channel. You'll learn everything you need to get started as a YouTuber including how to script, shoot, and edit your first video - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/YouTube-for-Beginners

MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
✍️ The best summaries of books (Shortform) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
📚  How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound

🎙 Deep Dive podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/
The podcast that delves into the minds of entrepreneurs, creators and other inspiring people to uncover the philosophies, strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. You can find it by searching “Deep Dive” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/friendzone/
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
💙  The Friendzone Discord - https://discord.gg/Dh2kGavffd
🎮  Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I’m Ali, a YouTuber, podcaster, soon-to-be author and ex-Doctor working in London, UK. I make videos that explore the strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. I also have a weekly podcast called Deep Dive (https://www.youtube.com/channel/UChfo46ZNOV-vtehDc25A1Ug), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://email.aliabdaal.com).


GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, job application, how to stand out, job application letter sample, how to land your dream job, how to get your dream job, dream job, resume, CV, best resumes, Resume tips and tricks, CV tips and tricks, how to stand out in an interview, job application with resume, job application letter, I Read 2, 241 Job Applications. Here’s How to Stand Out, how to write a resume for college students, how to write a cover letter, how to write a resume with no experience, 
**Date:** 2022-06-14

## Transcript
 As soon as we saw that, we're like, oh my god, this guy actually really went above and beyond hell yeah, we need to interview him. Like this is an absolute dream cover letter to read. I want to show you some examples of what bullshit looks like. It's a few things wrong with this. Number one, it's such a red flag and an application. Hey friends, welcome back to the channel. So over the last two years, I have gone through hundreds, if not thousands of job applications and resumes and CVs. And so in this video, I'm going to give you 15 tips for next time you're applying for a job. And I'm going to show you physical real life examples of people CVs and the resumes and the cover letters and what are the good things that I'd be looking for as an employer and that other employers would be looking for and what are the things to potentially avoid. Let's get into it. In business in life in everything, it's a bit like a nightclub in that there are three doors. The first door is the door, you know, where people queue up to be left into the nightclub. The second door is the door around the back for the billionaires and the celebrities, but what no one tells you is that in life and in business and in everything else, there's always a third door and the third door is the door where you go down the alleyway, you're like, pop open the kitchen window, you sneak in the back, you make friends with the white stuff in the kitchen and then you kind of get into the nightclub through the third door. Whether it was Steven Spielberg, landing his first film gig or Bill Gates, landing his first, like, I don't know, software, sale or whatever, all of these people succeeded by taking the third door. All right, the next tip is to slide into people's proverbial or physical DMs. Now this is a, for example, third door application technique. The first door application technique would be to go on the companies or the creators or the whatever is a job, pages and be like, are they looking for a vacancy that matches me perfectly tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick, tick. Oh no, I don't have that much experience. I'm not going to apply. But actually what you could just do is cold email or cold DM people or companies or individuals who you know are potentially looking to hire who you might potentially want to work for. Now here I want to show you an email that Angus, who is now our general manager, sent to me two years ago. Dear Ali, I hope this email funds you well. I've been a long time of your YouTube videos and the last Easter I sent you an email regarding blah blah blah blah blah. I'm emailing to it quite today about a separate issue. blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah. I want to basically work for you. I have attached my CV. Do you need anything at all? Now it just so happened that at the time Angus sent this email, I've been thinking, hmm, maybe I want to hire another writer and he literally sent the email at the right time. And I was like, oh, hello, this person lives in Cambridge. He's got a Cambridge degree. He seems legit. He's attached his CV. He's clearly done this sort of writing thing before. He's into journalism and stuff. This is the sort of person I need. Let me at least give him a chance. Angus now has been with the business for the last like two and a half years and has ascended the ranks to become a general manager and sort of is doing the sort of thing that he says is his absolute dream job and as a sort of 25, 26 year old, there's basically no way he would have had such a cool job. Had he not taken the initiative to make that first called email by sliding into the proverbial DMs. The other thing is you might send one of these emails and they might not reply. But you could just send another one and another one and another one. You could like send four emails in the space for four months and maybe at the right time the right person will see that email and be like, hey, actually let's give this person a shot. And this segue to the next piece of advice which is to be an opportunist. The example I want to use here is Elizabeth Phillips, who is now a YouTuber linked down below and she started off about two years ago as my personal assistant and the way she got the job is that she just DMed me. I was doing an Instagram live at like one o'clock in the morning for some reason. It was the middle of lockdown, whatever. I was doing an Instagram live and someone asked a question and I mentioned vaguely briefly threw it out there that maybe I'm looking to hire a personal assistant but I'm not really sure. I've heard that it's kind of good and what Elizabeth did was that straight after that Instagram live. She just DMed me on Instagram knowing that I was on Instagram after the Instagram live saying, hey, I want to be your personal assistant. I'm a medical student based on London. I'm in my second year or whatever she was at the time. Here are the skills I have. Here is why I'd be really good at the job. And then I was like, oh, I mean, I hadn't really been seriously thinking about hiring a assistant but okay, let's give this a go. And then we hopped on a call and now she's been with a company for the last two years and it's ascended the ranks to now no longer be my personal assistant and instead help out with like really making our part-time YouTuber academy the success that I currently is. To be honest, there's a lot of people, a lot of CEOs who are on Instagram and have personal Instagram accounts that you can find that are not on Twitter or not on LinkedIn or trying to get hold of them by email is going to be impossible. But if you follow them on Instagram, you start kind of maybe hustling into some of their DMs. You can actually get a lot of like interesting kind of relationships built that way trying to find the platform that they're active on that there's not like the zillions of other people trying to try to wire for their attention on. Now the way Elizabeth made this super easy is that what she said was, you know what? To be honest, I know you don't know what you want from this but it's an experiment. Let's just try it for a month. At the end of the month, if you don't like my services, you don't have to pay me. I will just have done the stuff for free and it will be a learning opportunity for both of us. I was like damn, the fact that she said that made me actually be like, you know what, let's try it for a month as an experiment. I will pay you anyway because you know I had the money to pay and I was like okay cool, this is this seems very reasonable but she just made it so easy to say yes. Angus made it so easy to say yes. Anyone who have hired through these sort of like third-door channels has made it super easy to say yes to at least giving them a shot. And one of the ways you can do that is by making it seem as if it's like a no-brainer thing for your employer. This is something Navarrava can't talk about. Fantastic Berkeley Almanac of Navarrava can't be a beautiful source of like life advice and wisdom. Navarra says is that if he was broke and landed in a new city, the way he would get a job is by kind of building up his portfolio, going after people and basically offering to work for them a full free for a whole month or several weeks so that is super super easy for them to say yes. Like I didn't realise this until I kind of became an employer but it's like actually hiring is really hard for companies like you have to do so much path to find the right person and then you know that like I need to make sure I find the right person because if I don't then like they'll be in the company and then it's going to be a real path trying to fire them because I'm going to need all this feedback and all this constructive criticism and all this it's such an absolute nightmare hiring and then also firing people that if someone props into a lap who has the right skills who's like hey I want you to give me a shot I will you know I'll make it super easy for you if you don't like it we'll try it out for a few weeks or try it out for a month you can just fire me no questions asked I'm not going to I'm not going to care just anything that makes it easier for the employer to say yes to you will get your foot in the door and once you're foot in the door obviously you're going to perform really well because you're actually going to the job and now you're in this job which is potentially a job that's more interesting than a job you could have gotten through the standard sort of first door pathway right so if you do want to apply or get your dream job then to be honest the work starts way before you actually apply what you want to do is you want to build a portfolio of skills and assets that will convince your employer to take you on rather than someone else who's applied for the job for example Gordon who is the videographer that we hired after looking through 400 video applications and a trialing about 15 different people and it of actually being selected for a short list because his portfolio was really good similarly Jamie who got hired as a YouTube producer his portfolio was the fact that he had his own YouTube channel and he had put together this body of work and even though admittedly his YouTube channel wasn't huge it only had a few thousand subscribers it was still a level of doing the work that we wanted to hire him for this is for example what journalist and youtuber Johnny Harris did he worked at an architecture regulation firm and he got paid to make loads and loads and loads of cool stuff got to make so much recon stuff and I was doing it and I was getting paid for it and then through the experience he get at that he ended up landing a really kind of legit job and vox media doing animations and journalism stuff and then that's like waiting to his own YouTube channel which has become ridiculously successful but it all started because he was being paid to in a way build up portfolio of cool stuff in a job that was somewhat related but not entirely related to the thing he actually wanted to do. All right before we get to the next point I'm genuinely absolutely freaking delighted to say that this video is actually sponsored by 80,000 hours. 80,000 hours is an absolute freaking incredible organization that I first came across a few years ago when I was trying to figure out how do I have genuine impact in my career and it's called 80,000 hours because that is the amount of time we spend in the average career and because that's such a huge amount of time that means that your career is probably the best way that you can have a personal impact on the world and the whole point of 80,000 hours is that it's a completely non-profit organization that helps people figure out how they can have an impact on the world. The organization is absolutely sick, they've got a fantastic team behind them and they've spent the last decade researching what are the highest impact careers in collaboration with academics at places like Oxford University and if you check out their website 80,000 hours.org they've got some ridiculously in-depth guides about how to find that perfect career for you and doing impact analysis of tons and tons of different career options. They've also got a whole page of cold email templates that you can use to get tips for next time you slide into someone's DMs. They've got their own step-by-step guide to job hunting and they've got a jobs board that has over a thousand open positions in high impact careers and all of this is completely free. They're a non-profit that don't charge for anything at all and the reason they do this is because they want to try and help you and me and all of us find a fulfilling career that does good in the world as well. In fact side note, one of their co-founders Will McCaskill is like I think it's like the youngest professor philosophy or the youngest professor at Oxford University and he co-founder the organization and he's actually going to be featuring in my podcast deep dive pretty soon where we talk about the concept of effective altruism which is like how can we kind of be a little bit more evidence-based about the way that we have an impact on the world. If any of that sounds up your street and you want to find a career that does good in the world and has a positive impact then click the link in the video description or head over to 80,000 hours.org forward slash early and that will give you a completely free copy of the in-depth 80,000 hours career guide and hopefully that will help you learn about what actually genuinely makes for a high impact career. It'll hopefully get you new ideas for impactful paths that you can take with your career and with your life and it'll help you make a plan based on what you've learned and actually put it into action. Feel free to also sign up to their completely free email newsletter where twice a month they send updates you know showing what they've been up to and what some new high impact careers are and what some new job opportunities are so just an incredible resource so thank you so much to 80,000 hours for sponsoring this video and let's get on to the next tip. This is an example of one of the CVs that we had and this literally fills me with dread because it's like six pages worth of stuff and as an employer reading through tens, hundreds, thousands of applications I don't have time to read six pages worth of a CV it's just not going to be worth my time and to something like this is really annoying to go through but this one for example is an example of what a good CV looks like for an employer in this sort of field this is Becky who is now one of our core team members and on our leadership team this is a one-pager it's so easy to digest it's super nice it's like good vibes of typography you could do some work but like you know it's reasonably laid out it's so easy for someone looking to hire Becky to look at this and be like oh this is pretty sick well played I want to give you a shot and to be honest if you do have tons and tons of experience there's absolutely no harm in tailoring your CV to the specific job that you want to apply for I think the mistake people make here is that they take a scatter gun approach but you're not going to land your dream job if you take a scatter gun approach and apply to 5000 jobs with exactly the same CV like figure out what are the jobs you actually genuinely want or you want to actively go for and figure out ways to adjust your CV so that it fits onto one page maybe two at the absolute max but you get rid of all the stuff that is not relevant to that job all right so the next point is that when applying for a job or sending a code email or a DM or anything like that you want to try your best to lead with value this for example is how not to do it this is someone who applied for one of our jobs we have redacted all of the sensitive information from all of the examples that we're going to show you of course to preserve confidentiality but hopefully we can use some of these job applications as a learning opportunity so that we can all just get better at applying for jobs this is what this one says I am really excited and I really want to get this position as a really want to work on this so that my experience increases and it will also boost my confidence and my CV yes this is badly written but also this person is not leading with value they are leading with like these are the reasons I want the job I want the job because ABCDE and it's all like selfish reasons this is not leading with value here's another example which is a bit better written but again makes the same mistake of not leading with value I will surely be completing my first year of whatever as a history teacher and I'm very eager to gain experience working with the wider educational sector of some holidays my achievements have inspired me blah blah then I want to do this with my career then I want to do that therefore this internship would be useful this person like I mean it's it's it's very reasonable and I'm not like knocking these people about any means I'm really grateful and happy that people have applied for jobs at our company but like no one teaches you this stuff no one teaches you how to actually apply for a job and whether you're applying for a job or applying for an internship in a way the employer does not care about you they don't want to really care about why the internship would benefit you they care about why the internship would benefit them as the employer and then as a side effect you can talk about why it would benefit you as a person alright so those were two bad examples let's look at now what a good example looks like so this is one dear only of those team as a master fan of all these content working as a writer research intern of the summer would be a dream come true there are five reasons why I believe I'm perfect for the role number one interest in the creative sector number two understanding content start number three team working number four course experience number five educational sector etc etc etc like this is an absolute dream cover letter to read because this person has led with a value they're saying exactly why we should hire them and they are doing some of the stuff of like oh you know telling us a little bit about themselves but they're doing in a way that leads with a value and honestly like a cover letter does not have to be like this whole like paragraph paragraph paragraph paragraph like you would write a personal statement or you can university application essay it just needs to be clear it needs to be a list of you know if you want it can just be a number list of bullet points as to it's specifically why the company should hire you there are no rules when it comes to cover letters other than some of these tips that I'm sharing in this video now again if you're applying to five thousand jobs all at once you can't go above and beyond for all of them but if you know you really really really one that job if you know that mkbg is hiring and you really want to work for him or that I leave that all is hiring or whatever other company you admire is hiring and you can maybe reach out to their hiring manager try and go above and beyond in your application because this really sets you apart from the crowd now the example I want to use here is a chap called Ryan who applied for one of our video refer positions now Ryan did not have admittedly that much experience but he got an instant like you know let's email this guy let's invite him over to do a trial shoot day and the reason he got that is because of the 400 people we had to apply his video refers when I was hiring he was the only one who made a video he made a video he made a video and it had a few issues like lighting and color grading and stuff but like he made a video it was like he made a video basically talking about why he wants to work for the team and why he likes the content and put in a few jokes and just going that little extra step going above and beyond meant that he got his foot into the door and like as soon as we saw that we sent it around the team and a slag group and we were like oh my god this guy actually really went above and beyond hell yeah we need to interview him didn't care about his CV didn't care about his experience we're like cool we're gonna give him a shot unfortunately things didn't really work out with Ryan he didn't have the level of experience that we were looking for in the end but we gave him a shot like he got his foot into the door by just going putting a little bit of extra effort to go above and beyond even if you're not applying for a videographer there are ways to go above and beyond for the thing that you are applying for so for example this is what one of our writer internship application said so this person has literally gone through the effort of ghost writing an email newsletter that I would send trying to do it in my turn trying to talk about some philosophically thing that I might have discussed this is going above and beyond we did not ask people in the application for writer researcher intern to do work we didn't say eight years the trial task but this person took an extra hour or so maybe half an hour to go above and beyond so if you can go above and beyond in your applications for whatever job you're applying for trust me the improbable notice they'll probably say to the team oh my god I think we found the person because like again this is the insight you get when you start hiring people you don't realize it's just so hard everyone is like we really want to hire someone who's really good we want you to you know in your application or in your DM or in your email or whatever to make it's easy to say yes to you to be like fuck this is this is the person that we need it would be so nice if more people kind of recognize that and therefore approached applying for jobs with that in mind and to be honest even if you're not in any kind of creative job there are always ways to go above and beyond your application there are always ways to think a little bit more ingeniously creatively show a bit more ingenuity when it comes to the application all right the next tip is to really understand the vibe of the people who are hiring you and pass the vibe check so this is the wrong way to do it for us anyway dear hiring manager in my search for a new challenge where I can leverage my writing and editing experience I was pleased to an opening for writer research or intern at Alieftal Limited eager to learn more about this exciting opportunity I have enclosed my CV for your review as my career profile illustrates and we'll prepare to meet and exceed your expectations having served a dot a dot a dot a dot a dot a dot a dot this is a few things wrong with this number one it's addressed to the hiring manager like no one wants to be referred to as dea hiring manager it's like not really a nice thing secondly they've used really really really formal language you know having closed my CV for review and like very formulaic language you know I want to meet and exceed your expectations this makes it sound like a very very very dry boring as hell corporate gig and if this person has any semblance of like the sort of vibe of the company that we're trying to create here it is like the opposite of corporate we don't do corporate like if you watch any of the content any of the vlogs any of the podcasts hopefully it creates a vibe of like friendly you know I say hey friends in videos I don't say hello there or dea so or you're sincerely like this that's not the vibe and so seeing something like that even if the person has like a lot of experience it kind of makes you think of it you know they don't really get it they don't really get the vibe and I think people make make this sort of mistake when going from the corporate world where it's very stuffy and formulaic and like big long writing to applying for startups that tend to be younger, fresher, more of a sort of casual chill kind of vibe is another example of it done badly to whom it may concern red flag there it's way too formal it's not that hard to find out who's going to be reading your application dear alien team or hey alien team would have been way better by lingual and in my second year of studies I'd like to express my motivation I'm just expecting that I'm just not working my participation okay this person knows how to write in a complicated way it probably in a university essay or in a school essay but that's not the way that you want to write if you're trying to get a job at our company because again our vibe is a lot more casual and chill than that now if you pass the vibe check that brings us onto our next piece of advice which is please don't bullshit I want to show you some examples of what bullshit looks like while at university I've spent time building teamwork and time management skills I'm focused in diligent when managing workloads in priority taught taught to me deadlines I thrive in environments where I'm able to make a direct impact around me a lot so let me call it blah blah blah blah blah blah so this is a bunch of buzzwords and bullshit that is not substantiated by anything at all I would much have preferred if this was just a bullet point so here are the things that here are the things I'm good at and here is evidence is to why I'm good at them but they've tried to craft a sort of flowery narrative that's not backed up by anything at all and that when you're hiring manager or when you're someone in a team or when you're me reading applications and reading like doesn't and doesn't the dozens of applications it's just like oh this person is just spewing out a lot of pot air and not actually giving any substance here's another one dea sore or madem which is again bad sign because we're not a sore madem kind of vibe maybe other companies might be one of the things here is I enjoy innovation and love to experiment with different ideas I'm known for inspiring and devising original thought provoking concepts there is no evidence that this person is known for inspiring and devising original thought provoking for provoking concepts if you're going to say something like that then you need to substantiate it with for example when I did XYZ I blah blah blah blah blah and this was thought provoking an original because of blah blah like no one is going to tell you what for it if you like unless you're like a famous philosopher unless you're Plato then you can get away with saying I'm known for inspiring thought provoking concepts but if you're writing like a job application for an internship or or a job it just like I don't know it just screams with a little bit of BSE so overall message is that if you are going to make a claim try and substantiate it to some degree with actual details of the reason why you're making that claim and if you're not then don't try and bullshit your way and don't try and pretend that you're of something that you're not I would much prefer if I saw a cover letter that was like hey Ali I'm going to be honest I don't have the experience needed for the role but here are the reasons why I think you should hire me anyway bang bang bang bang bang. Sick this is perfect I'll be like oh my god this person is honest this is refreshing one of our values is keeping it real like this person understands even though they don't have the experience they're not trying to bullshit their way through it they're leading you know they're being honest up front they're leading with value they're telling me why should hire them and then it'd be much more likely to consider that person rather than the person who's flowered formulated this kind of hot air hot air balloon of stuff that's not substantiated with actual evidence now this is the thing that all writing advice on the internet says when we are in school or when we're doing essays at university generally you write in a way that's not very clear you use big words rather than short words because big words make you sound more intelligent you use utilised rather than use you use I don't know however rather than but like you know basically we are taught and you know encouraged to use big words to sound to sound intelligent when you try to apply for a job people can can see through that like no one wants to read big words George Orwell has this like interesting document about like advice on writing what he says in this is never use a big word when a shorter word would suffice like there's absolutely no need for it you know this role would allow me to utilise my skills is bad this role would let me use my skills is a lot better it's a lot simpler like a kid could understand it you're not trying to be fancy or flowery or like whatever in your language if you don't know how to write like this if you have only been taught in school and university and essays and stuff to write like an absolute prick then what you want to do is you want to follow people like David Perrell or Dickie Bush or read books like on writing well those books will like TN those those resources will teach you basically how to create sort of make your writing sound more conversational really it's all about writing as if you'd speak and coming across as a clear communicator rather than trying to sound like an intelligent communicator all right our next point is to dial in your level of enthusiasm now here I want to share some advice from Christian so Christian was the first employee that we had here at the company and Christian has looked through I think probably hundreds of applications at this point for other video editors and graphic designers and he has some stronger opinions so there's what he said well what word for me is getting to the point fast not writing thousands of words about how excited I am and what a fantastic person my childhood friends and a family consider me to be starting with what I can do for the person I'm applying to instead of listing my extensive experience all fluffing up my qualifications tends to work so he's leading with value he's saying this these are the things that I can do for you rather than oh my god this is how excited I am to be working with you sounding like a giddy excited child is just not my jam but I've seen that in other applications I would personally not hire a person who just exudes enthusiasm and excitement like a crit and Christmas because I find that tiring to engage with and in the end it's just a demonstration of the halo effect but for a company makes the person sound really needy rather find out how much work I can offer to that person and whether it's going to get done well and on time and whether I can have a discussion with them without wanting to strangle them. I'd also suggest tailoring the application to the person's interests instead of using a complete cookie cutter application this works suggest how you could help with whatever sidegakes the employer has even if competence is not 100% in those areas and definitely no deos her no excessive Oscar thing no over the top lavishing of praise. I think it's very enough like I kind of like enthusiasm when I'm looking at my own when I'm looking at job applications but there is a level there's like a good level of enthusiasm for me that would be something like hey Ali I just want to say I really love your content and watching you for the last four years and working with you would be amazing here are the reasons why I think you should hire me that's like a good level of enthusiasm but there's quite and quite a few of these applications there's sort of like two paragraphs of like oh my god you've changed my life in all these different ways which is very nice to hear but it's not really the sort of thing you want to see you want to see in someone that you're hiring and one piece of advice that a lot of creators often give and get is that in a way you don't want to be hiring someone who's too much of a fanboy or a fan girl because generally then that leads to like this kind of weird power dynamic where really when I'm hiring someone I want to hire someone who's better than the job at me if I'm hiring a video editor I wanted to be a better video editor than I am if I'm hiring a video editor I want to be better than I am I don't want them to be thinking oh my god the ground that Ali walks on is haloed and you know that is sometimes the vibe we get from some of these applications so keep that in mind if you are trying to plan to work for someone who is well known or someone who's stuff you would mind you can say that but you don't want to make it sound as if you're like ultimate fanboy kind of trying to do anything together retention. All right next tip we have is to be paranoid. Let's have a look at one of these cover letters as an example again apologies to whoever wrote this in I don't know the names I must and are hiring a person head of HR to redact all of the things so I'm not throwing shade at anyone but it's just a good example. My name is whatever and I am interested in that something job you have offered on link din it seems like my type of role as I really enjoy writing and really enjoy reading. I write poems for fun and I've just started getting into screenwriting I am based in and have a certificate of horror education, a level a level and a GCSE English literature in language and very interested something as a company would really love the opportunity to demonstrate demonstrate my skills in detail and creative thank you. Okay so a bunch of spelling and grammar issues there like this is really obvious stuff. If you are applying for a job please take the time to look over your application and just make sure it doesn't have any basic errors in it this person has got at least four typos in this. Those could easily be sorted by just writing it in Google Docs and seeing where is it flagging up typos using something free like a grammarally not sponsoring our channel yet but grammarally if you're watching this do please reach out like it's so easy these days to use apps and tools and stuff even honestly even if English is not your first language grammarally will just do it for you Google Docs or to correct all these things will just do it for you do that and you can remember that your cover letter is really your first impression it's you want to put your best foot forward however like whatever this person's experience experiences this is such a red flag in an application to see such a blatant typos and this person probably spent 20 minutes half an hour doing the whole application in the trial task it's a real shame because it's just gotten rid of again in the position of a hiring manager or a head of HR or any any recruiter looking at dozens if not hundreds of applications if you see typos you just chuck it in the vent because it's just not worth it but it shows a lack of attention to detail which is not the thing that you want in that person that you're trying to hire so we've already talked about how Ryan the video refer created a video and sent it in you don't need to be a video refer and editor to be able to send in a video application this is actually a tip that a bunch of people I know who have got an interesting jobs have done they just recorded a loom or a video on their phone and they have uploaded it to YouTube as an honest video and said hey John really excited to you know apply for a job at company eggs I've just I've made a quick video to a company my application hope you like it and it's very chill and you watch the video and like oh wow this person is showing their personality this is a real person I get their vibe they seem enthusiastic they took in the time to actually make a video no one does that we have had thousands of applications for roles in my team and I think three people in total one of which was the video refer and the other two random looms have thought to send in a video like if you're gonna work for a company that specializes in video you could just send a video it's not that hard you don't need to be a fancy video editor or even better still you could say hey I didn't have any experience in video editing but I took your skill sharecast which you've recommended a bunch of times in videos it was pretty good in a weekend I learned the basics of video editing and so I've put this video together for you honestly if someone emailed us with that kind of application I'd be like you know what this person gold stars all round they have taken the time to even learn how to edit videos they've taken the time to send in a video and like again when you're when you're a hiring manager looking at dozens of applications they all sort of start to blend into one and you start just like looking at little things here and there but if someone sends you a video you're probably gonna watch the video because you're like oh great I'll grab a cup of tea or coffee or something I'll watch the video and then you that that person then becomes an actual person it doesn't become like another okay candidate number 126 kind of number of 484 it becomes a real person that you see and you're far more likely to then offer them another chance to prove themselves through a trial task but through the next stage of the interview process if you have seen a video initially so whatever job you're applying for whether it's with me whether it's anyone else or whatever your next job is you honestly even if it's something like something super traditional like law sending a video is an absolutely underrated thing that you can do it's very easy to do just go and loom go on video figure it out if there's a lot of person who's applying for a job and you actually deserve to get that job you should be able to figure out how to make a video and you use that to accompany your application it really will stand up alright so the final tip is a little bit of a secret and if you get this right then you probably will never have to look for a job ever again and that tip is actually to whatever you're doing just do the thing really well Charlie Munger Warren Buffett's business partner has a great fair phrase when he worked as a lawyer he said the best source of legal work is the work that is already on your desk whatever job you're in whatever you're doing if you do a good job at it then loads of good things will happen a it will be obvious to everyone that you work with then this isn't this is an a this is an a player this is a fantastic person to work with and even if you leave the company your next employer who's going to bring up your previous company and ask for references like if someone rang me up and asked for references for for example I don't know I'm going to say Johnny because we don't have Johnny and our team and Johnny was genuinely really good but then left for whatever reason I'd be like oh my god Johnny is absolutely sick he's like one of the best people we've ever had like I would hire him in a heartbeat and if if I can tell another employer that that is basically going to guarantee Johnny the job but if Johnny was a bit shits if he wasn't very good at his job if he was a bit half fast about the whole thing if he was if I felt like I just was not really performing now if someone rings me up and says hey you know Johnny says he worked for you like how do you feel about giving him a reference or like what do you think he was like I wouldn't be like you know Johnny was Johnny was awful I'd be like yeah you know I mean you know he I think he I think he did his role reasonably well and reading between the lines the person on the other end of the phone knows that if you ring someone up for a reference and they're not absolutely glowing and lavishing praise at someone that's basically code for this person was not very good so whatever you're doing try and do it really really really really well you know for anyone in my team who happens to be watching this video if you're gonna do an amazing job at your thing and then you move on to the next thing me as the employer I will be like absolutely freaking delighted to give you an incredible reference and that will basically guarantee your job wherever you're going next because a reference from an employer is worth so much to a company that has like a proper hiring process and the other reason why you actually want to perform really well especially if it's a thing that you can actually get like portfolio and stuff out of is that through performing really well at your job you will just naturally connect with other people who are really really good other kind of a player is whether it's in your industry or in your company or in outside of the industry and kind of a player can recognize other a players this is a thing that all the hiring books say and generally if you find another a player you'll probably find that they're also plenty looking for someone for their company or looking for someone to hire for their thing and it's like in a way it creates this virtual cycle where if you are good at the thing that you're doing everyone is gonna want to hire you everyone is gonna want to work for you and you'll never need to find another job ever again so that was 16 tips on how to apply for your next job how to land your next job application if you enjoyed this video and you want to start building up that experience and check out this one which is seven side hustle ideas you can start right now this year and honestly having side hustles and building up side hustles especially if you're applying for a job like this or in any kind of creative industry or even if you're not even if it's super, super traditional showing that you have done interesting things outside of your job built things up on the side in your own time take in the initiative will be a massive plus for basically every employer in the world so check out that video over there thank you so much for watching do hit the subscribe button if you're not already and I'll see you in the next video bye
