# iPad Air Review - Productivity Powerhouse
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mSTWHQ5NDIg
Check out which iPad you should buy in 2021 here - https://youtu.be/Wg3VWhu_M6Q

Today we're going to be taking a look at the new iPad Air, the absolute powerhouse of productivity. Not as powerhousey as the Pro, but pretty close. Enjoy xx

📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
Check out Rene's channel: https://www.youtube.com/user/reneritchie2

00:00 - Intro
00:16 - Conclusion
01:10 - Design
03:14 - Screen
04:52 - Battery life
05:25 - Apple pencil
07:01 - Speed
10:34 - Keyboard
12:00 - Is it worth it
15:10 - How I use it

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
📚  How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali
What I Use For Analytics - https://go.aliabdaal.com/tubebuddy
🌐  My website platform (Ghost) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost
🎤  My podcast hosting platform (Transistor) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/transistor

OTHER RECOMMENDED COURSES
📔 Effortless Output with Roam Research - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/roam
📓 Building a Second Brain - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/basb

🎙 MY WEEKLY PODCAST - https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCdXpN-Z7LyTgc3OLo_Zw2Pg
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app. And we post clips + full episodes on the YouTube channel, so please subscribe to that!  

BE MY FRIEND:
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮  Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, ipad air 4 review, ipad 2020, apple ipad 2020 review, ipad air review, ipad air 2020 review, ipad air vs ipad pro, ipad air 2020, ipad air, ipad air 4, ali abdaal vlog, ipad pro, 2020 ipad air review, 2020 ipad air, apple ipad air 4, new ipad air, apple, ipad, apple ipad 2020, apple ipad, ipad air 4 2020, ipad pro 2020, ipad air 4 vs ipad pro, new ipad, apple ipad air, ipad pro vs ipad air, ipad air unboxing, apple pencil, ipad air 4th gen, 
**Date:** 2020-11-26

## Transcript
 Hey friends, welcome back to the channel. This is a comprehensive review of the new 2020 iPad Air that I've been using for the last four weeks. As usual, I'll start by giving you my upfront conclusion to save you a bit of time and then we've got timestamps to all the different sections of this video in the video description and in the pinned comments to do feel free to skip around the video if you feel like it. So upfront conclusion, if you're in the market for an iPad, then this is the one that you should go for. If you're a student and your budget is really, really, really tight, then you'd be completely happy with the budget iPad. But I think if you can shut out a little bit more for the iPad Air, which starts at $59 or $59.00 or $59.00, you're going to be really, really happy with it because this is absolutely perfect in almost every way. It's not quite as good as the iPad Pro and I am still going to be using the iPad Pro, but this would be 100% my recommendation for the vast majority of people out there. Just go for the iPad Air, you don't need to watch the rest of this video. So that was my conclusion upfront. Now we're going to talk about all the other things associated with the iPad, like the design, the keyboard, the screen, Apple Pencil support, what it's like, speed compared to the iPad Pro with the A12Z processor. And then at the end of the video, I'm going to freestyle a bit about my personal experiences with using the iPad Air for the last four weeks, but I'll also talk about how the iPad generally has fit into my workflow over the last like three years of using it semi-religiously. Right, let's start off with the design, and I'm going to touch this from the Magic Keyboard. We're going to return to this in just a moment. But it's basically an 11-inch iPad Pro in the form factor of a 10.9-inch iPad Air. It's just amazing. The bezels are like apparently 1% bigger than they are on the 11-inch iPad Pro. I use a 12.9-inch iPad Pro, and I've got to be honest, when I first got this, my first thought was wow, these bezels are pretty big, but then I compared it to my brother's 11-inch iPad Pro. And it honestly, you can't really tell much of a difference. The bezels on this are just look bigger than the 12.9-inch iPad Pro. But apart from that, the design is kind of what you'd expect from an iPad Pro. It's just ridiculously light. In fact, I'm going to get my scales right now. It is 463 grams. That is pretty light and realistically to be honest. I always have it with the Magic Keyboard. So, with the Magic Keyboard, it is 168 grams. So, actually, the Magic Keyboard is heavier than the iPad Air itself. They now have funky new color options. So, this is the sky blue version. It's quite nice. It feels nice to have it in color, but again, because I always have it attached to the Magic Keyboard, which is something that I would recommend for most people. I don't really notice the fact that this is slightly more colorful than normal. But if you're not a Magic Keyboard sort of person, then you'll appreciate the different array of colors that you can now get on the iPad Air. We have also got USB-C support now, so this is great. Loads of USB-C accessories work for it, and you can use the same charging cable as you use for your MacBooks now on the iPad Air. And finally, we've only got one camera on the back, because I think Apple had realized that no one in their right mind. Seriously, here's about the cameras on an iPad, because you're not going to be one of those people that goes around concerts and tourist sites doing this with your iPad. Final thing to note about the design is that they now use touch ID rather than face ID. And to be honest, I actually kind of prefer touch ID. With face ID, it was always a bit annoying, especially when you're wearing a mask, because like you're taking a mask down, looking up, whatever. But now touch ID is really nice. It's just on the power button at the top, and so when I have it on my Magic Keyboard, and I'm opening it, or if I need to use touch ID for anything, I can just, it feels so natural to just put your, put your left index finger on there. So yeah, overall, very happy with the design. It's just great. Let's talk about the screen now, and the screen is, again, it's basically identical to the screen on the iPad Pros, which is to say, absolutely fantastic. The only beef I would have about the screen is that it is not a pro motion display. So, if you watch me swiping through stuff, this is going at 60Hz. Now, if you're used to an iPad Pro, which has double the frame rate of 120Hz, this feels painfully slow. And in fact, if we compare these side by side, and I scroll, maybe you can't quite see it on the camera, because this is a 25 frames per second timeline. But the smoothness on the iPad Pro is just absolutely next level, whereas this doesn't feel as smooth. And if you're someone like me who is very much used to the iPad Pro display, like this is what I've been using in iPad Pro for the last like two years, if you're used to this, then it kind of does make your eyes hurt looking at the 60Hz display. But if you're a normal person, you're not used to the magic of 120Hz display, you won't really notice that it's even a thing. Screen brightness on the iPad Air is absolutely fine, it goes up to 500 minutes, so this is what maximum brightness looks like. The iPad Pro goes up to 600 minutes. And again, this is not a difference that you notice much in everyday life, but I took both my iPad Air and my iPad Pro to 10-a-reef a couple of weeks ago. And I found that when I was in the very, very, very bright sunlight on the pool side of the hotel, it was a bit harder to use the iPad Air, and when I was on the beach, it was a bit harder to use the iPad Air than it was the iPad Pro, because of that slight 100-knit increase in brightness that you get on the iPad Pro. But again, that's a very minor nitpicky point. It is very usable in sunlight, it's just not quite as nice as the iPad Pro, and the iPad Pro costs like loads more. So, screen basically no complaints, but it's very slightly different to the iPad Pro. Let's talk about battery life now, nothing particularly interesting to say. Apple said that you get about 10 hours worth of web browsing, and then, I found that to be roughly accurate, I could basically take this out with the magic keyboard for a whole day, and not really worry about charging it, but if I was taking it for like the entire day, like if I was leaving the house at 8 in the morning and getting back at like 6pm, I would notice that by the end of the day, I would be worried about it losing charge, and so I wouldn't be able to use it for more than like 10 hours, kind of as the other times I would have to plug it intowards the end of the day, but for the most part, I didn't need to carry a charger around. And battery life is pretty much identical to the 11-inch iPad Pro, so nothing to worry about there. Let's talk about the Apple Pencil now. Now, one of the best things about the iPad Air and the best thing about the new iPad Pro design when they introduced it, is now you get this snapping thing with the Apple Pencil. In previous generations of the iPad Air, you have to use the lightning port at the bottom, and you have to plug your pencil in there, and then you create this ridiculous configuration with the Apple Pencil sticking out, and thankfully that's no longer the case, it just snaps to the top, magnetically, and it charges and it pairs when you're doing that, so it just feels very seamless to have the Apple Pencil connected to the iPad Air at all times. Handwriting is absolutely fine, if I would open no debility for example. Yeah, the handwriting is fine. I don't really do a lot of handwriting anymore, because I don't like to do lectures and stuff in med school, because I've graduated now, and whatever. If I were to do handwriting, I would definitely have a matte screen protector on this, in fact, I've got one that I need to install. The one that I use is the paper-like screen protector. It's the one I've been using for the last like three years, link in the video description if you want to check it out. If you're only slightly knowing thing with the handwriting, again, if you're used to the iPad Pro with the 120Hz display, you do notice a little bit more of an input lag when you're using a 60Hz display compared to the 120Hz. Like with the 120Hz, it genuinely feels like you're writing directly onto the screen, whereas with this 60Hz display, I can just about notice that there is a tiny, tiny, tiny lag between me writing and appearing on the screen. It's not noticeable if you're not spoiled by having an iPad Pro, you probably won't notice it, and you'll think that this handwriting experience is absolutely fantastic, but I've done lots of handwriting on the iPad Pro, so I can kind of tell the difference, which is, again, another thing that annoys me about the iPad era, but shouldn't annoy the majority of people. Let's talk about speed now, so this iPad era has the A14 Bionic chip in it, which is the ridiculously fast. In fact, if you look at the Geekbench scores, the single core performance of the iPad era is actually faster than the A12Z chip, which is in the old iPad Pro. Now, and undoubtedly, even though this chip of the iPad era is more modern, therefore it's theoretically faster, I haven't noticed any actual real world difference in performance, but to be honest, I'm not an expert on processors or processors speed or any of that kind of stuff, so I went to my friend Renee Richie, who runs his own YouTube channel, and he is an expert in all things tech and processors in Apple. And now, with him, Renee, looking at these Geekbench scores, is the iPad era really faster than the iPad Pro. Hey Ali, great question. So the difference between the brand new iPad era and the current generation iPad Pro mostly comes down to single core, versus multi core, and the amount of memory that's available. The iPad era has Apple's latest generation A14 system on a chip, and it is just going to be the fastest thing right now at single core operations. Everything from keeping the interface super responsive to launching apps, to rendering web pages, anything that you just need bursty responsive performance for, where the iPad Pro, which is on the A12Z, two generations previously, has an additional two high performance cores, and four GPU cores, so where you have six and four on the iPad era, you have eight and eight on the iPad Pro. So anything that requires multi core performance, things from rendering video to doing 3D work, anything that really taps into multiple CPUs and multiple GPUs, those heavier workloads will still be better on the iPad Pro. The iPad Pro also has six gigabytes of RAM as opposed to four gigabytes on the iPad Air, so anything that requires a lot of memory from keeping bigger apps like games and really social media apps in memory so that when you switch back and forth, they don't have to reload every time to just holding larger pictures and larger 3D models and more video in memory at any one time will be better on the iPad Pro, especially because it also has higher memory bandwidth so it can just move back and forth faster. So that's sort of the entire story between the iPad Air and the iPad Pro. One is this incredibly fast moving sports car and the other is this really fast moving, not quite as fast moving, but really fast moving truck. So there you have it, most of us really won't notice the slightest difference in performance, like the old generation 2019, 2018 iPad Pro is fast enough. If you've got an iPad already, I wouldn't upgrade to the iPad Air or to the iPad Pro just for the speed improvement, unless you've actively noticed that the speed is too slow for the things that you're doing on an iPad. iPad's have incredible performance, even like old iPhones, like my mum has an iPhone 7, it feels just as performative as my iPhone 12, like these things last absolutely ages and until you get to the point where you start to noticeably notice a decrease in speed, I wouldn't upgrade to the next generation just because of speed. Anyway, long story short, performance is absolutely nothing to worry about on the iPad Air, for the vast vast vast majority of people, you will not notice a difference in performance between this and the iPad Pro, even though the iPad Pro is more expensive, unless you're an actual pro who's driving the iPad to its peak performance, like many, many hours every day, you're just not going to notice the difference, so don't worry about speed. Moving on, let's talk about the smart keyboard. Now this is a ridiculously expensive accessory, it is an extra $300 or something, but it is really nice and it's a really nice, typing experience, so I'm going to do my usual typing test. Not bearing in mind, I'm used to typing on a full size, well iPad Pro 12.99, but let's see how fast I can type on this one. And because my usual type 10 fast blinkers doesn't want to work on this, I'm going to have to use typingtest.com if you guys want to compare yourself. I'm 27. Yeah, it's a bit crap. Anyway, experience of typing on this keyboard is pretty good. It, you hand does feel a little bit more crap, and I do find myself like hitting the track pad more often than I would on the full size 12.9 inch keyboard, but it is the sort of thing you kind of get used to. If I could have whatever iPad I want, I would still go for the bigger size, because it just is easier to type on it and easier to multitask and easier to get stuff done, but the experience of the Apple keyboard on this is perfectly fine. And the fact that you get this in such a small and somewhat light package, it's not pretty heavy, but it's like a lot smaller than the 12.9 package, that is pretty good. And in fact, I keep this at my bedside all times, and I use it for my daily journaling practice, which is like a nice thing to do with the magic keyboard. So that leads us to the ultimate question. Is the iPad Air worth it? And my answer for the iPad Air worth it is always going to be it depends. It depends on, do you have an iPad already? If you do, and it's not slow, then upgrading to the iPad Air probably won't make a difference to your life. What do you do with an iPad? You know, we all use iPads for a mixture of things, consuming, creating, connecting, coordinating, the four seas, celebrating if you want to add a fifth to it, five seas. And the question we want to ask ourselves when deciding is it worth it is, you know, how much is our own personal productivity going to improve because we have an iPad versus if we don't have an iPad. Now, there is a pretty big jump between going from not having an iPad to having an iPad. This, this is like a novel, a novel thing to buy. It means you can suddenly leave your laptop at home, or in fact do what I've done and switch to a Mac many more on that in a little bit. It means you can take this into a coffee shop where, you know, if you had, like, let's say a 15-inch laptop, you won't want to take it into a coffee shop. It means you can come to be right on an aeroplane, whereas if you had a 13-inch laptop or a 15-inch laptop, then it would be a bit more uncomfortable. Does having an iPad unlock any new realms of personal productivity for you? For me, I think the answer was yes. I used to use my iPad a lot for handwritten notes. I still use it for handwritten handwritten diagrams and stuff, and the fact that I have an iPad means that I'm able to do those handwriting things more so than if I didn't have an iPad. But those are the sorts of questions you're going to have to answer for yourself. Now, if you're a student, is the iPad air worth it? Well, if you're a student and you're completely strapped for cash, then you don't even have an iPad at all. An iPad is not going to sort of magically transform your student experience, and most students air way too much towards the realm of note-taking, and hey, I want to take notes and note-ability in good notes and make my notes look pretty, and that is a total waste of time. Not having an iPad is if that stops you from wasting time taking notes, then that's only going to be a good thing. But if you're a student and you do like the idea of using an iPad, I've got a few videos linked in the video description where I show how you take notes and on my iPad Pro, that sort of stuff. If you like the idea, then the iPad air is like a very good bang for your buck machine. The budget iPad, which is $329, is even better bang for your buck. If you're really strapped for cash, just go for the budget iPad, it's got the old generation Apple Pencil, and it's got a bit of a bit of a less nice magic keyboard, but it's a lot cheaper. If you strapped for cash, that's going to be the option that will get you 90% of the way there. But if you want to fork out the 599 for the iPad Air, and maybe get the magic keyboard, or at least have the option of getting a magic keyboard, and have the option of getting the generation to Apple Pencil, I think the iPad Air is kind of worth it, because this kind of gets you to about 98% value. And then if you have an iPad Pro, that is, I think 100% value. But obviously, there are significant diminishing returns to the amount of money you spend on an iPad, versus the value that you get. So overall, is the iPad Air worth it? Yes, absolutely. If someone was asking me which iPad should you get, I would say, just get an iPad Air, unless you really don't have any money at all, which don't get an iPad Air, or if you've just about $329, then get the budget iPad. But for most people, I think the iPad Air is now the machine of choice. It's the one to get. There's very little point in getting an iPad Pro, unless you're someone who's been so spoiled by the 120Hz refresh rate of the iPad Pro, that the 60Hz of this kind of makes your eyes bleed. But again, it's not something you're going to notice unless you're already used to an iPad Pro. And finally, I want to end by freestyling a little bit about how I personally use the iPad. So, at the moment, this 10.9-inch iPad Air stays with me on my bedside. I have a little sleep at the side of my bed, and if I have an idea for something at night and I can't sleep, then I just get the iPad out and I type away on notion or draft or something. Or if it's in the morning and I can't be bothered to get out of bed, I think, oh, actually I've got the iPad right next to me, and I can get the iPad out and do my morning journaling or do, like, planning my day or even just scroll through Twitter. The other thing that I use an iPad for is that if I'm getting sick of sitting at my desk and my back is feeling hurting or whatever, then often what I'll do is I'll take the iPad Air or iPad Pro depending on which one I'm testing. And I'll go outside onto the balcony, if the weather is reasonable, or I'll just go lie on the sofa, because it is very easy to just lie on the sofa and use the iPad to just type stuff out. And to be honest for me, if I'm writing anything extensively, so, like, if I have to write an essay or write a blog post or write a script for a video or write anything at all, I prefer to do writing on the iPad Air, then sitting here at my desk with my keyboard, because I don't know, it just feels a bit depressing to be sat at my desk if all I'm doing is writing. In fact, what I used to do when it wasn't locked down is that I'd be taking my iPad to coffee shops with me, because like, even the top point on it, it's actually quite a nice size, you can just plop it down on a coffee shop and you can get loads of writing done, so that is mostly what I use the iPad for. The final question, can the iPad replace a laptop? Especially with the new M1 MacBook Air MacBook Pro, I don't think the iPad has ever been able to fully replace a laptop at least for someone like me. Basically, everything that you do on a laptop, you can do on an iPad. It's just the iPad is just a little bit slower. And if you're someone like me who values productivity and efficiency in absolutely everything that you do, and you spend hours and hours and hours in a computer every day, then doing stuff just on an iPad feels too frustrating and too slow, and you actually end up wasting quite a lot of time. Like, let's say I was student and I wanted to screen short stuff from lectures. That is like, trivially easy to do on a Mac, you do command shift 4 and you can screen shot on it automatically copies your clipboard and you could paste it into your notes. That takes like a millisecond. Whereas to screen shot on the iPad, you take the Apple Pencil or you do this key combination, you kind of swipe up from the side, and then you have to kind of drag and you have to like get a little bit of your screen shot, and then you have to go done, and then you have to save it to your photos, and then from your photos you, it takes about 15 seconds longer to do a screen shot on the iPad than it does the half a second it takes on a Mac book. And if you're someone like me who does a lot of screen shots, that time adds up and it just ends up being way too slow using an iPad. So overall, whether an iPad is going to be worth it for you, is up to you to decide like will it actually make a difference to your personal productivity? Is there anything that you will unlock? Or just like a little bit more delight in using your computer and getting stuff done? Like if you have an iPad compared to not having an iPad, or is it just going to become one of those random pieces of tech? For me, I'm really glad I have an iPad. Even though the M1 MacBook Pro is going to become my daily laptop, and I've got the Mac Mini for my desk setup, I'm still going to be carrying around an iPad pretty much wherever I go because it just is quite nice. And so if you're in the market for an iPad, then yeah, wholeheartedly recommend the iPad Air. That brings us to the end of this video. If you enjoyed this video, then here is a link to a few videos that I've done showing all the different apps on my iPad. So that'll give you a better idea of how I personally use the iPad. Thank you so much for watching, and I'll see you in the next video. Bye-bye.
