# Why I Left Medicine... Forever
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mZOVLrLXKCE
So I've been agonising about this for a few months now, and I think I'm at a point where I can comfortably say that I'm leaving medicine for good. In this video we're going to have a bit of a chat about the thought process behind this decision, and I'll share my thoughts around the main fears that I had after investing 8 years of time and money into it. Maybe I'll change my mind and come back one day...who knows?!

Giving What We Can: https://www.givingwhatwecan.org/
My friend Lucia's charity - Lead Elimination - http://leadelimination.org
Give Well Against Malaria Foundation: https://www.givewell.org/charities/amf
How many lives does a doctor save?: https://80000hours.org/2012/08/how-many-lives-does-a-doctor-save/
Steven Bartlett on Quitting: https://twitter.com/SteveBartlettSC/status/1220441830350905344?s=20

Playlist where you can see my thinking process on this journey to eventually quitting medicine: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL7BImOT2srcG5kHA5cD6KIxRSUIi7KJBI

Timestamps - 
00:00 INTRO
01:46 WHY WE WORK - MONEY
03:25 WHY WE WORK - FUN
05:46 WHY WE WORK - HELPING PEOPLE
09:58 WHY WE WORK - PURPOSE/MEANING
12:55 WHY WE WORK - SOCIAL STATUS
14:25 MY STRUGGLES - RISK AVERSION
16:42 MY STRUGGLES - FEAR
18:12 GOING PART-TIME AND WHY IT DIDN’T WORK
21:22 HELPING PEOPLE (THE LONG VERSION)
32:27 ANSWERING TWITTER

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

PART-TIME YOUTUBER ACADEMY:
🍿 My 6-week live online course - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ptya_aliabdaal
CREATORPRENEUR
💰 My flag-ship course for scaling up your creative side-hustle - https://creatorpreneur.academy/course


YOUTUBE FOR BEGINNERS COURSE
📸 This is for anyone who'd like to start a YouTube channel. You'll learn everything you need to get started as a YouTuber including how to script, shoot, and edit your first video - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/YouTube-for-Beginners



MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
✍️ The best summaries of books (Shortform) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
📚  How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
Deep Dive Podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/
The podcast that delves into the minds of entrepreneurs, creators and other inspiring people to uncover the philosophies, strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. You can find it by searching “Deep Dive with Ali Abdaal” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc).
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali

🎙 Deep Dive podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/
The podcast that delves into the minds of entrepreneurs, creators and other inspiring people to uncover the philosophies, strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. You can find it by searching “Deep Dive” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮  Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I’m Ali, a YouTuber, podcaster, soon-to-be author and ex-Doctor working in London, UK. I make videos that explore the strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. I also have a weekly podcast called Deep Dive (https://www.youtube.com/channel/UChfo46ZNOV-vtehDc25A1Ug), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).


GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, I'm Leaving Medicine, I'm Leaving Medicine Forever, i'm leaving medical school, Why I'm Leaving Medicine, ali abdaal vlog, ali abdal, ali abdaal productivity, Doctor, Why I Quit Being A Doctor, Why I'm Ok With Quitting, Quitting, Quitting Frame Work, Steven Bartlett Quitting Framework, Why We Should Quit, medical school, 
**Date:** 2021-11-30

## Transcript
 Alright, so I have been agonizing about this for many, many months, but I think I'm finally at the point where I can comfortably admit to myself and to you guys that I'm going to be leaving medicine for good. So in this video we're going to have a little bit of a chat around the thought process behind this decision. And we're going to talk about some of the main factors that came into it like the fear about leaving medicine in the middle of a pandemic, the fear of spending eight years going through medical and working as a doctor to them quit medicine. The fear around will anyone still continue to care about my YouTube videos if I lose this badge of prestige of being a doctor? Well, talk a bit about how I'm getting over the fact that I'm now a selfish threat for leaving the medical profession and saving lives for the sake of making these silly internet videos. And we'll talk about how things like money, fame, fulfillment, status and impact and helping people all of that kind of ties into this decision. So this is going to be a quite long and quite ramey video. It's probably not going to be a useful directly. It's not like a listicle of how to be more productive with things like that, but I'm hoping that if you're interested in the thought process behind this stuff, if you're at the crossroads of making a big career decision in your life as well, or maybe even a life decision, you might find some of the mental models that I've been going through. Maybe helpful. Maybe not. I don't know. Let me know in the comments, whatever you think either way. Let's start with part one of the video, which I guess is taking a step back, zooming out a bit and thinking about what is the purpose of work. The way I see it, there's probably five different things that we work for the sake of the first one is money. We need to work to make money. The next one is having fun. The third one is helping people. The fourth one is some combination of purpose and meaning and that kind of stuff. And the fifth one, which is a very sort of unsexy thing that we probably wanted to admit to ourselves, is social status associated with the job that we have. Okay, let's start by talking about the money thing. So obviously, we only need money to survive. And money is a big part of why we go to work for things. I'm kind of going zoomed out here, but I want to kind of keep these five things in mind as to the point of work, as I talk about the decision to leave medicine ultimately. So we only need money to survive, and as Vicky Robbins would say, in the book, you will money all your life, which is very good to people. She read it. She would argue that actually the only thing we get from work is money. Yes, we get other things from work. We get these things that we're talking about, fun, helping people, purpose, meaning, social status, all that kind of stuff. But she argues that we can get all of these things if we just volunteer. Like you can get fun and purpose and meaning and social vibes and fulfillment and all that kind of stuff from volunteering at your local church or helping out with charity without getting paid for it. And the only thing that makes it work is the fact that you are being paid for it. So that's like an interesting way of seeing the money thing. And obviously for some people in the world, like the only reason they are going to work is to make money and having fun, helping people are having meaning, having impact with that kind of stuff. It is all like a privilege once you've got into the point where you've ticked the box of, okay, I'm making enough money from my job to make ends meet. And so over the last few months, when I've been thinking, do I want to continue to be a doctor? The money is not a factor for continuing to be a doctor because in the UK, doctors don't get paid very much. And the sort of money that I can make on doing this YouTube thing is astronomically higher than the sort of money that I could feasibly be making as a doctor. Now, this is obviously a super privileged position to be in. Most people don't really have that option where they can just quit their job because they've got the option for making more money for the down the line, but that is something that ties into it. But then people always say, well, okay, being a doctor isn't just about the money. It is also about the other stuff associated with being a doctor. And the reason we go to work is not just for money, it's also for fun satisfaction, helping people professional, intellect, like learning, all of those kind of reasons which ties into these other four things that we're going to talk about. So the next reason as to why we go to work, or why we have careers, if we ignore the money thing, is to have fun. Maybe fun is too simplistic a word, maybe you prefer the word satisfaction or enjoyment, or pleasure or anything like that. I like the word fun because it really, I don't know, it's kind of simple, I like simple words. And there's a few different types of fun that we can get in the work. For some of us, the work that we do is genuinely fun, like intrinsically, we enjoy the work so much that it is actually fun going to work. For some of us, the work itself may not be inherently fun, like going through spreadsheet is not inherently fun, but the banter that we have with our coworkers and the good vibes and the fact that all our friends are at work, that's what makes it fun. For some of us, it's the fact that work is an intellectual challenge. This is a nice thing with a medicine. It is quite an intellectual and there is some element of lifelong learning. You get to improve your skills. You get to be better. You get to have a sense of progression. All of these things add up in various ways to give this kind of concept a fun that I enjoy my job, I enjoy my work. And honestly, when I came to my decision to leave medicine, the fun bit was like a pretty large one, because I genuinely did enjoy the job. It was quite fun, I enjoy the banter with the coworkers, I enjoy talking to patients, I enjoy learning the science part, I enjoy taking a lot, I enjoyed those aspects of the job. There were lots of aspects of the job, I didn't enjoy the fact that it was a full-time job. The fact that you have to struggle to take time off when you want to take time off, the lack of autonomy that you sometimes have as a junior doctor, but overall, I actually had a pretty good time working as an doctor for two years. So for a while, I was genuinely thinking, okay, this YouTube thing is really cool, I love the entrepreneurship stuff, I love the teaching stuff, but I also really quite enjoy medicine. And so what if I just do the medicine thing part-time? And so I made a video earlier in March, in March this year, where I talked about how I'm going back into medicine part-time. And I did try it, I tried a few shifts, I tried working in medicine part-time, but I couldn't shake the feeling that every day I was in the hospital, I was thinking, okay, hour by hour, this is just nowhere near as fun as I would be having as much fun as I'd be having, if I were hanging out in the studio, hanging out with a team, doing this YouTube thing, doing the internet thing, right reading, writing, I could imagine doing so many things other than being in a hospital, treating patients in the emergency department. And that's just me, like, maybe if you're a doctor watching this or a medical student, maybe you do genuinely find it fun, and if you want the lottery, you would still continue to work in the emergency department or whatever specialty you're doing. And if that's the position that you're in, then that's absolutely fantastic. The point of this video is not to convince anyone else to leave medicine, I'm just explaining the reasons why I personally leave medicine and the fun aspect of it, even though medicine is fun, the other things that I'm not doing on the internet are more fun. And so fun is now not a factor to stay in medicine. All right, so now we move on to the big daddy number three, helping people, helping people is for some people a big part of why they do the work that they do, allegedly. But when it comes to helping people, I like to separate out into two factors that I think are actually going on here. So that's firstly the personal joy that I get from helping people, which is one part of it. And then there is the actual helping of the people. Now what do I mean by this? So let's say I am an investment banker, and I make, I don't know, $10,000 an hour. And let's say I volunteer at the local soup kitchen, because I'm like, I want to help people. For that particular investment banker, they're not actually helping that many people by volunteering at the soup kitchen, and if they wanted to genuinely help people, they could just put in an extra few hours at work, make $20,000, and then donate that money to the soup kitchen to allow the soup kitchen to hire a bunch more people to help the bunch more people. The investment banker has far more actual impact if they just donate their money, then if they donate that time, because then ladling soup in a soup kitchen is actually not a very effective use of their time, given that they could be making $10,000 an hour, hypothetically. But it doesn't feel as good. It feels pretty good to volunteer in a soup kitchen. It feels good to be able to help that person who's in front of you. And I think it's kind of the same thing in medicine, the same for me, same for basically every doctor of spoken to, there is a personal joy that we get from helping the patient and front of us. But if we think about it, is it potentially the most impactful thing that we could be doing with our time? A friend of mine runs a charity, a public health charity, trying to eliminate lead poisoning from the developing world. She has quit being a doctor in terms of clinical medicine, because she recognises that the impact of helping an individual patient one at a time. It's all well and good, it's fantastic, and the impact of an individual on an individual is great. But if you care about moving the needle in terms of like eliminating these things that cause like huge problems, like lead poisoning, contributing 1% to the global burden of disease, or massive things like malaria, or just a sobiosis that kill thousands of millions of people all around the world. An individual working on those things has far more like real lives saved type of impact, even though it doesn't feel as warm and fuzzy to donate money to the against malaria foundation as it does to sit there in front of an actual patient or as a dust of volunteer in a soup kitchen. And so for me, when it came to my decision for leaving medicine, I realised that the whole helping people think it's kind of a bit muddy in the water. Am I doing medicine because I enjoy the personal satisfaction of helping someone who's in front of me? Or am I doing medicine because I think the thing that I do actually has impact. And the way that I become okay with this is recognising that mostly actually it was the personal fulfillment because if I actually cared about impact, you know, people have done studies that show how many lives an individual doctor saves in the course of their life and depending on what estimates you look at, some say it's about seven lives, some say it's about 28 lives, 30 lives, something like that. But it doesn't take into account the fact that if I were not a doctor, the next other like someone else would take my place. It's not like I'm working in Sub-Saharan Africa where I'm there's like one doctor for every 10,000 people and so me leaving medicine means that these 10,000 people are without doctor. In the UK, in most developed countries and things that even like the National Health Service and the UK, there are enough doctors going around in the specialties that I'd be interested in such as like emergency medicine, where if I wasn't a doctor if I didn't get into training in emergency medicine, the next person would have done. And so the system overall does not lose a doctor and also even if it did, when it comes to a developed world system, it's really the system that saves lives, rather than the amazing prowess of an individual doctor. Yes, maybe if you're the world expert on some niche condition and you're the only person in the world or one of a very few handful of experts who can solve the thing, then you are having a kind of actual impact, you as an individual are genuinely making a difference. If you're a surgeon operating on this thing which is really difficult that maybe other surgeons can operate on, you as an individual surgeon are actually making a difference. But in the place that I was as a junior doctor two years fresh out of med school, there was nothing special that I was offering to the medical profession other than the fact that I was a doctor two years out of med school. I wasn't particularly special and so maybe if I continue training for 20, 30 years, I'd have become special. But at this stage of my life, I felt I wasn't having any real impact that may as an individual could have working in medicine. And the real reason that I kept out at it was because of this personal joint satisfaction of helping people, which the way I kind of think of the world in a fairly utilitarian sense, it didn't really justify it. I would rather not have the feeling of satisfaction and cause more impact than I would have a feeling of satisfaction and not have the impact of that makes sense. So we'll come back to this idea of helping people. The other reasons why people do work is beyond the money, beyond the helping people, beyond the fun. It's this idea of purpose and meaning that we get from our jobs. And in a lot of parts of the world, we are, we identify a large amount of purpose and meaning from the thing that we do for our job. I think there's a few different elements of this. There's one, just the idea of that it gives us something to do with that time. And there's a bunch of studies, a bunch of evidence that shows that when people retire or when people become unemployed, they're more likely to go into depression because now they have nothing to do. And sitting around at home all day is actually just not that fun. Secondly, there's the idea of progression and purpose and a sense of growth. And when you're in like a medical training thing, you have this like sense of progression. You're like, yep, I'm learning things, you'll to time. And I'm working towards something. And that contributes a profound sense of purpose and meaning to our lives. And this was another part of what kept me in medicine for so long. Well, I say long, it was only two years, but what kept me in medicine and thinking about it for such a long time because it does genuinely feel meaningful and feels like, yes, I'm working towards a staying and I have a sense of purpose. But then I started like really thinking about what do I actually want to do with my life? What are the things that mean that value to me, what are my values that kind of stuff? And I came across this exercise called the Gravestone technique, which is to imagine what would you want written on your Gravestone when you're dead, obviously, rather than when you're a life. And I thought about this for a while and I realized for me, I've mentioned this a couple of videos for me, the three things that I would want written on my Gravestone are some combination of good father, good husband, and good teacher. Like I cared more about being a decent teacher than I do about saving lives as a doctor. So that was one thing that was kind of interesting for me and it's a question that I'd encourage you to think about as well, what do you actually want written on your Gravestone? I also did this exercise called the Ideal Ordinary Week, where I imagined, okay, what does my ideal ordinary week look like a year from now, two years from now, five years from now, ten years from now? And can I just fast forward in my Google calendar and just block in what, like, in a dream world, what would I be doing with my time? And I realized I was spending a bunch of time reading, a bunch of time writing, a bunch of time teaching. I love the idea of maybe teaching in a medical school, maybe teaching on entrepreneurship, I love the idea of continuing to make videos, maybe on YouTube, maybe not who knows, I love the idea of spending time with my friends, playing board games, maybe even volunteering for some like charity stuff. And I did this exercise and I realized that working as a doctor does not fit into this kind of conception of my life at all. And I kind of realized that the things that give our lives meaning and purpose, they vary for different people. And certainly for some of my friends, they do get a large amount of meaning and purpose from being a doctor. But when I really stopped and thought about that question of like, what would actually bring my life fulfillment and purpose in meaning, it was more about this idea of being a teacher. And this doesn't I'm doing right now involves teaching, like I'm teaching my YouTube Academy. That's really fun. It feels really fulfilling. Teaching things on YouTube. Writing a book. It is all teaching at scale. I would like to incorporate more real life teaching at some point. So it'd be really cool to, for example, teach medical physiology at a university. I did some of that when I was at Cambridge. That was really fun. But you don't need to be practicing clinical medicine. You don't need to be a doctor working on the front lines to be able to teach basic sciences. That was a thing I had to admit to myself that my, for me, my passion fulfillment comes from teaching rather than from necessarily, I don't know, saving lives as a doctor, for example. And so we're going to come back to this idea of helping people in just a moment. But then the final thing around, I think, why we do the things that we do is the more unsexy reason, which is for social status. And being a doctor, there is a large amount of social status in prestige associated with being a doctor. And similarly, if you're a hot shot lawyer or investment banker or anything like that, there is some level of status that we get from our peers for having that particular job title. It's not a thing I want to talk about too much. It's not a thing that feeds massively into my life. But as I've been thinking about the decision to stay in medicine or do I leave, a big part of it has been like, oh, I don't want to lose that badge, that badge of honor, that badge of prestige, that being a doctor gives you. But, you know, it's not really as particularly, I think, good reason to do something you're not necessarily fully passionate about. So we'll kind of put that aside for now. So if we go over this list and think about it in terms of like the leaving medicine thing, it's not about the money because I'm making one money on YouTube and doing this business stuff. It's not really about the fun because I'm actually having more fun doing the YouTube thing than I was doing medicine. Having people will come back to, it's not really about purpose and meaning because my purpose and meaning I get from teaching rather than from saving lives as a doctor. And it shouldn't really be about the social status because, you know, I want to continue to be a doctor so that I can call myself a doctor is in my book, it's not the way I'd want to live. But to be honest, all of these were kind of things that I already knew. And I already sort of had these ideas floating around in my head, but I still kept clinging onto this identity of, oh, I want to be a doctor, I'll just do it part time. And I kept clinging onto it for a few different reasons and it's only in the last few months that I've actually thought about this and spoken to a bunch of people who've kind of basically helped me figure out what I was thinking about in the, in these particular topics. So let's, oh my god, I need to stretch my hip like this. Let's talk about those now. I think a big one was a fear and kind of generally the idea of like risk. Aversion. So let's start with risk aversion because risk aversion is like a nicer way of, it sounds a bit fancier than fear, like I was just scared. The risk aversion thing was as follows, it was what if this YouTube thing dies, you know, there's very few YouTubers who were big today, who were big 10 years ago, the internet is quite volatile, that kind of stuff. Therefore, why don't I be a doctor anyway because then at least I have a backup option to go back to and at least I have like a solid and safe kind of career. And I hadn't really tested this assumption very much, I just sort of assumed, oh, it's useful to have medicine because it's a safe, it's a safe career. And then I was interviewed on a podcast called The School of Ragness, which is an amazing podcast by the guy called Lewis Hose, who is fantastic. And the podcast interview started off about like multiple streams of income and ended up being sort of a therapy session where Lewis was sort of coaching me through this problem that was having around, don't want to stay in medicine. And here is a segment from that podcast when I said to him that, hey, I'm staying in medicine because I'm afraid that, you know, I'll, I'll need it to pay the bills. So you make 200 bucks a month right now and you could make, if you went all in, if you obsessed, if you gave your life to this mission, you can make 50,000, maybe 55,000 in a year. If you went 60, 80 hours a week for the hopes and 10 years of making a $120,000, maybe yes. And you would save seven people's lives. Yes. As opposed to changing millions of people's lives through your content, which the thing you love to do, which is teach and you're holding on to it for the potential that maybe all these revenue streams run dry and you won't be able to figure it out if one thing goes down. If you had all the energy and thought and skill that you've developed of your time, you wouldn't be able to figure out how to launch a new revenue stream. Time you're right. And honestly, it was only really when Lewis pointed this out in those stop terms that I realized that, you know, the skills that I've developed through this YouTube and internet and business thing over the last like five to ten years that I've been doing this. Longer if you can't the fact that I've been making websites in the age of 13, I can easily use those skills to make more money if I need to in the future. And so, holding on to medicine, because I need the salary, potentially at some point in the future of these other businesses don't work, was just like a completely irrational and dumb on my part. And I realized that I just hadn't really tested that assumption. So that was the risk of version side of it. The other side of it was fear and the sort that the fear kind of came in in a few different forms. Number one was hate. What if people on the internet will hate on me for leaving medicine? I'm leaving medicine in the middle of a pandemic. If you leave being a lawyer or an engineer, no one cares, no one bats an eyelid. But medicine is a sacred hallowed profession in the eyes of some members of the general public. And so me quitting being a doctor feels like it's a bigger deal because now you're turning your back on potentially saving lives and people. So I was quite concerned about potentially getting some amount of dislike or hate on the internet. But another big part of it was the fact that, to be honest, I have built my brand and this platform and this YouTube channel off the back of initially being a medical student. And then being a doctor and saying, hey, look, I'm a doctor and I do this stuff on the side. I have a business. Well, therefore, I, you should listen to me about how to be more productive and because of that, because I had that badge of, I don't know, that badge of being a doctor while doing stuff on the side, my productivity tips were kind of interesting, I guess, to some people. And the fact that I was a doctor doing the stuff made is what probably made my channel grow in the early days. And arguably is what is continuing to make my channel grow even now. And so I guess another part of the fear was like, will my channel and business die? If I, if I don't continue to masquerade as a doctor or continue to petal the fact, hey, I'm a doctor and YouTuber as well and therefore you should listen to me. And so the solution that I actually had to all these problems, which I talked about in a video in March was easy, go part time. Yes, I love the idea of working part time. I'm going to consider myself a part time YouTuber, a part time doctor, a part time part time, part time, part time. Right. That sounds amazing. Why don't I just be a doctor part time? I can do that one or two days a week. I can continue to with good conscience, call myself a doctor. It's still kind of fun. That'll be good. And then I'm a part time doctor and I do this stuff on the side and then no one can complain that hey, I've left medicine. I'm just doing a part time. Hey, if you're the choice you go part time as well, people in maternity leave go a part time know about tonight. It's all good. But then I was thinking about this and as I said earlier, I did test that assumption. I tried working part time and I did a few shifts in the emergency department here and there. And I realized that it actually wasn't that fun and it wasn't that fulfilling. And so the question then in my mind was, is the only reason I'm doing this? Because I want to continue to hold on to this badge of being a doctor so that my YouTube channel has this like extra little flex thing that sets me apart from most of these other productivity YouTubers. And even when I came to this, the interview with Lewis really helped where he kind of called me out on the on this side of thinking. I wouldn't be concerned at all about not having an impact on people because I know that I'm I'm not special as a doctor like anyone in my position will do the same thing. You're not the best doctor in the world, you're not like the most specialized expert in what you do. No, absolutely. Not that you're not talented, but there's tons of people that can do what you do. Exactly. Yeah. I'm a junior doctor. They can do that. They can probably do it better than you because they obsess over it. Yeah. The people who obsess over it could probably do it better than me. They go all in on it. So in a sense, you're doing a disservice by giving 10% of your time and energy to helping people in an area as opposed to the people that really want to do it full time. Is this the thing you love doing the most? Are you the top person in this or you care about being the best and like researching obsessing this and masturbating with all the other doctors to make sure that this is the right decision for me as your patient. And you said, you know, well, I kind of just dabble in this like a little part time and I just, you know, really I've got nine other revenue streams on the side that are my main thing. And this is just something that I kind of hold on to because I want to feel good. So on this one, I don't want 100% agree with Lewis's point. I think he makes a very good point that you generally want to see a doctor who has their full heart and the profession rather than just like treating it as a bit of a side hustle. I think there are roles for different types of doctors working different amounts of hours in the medical profession. Yes, if you're the world expert on disease X and then as a patient, you want to see the what expert in disease X that makes sense. But if you're a junior doctor working in emergency department, it doesn't matter too much if you're working Monday or week or two days a week or three days a week or four days a week because it's all very kind of shift work based. But that aside, I do see his overall point that in a way, it is kind of doing a disservice to patients to be doing something for reasons other than that you're actually passionate about it. I think a lot of doctors kind of continue to work in medicine because they need the money. The most doctors that I know, if you've made them will the wind the lottery or have a YouTube channel that they came successful, they would also quit medicine. And I don't think it's necessarily bad that people are treating it like a job. But in my case, when it came to deciding whether to leave medicine, I realized that this whole hey, I'll just be a doctor part time because then people won't hate me on the internet because at least I'm being a doctor part time, all of those two main reasons. That's probably not a good enough reason to continue doing something that deep down. I know that I'm actually not that passionate about because the thing that I actually care about is teaching as we discussed earlier. Now, finally, let's talk about the helping people side of the equation. Let's go back to the idea of helping people. And then I will address a bunch of things that people and Twitter said that they want to be to address in this video. So if you're still watching them, fantastic. Thank you very much and I hope you continue to hopefully enjoy this. It's a helping people thing. And I think again, this is tricky because it's hard to not sound like a twat. When when I talk about kind of the utilitarian actual real world impact of being an individual doctor in a system where the system is what saves lives rather than the individual. That the way I think of it is that there are different forms of impact. Yes, there is a form of impact, which is the impact you have by being nice to a patient when they're in there in a bad state and you're the doctor who sees them and you are nice to them. What I would argue in there is that I am not the nicest doctor around. There are people who are far more empathetic than I am, people who are far better at medicine than I am. And if they were to see one of my colleagues, my colleague can be equally nice to them. So the fact that I am the one they're being nice to the patient and holding a hand and stuff, that alone probably shouldn't be a reason for me to continue to do the thing. And really, if I were doing that, the reason I'd be doing it is because I want to feel good rather than because I want the patient to feel good. Because like I said, the patient would feel good anyway because if you put me out of the system, another doctor would take my place and they would be the one holding the patient's hand. And I think when it comes to other sorts of impact, like it's really hard to, I'm not trying to compare here. But for example, a teacher has some impact, right? It's a different sort of impact than someone has saving someone's life. But if, for example, you can think back to one of the teachers that inspired you when you were younger and maybe that put you on a career trajectory to follow your passion, follow your dreams in a way that you didn't really know before, that is that is impact of a sort. And I've realized that that's the sort of impact that I care about, rather than the impact of saving individual lives. I do care about saving lives and I've come to that in just a moment, which relates to the idea of kind of effective alterism and stuff. But really, if I think about what's going to bring me personal joy and satisfaction, it's the idea that people would consider me a good teacher and inspiration in their lives. And the sorts of emails and messages I get, I think I've had like two messages from patients when I was working as doctors saying, hey, you know, you were really nice and you really helped me in my time of need, etc. But I've had to treat thousands of messages from people saying, your stuff has inspired me, your stuff, you know, when you taught me how to study better from exams, that helped me get through school a little bit better, it helped me be less stressed. I've had messages from people saying that you save me from the brink of suicide because I saw your videos and I was super inspired by the life that you live and I realized I want to do that myself. I've had messages from people saying that your tips when it came to starting a YouTube channel or your tips when it came to making passive income, those have helped me afford IVF so now that I can have kids. It's like that is a different sort of impact to the impact you have saving lives. As a doctor, but to me, that kind of impact feels more fulfilling, more purposeful, more meaningful. And so the way I'm trying to think of it is that, yes, I'm not helping people by holding their hand or by taking a decent history or by arranging a scan for them as a junior doctor word, but I'm hopefully helping people in that other sort of way. And I can't really compare it to saving lives because it's a different kind of scale, but hey, it's a different sort of helping people. Now when it comes to the saving lives thing, this is an area in which I am quite passionate because I think the way we value lives, it's a bit weird because generally we value the lives of people close to us far more than then we value the lives of people not close to us. And there's a thought experiment here, which is from a book called The Life You Can Save by Peter Singer. And if you haven't heard it, then bear with me because it's kind of interesting. But imagine you are walking down a park and you see a child drowning in a pond in front of you. Would you jump into save the child? Yes, of course you would. Of course you jump into the save the child because you want to save the child, like the drowning in the pond literally in front of you. Then the next question is okay, what if you were wearing a really expensive suit? Would you still jump in and save the child knowing that your suit is going to get ruined? Now through the course you would. Who wouldn't? It's just dumb. Who cares about the suit? Even if it's like 5,000 pounds suit, you would still jump in and save the child because you're literally saving the life of a child. Great, we can all agree with that. Even if you have your phone in your pocket, even if you have your laptop on your back, you would still jump in because you know the value of that life is greater than the value of your 5,000 pounds suit. The next question becomes what if you were walking the border of a different country and you saw the pond across the border. Let's say you're in, I don't know, France to Germany and you can walk across the border to Germany to save the kids' life. Would you still do it even though they're in technically in a different country? Of course you would. I can see a child. Who cares if I go across the country border? I'm still going to save the child. They would bear with me. This is going somewhere. If anything, okay, what if there was a wall? What if you actually couldn't see the child but you could just hear them? What if you could hear them drowning and you know there's a pond on the other side of the wall? Would you jump over the wall and jump in to save the child? Yes, most people would. I know the child is dying. I know the child's drowning. Maybe I can't see them but at least I know they're there and I can jump in and save that child's life. Now then the question becomes, what if by donating $3,000, you actually could literally save a life of a child in Africa who would otherwise die of malaria or just a somitis or some other parasitic disease? What if you could just donate money and you know that you would save that life? Would you still do it? And then the answer starts to become, oh, I don't know man. If I see the child could die in front of me then of course I'm going to give three hours of pounds to save but if a child's in a different country, you know, does their life really have that much value? Like that is like that's the unsexy thing that it's like feels really uncomfortable to talk about because we genuinely do value the lives of people that we can see and people in our community and people around us far more than than we value the lives of random kids dying on the other side of the world. And so how does this come into the idea of saving lives? Well the way that I'm kind of thinking of stuff, it's that I don't want to value the life of someone who's living in the UK who happens to be my patient more than I would value the life of a child dying in Africa for example. I think all lives are kind of equal and if I would be willing to pay five grand to save the life of someone in front of me, I should be willing to pay five grand to save the life of a child in Africa. That's at least how I think about it and that's like kind of ties into this idea of effective altruism which is a community that's based around how do we find the most cost-effective ways to donate money to help improve the world? Because normally when we donate money to charity we're doing it because it feels good. We're doing it because someone on the streets has come up to us and said, hey make a donation to save the children. Save the children is a great charity. But if you look at these stats and there's a charity value I took to give well that analyzes the cost effectiveness of dozens of different charities all around the world. If I'm that like if you donated $3,000 to save the children it would not save a life. If you donated $3,000 to the against malaria foundation it would literally save a life. Therefore like the the concept behind effective altruism is that you know where evidence-based and everything else that we do why don't we be evidence-based in the way that we spend our money as well to make more of an impact on the world. So within the within this world of effective altruism there is something called giving what we can and that is an organization that encourages people to take a pledge called giving what we can which is to donate 10% of your income to cost effective charities for the rest of your life. Again $3,000 literally saves a life and so I've taken this pledge I took it way back in 2019 I have a video of the channel link below which no one watched like it was the charity performing video because people don't care about this kind of stuff naturally because people care about being more productive or like being healthier or being happier but not about actually saving lives. I donate 10% of my income every single year to cost effective charities and so me making a few million a year from YouTube saves more statistical lives by virtue of the fact that I donate 10% of it to charity then I would make in my entire career working as a doctor and so this to me the saving like this is not how everyone thinks and that's totally fine and I'm not trying to preach that this is the way that you have to think about saving lives as well but in my mind the lives that I'm saving as a doctor are so small in number compared to the amount of lives that I can save by just donating large amounts of money to charity over the course of my lifetime which is what I plan to do having taken this pledge. If you're interested link below giving away can.com take the pledge 10% 10% 10% usually doesn't make a meaningful difference in happiness in most people's lives unless you're literally on the cost of a poverty which if you're watching this you're probably not but it can make an enormous impact to other people around the world as long as you think about valuing the life of a kid in Africa as much as you value the child of the life of a patient that you're treating in your local hospital for example so that's kind of how I think about helping people to me being a doctor and helping people is not special maybe this for you if you love it maybe for your doctor and if you're amazing that's fantastic but for me honestly I'm not that great a doctor I'm pretty standard I'm pretty average pretty average across the board if I leave the medical profession someone else will take my place I can become a youtuber which is the thing that only I can do because no one is taking my place I can make large amounts of money on the internet which I talk about an in-depth on this channel and I can donate 10% or even more of it to charity and end up saving all lives than I would ever save working as a doctor so that is why they helping people think does not really factor much into my decision that is broadly why I'm leaving I did like our first principles analysis why why do we work money fun helping people purpose meaning and social status and in all five of those me being a doctor does not tie in with the kind of life that I want to lead for the reasons that I've already talked about now there are a few other things to talk about and so earlier today I put out a tweet asking people to tell me what they wanted me to address in this video and there are a few quite interesting things that some people said for the first one a Roberto Blake how do you deal with the critics from people who invalidate the worthiness of being a content creator and spending more energy on that than being a doctor this was a big one being a doctor is like worthwhile and valuable to society being a content creator you're just making videos on the internet but I've kind of discussed this point around impact and if the messages that I get are to be believed the amount of impact I can have making silly videos on the internet is a different sort of impact than I can have being a doctor but I don't think it's any less valuable depending kind of based on that based on the magnitude even column who says are you actually really seriously going to quit medicine or are you going to change your mind in three months this idea of changing your mind is really really interesting I'm kind of made with column so I know he's kind of asking this like not not as like a dig against me which is totally fine I welcome digs because we can we can talk about them the whole thing about changing your mind I want to include an excerpt from a conversation I had with Professor Grace Lordan who's a professor of behavior economics behavioral sciences at the London School of Economics here's what she said about this if I was to think about leaders of the future actually there are a bit of she to stand up and say I don't know I got it wrong or I've changed my mind those three things are really in the forefront of my mind because when you're now getting to uncertainty you're going to get it wrong sometimes and that's okay but it's the deliberate part have you sat out and deliberately now change your mind or is it something used or will he nearly is it a will he nearly kind of reflex action and then it might be what revisiting I think changing your mind is actually a good thing two years ago I decided you're a good two years ago I decided I was going to move to America take the U.S. Emily and become a doctor in America and then I tried it out I tried some of the exams I tried preparing for it I realized this is a large amount of work and then the YouTube channel and the business started going really well and then the equation changed so I made a plan that I'm going to go to America and be a doctor but then over time as a good more information I realized maybe there's not worth anymore I realized there's not fun and I think there is value in quitting and there is so little value in sclinging to a decision that you made some time ago even if you have like I have announced it to the internet loads of people still ask me oh aren't you going to America wasn't that a thing and I also like I can't you know I decided against it and I really like for example Steven Bartlett's quitting framework he talks about this in his fantastic book happy sexy millionaire are you thinking about quitting yes why are you thinking about quitting either it's just hard or it sucks if it's just hard is the challenge worth the potential reward yes or no cool and if it sucks do you believe you could make it not suck and do you believe is the effort it would take to make it not suck worthwhile and if so do it and if not then quit I really like this idea of the quitting framework because this was sort of the thought process that went through my head as I decided do I want to continue working towards these American medical exams so that I can potentially move to America and be a doctor and it was hard and it kind of sucked hey it was it was it was more that it was hard but the payoff wasn't worth it because I'm having more fun making more money probably having more impact working as a youtuber that I am working as a doctor in in America for example okay we have armor who says what if YouTube dies down social media doesn't work out is it isn't medicine good for the long run and I think this again is what I was thinking I was thinking that oh this social media thing has a shelf life like no one's a youtube from youtube before ever if I'm in my 50s am I going to be a youtuber still then I kind of realized after the chat with Lewis Hose and a few other people that I don't need to have a plan like I'm pretty sure I won't be making youtube videos at the age of 50 maybe I well maybe I want who knows but I trust that I have enough of a safety net with decent months of money in the bank and investments in real estate and crypto and stuff so I've got a solid safety net of money so I can literally go 10 years without making any money at all until I figure something else out and I also have a decent skill set so if I need to I can get a job at a startup I can do marketing I can do videography I can do photography I can build another business I can start another company I can write books I mean the process of writing a book I'd like to write more books it's kind of fun there are all these other things that I could do and when I thought when Lewis really laid out that like really medicine is that what you do where you can after 2015 years of effort you can make a hundred k-year Lewis basically said that with my skills I could probably make a hundred k within a few months if I lost everything and had to come build completely from scratch and I hadn't really quite realized that before I hadn't really realized the value of the skills that I have but genuinely if I would lose everything I would I'm pretty sure I would find a way to build another business or startup or use a channel or whatever media thing and be able to make more money than a making a stockter and also have more fun potentially have more of an impact and that kind of gets to those five points we were discussing earlier we've got armair clay for his says do you feel like you've wasted your time studying medicine for all those years and what are the transferable skills that you learn to medicine that applies to what you're going to do next so I don't feel like I've wasted any time at all I think studying medicine was like really fun working as a doctor was really fun you know it's gotten me to the point where yes that's now not what I'm doing but the journey it's it's about the journey it's not about the destination and I really enjoyed and I got a lot of value and fulfillment and skills and joy from the journey of going through med school and the journey of being a doctor for those two years so it's not at all in my mind a waste of time I think it would be a waste of time if I thought in terms of outcomes and I thought are the only point of medical school is to become a doctor at the end of it there's like no journey journey before destination the journey is what matters it's all about the climb and as long as that's fun and that's been fulfilling and that's maybe help people along the way then that's the thing that matters rather than whether or not I ultimately decide to be a doctor at the end of it and similarly Neville says the value of having gone through the whole arduous process of becoming a doctor even though you eventually made the decision if you'd never gone to med school would there still be an earlier dollar in YouTube probably not like I kind of needed to go through that journey of like having something to talk about setting up a company in in 2013 where I was helping people get into med school using that to then launch this YouTube channel starting off helping people to get into med school using that to realise people are asking me about how to study and how to be more productive and how to take notes on a iPad and then that led to the more videos and then that led to this YouTube channel and now that's led to us getting to this point where you're watching this video probably like really really long into the video I now have a studio have a team of 17 people none of this probably would have happened the same way if I hadn't gone to med school if I hadn't started a business that helps people get into med school and the fact that I'm not a doctor right now I don't think takes away from the fact that that journey was like still a thing and so I don't really worry that there's a lot of sunk cost and it feels like time and effort wasted because I think it was all great it was a fantastic life experience along the way oh here's a good question for this point you are there but I think this is an interesting question I agree do you feel any element of guilt or regret that you have the skills that you have to help people and you're choosing not to use them so this is interesting um this comes back to that question of helping people and impact the skills that I have as a doctor two years fresh out of med school not particularly interesting I haven't trained as a surgeon for 30 years to become like the world expert on something I'm a very very very very very very very very very boxed and a doctor and does a teacher feel guilty that they're not instead of volunteering in a soup kitchen there's an investment bank of feel guilty that they're not volunteering as doctor like I don't know how it goes but I think there are different sorts of impact and I don't feel any sort of guilt that oh I have the ability to put in a cannula I have the ability to prescribe fluids and I'm currently not using that because I think I have more of an impact defined by me like the things that matter to me by doing this kind of stuff on the internet pop rod asks what is your advice to those who want to switch careers now so I don't know I don't really have any advice with this other than test your assumptions right and down talk to them about it with people because it's very easy to bullshit yourself which is what I was doing for so long until people like my brother or people like Lewis Hose people like other friends pointed out to me that the way that I was thinking about this was kind of flawed I think it's like Richard Feynman says that the first person you must not fool is yourself because you are the easiest person to fool oh interesting question from Justin people thought I was going not I was not for leaving my medical device job seven years ago to go full-time on YouTube can you talk about the planning and prep that you've done to financially feel empowered to make this job got it imagine you did financial forecasting for your business yeah basically it was that you know we have large amounts of money chilling in the business back account now so that even if like you know we we have several years of runaway for the whole team and if needed then you know we can downsize every one of the team me and a video editor for example me and Christian or me and down for example we could just strike off on our own and continue to make content for 10 years before we run out of money and I'm sure in that 10 years we could find something to do that would make make the money back again and so there is an element of like we've got enough of a safety net in the business and actually I I kind of recognized this from day one where whenever we were becoming too reliant on a single line of revenue I was like okay cool this is bad we now need to diversify and build these other kind of foundational pillars of the business so that it's not so reliant on the YouTube channel it's not so reliant on skillshare it's not so it's not so reliant on our courses so now I'm pretty confident that whatever happens will find a way to make a work here's a fun one so Artemis says I'm a met student myself and the only reason your productivity tips were interesting for me was because you were balancing both med school and running a business alongside which are both very demanding if you quit medicine you will become just like another guy on YouTube and I completely agree with this this was like my biggest fear in quitting medicine that will I just be another productivity guy on YouTube not that that's bad thing because I'm I'm mates with a lot of them but it's like it's more interesting being a doctor and also a productivity guy on YouTube and I realized that yes I run the risk of losing that audience and if now a medical student stopped following me because they're like oh I don't care you don't adopt anymore that's totally fine I'll be Santa miss them if you're a medical student or a doctor watching this and you want to unsubscribe that's totally cool all the best no hard feelings I get it but keeping you here as a subscriber is not a good enough reason for me to live my life doing something that I'm not entirely passionate about that doesn't really bring me join fulfillment and it felt like a very fear-based thing to think oh the medics in my audience are going to be pissed off that I'm I'm leaving medicine and they're going to stop following my content that's totally cool plenty of other doctors who are also doing YouTube on the side I would encourage you to watch and watch all of this stuff oh doctor Jones says why for good how about for now your ability to teach and communicate could make a word of difference in our profession do not go under that potential just my honest opinion oh thank you that's a very good point actually like for good is a kind of click-baity not really we're really for good is the decision is is is something that I had to I had to kind of admit to myself realistically it is actually for now like I could always go back to medicine if I really wanted to it's there as a backup option I've got my medical license I've got my full registration with a general medical counsel I could go back if I wanted to and maybe some years down the line I will but I think for the last year I've sort of been half in and half out I've been thinking oh I'm part time doctor and after that chat with Lewis Hose I realized that you know what for the next season of my life let me go all in on the thing that I currently care about the most which is the YouTube stuff the business stuff the writing stuff and then maybe if my values and preferences change over time I might go back into medicine realistically probably not because I'd have to do a lot of training etc etc and the lifestyle you have being a YouTuber with freedom and large amounts money and status and state and all that stuff it trumps what being a junior doctor is like at least at least for me but you know never say never so if you're to a point in my life says you do really think YouTube is a forever thing believe me it's not every channel eventually falls I agree if my business was entirely YouTube channel I would feel very uncomfortable making this decision but we've got enough lines of revenue we've got enough projects going on we've got enough money in the bank that I feel really comfortable that even if YouTube completely dies like tonight overnight as soon as you're watching this video I'm still pretty sure we'll be alright so what says if it's true then you've lost your appeal without it you're just a guy who makes tons of money selling productivity courses we don't see the real world evidence of your tips I'm sure it makes more economical sense for you but no longer a fan yep totally got it that is the risk again if we lose people like that's what all the best you're probably not watching this but sure all the best Chris this click baked I doubt you will quit medicine for good to be honest your previous goal was to work part time why the change then could I try it I think the thing with goals is that you we like I said the goal of hmm I think life would be good if as a part time doctor and then I tried it I tested that assumption and I realized that hmm actually this is not the one so then I had to change my mind and that's a good thing I think changing your mind is a sign of growth rather than a sign of I don't know I don't know clickbait or whatever so finally let's talk about what is next and honestly the answer is I don't know I think in the past I felt like I needed to have a plan I needed to have like a five year plan of like this is what my life is going to look like and then I felt like secure in myself knowing that I had a plan but I think over time I've kind of become more comfortable with and there's a nice quote which is that often we prefer misery over uncertainty and I'm not saying I was miserable in medicine because I wasn't able to genuinely quite fun and in fact I was probably one of the probably one of the few people I know who actually who enjoyed medicine most of all because it was like genuinely quite fun but I think being more comfortable with uncertainty and being able to answer the question of what's your plan sun with I don't know but I'll figure it out along the way that's something that I'm trying to become more okay with so what's next I don't know writing a book hopefully that'll be good working on continuing to grow this YouTube channel we're building a second YouTube channel doing more stuff on the website on the newsletter across social media and just generally trying to live a healthy happy fulfilled live my best life kind of thing yeah I don't know I'm sure I'll figure it out over time and medicine is always there as an option if I want to go back to it which is you know quite a nice privilege position to be in so thank you very much for watching I do apologize that this video is ridiculously long if you got this far I would love for you to leave a clover emoji in the comments as usual for these long Ramly videos if you want to unsubscribe from the channel that's totally cool I get it I'm not a doctor anymore so if that was the appeal then sorry um have a great day um if you're continues to subscribe to the channel and watch the stuff then thank you thank you very much for the bottom of my heart for being here and for making this sort of career change possible and really without without this YouTube channel I would not be in a position to actually be able to kind of follow my dreams and do the thing that I want to do which is teaching and writing rather than a thing I kind of guess I feel felt like I had to do which was which was being a doctor so again thank you um if you've been of your for any length of time you have contributed to my ability to leave medicine and hopefully follow something that I'm genuinely more passionate about then the thing that I made a decision to do when I was 16 so yeah thank you so much for watching if you if you got this far and you're interested in more Ramly videos about this and you want to see the evolution of my thought process is to see how much I was bullshiting myself back in the day this little short playlist has my video where I talked about my last day as a doctor and also why moving to America and then not and also why I'd in much I decided I was going to go back to medicine part time so you can kind of see the evolution of the thinking maybe it'll be helpful maybe not either way have a great day and I'll see you in the next video hopefully bye.
