# Study With Me - Weekend on-call
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N0xpPCJK9iE
👉🏻 Sign up to Notion for free - http://bit.ly/alinotionmarch

🤜🏼 Download my Annual Review Notion template - https://www.notion.so/notion/Ali-s-annual-review-template-cc7ad286375a4749b22439d3ae2186f1

💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking 
📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

My Spotify profile - https://open.spotify.com/user/1111404728?si=7QYptBTLREWbU1OCHHxrBw

🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal

Who am I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 


If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭
**Keywords:** study with me, ali abdaal, study, study motivation, how to study, how to learn, how to study for exams, study tips, study tips for exams, study with me 2019, studying, how to study for a test, school, college, university, motivation to study, how to revise, motivational video, study vlog, cambridge university, uni vlog, student, ways to study, study techniques, exam revision, med student, studytube, medical school, study hacks, junior doctor, doctor on call, being on call, 
**Date:** 2020-03-06

## Transcript
 Hey friends, welcome back to the vlog. In this study with me video, I'll take you through a day in my life during a weekend on call for obstetrics and gynecology, where I try my best to squeeze in some studying during moments of downtime. The day starts at 6.15 when I wake up in the hotel room that I'm staying in with my cousin for the weekend of on calls just for fun. At 7am, I head down to the restaurant for breakfast, which sadly doesn't open until 8, but they very kindly make me an avocado and rocket sandwich, which I have with a croissant, orange juice and some coffee. While eating, I read about my terrible posture issue of anterior pelvic tilt on the website nerd fitness, and I decide to sort my life out by buying a set of body fat calipers and Amazon to help me get rid of my pot belly. At 7.45am, I drive over to the hospital where I change into scrubs, get a hand over from the night team, and head over to the obstetrics ward, who are I do my usual saving lives thing, by writing a handful of discharge summaries, a few prescriptions for medication, and reviewing a couple of postnatal patients to make sure they're fine to go home. One of the patients had a cesarean section the previous day, so I check in with her, congratulate her on the birth of a first baby, and answer any outstanding questions that she's got about the operation or the recovery period. We chat a bit about exercise and contraception following a sea section, and I wish her the very best for a future filled with sleepless nights and the joys of parenthood. By 1015, all the morning's jobs are done, so I head to the restaurant for a cheeky latte and a banana. I bust out my trusty iPad Pro and start plotting the structure of this very video before sorting out some of my e-portfolio assessments. As doctors in every placement, we have to do a handful of case-based discussions and get feedback from different members of the team about our performance. Last year, I left this to the last minute, so this year, I've promised myself that I'll get these things sorted well in advance, so I'm not scrambling around like a raccoon with a foreign object in its rectal orifice. At 1130, I get called to the labor ward for various small bits, like discussing some discharge medication with the pharmacy and doing a bit more paperwork. Then, at noon, I head back to the restaurant to grab some lunch with my junior doctor colleagues and then get a bleep at 1230 to review a lady on the labor ward. She's a few days post delivery and has had some bleeding, so I see her, examine her abdomen, and with one of the midwives, I do a speculum and swabs and send her home with antibiotics and our very best wishes. From two to six PM, things are pretty busy on both the obstetrics and the gynecology wards mostly with random bits of paperwork, but I do get a couple of patients with abnormal blood results who need sorting out and a few ladies refer to the emergency department who are review on the gynecology ward and make plans for them that I confirm with the consultant on call. But because this is a study with me video, I won't go into much detail on this front, but there's a proper day in the life video that I'm working on in partnership with my hospital where I'll dive into more of the clinical details. Anyway, at six PM, I finally make a start on studying kidney physiology. As usual, I'm on my iPad Pro and I've got the lecture notes open in noteability on one side of the screen and my own notes in notion on the other side of the screen. A huge thank you by the way to a notion for sponsoring this video and therefore indirectly funding my hotel stay in all the meals that I had during this weekend. If you haven't tried notion yet and you're a student or teacher, you can actually get notion personal of completely for free by using your edu.acml address, more details in the video description. The first thing I do is scope the subject, of course. That means that I blitz through the lecture notes and create toggles for every subheading so that overall it gives me a big picture idea of what's in each of the lectures. Then as I'm going through lecture number six, early on, there's a reference to something that was discussed in lecture number one. Because at the end of every paragraph in the lecture notes, I'm asking myself firstly does this make sense and secondly, could I explain this to a five-year-old? I realized that I'm not 100% clear on this point about fluid redistribution across different compartments in the body and that maybe I wouldn't be able to explain it to a five-year-old clearly enough. So rather than playing on with this needle in the back of my mind, I go all the way back to lecture one and start to build up the story of fluid redistribution using the Cornell note-taking system. In my previous video about how I take notes with a notion, lots of people wanted to get an in-depth look at that. So here we go. Firstly, as I'm going through, I'm typing out the main points using language that's as simple as possible, but secondly, because I'm taking notes using the Cornell method, I try and hide every piece of information underneath a question for my future self. That means that when I'm reviewing my notes in the future, rather than just passively re-reading stuff, which would require zero brain power and be completely useless, I'll be testing myself on these questions as I go along. This is active recall in action. It's the act of testing ourselves on stuff, rather than just re-reading it. And as you'll know, if you're a regular viewer of this channel, active recall is the single most effective studying technique that I've been preaching about for the last two years. For some of the content, I'm typing out the key bits in my own words, again, as simply as possible, but for other bits, if typing it out will just take too much time. I'm just screenshotting the lecture notes, cropping to the relevant bit, and then inserting the photo as an image in notion. Then I like to hide the images under their own toggles, because I don't like big images clogging up the main body of my notes. So here, for example, I screenshot this box about Vanthoff's equation, and I hide it under its own toggle. And later on, I screenshot this box about Starling's equation. And again, I stick it under a toggle so that it doesn't mess up the beauty of my notes. By this time, it's around 650pm, so I head to the hospital restaurant to grab a super healthy snack at French fries with ketchup and mayonnaise. And 20 minutes later, I'm back in the gynecology clinic room and back to work. I continue my way through lecture six. But after about 20 minutes, I realised that my current levels of brain power, motivation and discipline really aren't enough to get through this topic right now. So from 735 to 745, I procrastinate by slumping on the chair with my belly hanging out, wishing I could take a nap. At 745, I get a phone call from a patient asking about some blood results. So I spend around 20 minutes on the phone explaining those to her, and then at 805pm, I meet with a 19 for handover. There's not a lot going on, so the registrar is super nice and let me leave it a little bit early. So I change out of my scrubs and head out of the hospital at half past 8, arriving back at the hotel at 845. From 845, my cousin and I take a seat in the hotel lounge to continue bashing out some work. He's preparing for a postgraduate medical exam, and recently discovered my study with me playlist and Spotify. So he's listening to that while going through practice questions. And after ordering a virgin mohito and some proper food, I find a second wave of activation energy within myself and get back to studying. And even though Jehanzebs doing his own thing, the fact that we're both studying in the same place helps keep me going when I'm doing my homework. And to make things a bit more social, we're both using the Pomodoro technique here, where we work for 25 minutes and then take a five minute break and repeat the process. I don't often use the Pomodoro technique these days, but I find it still quite helpful for keeping me motivated, such discipline to study, when my energy levels are particularly low, or if I'm working with other people. Anyway, I make a start on lecture 7, but before I start it properly, again, I scope the subject and just make a quick note of the other lectures within the series, just to give myself an idea of where we're heading with all this stuff and where the lectures I'm doing at the moment fit into the bigger picture. And then when I start actually going through lecture 7, again, I scope it by turning all of the subheadings into toggles in notion. Once that's done, again, I'm just following the basic process of the Cornell note taking system. I'm typing out the bits that I want to remember, or the bits that are new to me, or the bits that are particularly insightful, and I'm hiding them underneath toggles with questions to force my future self to actively recall them later. Another thing I like to do is convert pros into numbered lists wherever possible. So, for example, in this bit about the different experiments that Verne did, I want my future self to know these off by heart. And so I summarized the various paragraphs in the lecture notes into a list of five and I hide them under the toggle experiments by Verne. But the toggle experiments by Verne wouldn't be too helpful to my future self. So I add a little hint to remind myself that there's a list of five that I need to test myself on. This is another important point that I like to keep in mind. That when I do take notes, I'm taking them for my future self. And because of the way memory works, I know that my future self is going to forget a load of stuff before I see the notes again. And so I make it as easiest possible for my future self to maintain good habits, like using active recall and space repetition. And another side note, here you'll see in the lecture notes it says, if you plot the concentration of ADHD created against a plasma similarity, you'll find that the slope of the relationship is very steep in accounts for the sensitivity of the response. This is way too much of a mouthful. So in my notes, I've refreshed it simply as the Osmo regulatory system is super-sensitive. That phrase, super-sensitive is way too casual to see in a textbook or to write in an essay. But I find that the simpler and more casual I can make my own language while understanding stuff, the more life we all be to actually remember it later on. And of course, I've hidden this bit underneath the question, what's the difference in sensitivity between the Osmo regulatory system and the borer receptor in terms of ADHD regulation? And that question is a prompt to my future self as usual. Anyway, our first Pomodoro session finishes at 920pm, so during the break, we chat for a bit. We intend for the break to be five minutes, but end up chatting for a little bit longer. And so the second Pomms session starts at 929, nothing much need to add here, really. I just finished lecture seven and make a start on lecture eight. Again, scoping the subject before At one point, I realised to my absolute delight that I can use emojis to represent up and down arrows when typing up physiology processes, which wasn't really a thing when I was going through my first year of medical school, because back in like 2013, emojis weren't as well supported cross-platform as they are now. What a time to be alive. Anyway, the final point I want to make in this video is that when I'm making notes, I'm thinking of them almost as a representation of the model that I've got for the subject in my own brain. If my notes are very clogged up, then so is my thinking on the topic, but if my notes are nicely categorized and look simple enough, then the concepts in my brain will end up being quite simple as well. That's one of the reasons why I absolutely love the toggle feature in Notion, because it lets me see the big picture in a nice unclogged fashion, and if I don't need to drill down into the details of the topic, I can hit the toggles and get all the detail I need. Anyway, our study session ends at 10pm, and we end up chatting for another half an hour while sipping on caffeine-free peppermint tea. Just before bed, I tried to do a session of gratitude journaling in my 2017 notebook, but then after a few seconds, I realised that I really can't be bothered tonight, because I'm absolutely knackered, so I call it a night, ready to get up at 6.50 in the next morning for another 13 hour on call shift. So thank you so much for watching, and I will see you in the next video. Good night.
