# How I Work for 15 hours and Not Get Bored
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=N282bXQYRFc
To improve your thinking and learning skills, visit https://brilliant.org/ali and sign up for free. The first 200 people will get 20% off the annual Premium subscription :)

In this video I'll be going over a few reasons we're constantly distracted and a strategic way to avoid that in the future and focus on the things that matter. 

Get Indistractable here: https://geni.us/mEVGAnk

00:00 Intro
01:03 Embrace welcome distractions
02:31 Optimize for enjoyment
04:06 Throw away the phone
04:41 Control your environment
06:44 Deliberately manage your time

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

PART-TIME YOUTUBER ACADEMY:
🍿 My 6-week live online course - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ptya_aliabdaal

MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
✍️ The best summaries of books (Shortform) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
📚  How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
Deep Dive Podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/
The podcast that delves into the minds of entrepreneurs, creators and other inspiring people to uncover the philosophies, strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. You can find it by searching “Deep Dive with Ali Abdaal” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc).
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali

🎙 Deep Dive podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/
The podcast that delves into the minds of entrepreneurs, creators and other inspiring people to uncover the philosophies, strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. You can find it by searching “Deep Dive” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮  Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I’m Ali, a YouTuber, podcaster, soon-to-be author and ex-Doctor working in London, UK. I make videos that explore the strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, how to focus, how to avoid distractions, how to stay focused, social media addiction, how to stop getting distracted, motivational speech, motivational video, fearless motivational video, how to, how to focus on yourself, how to focus on your goals, how to focus your mind, how to focus on studying, how to avoid distractions in life, how to avoid distractions during study, how to stay focused while studying, how to stay focused and motivated, 
**Date:** 2021-08-11

## Transcript
 Alright, so life is kind of hard these days for lots of reasons, but one of them is that we live in an epidemic of distraction. We're always surrounded by fancy technology, firms that ping us every five seconds, and a world of games, and TV shows at our fingertips. There's absolutely nothing wrong with this stuff, but it becomes a problem when it's distracting us from the things that we actually want to do. And there's probably three reasons why we get distracted from the stuff that actually matters to us. Number one is that it's just too boring. We're trying to do something important, but it's just really not fun, and so we're going to get distracted by anything that comes our way. Number two, the thing we're trying to do is just too hard. We're working on something important, but we've hit a roadblock. We can't figure out what to write next, or where the missing semicolon is that's stopping the code from working. Or get our fingers to do what we want them to do while playing the guitar. As soon as a distraction comes our way, we rejoice. And number three, the distraction is just too prominent. Most of us work with our firms at our desk, and our laptop sending us notifications for every little thing. Even with the best of intentions, it's genuinely hard to stay focused when we're being bombarded by these distractions all the time. So now that we know the enemy, let's figure out ways that we can fight these distractions, so that they don't stop us from doing the things that actually matter to us. Tip number one is somewhat counterintuitive, but that is to embrace welcome distractions. Now, I draw the distinction here between welcome and unwelcome distractions. An unwelcome distraction is like a notification from Instagram that someone has, I don't know, liked my post or something. That's really not adding any real value to my life. And if I click on it, I'm just going to end up doom scrolling through Instagram. That would be an unwelcome distraction. But a welcome distraction is something that I actually want to be distracting me. And so what I mean is, for example, when I was at university, studying for my med school exams, I would be studying in my room, but then I would leave my door open and I would have a door stop which my door open at all times, because I would welcome the distraction from my friends and from my med school colleagues, and they'd come in and have a little bit of a chat. Now, yes, those were distractions, but they were welcome distractions, like, and at the point of university, yes, was to pass the exam. But the bigger point of university was to make friends and to have a nice time and all that kind of stuff. And, you know, if I'd been distracted by a friend, maybe I would get like 0.002% less on the exam. But given that that work was not going to be the thing that makes me feel the exam, I would rather be distracted by my friends or by my family or in the future. Hopefully, if I'm working from home and I have kids, I would enjoy, I would welcome being distracted by the kids, because that's kind of the point. And the way I think about it is that, you know, when I'm on my deathbed in a few years time, will I wish I had worked hard run been more focused, or will I wish that I had, had, had spent more time being distracted by friends and family? I don't know. Tip number two, for combating distractions, is to optimize for enjoyment. So, you know, how we talked about one of the main reasons why we get distracted, is because the thing that we are being distracted from is just too boring. What we want to do is try and make the thing a lot more fun. Like, we almost never get distracted if we're having a great time watching a great film or a TV show, playing a video game or hanging out with a friends or doing something that's genuinely fun. Like, it's very difficult to get distracted from that. We tend to get distracted from the things that are boring or the things that are hard. And so, if we focus on optimizing for fun, then we can reduce the risks of us being distracted from the thing. And there's loads of ways to make whatever we're doing more fun. One of my favorite ones involves charting progress. So, one of the reasons why games like video games are fun is because you get a very clear sense of progress. You kill the animal, the beast, the bore, whatever, like in a non mean way. And your experience bar goes up and then you level up and then you get more skills. And so, applying this concept of gamifying stuff to whatever we're trying to do, just genuinely makes it more fun. So, for example, if you're studying for an exam, like treating it as a points tally or like a score or like a traffic light system, I've got more details in my retrospective revision timetable video, which will be somewhere over there. If you're trying to make progress in learning how to code or starting a business or whatever, then you give yourself milestones, like little milestones that you can then take off. And that leads to that sort of dopamine release. So, yes, I have accomplished something. And that makes us feel like the thing that we're doing is more fun, because it actually does become more fun by the fact that we're charting our progress through it. Yeah, a bunch of other stuff, it's all going to be in the book. I'm researching all this stuff these days, but sign up to the mailing list to find out more as details come out. Tip number three is to basically throw away the phone, like even if we're having fun, and the phone is bombarding us with notifications, oh, and like on a handy line contenter with that kind of stuff. It's generally very hard to stay focused, even if we're super focused and in the flow, and having a great time. What I normally do, if I'm really struggling with the phone, I just chuck it behind me onto the sofa or whatever. More often than not, well, I do, I just have it face down and on aeroplane mode. So, yeah, if it's an aeroplane mode, it's not going to be a pain. And if it's face down, that I'm not even going to see the screen. And then when I'm taking my breaks, I'll pick it up, take it off aeroplane mode, and then be like, oh, hello, lots of notifications. Ignore all of them, put it back down, and start kind of doing the thing that actually matters to me. Tip number four is to control your environment. Now, like at the moment, my desk is pretty messy. And it's very easy to get distracted when there is a messy desk with a load of stuff going on, because as soon as the thing that I'm doing becomes boring or becomes challenging, I can be like, oh, I wonder, you know, what this lens is doing on my desk? Oh, you know, I'll play, play with my Dejo card a little bit or I'll open that box that I haven't unboxed yet. And like, the more crap that I have on my desk, the more likely I am to get distracted. And so an easy tip for not getting distracted is just to have a clean desk. This is actually not very hard. I personally find it very hard to maintain a clean desk, which is why I have a few months ago signed up to a we work coworking space in Cambridge, link in the video description if you want to check it out. It's really good. So I go there basically every day. And it helps keep me focused because then I'm sitting at a table with only my laptop and my AirPods. And I have nothing on the desk to distract me, whereas I get distracted all the time when I'm at home. And so, you know, going to a library, going to a coffee shop, going to a co-working space, going somewhere outside of your own environment, where but where you're less likely to get distracted, because there's no stuff all around you. That is often at least I find for me a really good way of combating distraction. Now, as a quick aside, you know how we talked about that if a thing is fun, you're less likely to be distracted while doing it. One app that takes this to a whole new level is brilliant, who are very kindly sponsoring this video. If you haven't heard by now, brilliant is a fantastic platform with online courses and maths, science and computer science, and they're genuinely really fun and interactive. And they teach stuff to you in a very engaging, first-principal, kind of way, where it has just the right amount of challenge and just the right amount of fun. That is genuinely like it's hard to be distracted when you're doing online course at Brilliant. My favorite courses on Brilliant are the computer science ones, and if you're interested in learning how to code, they've got a fantastic introduction to algorithms and introduction to Python. And they've recently released a brand new course on scientific thinking, which is all about how we can solve interactive puzzles using science, which is a fun and bee helps level up our brains. If that's on the purestry, and you want a genuinely enjoyable learning experience, then head over to Brilliant.org forward slash L.A. and the first 200 people to use that link will get 20% off the annual premium subscriptions. So thank you so much Brilliant for sponsoring this video. And finally tip number five is to deliberately manage your time. Now there is a book called Indestructible by CHAPCORD and NEAR AL. And then in that he's done all the research around what makes what makes things distracting. And he says that often you can tell by looking at someone's calendar how prone to distraction they are. Because like if you're calendar, if you know let's say it's 11 a.m. and you feel like you're getting distracted. And you look at your calendar and there's nothing in the 11 a.m. slot. Then you have nothing to do in that time slot. And therefore you have nothing to be distracted from if that makes sense. And so it's very easy to like pick up the phone or pick up the PlayStation or whatever. Because we don't have a default action that we're going to be doing in that time. And so what Neary else says and what I complete you agree with is that if you time block the things that you actually want to do earlier in the day. So you know the first thing I do each morning is I set my daily highlight which is the one thing I want to get done today. And then I make sure I stick in my calendar exactly when I'm going to do that thing. So that when it comes to the time of doing the thing, I know what it is I have to do. And therefore I'm actually less likely to get distracted from it because I know what I have to do. Whereas it's when I have a big to do list and I don't know what to start with or I don't have clarity or it just feels a bit vague like I don't know what I don't know what I got started. That is when it becomes super easy to just get distracted by picking up the phone or turning on Netflix. If you found this video useful and you're interested in more tips for time management check out this video over here which is 10 other tips on how to manage my time. Thank you so much for watching. Do hit the subscribe button if you aren't already and I'll see you in the next video. Bye.
