# My Most Important Weekly Habit
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nAXY89s0t4E
In this video I'll be explaining the benefits of building a faithful audience through newsletters and how to go about it. 

👉 Sign up to ConvertKit and start your newsletter today: https://go.aliabdaal.com/convertkit 

00:00 Intro
00:26 Why building an audience is one of the best things you can do
03:22 How to build an audience
05:37 Where do we show our work?

1000 True Fans: https://kk.org/thetechnium/1000-true-fans/

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

PART-TIME YOUTUBER ACADEMY:
🍿 My 6-week live online course - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ptya_aliabdaal

MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
✍️ The best summaries of books (Shortform) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
📚  How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
Deep Dive Podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/
The podcast that delves into the minds of entrepreneurs, creators and other inspiring people to uncover the philosophies, strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. You can find it by searching “Deep Dive with Ali Abdaal” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc).
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali

🎙 Deep Dive podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/
The podcast that delves into the minds of entrepreneurs, creators and other inspiring people to uncover the philosophies, strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. You can find it by searching “Deep Dive” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮  Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I’m Ali, a YouTuber, podcaster, soon-to-be author and ex-Doctor working in London, UK. I make videos that explore the strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, habits of successful people, healthy habits, daily habits, good habits, how to start a newsletter, starting a newsletter, how to build an audience online, how to build an audience, how to get fans, how to build a fanbase, how to start a good newsletter, writing a newsletter, how to write online, how to start a blog, 
**Date:** 2021-08-22

## Transcript
 My most important weekly habit has been key to building an audience online, which is one of the most game-changing things that I've done for my personal growth and enjoyment of life. From becoming financially independent, to making friends with some really cool people, building an online community has made all of these things possible. But I want to be able to do any of that if it hadn't been for this one simple habit that I've been doing for the last five years. But before we talk about that, let's talk about why building an audience is one of the best things that you can do for your personal life and career. So firstly, relationships are the most important things in life as we all know. And building an audience lets you connect with so many more people, infinitely more people, then you would if you didn't have some sort of presence on the internet. It's really cool because when you put your stuff out there online, when you share your work, then that work will resonate with people who care about the same things. And then those people will reach out to you and then you might end up being friends on the internet because you like each other's work, then you might end up meeting in real life and you might end up sort of having this like blossoming friendship from someone across the world that you would never have met, had it not been for these sharing stuff online and trying to build this audience. Secondly, if you care about having an impact, then building an audience means that you can magnify whatever impact you want to have as an individual. So for example, for me, I enjoy teaching in real life, but there's only so many people that I can teach physically in person, even though it's quite fun. And so instead, if I build an audience and do teaching on YouTube or through my blog or email, whatever Instagram TikTok, anything like that, that means that my personal impact as a teacher can be magnified because of the audience aspect of it. If you're a surgeon, like at all, go on day, then yes, you have an impact on the individual patient that you're operating on because you're operating on them. But if you write up your findings from surgery and checklists and all this kind of stuff into a series of books, then you have an impact on many, many, many more people because now it's not limited to the person that you're operating on. It's like everyone because you've built that audience and you've put stuff out there into the world that other people can check out. And that has an enormous impact on, well, I'll go on, it's had an enormous impact on health care and a bunch of other fields as well. Let's say you're quite a general with however many followers and Instagram, like if you care about something, if you care about a social cause or anything else, then the fact that you've got an audience online will mean that so many more people will also know and possibly care about that social cause, then if you were just an individual without an audience. And firstly, one of the benefits of the audiences is that you can monetize that audience i.e. sell out as some people like to say, further down the line if you really want to. And this is famous essay by Kevin Kelly called 1,000 true fans, which talks about how if you want to make a full time living, you don't need millions or tens of thousands of people or you need this 1,000 true fans and he defines a true fan as someone who will, you know, pay you on average $100 a year for the thing that you're doing. So let's say you're a musician or an artist or something and you want to build that audience, all you need is a 1,000 true fans, 1,000 people who every year will go to your show or buy your limited edition album and you can sustain a full time living off the back of those 1,000 people. And that's pretty cool. The fact that that exists, mostly thanks to the power of the internet, means that there are so many more careers and career paths that are possible, compared to what it was, maybe a decade or two ago. And that means that you don't have to end up doing a career that you might not enjoy, you can carve your own career out there. And by virtue of building an audience, you can hopefully, at some point, make enough money from that thing, that niche thing that you're doing to be able to do that forever. And then that's great because then you're doing the thing that actually matters to you and then you're not like working a job, you know, you might not enjoy, you're doing the thing you actually want to do and not being kind of shackled to employ employment if you're not into that. But let's now talk about how you actually build this audience online and that is where the habit comes in and that is the habit of showing your work. I first read this book by Austin Cleon in 2016. I've talked about it on the channel before. This is one of the books that's most changed my life and it only takes about like 20 minutes to read because it's like very short and there's lots of cartoons and stuff. But basically, the weekly habit is to show your work. In some capacity, the thing that you're working on, you want to document and you want to share on the internet however you like. And so there's really three principles that we want to follow here. The first one is we want to be providing value. And the way that Austin Cleon describes it is that there's no value in sharing a photo of your latte or your lunch unless you're like a food blogger or something. But there is value in showing your work, showing the thing that you're working on, documenting your process of learning something and then sticking it on the internet. And crucially, you're sticking on the internet without asking for anything in return. And mistake a lot of people make is they think, well, if I post stuff on the internet, people should pay me for it. I was like, no, people should not pay you for it. The way you build an audience is by giving people a value for free. And then over time, after a few years of doing this consistently, then people will maybe start paying you for it. And that is exactly how it should work. Secondly, you want to show your work, you want to do it consistently if it's all possible. Everything is better when we do it consistently, you know, you get more hensh when you work out consistently. You live longer when you eat healthier consistently. You build an audience more effectively and you just have more fun when you are showing your work consistently. And thirdly, you probably want to start by picking out something fairly niche. You know, if you're just getting started out, then sharing kind of your productivity hacks, something, something, something, something like that, probably isn't going to go into you much of an audience because there are resilience of people doing that same thing. But if you're just starting out and you have a very niche interest in a very niche thing, like I don't know, the economics of Starcraft 2 or something like that, then writing about that, showing your work and stuff, that will be far more likely to get you an audience in the short term. Like I started my YouTube channel based around helping people to get into medical school at Cambridge University. It's a very niche audience. There's only like a few thousand people a year who apply to that. But then over time, my audience is expanded to be more like productivity and tech and money and entrepreneurship and that kind of stuff. So, basically, moral of the story has start really niche. If you think it's too niche, it's probably not niche enough, just like niche down as much as possible. And like, show your work when it comes to the quirky and weird things about you. So, now that we're in this weekly habit of showing our work, the next question becomes where do we show our work? And at this point, you've kind of got a few options. You could go down the social media route. You could make an Instagram account or you could make a YouTube channel and you could show your work on Instagram or YouTube or TikTok or LinkedIn or Facebook or things like that. And that's fine. And a lot of people have built an audience off the back of that. But the difficult thing about building an audience on a social media platform is that you really don't own that audience, the platform owns the audience. So, I've got two million subscribers here on YouTube. But actually, I have no way of contacting those two million subscribers here on YouTube. They're not really my audience. They are an audience that I've borrowed from YouTube temporarily. You know, I could make videos and those videos don't even go out. To everyone, they barely go to subscribers. Some people have the notification bell on but then the algorithm changes. And at any point, YouTube could make a change that would mean that my audience of two million on YouTube is worth not very much. And so, as much as I like to encourage people to start YouTube channels or go on social media or make Instagram pages or TikTok pages or whatever, once you kind of done that for a bit, you kind of want to transition your audience into unsurprisingly or perhaps surprisingly, if you're not familiar with this, you want to transfer your audience into an email newsletter. Now, this is going to sound really weird. If you're watching this and you don't use email a lot. Like, if you are under the age of 18, you probably don't use email that much. If you're at university, maybe you do. But like, suddenly, when you start working a real job, the whole world revolves around email. And so, having an email list is, and having like someone's email address is the only guaranteed way of being able to contact that person. And so, basically, what everyone says is that, yes, it's okay to build an audience in social media. But you've got to recognize you're building an audience on borrowed ground. It does not belong to you at belongs to the platform. You want to try and get them onto your email list as well as you possibly can. There's all these people, like, no, okay, Gun and Tim Ferris and Ryan hold the day in James Clear that sing the praises of having an email newsletter, having a mailing list because, like I said, it is the only way guaranteed way that you can actually contact your audience. And so, the thing that I recommend to creators of all sizes is just start an email list and start collecting emails. It might not be relevant for you right now. Maybe you might not even send a news letter very often. But at some point, you're going to be really glad you have an email list where you can have that direct line to your audience. And then, you know, the cool thing about sending emails to people is that people actually reply to those emails. I've managed to connect with so many people who just were subscribed to my email newsletter and then I sent something out. It resonated with them. They reply, it goes straight to my inbox. We can have a bit of a conversation and I've actually made friends in real life and kind of business contacts through just kind of replying back and forth to email news letters. What is an email news letter? Like, I don't like the word newsletter because newsletter sounds like, you know, something from 2002. But really, it just is sort of an email that you send on a regular basis. It could be weekly. It could be every other way. It could be every month. And it just has a few things in it. I'm going to go a few friends who send weekly news letters. And in those, they just share links. You know, Tim Ferriss has, I'm not saying Tim Ferriss is a friend. I'll be one day fingers crossed. Tim Ferriss has his five bullet Friday, where every week he just sends a list of five things that he's been enjoying that week. That's pretty cool. I mean, David Pearl has his Monday musings and his Friday finds newsletter where he sends a few thoughts that he's been thinking about and then links to articles that he's found useful. I mean, that Eliasson has his Monday medley, I think it's called, where he just sends, again, links to stuff that he's enjoyed that week, books, blog posts, music, anything interesting like that. And that strategy, that strategy of curation is very good. Because right now, we're living in a sort of the abundance era where there's just so much stuff out there, whereas if you sign up to someone's newsletter, where they are curating interesting things for you, and then you're following links to those interesting things. That's actually a really valuable service to be able to offer to people. And that's what I do with my newsletter, you know, every week Sunday snippets, mostly every week. I just send out, you know, I'm reading this book. It's interesting because of this. Oh, here's a blog post I really enjoyed. Here's a bit of music that I've been listening to along with some general thoughts about life, stuff I've been thinking about that week. And it doesn't take too much effort on my part to write, you know, when I can actually get round to writing it. Because I'm just documenting or curating the stuff that I've already done that week. I am basically just showing my work. I'm not trying to create something particularly special from scratch. And so if you're interested in starting a news letter, what I would recommend is you go down this approach of just write a paragraph, sharing something that you've learned or something you've been thinking about that week, and then a few links to interesting things that you've like read or listened to or watched. Anything like that works really nicely as an email newsletter. You can send it out to your friends and family. It's kind of nice. I kind of keep up today with some of my friends because they've got news letters and it's kind of nice to see what they've been up to. It's sort of like an Instagram story just a little bit more like high brow and a bit more intentional than that. So you can easily start an email newsletter like that. And so if you're sold on that, the next thing you need to do is figure out a platform to write your newsletter on. There are two free options that I would recommend. Substack and review. Substack is very good. I know a lot of people who use that. Review is very good. I've been using that for the last three years. Recently we've switched over to convert kit, which is also very good. Convert kit is I think free for the first 1000 subscribers in your list. So if you want, you can start with that. And it's just more powerful and it has a bunch of more features than Substack or review do. But to be honest, take your pick any of those three platforms all of them are completely free. Convert kit is free for the first 1000 subscribers. Substack and review are free forever. And you can start getting emails in on this. It's kind of fun. Like everyone I know who started a newsletter has been like, oh, this is actually quite a fun thing to do. I could get you into the habit of writing something weekly. It gets you into the habit of like reflecting on how your week's gone and what you've learned. It gets you into the habit of showing your work and sharing stuff with people. And it's not that hard. Like you don't have to get fancy cameras and study YouTube channel. You don't have to put yourself out there by being one of those people who post photos themselves on Instagram. You literally can just send one email every week or one email every month that has like two paragraphs in it and a few links. And that is a great way of getting started with building an audience on the internet. If you enjoyed this video, you'd like to find out more about how having this writing habit can genuinely change your life. Click that video over there, which is how writing online made me a millionaire. A bit of a clickbait title. But it's got some really useful tips and people been finding it really helpful. So thank you so much for watching. Do hit the subscribe button if you're not already and I'll see you in the next video. Bye-bye.
