# The Book That MOST Changed My Life
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nk_Pfxmqn6g
In this video I'll be giving you an overview of the book that most influenced my career and development—4 Hour Workweek by Tim Ferriss. 

✍️ The best summaries of books (Shortform) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform

Check out Liz's channel: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCUFFHXvzAMRSD8Bq4bJppxQ

Four Hour Work Week by Tim Ferriss: https://geni.us/hM7R

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

PART-TIME YOUTUBER ACADEMY:
🍿 My 6-week live online course - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ptya_aliabdaal
CREATORPRENEUR
💰 My flag-ship course for scaling up your creative side-hustle - https://creatorpreneur.academy/course


YOUTUBE FOR BEGINNERS COURSE
📸 This is for anyone who'd like to start a YouTube channel. You'll learn everything you need to get started as a YouTuber including how to script, shoot, and edit your first video - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/YouTube-for-Beginners



MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
📚  How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali

🎙 MY WEEKLY PODCAST - https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCdXpN-Z7LyTgc3OLo_Zw2Pg
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app. And we post clips + full episodes on the YouTube channel, so please subscribe to that!  

BE MY FRIEND:
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮  Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, four hour workweek, 4 hour workweek, 4 hour work week, four hour work week, 4hww, tim ferriss 4 hour work week, the four hour work week, the 4 hour work week, the 4 hour work week review, 4 hour work week review, 4 hour work week summary, the 4 hour work week summary, the 4-hour workweek, entrepreneur, 4 hour work week tim ferriss, 4 hour work week success story, 4 hour work week scam, the 4 hour work week book, the 4 hour workweek by tim ferriss, 
**Date:** 2021-02-14

## Transcript
 In this video, I'm going to summarize the key ideas from the book that's most changed my life before I work week. And then at the end of the video, I'll talk about which bits personally resonated with me the most and how they single-handedly changed the course of my life. Okay, so I know that the title might seem a little bit scammy and you might be put off reading this because of the title. Please don't really this book is about how the life that we want is closer than we think it is. And the first key idea is this difference between the deferers and the new rich. On one side, we've got the deferers, which is like the old school way of thinking. And these are the people who sacrificed their lives to the idea of retirement. These people might follow it in more traditional path, so they might work for 30 or 40 years and then retire at 65. And Tim Ferriss would say that these people are living the deferred life plan, which is that I'm going to work really hard while I'm young and in my physical prime and then when I retire then I'll be able to enjoy life. Then on the other side, we've got the new rich, again, don't think too hard about the word itself, but these are the people who have a more new school approach to life. I eat, they try and live the retired lifestyle throughout their life. And they tend to alternate kind of periods of work in periods of fun, periods of holiday. And the goal of this group is to free up their time and their location, which automatically makes their money worth 10 times more. They want to be able to travel around the world and learn new skills and spend time doing whatever they want instead of having to rely on their work. Now this idea of new rich was a pretty radical idea when Tim Ferriss first suggested it in 2006, 2007. This has now become much more mainstream and we have all these digital nomads and you know the creator economy, the passion economy, I am too an extent, also living the, well, this was a new rich, it's a bit cringe. Living this sort of lifestyle where the stuff that I'm doing isn't directly tied to a location. And therefore if I want, when it's not lockdown, I can travel around the world and work from my laptop and make more money doing that than I could in my day job as working as a doctor. And these days there's like hundreds of thousands if not millions of people doing it around the world, especially with the whole remote working, thing being accelerated thanks to the pandemic. Anyway, there's eight simple rules that Tim Ferriss says that you want to follow to be part of the new rich and those are as follows. Number one, interest and energy are cyclical. IE we should be trying to alternate between periods of work in periods of rest and we want to try and distribute these mini retirement throughout our life rather than working really, really, really hard for 40 years and then saving retirement up until when we're 65, when we have osteoarthritis in both bunnies. Rule number two, less is not laziness and the idea here is that we want to be able to leverage our time so that we can get like accelerated results with only a small amount of time actually put in. This is one of the principles behind my course, the part time YouTuber Academy, the idea is how can we build systems around our content production so that we can actually spend less of our own time doing the stuff and let the system do more of the work. Rule number three, the timing is never right. Lots of us are in this mode where we're kind of trapped in the life we have and the reason that we say we don't want to do something else is because the timing isn't quite right. Oh, it's not the right time to get married. It's not the right time to have kids. It's not the right time to switch to remote work and go to vacation, whatever. Tim Ferriss is basically saying in the book, the timing is never ever going to be right and you just have to do the thing and figure the rest out along the way. And there's a nice quote where he says that waiting for someday will take your dreams to the grave. Rule number four is seek forgiveness rather than permission. This is one of my mantras that I try and live by. That's pretty standard. And then we go on to Rule number five, emphasize your strengths. Don't try too hard to fix your weaknesses. This is the one that I slid you disagree with, but Tim Ferriss's point is that focus more on the things that you're good at where you are uniquely placed to leverage up your time and your skills. Don't worry too hard about trying to be good at absolutely everything. I disagree to an extent because I think, for example, I was really bad at public speaking back in the day. I didn't really know how to talk to girls back in the day. These are things that, you know, if I followed Tim Ferriss's advice to the letter, I wouldn't be focusing on those weaknesses. But you know, there are stuff that if we know we're about it, we can improve it. But kind of his main point is it's all about thinking about what are your strengths and playing those up. Rule six is a nice one and that's money alone is not the solution. Lots of us think that I can't do X because I don't have the money. And like kind of the whole point of this book is that the reason that we want to be rich generally is because it's not because of the money itself. It's because we want the rich lifestyle that people have where it's like, hey, I can travel around the world and stuff. And his main point throughout the book is that you can actually do the stuff that you think you want to do a lot cheaper than you think. And that leads on to rule number seven, which is that relative income matters far more than absolute income. Relative income looks at both money and time, crucially, as being our resources, whereas the deferers, the old school way of thinking is to just think about money as a resource. And this is something where I always get into arguments with my mum about this because she's very much money is the main resource. And I'm very much time is the main resource. And so she can't fathom why I would order take away every day to save up time. And I can't fathom why she would drive three hours out of her way to save 10% on the whole all meats to save money. And so that's a place where the two of us don't really see eye to eye. Finally rule number eight, distress is bad, but use stress is good. Distress is the type of harmful stress that over a long amount of time makes us weaker. Whereas use stress is that kind of stretch zone where we're just stepping outside of our comfort zone, but things are not like full on panic mode. And so use stress is what helps us grow, whereas distress is what makes us have problems further down the line. So that's sort of the first key idea of the book. These are the eight rules for joining the new rich or the new school way of approaching life. And then for the rest of the book, he talks about a four part method for getting to this point where you are part of the new rich. And that follows the acronym D-E-A-L. Now D stands for define. And the idea here is that if you want to be part of the new rich, it's worth defining your fears and also defining your dreams defining what you actually want to get out of life. Firstly, Tim Ferriss talks about the idea of mitigating fear. He says that it's fear that's stopping us from trying out new things. And I think he's completely right about that. And he says that most of us would rather be unhappy than uncertain. Like, we're so scared of the unknown. We're so scared of, I don't know, leaving our job or trying out this new thing that even if we're unhappy where we are right now, we prefer the certainty of being unhappy rather than the uncertainty of trying out something new. Tim Ferriss says that if you want to be part of the new rich, then you want to flip this and instead choose uncertainty over unhappiness. Like, I would rather be uncertain than unhappy. He's got this list of six questions that's useful for us to ask. I don't follow these kind of like step-by-step, but I've kind of incorporated these into my way of thinking. And so now, whenever I find myself not doing something because I'm scared, I do kind of run mentally through these six questions and then I realize, oh, I'm just too much of a scary cat and I just need to do the thing. Those questions are firstly, what are the things you're not doing because you're scared? Secondly, what are you missing out on by not doing those things? Why aren't you doing those things? What's the absolute worst case scenario? If the worst happened, how would you fix it? And if you wanted to go back to how everything was before you made a change, how would you do it? And these are the thoughts I went through my mind when I got approached by a publisher a few months ago asking if I would be interested in writing a book. I was very scared. I was like, oh my god, what if it gets bad reviews? And what if no one likes it? And what if people are like, oh, well, how are you qualified to write a book and all this sort of stuff? And I, you know, partly spoke to a few friends, spoke to a few mentors and also ran this through. Like, what I'm actually scared of here, what's the worst case scenario? Like, the worst case scenario is I put out a book, people don't like it and it gets bad reviews. Is that the end of the world? No. Will I regret not doing this one a model? Probably. Therefore, I should just write this book. And that was kind of the thought process that made me interested in, you know, the idea of writing a book. If you want to follow along my book journey, there's a link to my book email list, which is where every few weeks I'll post a little update and ask some questions and give you some sample drafts. If you're interested, it's in the video description. The other area in my personal life where I was scared recently is, so it's been about six months since I've worked full time as a doctor because I took a bit of a break, intended to travel the world. But now I'm kind of going back into medicine part time, which I'll talk more about later. But that was really scary, initially, because part of it was like, oh my god, what if I forgot and it all, what if I suck, what if they see through and they think I'm afraid and all of this sort of stuff. And I kind of asked myself these worst case scenario, fear setting questions that Tim Ferriss suggests. And yeah, help me get over my fear of kind of going back into medicine. Anyway, once we've defined our fears as defined, the next step is to define our ambitious goals. And the cool thing here and a mental model that I still used to this day, having read this like, I don't know, eight years ago, is that instead of thinking what will make us happy, we should be thinking about what would make us excited. Because it's quite it's quite hard to think about what what makes us happy. Like, I'm quite happy doing what I'm doing right now, you know, sitting at home making making videos. But I wouldn't say I'm particularly excited by it. But if I'm going by this barometer of excitement, that encourages me to take more risks and do more risky things that will probably lead to more interesting things happening further down the line. So optimizing for excitement, rather than just happiness. And he's got an example exercise here that you guys might like to try out. And he says, you want to list five things that you want to have. Five things that you want to do and five things that you want to be. And that generates 15 dreams for us. Now, from those 15 dreams, you want to choose the top four. And then we want to come up with three action items for each of these dreams. And, crucially, we want to do the first action right now. Now, this process is what I adapted for my 2021 goal setting thing. I've made a video about it. It'll appear over there somewhere where I define that, you know what, this year, I really want to become good at concept art. And therefore, you know, what are the actionable steps I can take right now? Well, you know, I can practice art every day. I can get an art teacher. I can sign up to these online courses. And now I've actually been doing the art thing since January. And I've definitely noticed an improvement. And it's really fun doing art. So art is one of those areas in which I set ambitious goal of wanting to be good at having never really done it before. And now I'm seeing progress. And now it's actually really really fun. And the final part of this process here is quite important because he says we should do the first action right now. And I think that is one area in which like new years resolutions and this sort of stuff generally falls flat because it's very easy to set goals. But if we force ourselves to take the first action right now, as soon as we set the goal, it really accelerates our progress. And there's a nice quote from the book here. Tim Ferriss says that for all of the most important things, the timing always sucks. The stars will never align and the traffic lights of life will never all be green at the same time. The universe doesn't conspire against you. But it doesn't go out of its way to line up all the pins either. Conditions are never perfect. Some day is a disease that will take your dreams to the grave with you. If it's important to you and you want to do it eventually, just do it and correct course along the way. So that was D for define the next part of our acronym is E for eliminate. And this bit is all about eliminating the things that take up too much of our time and don't add very much value to us. Now, again, this came out 15 years ago, so a lot of these are fairly standard affair in the productivity world. Now, things like Parkinson's Law, which is one of my favorite laws, which is that work expands to fill the time allocated to it. And so with this video, for example, I was meant to film this video last week, but because I gave myself a whole day to do it, I actually never got it done. Whereas, today, I've given myself one hour to film this video, and now it's being done. Next, we have the Pareto Principle, which is that 80% of the results come from 20% of the inputs. Again, the first time I heard about this was reading the 40 work week eight years ago, but it's now, it's now pretty standard. It's this idea that, you know, the crucial few leads to the majority of the results. And so we want to be optimizing for those as much as possible. What is the 20% of actions that is going to give us the 80% of results? And I found myself using this in all sorts of areas, you know, when it comes to overcoming perfectionism in anything that I do online, when it came to studying for my medical school exams, there's loads of like minutiae that will give you like maybe an extra 10% of the marks. But the bulk of the marks, the 80% comes from the core 20% of the content. And so the more you can kind of focus on that, the more efficiently you can get stuff done. And the third thing that he talks about a lot is the idea of batching. So, you know, doing tasks that are similar together. So, for example, instead of doing laundry every day, you would do it like once a week or once every other week, when you can do it all in one go. That's like a really simple example, but there's so many areas in a life where we can apply this. For example, my house might and I do grocery shopping once a week via click and collect. And this is a productive and efficient way of doing the groceries rather than going to the shops every day like some of my friends do. Also, with emails, like emails are the sort of thing that we just check basically every hour of the day. But we can batch our checking emails in the morning and evening if we really want to. And chances are, nothing really important is going to slip through the cracks. If we only check email twice a day, but it does free us up to be more productive in other areas of our life. So, that's defined and eliminate. Then we have automate. Now, this is really interesting because this is all about building a system that automates the results that you want. And he talks a lot about building a kind of internet business in this and how you can automate things so that either computers or other people are kind of working for you rather than you having to put in all that work yourself. And one way of doing this is, as he suggests in the book, to hire a virtual assistant. Now, again, this has become more popular in the last 15 years, but still is kind of underrated. And I think Tim Ferriss was the first one to really mainstreamify this idea of having a virtual and that's the idea that you can pay someone to do the sort of things for you that you'd rather not do yourself. And if you're paying someone in a different country, like for example in the Philippines or in Pakistan or Bangladesh or something, where if you pay them five or six dollars an hour, that's like absolutely huge and like a ridiculously high salary for them. But it's also probably a lot less than you make in your own job. If you have a job, therefore, you can take advantage of this geo arbitrage where you can get a virtual assistant who can help you do stuff, which frees up your own time to make more money or do more of what you love. This is a bit controversial. I've tried using virtual assistants in the past. When I was building my company six med, we used a lot of virtual assistants in the Philippines to help out with stuff. And now these days, it's great because I have a non-virtual assistant who's based in the UK. I will link her YouTube channel down below because she started a YouTube channel recently. Yeah man, it's just great having an assistant. This is a bit of an advanced point. Most people are like, oh my god, I can't afford to have an assistant and definitely before getting one. I was like, oh my god, what sort of person is it who has an assistant? But really, like, if you're an entrepreneur or if you have a business or something, and your time is worth a certain amount, you can and should pay someone who makes less than that to take stuff off your plate. That lets you focus on the most important things. For example, you know, my time is worth quite a lot when I sit down and film a video. My time is not worth very much when I am, I don't know, booking flights or ordering groceries online or, you know, doing the laundry, ironing my clothes. These sorts of things are things that I can very easily outsource because it frees up my own time to do the high leverage things in my business. Obviously, there are caveats here, you know, you don't want to outsource every aspect of your life. There is something to be said for, you know, doing manual labor and washing the dishes and washing the washing clothes and stuff. But personally, I don't particularly enjoy doing the dishes. I don't enjoy doing the laundry, which is why we have a dishwasher and why recently outsourced my laundry as well to an external provider. Anyway, all that side, the second part of automating is finding amuse. Now, this is again, this terminology hasn't really caught on in the last 15 years, but Tim Ferriss' idea of amuse is like a business, a lifestyle business. So a business that doesn't take too much of your own time to operate, but that makes reasonable money. And this is sort of related to the idea of passive income. Really, there's no such thing as truly passive income, which is why it always air quotes it whenever I say the phrase passive income. But really, the key is to find a niche market and offer a service to that market and then build systems and people in a way that means you don't have to spend your own time in delivering that service. And it was when I read this that really helped me get to the point of setting up my first company, six med, which helped people get into med school. That was very much a lifestyle business. I was probably working less than four hours a week at the business and it was making like a very reasonable full time living for me while I was in med school. And that was basically directly thanks to all the advice that Tim Ferriss shared in the four hour work week. So thank you for that Tim, if you're watching this. And then the final part of the deal, acronym is L for Liberate. And this is when, you know, you've got all the pins aligned up with your automated mues and your virtual assistants and the fact that you're an outtonex more productive because of Parkinson's Law than Beretta Principal in Batching. And so now you can liberate yourself from the shackles of your full time job, if that's what you want, or you can liberate yourself from the shackles of working in your business rather than on your business. And to an extent, this is what I did a few months ago when I quit medicine. I, you know, as I said, I intended to take a break and travel the world, but obviously that didn't end up happening. But it was kind of nice having a business that could very comfortably support my lifestyle while not having to go to work every day. And again, you know, before our work week, this idea of financial independence passive income, this is for me has really been my north star for the last like eight years ever since I read the book. And as I was going through med school, I always had this in the back of my mind thinking, okay, you know, my dream life is where medicine is optional and where I can work as a doctor if I want to, but where I don't have to. And it was basically like all the stuff that I learned in this that helped me get to this point where I, I've now got these multiple streams of passive these multiple music or lifestyle business or whatever you want to call it. And so if you're interested in doing the same, I would recommend you read the book. It does have a lot of like tools and services and apps and stuff in it. And so it is a little bit out of date and there's lots of sections where he recommends lots of tools. You can eat, you can easily skip over those sections. Like the book looks quite big, but if you skip over those like now outdated sections, the advice in it is still really, really good, but you do have to look past the somewhat arrogant tone that a lot of people say he comes across as and he's admitted this himself. I listen to his podcast religiously and he says that, you know, I wrote this 15 years ago, I had a different style of writing. So look beyond the superficial stuff and you'll find like a treasure trove of absolute gold in here. If you're not sold in reading the book and you want to check out a very good summary of it, I would recommend the service short form. And short form is this new service which is now my favorite way of reading summaries of books. It's a lot more detailed than blinkest or other things that have tried in the past. And actually we used the short form summary of this this book to construct the script for this video partly. And so I started using short form a few weeks ago and really, really liking it. And then I became friends with the founder of it. And they've created this like really nice affiliate partnership for us. So if you go down video description, go to shortform.com forward slash alley, you will get some freebies and you will get like a discount or something like that. They keep changing what the deal is, but check it out link in the video description. If you care about reading summaries of books, what a warning, reading a summary of a book is not a substitute for actually reading the book itself. And again, this is a very good very good book, which you should read a link it down below as well. But often what I like to do is before reading a new book, I will read the summary of it on short form first. And then I'll see, okay, cool. Now I can read this, but I've got more of a big picture idea of what the whole book is about. Anyway, this is one of the three books that has most changed my life. The other two are show your work by Austin Cleon and anything you want by Derek Sivers. And I have a video over here that will summarize those three books that change my life for you. So definitely check that out. Lots of people have watched that video and said that they've got those recommendations and that video has changed their life. So check it out over there. Thank you so much for watching and I'll see you in the next video. Bye-bye.
