# I Slept With My Mouth Taped Shut for 30 Days
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nl8LQrbMdqQ
In this video I'll be going over my experience of sleeping with my mouth taped shut for 30 days. It was an interesting experience, semi-based on internet research, so we'll see how it goes.

Somnifix mouth strips: https://somnifix.com/products/mouth-strips-snoring-sleep-aids
Animation from: https://www.youtube.com/watch?t=9&v=3h0JgmmLj_Q

Follow Sheen on Instagram - https://instagram.com/sheengurrib

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

PART-TIME YOUTUBER ACADEMY:
🍿 My 6-week live online course - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ptya_aliabdaal
CREATORPRENEUR
💰 My flag-ship course for scaling up your creative side-hustle - https://creatorpreneur.academy/course


YOUTUBE FOR BEGINNERS COURSE
📸 This is for anyone who'd like to start a YouTube channel. You'll learn everything you need to get started as a YouTuber including how to script, shoot, and edit your first video - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/YouTube-for-Beginners



MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
✍️ The best summaries of books (Shortform) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
📚  How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
Deep Dive Podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/
The podcast that delves into the minds of entrepreneurs, creators and other inspiring people to uncover the philosophies, strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. You can find it by searching “Deep Dive with Ali Abdaal” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc).
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali
What I Use For Analytics - https://go.aliabdaal.com/tubebuddy

🎙 My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮  Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, mouth taped shut, how to stop snoring, how to stop dry mouth, sleeping with mouth tape, sleeping with tape on mouth, mouth taped sleeping, sleeping with somnifix tape, somnifix mouth tape review, how to sleep better, nose breathing, stop snoring, snoring, mouth tape, mouth breathing, junior doctor, mouth taping, nose breathing vs mouth breathing, mouth taping results, somnifix mouth tape, mouth taping for sleep, mouth taping for optimal sleep, 
**Date:** 2021-02-21

## Transcript
 Right, so this is gonna sound really weird, but I've spent the last 30 days with my mouth taped shut and it's been absolutely fantastic. As you guys know, I'm always on the lookout for cool hacks that I can use in my life to level up my health, poor fitness, or productivity, or even just being happier and having more fun. At one massive factor that leads into all of these areas is sleep. There's so much scientific evidence that says that when we're sleeping well, we're healthier, we're more engaged, we get more done, and we just generally have a better happier life. And so I've been on the hunt for easy ways that I can improve my own sleep, and one of the interesting things I came across on the internet was this idea of taping your mouth shut while you're asleep. This might seem like one of those weird health fats, and yes, there's no categorical scientific evidence for it, but I found enough stories on the internet from people who found it really helpful, that I thought I might as well give it a try. Not the idea here is that if we tape our mouth shut while we're sleeping, we can't breathe through our mouth, and instead we have to breathe through our nose. However, you feel about the shape of your own nose, it's a pretty good invention. The mucus and hairs on the inside help humidify and filter the air that we breathe, and warm it to body temperature before it enters our lungs. If you like me, and you tend to do most of your breathing through your mouth, and rather than your nose, because your nose is always blocked. Then instead of getting that moist, warm, filtered air into our lungs, we are getting the cold dry air into our lungs instead. This is bad because apparently it causes our sinusist to dry out. Worseens are dental hygiene, reduces our intake of nitric oxide, which is important for brain function, and reduces the quality of our sleep. Cardiovascular health and overall blood oxygen levels. And for me as well, I've had this thing for the last few years where I often wake up in the middle of the night with a really dry mouth, and I have to have a swig of water, and then sometimes I can't even get back to sleep. So those are all the reasons why mouth breathing in general is bad, and nose breathing in general is good. So I thought, you know what, let's try this taping mouth shut experiment for the next 30 days to see what actually happens. Alright, so first night of trying to sleep with my mouth taped shut, I've got these so many fixed mouth strips 28 days worth, clinically proven to improve breathing and sleep quality, and so it comes in this sort of like packet type thing. And so, if I open one of these, think about, I guess it goes in the mouth like this. I don't know how it's going to track for the beard, but we'll see. There's a bit of a hole in the middle, and so if I want to talk, I can talk like this. But otherwise, it's encouraging my mouth to stay closed as close as possible. So I went to bed that night, after announcing the experiment on my Instagram story, just in case I suffocated in my sleep. Alright, so that's day one. That worked reasonably well. My mouth is a little bit dry, but I didn't wake up during the night at all, and it's a lot less dry than it normally would be. Mission successful, I think. Alright, that's one day down and 29 more days to go. And so, with a successful sleep mission under my belt, I decided to continue the experiment for the rest of the month. I recorded some reactions as I went along, but looking at the footage, it's all quite repetitive and not very interesting, which is what you get when you try and film yourself sleeping, I guess. Halfway through the experiment around day 14, I noticed that the tape was feeling a bit weird on my mouth. And I realised that I should probably not use the same tape for 14 days in a row just to try and save money, and then I realised that these are disposable for a reason and the ideas that you're supposed to use one every day in the new throw it away, and then you do a fresh one the following day. And secondly, I check in with my housemate Sheen to hear what she thinks about the experiment. Well, do I think of the experiment? It's pretty dumb, isn't it? I think he could improve his sleep by washing his linen more than one to year, rather than by risking suffocating himself. I'm not complaining though, because it means that I don't hear him snow anymore, which means that my quality of sleep has also improved. Do you know they do these tapes for daytime as well? Alright, so it has been three weeks, since I've started using the somnifixes to take my mouth shut. For the next week, I'm going to try and not use those, and I'm tracking my sleep with the Apple Watch and with the hour ring, and I've got my bottle of water, and I'm going to see if it makes a difference to my sleep, not taping my mouth shut while I'm asleep. So Alexa lights off in the bedroom and good night. And so that was the 30-day experiment. It was three weeks with the mouth tape and one week without it. Oh, okay, so this was my first night in a while sleeping without the tape, and it actually wasn't too bad. I didn't wake up in the middle of the night, needing a drink of water, but right now my mouth is pretty dry. And I think that sleeping with my mouth tape for the last three weeks, I wonder if it's made me more likely to have my mouth close when I'm asleep anyway, which is why my mouth doesn't necessarily feel drier in the middle of the night. So good times all around, I feel reasonably restrid at a rested. It's half past eight, my Apple Watch is working me up, and now I was going to go for a run, but I don't know if I can actually be bothered, as I will see. So yeah, that's a vibe. I think I'm going to do a bit of snoozing for now. Let's talk about the main question now, which is does this actually work, and does it actually improve the quality of my sleep? And there's two ways of looking at this. So there's the subjective way, which is my own personal experience and how I felt, and then there's the supposedly objective way, which is where I was tracking my sleep data using the Apple Watch and the hour of smart ring, which I was wearing every night when I was in bed. Now in terms of subjective thoughts, yes, I think this actually does work. Like, subjectively, I was noticing that when I had my mouth take shut, I wouldn't wake up in the middle of the night, and when I would it be sort of around six o'clock in the morning, rather than three o'clock in the morning, like I would on a normal day where I didn't have my mouth take shut, and I noticed that when I'd wake up, my mouth would feel a lot less dry than usual, and I wouldn't need to drink water throughout the night, which I would have to do otherwise, and maybe this is me just imagining it, but I've noticed that this year, since I've started this experiment, I've had lots of days where I've worked in the morning, usually a half past date where I set my alarm, but I've had lots of days where I've worked in the morning feeling genuinely refreshed. I honestly can't remember very often last year where I had that experience of feeling genuinely refreshed in the morning, and part of me wants to maybe attribute it to the mouth taping shut, but I don't actually know. All right, what about objectively? So, I've been tracking my sleep for the last few, well, for the last two months, basically, using an app called Autosleep, which sings with the Apple Watch, and I've been wearing the Apple Watch to bed, basically every night, along with my hour of smart ring, which has its own app, I mean, this is my data for January, and I don't really know how to interpret it. I think the difficulty with this sort of thing is it's only really valid if you keep the parameters constant throughout, and there's like a zillion different variables in this, any equals one sleep study that would screw up the results of the experiment, even assuming the data from the Apple Watch and the hour ring is actually accurate. But, I mean, the annoying thing about this is that it was around the 24th of January, and the last seven days of January, in which I didn't sleep with my mouth taped shut, and it just it looks as if my sleep quality on average, just eyeballing these numbers, was actually better when I didn't have my mouth taped shut than when I did, which goes completely against my personal kind of subjective experience of it. But, I think it was more likely that during that time, I just didn't have anything early in the morning, or I didn't drink caffeine before bed, or I had the light sore for it, I didn't go on my phone, or as, you know, a hundred other factors that could go into it, rather than just the mouth taped. So, subjectively, definitely, I noticed an improvement, objectively, I probably can't really say, but the data didn't quite show the patent that I really, I kind of wanted it to. So, overall, two main questions. Number one, what I recommend this, and number two, am I going to continue doing it? What I recommend it? Yes, I'd recommend at least giving it a try, especially if you are like me, a mouth breather, and, you know, even for me, in day to day life, I tend to like my resting position, tends to be with my mouth hanging open, and I've told my housemate she in these days too, like, you know, please tell me when I'm my mouth is hanging open, because that's not a good look, and I've noticed, I think, that since I've started doing this, it makes my default mouth position more likely to be closed, and even though my nose is generally blocked, I noticed that when I'm on the laptop or on the computer, I'm actually not often sitting there with my mouth hanging open, like I would before. So, I don't know, it's one of those things where I think enough people on the internet have said that this is legit for you to at least try it out, if the dry mouth and the having to wake up in the middle of the night to drink water, if that's something you struggle with, try this out, because it certainly helped me, and finally am I going to continue doing this? Well, I'm actually filming this two weeks into February, and I have been continuing this for the last 14 days, basically, every night, I put on a different strip, and I just think it's better, it's now part of my sleep routine, like, you know, I do my skincare, I turn the lights off, I put my strip thingy on, and then I read on my Kindle, until my eyes start to close, and then I go to sleep, and then I wake up, I never need to wake up in the middle of the night for water, and now I wake up, take my tape off, and then I have a good day. So, I'm probably going to continue doing this for the next probably few months, and I'm going to buy one of these basically every month, because you get them in a pack of 28. If you're interested, I'll link this in the video description if you want to check them out, not sponsored or anything like that, but these are pretty solid, and so that's been my experience of taping my mouth shut for 30 days, in an attempt to improve my sleep quality and sleep hygiene. I'm still alive, I did not suffocate, and I think it's actually improved the quality of my sleep. If you like this video, and you're looking for other ways to improve your life, then check out this short playlist over here. There are three videos on it. The first one is one that I made recently, which is 21 life lessons that I would tell my 18 year old self, and then I've got two other short videos, which are a compilation of life lessons that I've learned over the last two years. So check that video out, thank you so much for watching, and I'll see you in the next one. Bye.
