# Why You're Not Happy and What To Do About It
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=npkwUeQYGj8
Let Audible help you discover new ways to laugh, be inspired, or be entertained.  New members can try it free for 30 days.  Visit https://audible.com/aliabdaal or text aliabdaal to 500-500 🔥

🚨 Watch the full interview with Mo Gawdat here - https://youtu.be/AudOhPG80E8
📩 Sign up to my weekly newsletter where I cover topics including happiness here - https://go.aliabdaal.com/newsletter_happiness
🚨 Watch an ad-free version of the video on Nebula - https://nebula.tv/videos/aliabdaal-why-youre-not-happy-and-what-to-do-about-it

I recently interviewed best-selling author @MoGawdatOfficial on my podcast @DeepDivewithAliAbdaal to talk about his research on happiness and how we can all potentially live happier lives. In this video, I go through why happiness is a choice, why we often struggle to see that and 5 practical ways to become happier in our day-to-day lives. Enjoy x

⏱ Timestamps
00:00 Intro
01:29 Happiness Is A Choice
02:50 Why We Can't Accept That Happiness Is Choice
04:30 5 Practical Ways to Become Happier

📚 Books Mentioned
Solve For Happy - https://geni.us/HPZ9W
That Little Voice In Your Head - https://geni.us/yrIvS

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

PART-TIME YOUTUBER ACADEMY:
🍿 My 6-week live online course - https://academy.aliabdaal.com

CREATORPRENEUR
💰 My flag-ship course for scaling up your creative side-hustle - https://creatorpreneur.academy/course

YOUTUBE FOR BEGINNERS COURSE
📸 This is for anyone who'd like to start a YouTube channel. You'll learn everything you need to get started as a YouTuber including how to script, shoot, and edit your first video - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/YouTube-for-Beginners

MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
✍️ The best summaries of books (Shortform) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
📚  How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound

🎙 Deep Dive podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/
The podcast that delves into the minds of entrepreneurs, creators and other inspiring people to uncover the philosophies, strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. You can find it by searching “Deep Dive” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/friendzone/
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
💙  The Friendzone Discord - https://discord.gg/Dh2kGavffd
🎮  Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I’m Ali, a YouTuber, podcaster, soon-to-be author and ex-Doctor working in London, UK. I make videos that explore the strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. I also have a weekly podcast called Deep Dive (https://www.youtube.com/channel/UChfo46ZNOV-vtehDc25A1Ug), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://email.aliabdaal.com).


GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, 
**Date:** 2022-08-12

## Transcript
 Happiness is mixed up in our modern world with so many weapons of mass destruction as I call them. Joy, pleasure, fun, entertainment, elation, excitement, but that's not happiness, that's not genuine happiness. My son died because of a medical error. They made a mistake in a very simple five mistakes, in a very simple surgical operation. Before he went into the operating room, I promised you the highest point of my life. And then, four hours later, at his call. My new baseline of happiness in life has gone from here to here. And you can make a choice to stay here. Or you can make a choice to make it slightly better. And that incremental bit is within the hands of everyone. I recently sat down with bestselling author and happiness expert, Mo Gada, and we talked a lot about how we can potentially live happier lives. Mo tragically lost his son, whose name was Ali in 2014, and since then he's made it his mission to try and understand and research around how happiness works and to try and make one billion people happier. And this struggle to find happiness in our day-to-day is something that I've struggled with a lot. We inevitably end up chasing things like money, and fame, and status, and success, and prestige. Kind of implicitly thinking that those things are going to make us happier. But as everyone says, eventually realize that actually that's not necessarily, it's not really the path to true happiness and fulfillment. In this video, we're going to be exploring some of the different ways that we can actually become happier using evidence from science and from those experience and from psychology. And we're going to talk about firstly the idea that happiness is a choice. Secondly, we're going to talk about why that's a particularly difficult idea for a lot of us to accept. And then finally, we're going to talk about five practical ways that we can apply right now to tangibly increase our own happiness levels. Let's get into it. Now, when I first heard this idea that happiness is a choice, part of me was like, okay, yeah, that kind of makes sense. But another part of me was like, ugh, it feels a bit wrong to say that happiness is a choice, because what about people who've had child abuse? What about people in poverty? What about people whose life circumstances mean that they can't possibly be happy? What's going on there? And I post this question tomorrow. Absolute happiness is not a choice. Nobody's ever always happy. Of course, if you have chronic pain, if you've been subjected to abuse, if you've lost someone that you love, it is, it's not the same ease of finding happiness that then like if you wanted to buy a sandwich, your place was closed, you know, your favorite or they didn't have your favorite sandwich. Some of us feel unhappy about that and it's absolutely a choice not to, right? It's not comparable to I've been abused. The question is, in relative terms, losing my child could make me miserable. And nobody would blame me for that. And you can make a choice to stay here, or you can make a choice to make it slightly better. It's slightly better. It's likely better. Yeah, you may, I may never return back to that high point. I may never return back to a place of absolute happiness of, you know, remembering my son and not missing him. But I have that choice to make that incremental bit. And that incremental bit is within the hands of everyone of us. Many of us don't like to accept the idea that happiness is a choice. And a sort of two main reasons, if we look at the psychology literature and researcher around this, two main reasons why we don't like this idea. The first one is the idea of the negativity bias. The way our brains have evolved over time. It's to be very aware of any threat to our happiness or to our survival or to our status in the group. And so when life is going swimmingly, the brain is like, all right, cool, I'm not good. I'm going to ignore all that kind of stuff. And I'm going to be constantly vigilant for any kind of threat to my potential safety. But what that means is that we have this bias towards negativity and we're way more likely to pay attention to negative events than two positive ones because obviously that was useful for our survival. That means that we're way more prone to thinking that like our negative external events mean that I can't possibly be happy. Therefore happiness is not a choice. It's outside of my control. Most of us live our entire life on solid ground. Most of us never ever see an earthquake, right? Ever unless it's in the news. The baseline of life is okay. Yeah. And then the negatives just happen, you know, they're dips out of okay and then back to the And the second reason why we struggle to accept this idea is the idea of locuses of control. Now this is a thing within the world of psychology where some people have an internal look as of control and other people tend to have an external look as of control. And usually what that means is if you have an external look as of control, you sort of feel like your life is ruled by the external world. Like external circumstances dictate how happy you are personally and what you're able to do. And to an extent that's true for everyone. But then there are some people that have more of an internal look as of control where they feel like they are in control of their and destiny and in control of decisions that can profoundly influence the impact of their lives. And generally it's a people that have been raised with the idea of an external looks of control who tend to think oh my god happiness can't possibly be a choice because the government because of this because recession because of all these other different external circumstances. Let's not talk about five practical ways to become happier. And the first one is understanding the happiness equation. Now this is from most first book called Sol for Happy, which is really good, I listen to an audible, it's absolutely sick. But essentially the idea there is that happiness equals reality minus expectations. Now based on this equation we can see that there's not a lot we can do to influence reality which is often the thing that we try to do. But if we want to become happier we can lower our expectations. And the lower our expectations are the more likely we are to be surprised by events and therefore be happier as a result of them. But one of the things we talked about in the interview was like does this mean that we should all just become super pessimistic? Does this mean that hey if you want to be happier you should just lower your expectations to the floor because everything's going to surprise you and then everything's hunky Dorian life is all good. If you're targeted in life is to be happy. Yeah. Okay. Honestly, then yeah lower expectations will make you happier. I know I know many friends in my life that decided that they've had enough of fast-paced lives. They went and lived in the Dominican Republic and the only thing that would make them unhappy on a day is that there is not enough when two kinds of. Their expectations are very low. They don't expect a Ferrari, they don't expect to be able to live in a big city, they don't want to go to museums, they expect expectations are low. So if your target is happiness yeah that's the way to go. Okay. If your target is success and impact on life, however, you need to go to the opposite way. And the opposite way is I need ambition. So you know when I wrote salt for happy at the beginning I wrote it with the mission of 10 million happy. Yeah. And then 10 million happy happened very quickly and my team got together and said maybe we should set a bigger target. So we didn't set 11, we didn't set 100 million, we set a billion happy. A billion happy is a crazy target to have. How many people in the world have reach a billion people, right? But it's a nice ambitious target to aspire to. So when I wake up in the morning year one, when we've achieved another 10 million or so, I don't tell myself that said we've achieved what we're done. I say to myself that it's still way to go there is still more to do. So your stuck between those two extends. One that says have no expectation at all and you'll be happy. And the other says have extremely high expectations and you'll be successful. What's the problem with the modern world? Is that we believed in this and not that? You know, the problem with the modern world is when you're growing up. I'm sure I don't know your mom, but your mom told you success is more important than happiness. Go, thrive in life, success leads to happiness. Or that success leads to happiness, right? So we believe that. Well, it's not true. I mean how often you meet someone who's successful and rich and famous and swimming in money and everyone's attracted to them and paparazzi is at all around the mandarin miserable. So success doesn't always lead to happiness. Now, between those two, there is a midpoint like everything in life, which is, I need a realistic expectation. A realistic expectation is not lowered than how it should be and it's not higher than how it should be. I need an ambitious ambition that is higher than the realistic expectation. And I need a contentment that sometimes my even my realistic expectation might be missed. And in that case, while I aim for a realistic expectation and a high ambition, yep, I'm getting the best of both words. I'm trying to be successful and at the same time, I'm contented as I go through that past when life misses my expectations sometimes. Oh, and what I took away from this is that there's always this trade-off between the happiness that we're experiencing in the here and now because we're expectations alone and this striving to do better and like achieve more things and stuff. And the way that I figured out to maybe reconcile these two, although it's something I still struggle with, is the idea that I can be totally content with my current lot in life and feel like, yeah, you know, my expectations are super low. If I'm releasing video, I have zero expectations of how it performs. If I'm trying a new thing, I have zero expectations that it's going to succeed. And I can just focus on enjoying myself in the moment. But at the same time, there is a middle way. At the same time, I can still be striving for something and having goals. Just trying my best not to time my ego and not be so attached to the outcome that it causes me to then become unhappy. Tip number two is the look down principle. Sadly, we always look up. We say, you know, I have Mercedes and he has a Ferrari or I am in the bus and he's in his Mercedes or I'm walking and he's in the bus or I'm not able to walk and he's walking. And you can always go down. Now the idea here is that we're often so accustomed to looking up. It's like, I compare myself to the person above me in the hierarchy or whatever. I compare myself to bigger YouTubers. Like, I've got three million subscribers, but like Mark has brownie has 15 million subscribers. Isn't he live in the dream? And this tendency to look up generally makes us focus on the gap between where we are now and that person that we aspire to be like. And when we focus on the gap, it causes us generally to become less happy. Whereas, most advice here is that actually is really helpful for our happiness if we instead look down. And this doesn't mean look down on people in like a mean way, but this means appreciating that where we are compared to where we were before, measuring the gain rather than the gap. There was a point around the year after he left us, where I realized something that completely flipped my view of everything, which was, yes, Ali died, but Ali also lived and he comes into our life and he enriches our life so much for 21 and a half years. And then he leaves and the typical human mind will say, how could life take my son, but the typical human mind would forget, how could life have given me my son. And it's so interesting when you realize that, honestly, if I was given a choice, with all the pain I left, I felt when he left us, if I would avoid the pain by not having him, absolutely not, and take the pain 10 times. Tip number three that I got from the interview is the rule of nine positive things. And this is a way of helping overcome a brain's negativity bias. And basically the idea here is that whenever you're upset about something, try and find nine positive things about the situation. Your brain is capable of anything, but if you leave it uncontrolled, it's tendency, it's instinct, it's to look for what's wrong. If you take charge, that little voice in your head, I basically say it's like your computer, it's like your device, you can tell it what to do and it will do. And once you start to take charge, that machine can be instructed to look for what's right. I have this very simple exercise. When my brain tells me something wrong about anything. Okay, okay. I ask for nine other good things about the situation. Alright, tip number four is that happiness is different from joy and pleasure. A little bit of this is somewhat semantic, but the way mode defines happiness and the way he talks about it in his books, that the little voice in your head and also so for happy is the idea that happiness is not like short-term hedonism. Happiness is not the joy you get from playing video games or hanging out with friends. Happiness is that general level of contentment that you have with life as a whole. That means that we need to be aware that when we're investing a time energy money effort into these short-term hedonistic things, they might give us those little spikes of like, I don't know, hedonism or dopamine or whatever, in the moment, but they're unlikely to contribute to a long-term happiness. And therefore, investing in things that we know contribute to our happiness like health and relationships and purpose and having a fulfilling career and having autonomy in our jobs. These things may not give us that instant dopamine hit right now, but they do tend to lead to longer-term happiness and fulfillment. And finally, tip number five that I really took away from reading most books and from having the conversation is the idea of journey before destination. And I often think about this quote because it really encourages us to focus on the present moment rather than on striving for some kind of external, external metric of success or anything like that. Really a lot of times we can act as if life is this dress rehearsal for some big event, or I will be happy when I achieve that particular milestone. I will be happy once I graduate med school and become a doctor because being a doctor is going to be way more fun. I'm going to be way happier. It's usually not the case. Usually happiness has found in the present moment. And I was listening to a great podcast episode between Lewis, Hose and Alex, for Mozi, where they were talking about the idea that when you were 20, you want to be a millionaire, but when you were a millionaire, you wish that you were 20. And so it's like, why are we striving for all these things, knowing that when we get there, we will absolutely trade all of it to be back in the present moment so that we can enjoy ourselves and really appreciate that present moment a little bit more. Now, if you're interested in happiness, I would highly recommend reading Mozi first book, Soul for Happy, which talks more in more detail about the happiness equation and how it came about, but also his new book, that little voice in your head, which is absolutely sick as well. And I've actually listened to both of these books on Ortebel who are very kindly sponsoring this video. Ortebel is probably hands down my favorite sponsor of all time to work with because I've been using Ortebel basically every day of my life since 2017. I looked at my stats. I've clocked in about one and a half months worth of nonstop listening over the last five years. Basically, I always have a nonfiction book and a fiction book that I'm listening to concurrently. Right now, the fiction book I'm really listening to is Words of Radiance, which is Book 2 of the Stormlight Archive by Brandon Sanderson, fricking incredible series of fantasy books completely changed my life when I discovered Brandon Sanderson, 100% recommended to everyone. Every single person I've ever recommended the Ortebel for the way of Kings, which is the first book in the Stormlight Archive series, has messaged me and being like, oh my god, this is fricking amazing, so 100% would recommend that. But also, I usually have a nonfiction self-helpy type Ortebel on the go as well. Like I said, I listened to Mozi first book, Soul for Happy on Ortebel and it was absolutely sick and it just really taught me a lot about happiness as well. And he's such a great narrator and like the introduction to that book where he talks about how he's sun died, just like genuinely brought me to tears and I couldn't recommend it highly enough. If you want to sign up to Ortebel, you can head over to Ortebel.com forward slash Aliabdal, or you can text Aliabdal to 500-500 and that will give you a completely free 30-day trial where you can get an audio book of your choice again completely for free. So if you want to listen to Soul for Happy or this new book that the little voice in your head, you can absolutely do that within the free trial. And I've been saying in videos for the last five years that if I could choose to have one subscription of any kind in the world, it would be Ortebel, I think it has hands down the single most valuable, the highest return on investment kind of subscription purchase that I've ever made. So 100% recommend Ortebel. Thank you so much for sponsoring this video. And thank you so much for watching this video. If you enjoyed this, you're going to absolutely love the full in-depth conversation I had with Mo on my deep dive podcast. That will be there over on the deep dive YouTube channel and you can also find it on any podcast platform of your choice. People have said that that is one of the best podcast episodes of All Time that they've ever listened to and I think it's certainly one of the podcast episodes that's had the biggest impact in my life. So check that out over there. Thank you so much for watching. Do hit the subscribe button if you aren't already. I'll see you in the next video. Bye-bye.
