# Best Kindle for 2022 - Standard, Paperwhite, Signature, Oasis
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nQggHK36gK8
Try out Loom, the screen recording software the team and I use daily 👉  https://loom.com/aliabdaal

Hey friends, in this video, we're taking a quick look at Amazon's newly released Kindles and which one I recommend you buy for 2022! Upfront, my conclusion is that you should go for the Paperwhite, but the standard kindle is also pretty good and much cheaper, it just comes with a few compromises. The Signature and Oasis are both pretty ridiculous unless you have money to burn or a very niche use-case. Hopefully this video helps with your decision! Enjoy xx

Standard Kindle: https://geni.us/1IAnH1
Paperwhite Kindle: https://geni.us/RWj5
Signature Kindle: https://geni.us/djINI
Oasis Kindle: https://geni.us/wIrN

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

PART-TIME YOUTUBER ACADEMY:
🍿 My 6-week live online course - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ptya_aliabdaal

MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
✍️ The best summaries of books (Shortform) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
📚  How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
Deep Dive Podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/
The podcast that delves into the minds of entrepreneurs, creators and other inspiring people to uncover the philosophies, strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. You can find it by searching “Deep Dive with Ali Abdaal” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc).
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali

🎙 Deep Dive podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/
The podcast that delves into the minds of entrepreneurs, creators and other inspiring people to uncover the philosophies, strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. You can find it by searching “Deep Dive” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
💙  The Friendzone Discord - https://discord.gg/Dh2kGavffd

WHO AM I:
I’m Ali, a YouTuber, podcaster, soon-to-be author and ex-Doctor working in London, UK. I make videos that explore the strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. I also have a weekly podcast called Deep Dive (https://www.youtube.com/channel/UChfo46ZNOV-vtehDc25A1Ug), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://email.aliabdaal.com).

TIMESTAMPS:
00:00 Intro 
00:38 Which Kindle Should You Buy?
01:03 Why Should You Get a Kindle?
02:08 Standard Kindle
05:40 Kindle Paperwhite
07:35 Kindle Signature Edition
10:30 Kindle Oasis

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, Which Kindle Should You Buy?, kindle paperwhite, kindle oasis review, kindle paperwhite vs oasis, amazon kindle, kindle review, kindle oasis, best kindle, paperwhite vs oasis, kindle paperwhite review, best e-reader, Ali Abdaal books, Ali Abdaal Kindle, How to read more books, Ali Abdaal how to read more books, How to read more books with a kindle, kindle paperwhite 2021 review, kindle reviews and comparisons, Which Kindle Should I buy?, 
**Date:** 2022-01-27

## Transcript
 Hey friends, welcome back to the channel. So if you are in the market for a Kindle, then we actually have four different options to choose from these days. We have the standard Kindles. We have the Kindle paper white, we have the Kindle paper white signature, and we slightly old school Kindle Oasis. We're going to be breaking down the pros and cons of each of these four different types of Kindle. And as usual, to save your time, it's going to be time stamps in the video description. And the upfront conclusion is that for most people, I would recommend to the normal Kindle Paper white edition. If you're on a very tight budget, then the standard cheap Kindle is pretty reasonable, although it does have a few inconveniences. And if you have extra money to burn, then the Kindle Paper white signature edition is pretty good, that's the one that I use personally, and there's basically no reason at all to get a Kindle Oasis. If that's all you wanted, then thank you for watching and have a great day. But if you want to learn more in this video, we're going to start by breaking down exactly why I think everyone should have a Kindle and why it's my favorite tech purchase of all time. And then for each of these four different types of Kindle, we are going to be breaking down the pros and cons, and I'm going to be doing like a mini review of each one and sharing my thoughts, and we'll ultimately land on why I personally use the Kindle Paper white signature edition. So let's start with part one. Why do I like the Kindle so much? The Kindle, as I've often said, is my single favorite tech purchase of all time. Kindle number one and AirPods number two. Those are two life-changing pieces of tech. The reason Kindle is life-changing is kind of three fold. Number one, it makes it super super easy to read books. It takes all of the friction out of reading. I carry a Kindle with me wherever I go. I always have one in my bag, and I always have a second one being honest on my bedside table because they're just insured that I'm able to read just before bed. Secondly, having a Kindle makes it super easy to buy books. Anytime someone recommends me a book, I would just immediately buy it on Kindle. It costs a few pounds. It's often cheaper than buying the physical book, and it means I can access it immediately. And finally, having a Kindle makes it super easy to highlight books as well. So if you're interested in reading nonfiction, like a lot of what I read, then highlighting and taking notes on it is kind of a useful thing to do, and a Kindle makes it super super easy. So overall, yeah, the single one tech purchase that I think is absolutely life-changing for everyone that I think is an absolute no-brainer. So after all that preaching, let's talk about the normal Kindles. Now the cool thing about these is that it comes in white and black as well. And the annoying thing about the other ones is that they don't come in white. I would have loved to see the Kindle paper white or the paper white signature in a white color. I would definitely put that one because I prefer white colors, but basically you've got a choice of two for the normal Kindle. And the normal Kindle cocks in at around $49 or $49, and they often have sales to make it even cheaper than that. So this is by far the best value for money Kindle on the market. And as with all the Kindles, the reading experience is very good. There's no buttons on it, other than the on button, and you just touch the screen if you want to go forward or back any pages in your book. And it genuinely does sort of look like you're reading on paper. They've got these e-ing screens that don't feel like you're reading from a screen. And for $49 or $49, however much this is, this is actually really, really, really good. Even if you're a student on a type budget, four meals out with friends would cost you around about £50 depending on where you go. And for the price tag of $49, if you're on a budget, this is genuinely really, really good. Like the amount of ROI return on investment you get from having a Kindle, which then unlock the ability to read more books more friction is such an operator. Even when you're a student, you know, four or five takeaways is worth about, 50 quit. So if you don't have those four or five takeaways, suddenly you're going to Kindle, your life will be completely magically transformed, I can guarantee it. But the standard Kindle editions do have a few inconveniences, which make them not my top recommendation. My top recommendation, like I said, is the Kindle paper wide. So what others? Firstly, they charge with Micro USB, like USB 2, rather than USB C. This is a bit of a nightmare, because I don't have any of the devices that charge with basic box standard Micro USB. And so actually finding a cable to charge these is a non-trivial thing. And actually when I used to use the Kindle Oasis, which also really annoyingly has Micro USB rather than USB C. It would often run out of battery, well, it would run out of battery, like every now and then, and I'd be like, ah, I really cannot find a cable to charge this. And it would mean that I would be able to get to sleep one night, because I often read the Kindle before going to bed. And it really, like, negatively impacted my quality of life. The other annoying thing about the normal Kindle is that the resolution is about half of what it is on the Kindle paper wide and the Kindle Oasis. So the more expensive Kindle's have a resolution of 300 pixels per inch, whereas these normal Kindle's have a resolution of 167 pixels per inch. And if you're used to reading a normal Kindle, you probably won't notice this. But it's like, if you're used to reading on a Kindle paper wide and high resolution screens, you can sort of more easily see the pixels. And it's just a little bit less of a nice reading experience if you compare them side by side. Although, of course, if all you've seen is the bite of Kindle, you're going to be completely satisfied with it. In terms of design, the screen size is very slightly smaller than the Kindle paper wide. This is not a huge deal. Like, I find that this screen size completely fine as well. This one is also good. So screen size isn't a major factor for me. But the other annoying thing about these Kindle's is that they don't have a warm light option. Now, life is pretty good these days, because all these Kindle's do have a backlight, whereas back in the day, the original Kindle's of old never had a backlight, and so you'd have to like have the bedside lamp on while you're reading. Now, they all have a light, but the standard ones only have a cool light like a blue light, which apparently, when you're trying to get to sleep at night, is not very good, because your eye responds to the blue light and it kind of keeps your weight, because your eye thinks things are daytime, something along those lines. The nice thing is that the Kindle's, and the Kindle paper wide, do have a warm light. So, you're getting yellow light rather than blue light. And theoretically, that helps you sleep better at night. I've tried both with my any equals one study. I haven't really noticed much of a difference in my ability to sleep with warm light versus cold light, but apparently the sign says that warm light is better, so that's a big reason why the Kindle paper wide is my go to rather than the normal Kindle. If you're on a budget and you can live with those drawbacks, then the normal Kindle is absolutely fantastic, and you will absolutely not regret buying it, and I can just 100% recommend it with that reservation. Alright, let's now talk about the Kindle paper wide, and as I said, this is one that I recommend for most people, and this comes in at 104 pounds, the daughter price will be over here, and this is basically twice the price of the standard Kindle, so what features do you get for twice the price? Well, firstly, it's the design is slightly different. The screen is now flush with the, well, the device, whereas there is a bit of a sort of a rich divot with like the normal Kindle. It's not a huge deal, it doesn't really make much difference in the reading experience, but the screen is very slightly bigger, which you might prefer. It does have a much better resolution, and that's one of my favorite things about it, that the text looks smoother, then it does on the normal Kindle, and it has a warm light option, which means like me, if you were reading at night time in bed in the dark, then you don't need to worry about the blue light, allegedly calming your eyes and stopping you from going to sleep. The light on this is slightly stronger as well, although I tend to have it on maximum brightness, because I read it at the night time, and so I haven't really noticed much of a difference between the standard Kindle at the paperwhite. But the other cool thing about the paperwhite is that it is now waterproof, that is one of the new features in the Kindle Paperwhite that wasn't there before, which is what justify the existence of the much more expensive Kindle Oasis, but now paperwhite, paperwhite signature, and Oasis, are all waterproof, so that's nice if you want to read in the shower for whatever reason. So the question becomes, is it worth paying twice the price for the Kindle Paperwhite rather than the Kindle normal? I think it kind of depends on your budget. If you're on a type budget where that £50 or $50 makes a large difference to your life, then don't worry about it. Just get the normal Kindle, and you'll be completely fine with it. It's just a very slight inconvenience to have that annoying micro USB charger, but hey, it's not a huge deal. Whereas if your budget decides that that £50 $50 doesn't really make much of a difference to your life, then I think you will want to upgrade to the Kindle Paperwhite for the reasons of the warm light, the slightly bigger screen, and the higher resolution. And the fact that apparently the battery for this is 40% like longer lasting than the battery for the standard Kindle, which kind of makes sense because this is smaller than this, and battery size kind of depends on the size of the device. But to be honest, Kindle's have such a long battery life anyway, and you charge them like maybe every couple of weeks that it doesn't really make much of a difference to your day-to-day use. So that's the Kindle Paperwhite. Let's not talk about the Kindle Paperwhite signature edition, which is basically exactly the same to the point where I literally cannot even tell the difference between the two devices other than by looking at like the serial number on the back being like, okay, this is the signature and this is the normal one. But Amazon is charging an extra £75 or like $90 or something for the Kindle Paperwhite signature. So what do you get for that? But basically you only get three things. Number one, you get upgraded storage, so the normal Kindle Paperwhite has eight gigabytes by default, whereas the signature has 32 gigabytes by default. That is honestly not a huge deal. Unless you read comic books, or you listen to audiobooks on the Kindle, which is a bit weird, because you can just listen to audiobooks on your phone. Like, you're very unlikely to ever come close to the limitations of even eight gigabytes. And so upgrading from 8 to 32 doesn't really make much of a difference, at least for me. Secondly, the signature has an auto adjusting front light. To be honest, I have never noticed this and only realized that was a thing when I looked at the specification list in preparing this video, having used both the normal Paperwhite and the Paperwhite signature, because I just have never noticed that the light automatically adjusts, because it's not a thing that you notice, and it's not that hard manually just in the light. If you need to, to be honest, I've only adjusted the light on the normal Paperwhite just once, which was the first time I got it. And now I've got it set to the level that I want when I'm reading a bed. And if I'm feeling a bit like, oh, I want to be a bit brighter. I'll just adjust the light manually. It's not very hard. But the third difference between the Paperwhite and the Paperwhite signature and the reason why I got the signature is because the signature now has wireless charging. Yes, if you want, you can buy the extra wireless charging device for the Kindle. It's actually really not made by Amazon, but made by Anker. But this is apparently like a somewhat first party wireless charger. I can't remember how much this was. I think it was like 30 40 pounds worth of price down here. And the cool thing about this is you plug it into a wall and then you'll kill the Kindle Paperwhite signature and charge wirelessly. This is actually kind of useful for me because I always forget to charge my Kindle. And there's been a few days in my life over the last year where the Kindle is run at battery and I thought, oh, I wish the Kindle had a run at a battery. The nice thing about the wireless charger means is that in the morning I can just stick the Kindle on the wireless charger and I know my Kindle is never ever going to run at battery because now it's on the wireless charger and that's its home on my bedside table. Plus it's just kind of nice to have a wireless charger and it makes the bedside table look good. So for that reason, I was personally happy to pay an extra 75 pounds for the Kindle Paperwhite signature and an extra like 3040 quid for the wireless charger. Just kind of for that very mild convenience and very mild aesthetic preference. This is why it's probably only recommend the signature if you're in that position where you're a massive tech nerd and you don't really care about how much money you spend on tech because you can call it a business expense or something like that. Because like to be honest spending an extra twice as much just for the benefit of wireless charging, probably isn't really worth it, especially considering the Paperwhite's charge with USB-C and we all have USB-C cables lying around absolutely everywhere these days so you can always very easily charge it with your laptop charger or your phone charger or whatever. But yeah for that reason I have a wireless charge for my bedside and I have the Kindle Paperwhite signature but that is not a recommendation that I would give for most people. My recommendation is still for most people. The normal Kindle Paperwhite is the way forward unless you're on a budget in which case the standard Kindle will completely do. So these are the new Kindles, the normal ones, the Paperwhite and the Paperwhite signature, but there is the old Kindle Oasis. It's a bit of a different design. You can get it in different colors. I think this is like the gold one. This is quite expensive. I think it's about 230 pounds up at the prices down here and this used to be a reasonable option because it had a warm light and it was waterproof. But now the standard Kindle Paperwhite also has a warm light and is also waterproof. So unless you really, really vibe with the physical design of the Oasis and the physical buttons it's not really something that would recommend. Personally I use this for about a year and I actually genuinely prefer the Paperwhite. I don't really like the design of this it's not like easier to hold or easier to read. I guess you know you can kind of hold it like this where you know your thumb isn't really covering the device but to be honest you figure out like it's not that hard holding one of these devices. So basically I would really say that there's no there's no reason at all to get one of these old Kindle Oasis Oasis Oasis or whatever. Maybe that will change when Amazon upgrades these but I can't imagine the Kindle Paperwhite being anything other than the recommendation for most people. Oh and the other really knowing thing about the Oasis is that it's all micro USB. It's not even USB-C so it's actually genuinely hard to charge the Kindle Oasis. So basically it's not only to get one of these I'm not gonna throw it because I want to give it to one of my team members or one of my friends because it's still Kindle Oasis under the day and it was like 230 quid but yeah basically we can throw this in the trash because it's a bit pointless. Now at this point you might be wondering what the hell I'm doing with all these five different Kindle's I'm gonna keep two of them for myself but these three I'm gonna be giving away to various team members because now I've got a team of people that helps me out on this YouTube channel and all the various courses and stuff that we do as a business and in fact completely coincidentally one of the tools that really helps us work together as a team as a business is an app called Loom who are very kindly sponsoring this video. To be honest you've probably heard of Loom already it's a fantastic screen recording app that works across all platforms, mobile platforms, desktop platforms, Mac, Windows, the whole shabang and it's by far the easiest way I've ever found to record screencasts so we use those for team members for documentation for onboarding, for me showing someone how I do something on the computer so that they can then do the thing and I can delegate it to them. We also use Loom a lot for a part-time YouTuber Academy so we use it to show students how to do stuff in editing software, how to use our various courses platform and we also use it to give feedback on their videos and the cool thing about that is that you can literally just open a Loom recording watch someone's video and directly talk the feedback as you're going through and in fact I've started using Loom to give video feedback to some of our editors on these videos as well rather than having to type things out on Google Doc for example. Loom is used by over 14 million people from all around the world and because Loom have partnered with us on this video if you go to loom.com forward slash LA or you hit the link in the video description that'll give you a free 14 day trial to the Loom business plan that's a plan that we pay for as a team and that we have been for the last year or so and it gives you unlimited creative seats, unlimited videos, unlimited recording length and even lets you get rid of your filter words like umms and ars and that annoying stuff with a single click. So thank you Loom for sponsoring the video and for being a tool that we've been using for over a year now and if you enjoyed this video you might like to check out this video over here which talks about my tips for how I read lots and lots of books of which getting a Kindle is just one of them but there's 8 online different tips in that video that might really help so thank you so much for watching do hit the subscribe button if you're already and I'll see you hopefully in the next video bye
