# How to Find a Career You Genuinely Love
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=O3m14PVOq_g
It can be really daunting knowing how to approach your career, so in this video I go through 7 career tips I got from when I spoke to Professor Grace Lordan on my podcast Deep Dive. Enjoy x

Grace Lordan's book Think Big: https://geni.us/thinkbig
Link to the full episode with Grace: https://www.youtube.com/watch?
v=FwvZf0IjaiQ
I'll put a link to the episode with Cal Newport when it comes out.

🍿WATCH NEXT:
Follow Your Passion is Terrible Advice. Here's Why: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dE-wvWdM6jY
How to Find the Perfect Career: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lJ6n52Lsjfo
How to Build a Life You Love: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EwSD4uCSX_M

ME+ Questions:
1. The overall big-thinking goal for ME+ is...
2. ME+'s job title will be...
3. ME+ will be working in the ... industry
4. The company ME+ will be working for is...
5. ME+ will be running/working in a company that has the following characteristics...
6. Answer either i) ME+ will be in a similar role, but my responsibilities will have expanded to include... OR ii) ME+ will be in an entirely new career, and ME+'s responsibilities will include...

Timestamps:
0:00 Intro
0:40 Tip 1
2:19 Tip 2
4:12 Tip 3
5:24 Tip 4
7:03 Tip 5
8:03 Tip 6
10:19 Tip 7

💌  Sign up to my free weekly email newsletter - https://go.aliabdaal.com/subscribe-sundaysnippets

🎙 Check out my weekly podcast, Deep Dive where I interview entrepreneurs, creators and other inspiring people - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - 
 https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
🎬 YouTube for Beginners - Everything You Need To Know To Start  - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/YouTube-for-Beginners

MY CREATOR COURSES
🎬 Check out my free 7 day email course on how to become a part-time YouTuber: https://aliabdaal.com/part-time-youtuber-crash-course/
🏆 Creatorpreneur - My flagship course for scaling up your creative side-hustle → https://creatorpreneur.academy/course
🗣 Camera Confidence - My self-paced course on how to improve your creativity, career, or communication skills → https://cameraconfidence.aliabdaal.com/

MY FAVOURITE GEAR
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) -https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE TOOLS
🚀 VidIQ - How I optimise my YouTube videos - https://go.aliabdaal.com/vidiq
✍️ Shortform - The BEST summaries of books - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
📚  Readwise - How I remember what I read - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise
🎵  Epidemic Sound - Where I get my music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound

MY KEY LINKS
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com/
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I’m Ali, a YouTuber, podcaster, soon-to-be author and ex-Doctor working in London, UK. I make videos that explore the strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. I also have a weekly podcast called Deep Dive (https://www.youtube.com/channel/UChfo46ZNOV-vtehDc25A1Ug), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://go.aliabdaal.com/subscribe-sundaysnippets).

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, career, how to find the perfect career, career advice, find the perfect career, what should I do with my life, what career should I do, grace lordan, grace lordan career advice, find a career you actually love, how to find a job you love, how to find a job that's not boring, which jobs aren't broing, I don't know what to do with my life, how to figure out what to do with my life, how to figure out what you want to do with your life, personal devleopment, 
**Date:** 2023-01-12

## Transcript
 A problem that a lot of people have with their career is that it can actually be a source of stress. Because, you know, as human beings, we like the idea of certainty. But not knowing what actually we want to do with our career, or whether we're really going to enjoy it, can actually be profoundly uncertain. And even if you know what you want to do and what you enjoy, there's actually no guarantee that you're going to be able to turn that into a well-paying and successful career, which, again, adds to the stress. And so that translates into this career anxiety that a lot of us can feel, a lot of worries and apprehensions and self-doubt about whether we're actually on the right path, and whether we're actually truly fulfilled in our current jobs. Now, a little while back, I spoke to a professor of behavioral science, Grace Lawdon, who is written a book all about how to find and succeed in a career that you actually enjoy. And so, in this video, we're going to talk about seven evidence-based techniques that you can use to move more towards a career that you actually enjoy. Tip 1, task over title. I've noticed a lot of times when I talk to people about careers, they're attached to a label, so they want to be a trader or an investment banker or they want to be a doctor, or they're attached to a lifestyle, so they want to be able to go on a particular vacation or by a particular car. And the kind of thing Big Jardies really thinking about, if I were to be a doctor, if I were to be a trader, what would be the tasks that I would be doing on a day-to-day basis? And would I ultimately end up enjoying those tasks? So the activities that I'm going to spend the time in. Now, the so many studies from the field of psychology that show that a lot of your success in a career actually comes down to your happiness in that particular job. And what Professor Lawdon is saying is that if you focus too much on the title of the job, you can actually forget about what the day-to-day of the thing actually involves. Now, this might sound super boring and obvious, but actually I've seen so many people, and I used to fall into the trap myself as well, a thinking that like, the career title of like, oh, it would be called to be a neurosurgeon, it would be called to be a plastic surgeon. But it was only after I started doing some research into this career stuff that I realised, hang on, instead of worrying about the title, I should actually be thinking about what will my day-to-day job involve as a neurosurgeon? Is it actually as glamorous as the thing potentially sounds? And this relates to an idea from a Tim Urban called Pixel Theory, which is the idea that life is a picture, but we live in an individual pixel of that picture. So basically what that means is that we might think of our life as being this broad brush stroke, beautiful painting of like, you know, what's her job title? What are we doing? Fun, what are I, like, this big kind of high-level thing. But actually, a lot of your happiness is governed by the day-to-day, like, what does your calendar look like on a given day? And so when it comes to finding a job that you actually love, finding a career that you actually love, thinking about the day-to-day nature of the tasks, rather than the broad abstract nature of the job title, is potentially one way to help with that. Tip number two, visualize your meat plus. Now, this was actually one of my favorite ideas from the book. The idea that you should visualize what meat plus is going to look like. And meat plus is basically a meat or you, but it's like the plus version of you, kind of the version that you aspire to be. And this is the exercise that she's got in the book on how you can visualize what your meat plus is going to be doing. And so you can fill these questions out for yourself. And I've actually written them in the video description, so you can just have a look there if you feel like it. But we're asking, you know, the overall big thinking goal for meat plus is dot dot dot. What is meat plus is job title? Which industry will meat plus be working in? What's the company that meat plus is going to be working for? It might be your own meat plus will be running or working in a company that has the following characteristics. And you can add in what sort of responsibilities you would want your meat plus role to have. And then on the following page, we've got a few examples of what sort of tasks you might want your meat plus to actually be doing. And then I've gone through and I've highlighted some of the stuff that's most relevant to me. Like, I want to be disrupting how people think about things, writing consultation advice to others, coaching and developing others, solving problems. I'm dating and drawing one of another knowledge, teaching and training, performing for the public, creating and selling art, all of these different things that I would I like the idea of being in a career where I'm doing these sorts of activities. And to ready the point here is that on this first page, when you're defining this meat plus thing, you are kind of thinking about what's your job title and what kind of what's the big picture of what you're going to be doing in this career that you really enjoy. But then, on the next page, you're kind of drilling more down into what are the specific tasks that you personally enjoy doing. And once you know that, then you can start taking small steps towards achieving that particular thing. And hopefully work towards the career that you actually enjoy. A lot of the jobs that look exciting, they look exciting because on TV they're glamorized. I mean, law always is one that comes into my mind. And I think I would be a terrible lawyer because the commitment to a day to day that's like six in the morning to eight in the evening is absolutely something that you still need to day sadly. But people don't know about that before they go in. And I think when it comes to your think big journey, it's about what were the tasks that I would be doing in 10 years time. How would I spend my Monday morning? How would I spend my Tuesday morning? Tip number three, audit your time. Now again, this is a pretty simple strategy that you can use to move more towards a career that you actually enjoy and it involves auditing your time. During the week, writing down what you're actually doing, which you probably do already, but writing down whether or not you actually enjoy doing them. Did you feel firstly a sense of purpose that it was kind of leading you to a better place than five years time or did you feel fun in the moment? Okay, so how does this actually work in practice? Okay, so what I'm going to do is I'm going to screenshot my calendar and then I can use the screenshot to audit how I feel about having spending my time. And so if something on my calendar is really taking me towards me plus, I can do a double plus on there. Then if something is taking me somewhat towards me plus, I can put a plus. If something doesn't really help me get closer to me plus, then I can write plus minus. And if there's something that's actively taking me away from the thing that I want, then I can do minus minus for that. And so what Grace says in the book is that once you figure it out, what these in particular, what these minus minus things are, these are the things you actively want to avoid. These are the time sinkers. I'm pretty lucky because I have built a career for myself that actually enjoy. And so I have, I basically have zero minus minus this on my calendar. But back when I was at university, back when I was working as a doctor, a lot of my stuff in the calendar would have been minus minus. And I've slowly worked to kind of eliminate those things that drain my energy that don't actually get me towards a career that I actually enjoy. Tip number four, 13 minutes a day. And so the other side of the coin here is that we also want to be investing in activities that take us closer towards me plus. Are you closer to words this career that we actually enjoy? And when it comes to thinking about this, Professor Lawdon talks a lot about the idea of compounding. So when people are choosing to invest, we accept compounding very very easily, right? So we accept the idea actually that, you know, if we leave money in for a very long period of time, it's going to compounds that are probably going to be okay in our pensions. And it's exactly the same here when it comes to your career that those very small things that you're going to do today. And I ask for a commitment of 90 minutes a week, which for most people, regardless of how pressurized you feel is very very possible. And when you do the maths, this is actually very doable. 90 minutes a week is just 13 minutes a day. We can all invest 13 minutes a day in trying to invest in skills or abilities that are going to help us develop a career that we actually enjoy. And so for example, if for you part of building towards this career you enjoy is, for example, learning how to code, you can probably find 13 minutes a day to learn how to code. Yes, you probably can't become absolutely pro in just 13 minutes a day, but it's definitely a skill that compounds over time. Not recently, I also had the chance to interview Kellenewport, who is a professor of computer science and who's written a bunch of books called including Deep Work and so good, they can't ignore you about this sort of like study skills, productivity type stuff. And he talks a lot about career capital theory. Basically the idea is that if you want a career that you actually enjoy, it's not just something that's going to fall into your lap. It's something that you have to earn and the way you earn it is by developing career capital and the way you develop career capital is by developing rare and valuable skills. And this ties into this idea of like if you genuinely want a career that you enjoy, you've got to actually have the skills for the job. And so if you can invest this 13 minutes a day into the development of your skills, then you're going to be winning on that front. Tim number five, you probably don't need to go back to University. For people who do not know what they want to do, I would avoid committing to a four-year degree or an expensive master's program and really used the resources that are out there that are either cheap or free because there's so many things that we can actually learn now without having to set foot into a traditional classroom. Now I found this point pretty surprising given that professor Lawdon is a university professor and it's therefore at least somewhat biased towards in favor of university education. But to be honest these days, university is not completely worthless. I've massively benefited from a unique degree and I genuinely do recommend that people go to college or university or whatever that is, at least it gives you back a options. But especially when people are a little bit further on in their career, it's often like a very easy thing to be like, oh I need to do the thing, therefore I'm going to go back to you and I'm going to get a degree in the thing. And then at least from people I know who are recruiting for jobs, like getting an MBA, people with an MBA are actually looked down less favorably than people who have actually had some real entrepreneurial experience. So don't necessarily default to thinking, let me let me get a traditional qualification in the particular thing because you can learn almost anything on the internet and through books and libraries and stuff these days. Tip number six, embrace you turns. Okay so at this point we know what tasks we might want to do on a day-to-day basis to get towards this level of meat plus or this career that we actually enjoy. And we know what kind of skills we need to get there and therefore we're going to develop those skills and compound them over time. But even once you've nailed those things, you might still want to make some changes to your career. Like we as humans are generally pretty bad at estimating what our preferences and our values are necessarily going to be in the future. For example, when I was 16 I decided I wanted to be a doctor. Ten years later I was like, ah I'm not really sure this medicine thing is for me. And this relates to an idea in psychology called the end of history illusion. And this is psychologist Dan Gilbert explaining the end of history illusion. We asked thousands of people. We asked half of them to predict for us how much their values would change in the next 10 years. And the other is to tell us how much their values had changed in the last 10 years. In this enabled us to do a really interesting kind of analysis. Because it allowed us to compare the predictions of people say 18 years old to the reports of people who were 28. And to do that kind of analysis throughout the lifespan. Here's what we found. First of all, you're right. Change does slow down as we age. But second, you're wrong because it doesn't slow nearly as much as we think. At every age from 18 to 68 in our data set, people vastly underestimated how much change they would experience over the next 10 years. We call this the end of history illusion. So firstly we're quite bad at predicting how things are going to change for us. But secondly, we're also weirdly averse to the idea of a U-turn. There is this idea that if you change your mind that means you're not being consistent and you're not being like integrity like, or whatever the thing is people used to describe this. But one of my key takeaways from the conversation with Professor Lawdon is that when it comes to careers, U-turns are probably a good thing. One of the problems with society today is that we think that good citizens, good leaders should never change their mind. And I think in COVID, that was to the detriment of many countries because it took a lot for some leaders to come out and say, look, actually, this isn't the right strategy. I'm going to now change. I'm going out. We're going to change my mind. So if I was to think about leaders of the future, actually, there are a bit of she to stand up and say, I don't know. I got it wrong or I've changed my mind. Those three things are really in the forefront of my mind because when you're navigating to uncertainty, you're going to get it wrong sometimes. And that's okay. But it's the deliberate part. Have you sat down and deliberately now change your mind. And tip number seven, the grid search mindset. And this is again something that you talked about in the book where the ideas that even if you don't quite have a clear vision for exactly what kind of career you would actually enjoy. What you can do is you can almost use this grid search technique to figure out what activities you enjoy. And then see whether the actions you're taking are moving you closer to this kind of dream career. So for example, if I've done this a few years ago, then I might have written that the things that I enjoy are I think teaching and medicine and creative stuff and entrepreneur stuff is based on kind of my history over the last like several years. And so for me, for example, and of my, I guess, career of teaching started around age 13, 14, 15, where I was teaching Cumin and this math study center. That then transitioned into combining teaching with medicine for my company, six men. And then at age 23, I started directly teaching medical students and doing these presentations and like using my creative skills and to make nice PowerPoints and stuff like that. And now that's transition into this YouTube stuff where I get to do a little bit of teaching, a little bit of creative stuff, a little bit of entrepreneurship. There's not much medicine in there these days, but hey, you know, it's totally okay to change your mind. And it's easy enough now to connect the dots looking back, being like, oh yeah, I found a career that I really enjoy. I love this YouTube thing. I love giving talks and this kind of stuff. And it's easy to connect the dots and think, oh yeah, I was super into teaching back when I was like 12 years old. But I think this is a quote from Steve Jobs something that it's famously easy to connect the dots looking back, but it's really hard to connect the dots looking forward. And so if you're in a position where you're not yet fully enjoying what you're doing for work, what your career is, then don't worry. As long as you're continuing to, I guess, think big, define that future for yourself, and then taking small steps towards working towards this career that you enjoy. At some point, you'll get there and then you'll find that, oh crap, firstly, there's not a destination because trying to find a career you enjoy is like a long-term process, but you'll be able to connect the dots looking back and everything along this circuitous path with you turns and everything, will have then made sense in hindsight. And so as Professor Lawdon says, this isn't really about kind of taking you turns randomly. It's about taking small steps in a particular direction, gathering data, seeing how you feel about that data that you've gathered, and then using that to change course. They get new data, they update their decision making based on the data, and they're willing to go backwards, or they're willing to go left and they're willing to go right. And always having that openness to a change of direction. If you like this video, you might like to check up the full episode with Professor Grace Lawdon over on my deep dive podcast that I'll be linked over there. That podcast along with all the other episodes I've done is available on any kind of podcast platform, including Apple and Google, Spotify, all that fun stuff. Anyway, thank you so much for watching, do please drop a like on the video for the YouTube algorithm if you enjoyed the video so far, and I'll see you hopefully in the next one. Bye bye.
