# Procrastinating before finals - Cambridge University medical student VLOG #19
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oFBdXVnGgx0
This episode covers the 3 days before our medical school final written exams. We take things pretty chill, singing Christmas carols in the chapel of Trinity College and travelling to London for a birthday dinner, before journeying back to Cambridge in the snow. Enjoy xx

--------------------

Who am I:

I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking 

📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal 

🎬 My online course on video editing - https://skl.sh/32TpEvm
🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
**Keywords:** Cambridge medicine, Cambridge medical student, Cambridge medicine vlog, Cambridge medical student vlog, medical student, medicine vlog, medicine, medical student vlog, Oxbridge, Oxford, Cambridge, cambridge medicine, oxford medicine, med student vlog, med student, oxbridge medicine, oxbridge medicine vlog, life of a medical student, christmas carols, preparing for exams, medicine finals, medicine exams, 
**Date:** 2017-12-23

## Transcript
 Hey guys, welcome back to the channel. Today's vlog is going to be about the three days or so just before our final exams. So we were going to do some work. We all had these high hopes that we were going to do loads of work. But then what we ended up doing was quite a lot of non-work activities. But I think kind of looking back that was actually completely fine because we spent the last three plus years preparing for these exams. They're just a combination of everything we've done in clinical school. So in a way it wouldn't really have made any difference if we'd like killed ourselves working for those two or three days before the exam. So anyway, this vlog is going to be a little bit about wildlife balance. It's like a general running theme. So we'll start off by going to Trinity College Cambridge for the annual Clinical School Carol Service. Hey guys, so we're hanging out in the beautiful chapel of Trinity College Cambridge. I'm going to be a base in the choir and each year we do this where students kind of organise the service together and then they just post on a Facebook group being like, hey, who wants to sing. So we've rocked a few hours before the service starts and then we learn our parts and sing some banging Christmas carols. Our exams are in about three days time. We realise that most of us can't really be bothered to do any more revision for today. So we decided to come here. And it's been pretty great so far. So that's what happened on Friday. Our exams in Monday. So now we've got the weekend coming up and on Saturday it was one of my friend moments. But today's we just kind of chilled in the prayer room for a bit and then ordered some GBK. So this is the Islamic Society's prayer room which is near like the history and law building and things. And it's quite a nice space. It's quite small but it kind of fits. It fits everyone who wants to come and we do events in here fairly regularly. And also in the evening sometimes you just get kind of mask gatherings of people ordering pizza and other forms of takeaway. So yeah, it's pretty great. We've done went to cell and college where we chilled out in one of their common rooms and it'll play in quite a lot of articulates. Alright guys so here we are in the cell and college MCR. The idea is that when you're when you're an undergrad for the first three years you have access to the JCR which is usually kind of a room like this less nice usually with like so-first TV board games that sort of thing. And then when you graduate or if you become a clinical medic then you get access to the MCR which gives you access to an entirely different space. This is so nice. This is the first time I've been in here. It's just like a pretty nice atmosphere. We've ordered some GBK vibe memory and this is a classic example of pre-exam procrastination because you know it will say Cambridge is all about work but it's really more about having like having fun and then like fitting the work around it. So today's gonna be a fairly chilled day. I'm studying medicine at cell and college. I think it's a great course. I think it's a great college. Fun people. First time in the MCR. Pretty cushy. Good stuff all right. Oh it's all neck and a drop. Good. Oh the crab and lobster are types of shrimp. Yeah it's good. Time. When you're at the UD in your life. The next order of business was to drive down to London for another friend's birthday party and that was at Royal New Wards for a strong in West London. All right guys so to continue the theme of procrastination from our finals at the final exams we are now at home in St. Albans. So I'm chilling here with a safe. Hi there guys and that's my mom over there. Behind the camera is my brother Tamor or Tamor depending on which part of the world you come from. So we're just chilling here we might do a little bit of work but to be honest we're just bunching on whatever this weird pseudonies dessert is and having some pakola pakola is amazing by the way. It's absolutely sick it's like a cream soda and it's like a staple staple drink and pakistan so we just love it and my mom very kindly bought something from like the local Asian shop. So this is what we're doing tonight and yeah it's been a pretty great day we will see you tomorrow and I think Tamor is going to be less procrastinary but still you know three days before the exam we're pretty chill. That's fine. See you later. Good night. So that was all great but then we found out the next morning the Sunday before our exam or exams on the Monday we had to get back to Cambridge somehow but the whole lesson opens was pretty covered in snow. Alright guys good morning welcome back to the vlog our finals start from tomorrow we've got our first paper tomorrow so the objective of today is simply to get back to Cambridge and time and hope that the trains are running and if not then we'll just have to and and brave the weather in the car anyway. Today we're supposed to be a day of last minute erosion but to be honest we've been working hard for the last six years and yeah I really hope this camera is somewhat weatherproof otherwise we're going to be very expensive day.
