# The best day! Motorbiking up the coast of Vietnam - Cambridge Medical Elective #12
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oHjMygB8y4k
Our journey motorbiking from Hoi An to Hue. Beautiful scenery, amazing weather, a fantastic time.

Who am I:

I'm Ali, a final year medical student at Emmanuel College, Cambridge. This vlogging thing seems quite fun so I'll be vlogging life and other things throughout the year. I'm pretty into music and coding as well, so maybe there'll be some of that on this channel.

Follow me plssss:
- Snapchat: aliabdaal
- Twitter - https://twitter.com/AliAbdaal
- Instagram - https://instagram.com/AliAbdaal
- Website - www.aliabdaal.com
**Keywords:** Cambridge medicine, Cambridge medical student, Cambridge medicine vlog, Cambridge medical student vlog, medical student, medicine vlog, medicine, medical student vlog, Oxbridge, Oxford, Cambridge, cambridge medicine, oxford medicine, bmat, 6med, bmat crash course, bmat tips, ukcat, medicine interviews, hoi an, hue, vietnam coast, vietnam, 
**Date:** 2017-08-24

## Transcript
 Good morning everyone. Today's mission is a little bit different from usual. Today we're doing the very exciting thing of motor biking up the coast of Vietnam from Hoyan to Huay. So according to Google the journey will take about four and a half hours nonstop. It's about 170 kilometers but we're going to be stopping along the way to see the sights and chill because our bombs are going to hurt if we're on the motorbike for too long. We are approaching the Hai Van Pass. I think I thought it's called and we just stopped to get some petrol and have a bite to eat. And apparently the Hai Van Pass is really nice and pretty. It looks like so far. Okay, so we're about halfway through our journey in total. And we're at the top ish of Hai Van Pass and we've stopped at this little restaurant place with some pretty ridiculous views. This view is just out of this world. It's like one of those places you see in Google images. But you never think what actually exists like this in real life. Okay, we're about three quarters of the way into the whole journey and we stopped off at a waterfall. It's called elephant springs. So maybe we'll see some elephants, maybe we'll see some springs. Not quite sure. All right, time to change. Get in the water. It's going to be glorious. That dip in the water was pretty great. We definitely needed that. Master of shout out to my aunt as well. Thank you to Tote for these for the prescription goggles that I was wearing earlier. But as you need glasses that haven't yet discovered prescription goggles, they're like good for the best thing ever. You can see stuff on the water and it's pretty magical. It would recommend 25% of our journey left to go and then we're going to be at way. Way, way, through it, through it, through it. The sun has died down a bit. We're cool. This is a great day. Uh oh, we can feel rain. This is bad. We've got like an hour and a bit to go. And scootering in the rain is another pleasant experience, too. Especially when wearing a tank top. I didn't know a long sleeve protection. Okay, we managed to acquire ponchos. We're going to brave the rain. Let's do this. Oh, my days. That rain was quite an audio. Good thing we managed to get ponchos from the waterfall. Those basically saved our lives. It was like loads of little bullets just like hitting our skin and really, really quite painful. But thankfully, I only lost about half an hour and then we made a way past it. It's 6pm. We left the house a half past day in the morning. It's been a good day. And we have arrived. That was a ridiculously fun trip. We would recommend if anyone ever visiting Vietnam. We are now in Hawaii, the city. Oh my god, it's here. Well done, you guys. I think this may have been the best day of the lecture so far. Just the scenery was incredible. We are extremely unbelievable sunshine. And then we had a torrential rain and all of it. It was just they came together and it's oh my god, it was so good. It's a volume and experience. Thank you so much for hanging out with us for the ride. Please give a thumbs up if you liked it and please consider subscribing if you're new to the channel. See you in the next one. Bye.
