# Temples of Siem Reap (Cambodia) - Cambridge Medical Elective #09
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OQs0fYHPzho
Exploring a few of the very many temples of Siem Reap on our last day in Cambodia. Next stop - Vietnam. 

Social:
- Snapchat: aliabdaal
- Twitter - https://twitter.com/AliAbdaal
- Instagram - https://instagram.com/AliAbdaal
- Website - www.aliabdaal.com
**Keywords:** medical student, medical student vlog, medical elective, medicine at university, electives, cambodia, cambridge medicine, medical electives, cambridge medical student, cambridge medical students, medical school elective, angkor wat, siem reap, temples, 
**Date:** 2017-08-16

## Transcript
 Good morning, welcome back to the channel. It is about quarter to four in the morning. We have workin' up at a to make a way towards the temples of and call what the attraction that Cambodia's most famous for. The plan is to watch the sunrise over the temples and apparently it's quite a pretty sight. We'll give it a go and see what happens. This is quite nice. This guy's a clear, looks quite pretty. We're gonna see the sunrise in the fun. So yeah, this temple behind me is pretty massive. It's anchored, what the biggest one in Cambodia and the most famous one in the sea. They've got loads of these little cafes that are around around the whole temple complex. I suppose tourists like me just hang out. Hopefully we should have some pancakes and man this way the other way. Alright, so now we're saying goodbye to the anchored temples. And I think we're going to another temple now. This is quite a pretty lake. Look at that! It's great view. And this behind us is anchored tom. This is a big temple city complex thing. Let's have a look inside. Yeah, this temple is a pretty legit lovely view as usual. Scope rose, cake photo. So this is the buy on temple which was commissioned by some king. Apparently all the king had their own temples built. And when they did they ignored all the rest which is why they're about a hundred temples in the same reef. And same reef, maybe more. But this is one of the biggest ones. So I think the tomb was the capital city of Bikkhamai civilisation. I think in the 11th century. So this is the king's main castle king Jayathaman. The buy on temple which is quite big. Is that it? Yeah, so far. I think we're templeed up with this point. We're two out of 10,000. There were too many temples here. I feel kind of bad that I'm not a cultured enough to kind of appreciate all the temples anymore. Right. There's two more to go towards the elephants and then the tomb ray one. And then swimming pool. We're being proper tourist now and stopping for a mango smoothie and some food because we can't handle the heat. What would you're rating out of 70? I'm looking forward to that. That's a quarter, it's probably seven out of seven. It's packed up but we're like the best. Like the speed. This is quite a nice little alleyway to explore. It's nice of the trees form that sort of kind of peop of. And then you kind of walk through it and you get like shade and things. That's nice. I'm going over there. So now I think some cheeky selfies. Martha is here bringing him. Life is just walking and waving. What do you think of this place? Please don't ask your questions. So this is the temple where Tomb Raider was supposedly filmed. Can't say recognise any of it but I haven't seen it for many ages. I don't know what to say. I feel like the pro vloggers always have stuff to say and they make it entertaining. But I don't really know how. I quite like the way Simon Clark has it. That looks like that. The metal scaffolding came as you from the dark ages. A wall. Right, that's it for the temples. Now, home, swim, nap, swim. There. So yeah, it's going to be good.
