# Reading Mean Comments
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oWRw-Qu4h8g
In this video I let myself get roasted over 100 times for the purpose of charity. Thanks everyone for participating in the roast and congrats to the winner. 

New keyboard from iqUnix - here’s an affiliate link with 5% discount - https://iqunix.store/ali

My new discord server - https://discord.gg/jwYwgUv (where we chat about books, productivity, study tips, podcasts and other wholesome things)

00:01:38 Forehead
00:03:30 Hair
00:04:33 Hairline
00:08:37 Looks
00:10:35 Name
00:11:01 Personality
00:12:28 Singing
00:12:49 Success
00:13:15 Women & Dating

--------

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
😃  How to be Happier - Stoicism Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/stoicism

TOOLS OF THE TRADE:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk
📚  How I remember what I read - Readwise - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali
What I Use For Analytics - https://go.aliabdaal.com/tubebuddy
🌐 My website platform (Ghost) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost

OTHER RECOMMENDED COURSES
📔 Effortless Output with Roam Research - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/roam
📓 Building a Second Brain - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/basb

🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** roast me, comedy roast, funny video, instagram doctor, medical humor, medical memes, hospital humor, doctor jokes, doctor reacts, roasting, insult comedy, doctor gets roasted, make fun of, roast for charity, hair insults, hair jokes, bald jokes, ali abdaal roast, the roast of, ali abdaal roast video, roast compilation, comedy, bad jokes, lame jokes, like a boss, comedy videos, 
**Date:** 2019-12-21

## Transcript
 Um, you have more space to take notes on your forehead than on your forehead. Okay, that's good. I like this one. Who the f gave Adobe code? I like that, but you're not going to win the police war and swearings bad. Hey friends, welcome back to the channel. If you knew here, my name is Ali. I'm a junior doctor working in Cambridge and in this video, we're going to be continuing our theme of really useful productivity and study themed videos. We'll be talking about, you know, philosophically how we use tech to maximize our productivity and efficiency in life. Um, and in this video, I'm going to be reacting to 117 different, uh, uh, rostings that people sent in via Instagram. Now, this is a genre of video that I didn't realise was a thing. Until I discovered Dr. Mike did one a few weeks ago. Dr. Mike, if you don't know, is the sample of the medical YouTuber community. So, he did a video where people roasted him and he gave a thousand dollars to charity, um, for the best roast. So, I thought I'd do something similar, but I'm far less successful than he is. So, I'm going to give 100 pounds, uh, to the charity of someone's choice who's got the best roast. So, here are 117 different roasts against me. Uh, my editor question has actually been very kind and gone through all of them on my Instagram, and categorized them into different categories. So, we have four head hair and hair line, uh, which there are lots of roasts for. We've got 18 about my looks, one about my name, nine about my personality, uh, eight random ones, three about singing, three about success and nine about women. So, we'll just tackle them in that general alphabetical order, but of course, as usual, we're going to be including timestamps in the video description and in a pinned comment. So, you can skip around the video if you feel like it. But now, let's get into this, you know, Christmas roast for the holiday spirit and all that. So, first one, uh, this must be the forehead category. Only thing bigger than your tooth gap is your forehead. Says prophecy in a zero. He's actually medical student that came bridge that. Hang out with me sometime when I gave him some advice about how to start a YouTube channel. Uh, what's next? Did Heathrow expand, because you could land a plane on that forehead. That's classic. Uh, okay. My mat's forehead, the size of Alabama. Is Alabama particularly big state? Today, your forehead is so big, your dreams must be at IMAX. Okay, fine. Your forehead is bigger than the Great Wall of China, standard boring. Your forehead is so big that an airplane could land. JK lots of love from the Philippines. Come on, man. It's supposed to be a roast. Uh, you have more space to take notes on your forehead than on your forehead. Okay. That's good. I like this one. Uh, your forehead's brighter than my future. Thank you, Dr. Humber. For that. Jesus Christ, what a forehead. eyebrows to hairline. That's a 10 pound uber ride. Yeah. I see what you're going for. Your forehead is growing faster than your second channel. All right. This is really good. I actually do have a second channel. Please subscribe to it. Link in the video description. It's all about like a medical content. Um, yeah. This makes me feel bad. Uh, okay. Your forehead is so huge and ever's 380 in land. It's not a moon. Oh, wait. It's your forehead. JK loves you, honey. Your heart is bigger than your forehead. Is that a compliment? Does your forehead cover two times zones? Fine. Man, your forehead's so big. I could draw the entire periodic table on it. That's kind of funny. Uh, I think that's the end for the forehead. Let's move on to nine roasts about my hair. I guess you can't have a comb over if you're refused to buy a comb. Hmm. I'm not really sure what he's getting out there, but, okay. Uh, nice haircut. Maybe he'll turn on the lights next time. Oh, oh my god. Oh, right. Oh my god. This is actually a friend of mine from university. Um, I, at least I thought we were friends. Oh, no, not a lot. Keep the 100 pounds hair transplants on cheap. Oh. That's a reference to the counterpans that's going to be going to charity. So he keeps a fan in his office to blame it whenever his hair is mess. Your room is messed up like your hairstyle. For Christmas, I might give you a comb. Yeah, are you going to keep using that hairstyle? Your hair looks like a shiny egg with a piece of fluff stuck on top. Your hair always looks like you sleep next to a cow that has a passionate desire to lick your hair. I think that's it for the hair. Now we have 43 different roasts. They're probably not different about my hairline. I think the hairline is that bad. Have a look. Your hairline is as good as your ability to speak fluently with you. Love you really. No, no, no, no. This is a friend of mine from home. No, no, no, no, no. She says hi. Thanks, man. Bold, adult, bold hair, don't care. I would say give the 100 to give the 1000 as well. But you'll it for the Uber from your nurse to your hairline. You're losing hair anyways. Why not shave your head? Why equals Mx plus C looking ass hairline? I don't get it. Why equals Mx plus that's a looking ass hairline? Why equals Mx plus C is the equation of a straight line. Is that weird? Do you or she's talking about? No idea. Brut just go balled already. Football match cancel due to rain. It's fine. We've got our leaves bald head. Not enough hair to be as important as you think you are. Oh, deep. I hope Ali's career is more promising than his hairline. Oh, hello. Your hairline looks like my PS4 controller. I'm not sure what you're doing at that. Ali's hairline is as far back as his last memory of his father. Wow. That's hilarious. That is a reference to the fact that my mom is single. Yeah, alright, mate. You look like Asian Harry Potter in the epilogue of Deathly Hallows with that receding hairline. Fine. You're a burned chicken nugget with few hairlines left. Fine. Your hairline is like the universe. No one knows where it starts. Hmm, okay. Your hairline doesn't get home until 10 minutes after you do. Your hairline goes back to the days where there were no doctors on the planet. Sorry. You want to look like Harry Potter with those glasses, but the receding hairline is not helping. Where'd that hair go? It's Stevie Wonder, shape up your hairline. Hairline's receding faster than Joe Joe's C was. What's a Joe Joe C was, never heard of it. Damn, that hairline is still in Japan. Don't know what's worse. That fact that you're balding at an exponential rate or the podcast. Oh, wow. Deep. A reference to the fact that my brother and I have a podcast. Link in the video description if you want to check it out. Your hairline is colonizing your head. Your accent is British, but the retreating hairline screen is French. That's really good. Okay, well done. I'm going to write this down because this guy isn't the running. So this is hairline 25. You still charge your patience for your hairline because your hairline received from 1947. Oh, that's a reference to the formation date of the NHS the National Health Service in the UK, which was formed in 1947. And since then, we haven't charged people for healthcare. Well done. All this money and yet, to have gone to Bulgaria, be a center for the hairline. Boy, your hairline is getting left behind in 2019. Your hairline comes home 15 minutes after you do. Humpty Dumpty has a better hairline than you. Your hairline receives like France in a World War. When that receiving hairline is making at least four hit bigger than my future, the only thing notion can't organize at that hairline. Oh, to shape. When you've lost everything and then even your hairline leaves, a bit active, recoil and space repetition can save that hairline. Hell, I'm receiving faster than the polarized cups. Thank you. Your hairline completes two retrospective spreadsheets before you do. At least hairline looks like leftover public hair that he couldn't shave. Love you, though. Fine. I've got more facial hair than the hair on your head. I'm gonna go. I'm gonna go find it. Ah, possibly an Asian girl, maybe. Your hairline and my grand-paggo way back. Every time you mention active recoil, you do a strand of hair. Next video idea, evidence-based hair loss tips. I think the last one. Your hairline so far back, I can see what you're thinking. Okay, so off that, I think the one about retreating hairline is like the French was quite funny. Let's move on to 18 brosets about my looks. Here we go. Imagine still looking like a thesis. Notice a long head support, life sort of space repetition. Pucky, grinch, look and ass. Couldn't get it. You look like finies, finies? Nope. You look like a Pakistani Harry Potter want to be. Pretty mud rusting so no feelings are hurt. Thank you. You look like an angry bird who failed to make the cut so you became a doctor instead. Fine. You have an uncanny resemblance to chicken little. You look like thought. Bet you need and buy any cooking oil with all that oil or zing out of your face. Who the f gave doppy clothes? I like that, but you're not going to win because you're swore and swearing is bad. You look like my first and lost taxi driver. You look like a half-eaten cucumber sandwich. You look like the mic was our ski cross-cellies face meme plus some glasses. I don't think I've seen that face meme, so sorry. You look like roasted nuts already. You look like an ugly version of Tintin, so I'll be even snowy left you. Is that a reference to Tintin? I'll eat out here looking like gargamel. Who the hell is gargamel? Gargamel. Oh. Oh. Okay, fine. Fair enough. You look like a gas station version of Danny De Vito. What does Danny De Vito look like? Okay, fine. Cool. That's fine. Taylor has never had, has never to worry about his broken piano because his brothers got him keys in his mouth. And finally, about looks. Sometimes you look like a grown baby dressed scrubs for Halloween by his Asian parents. All right, I think he just six, seven, eight, nine. That's fine. I don't think there was anything in there that competed with the French one, but yeah, reasonable. Now we have one about my name. We definitely used to call you the tall posh one in UGI to identify you. It took me weeks to donate. Oh. Right. This is one of the nurses that I used to work with. In my hospital upper UGI stands for upper gastrointestinal. That was the surgery team that I was on. So they used to call me the tall posh one. Fair enough. It's not really roasting, but thank you Beth Tongs for that. That comment. Too bad you can't photoshop your personality. I want to correct that you're in your, but that would be bad. Okay, so we have another eight about my personality. You think you're cool and chill and all that, but really you aren't boring. You're so bland and expressionless that mayows spreads you on bread. Mayows spreads you on bread. Ali is the type of guy to stop when the traffic lights go red in GTA. Grand theft also, I think. I haven't really played it because we want to let's play 18 plus games when we were under 18. Ali was the type of kid to remind the teacher that there is homework, boring. You still call your mom after any street fight and cry for hours complaining about other kids. The only reason Ali says hay friends at the start of every episode is because we're his only friends. Ali about looks like his voice is putting his face to sleep. Wow. Things want more. I don't know what's bigger that ego or that nose. Ouch. Right. We have a few random ones now. A tint in without a dog. I feel like you're the type of guy to slam a revolving door. You know, the type of person I feel bad to roast. Even roasting you doesn't feel like enough. It would just be a compliment. Why roast you when you're already half boiled? You are the human version of period cramps. Wow. You've gone very far in life and I hope you stay there because no one wants to. You close to them anyway. Fine. It will take a few space repetitions to actively roast a geek like you. Oh, we have some about my singing now. You must be the only person ever to have gotten worse in singing after taking lessons. FML. Honestly, using to the Jonas Brothers is the cringiest thing I saw this week. Fair enough. It was supposed to be a joke. I'm not. Alright. This guy actually thinks he can sing. So there's actually only three out of 117. Only three of them say I can't sing. So that's a good sign. And now we have three about success apparently. Despite convincing yourself you're successful. You'll always feel like you're not enough seeking acceptance. Fine. He says he has. Oh, wait. This is from someone called striving medic. Okay. He says he has imposter syndrome, but then has has a title first ad Cambridge. Love you. That nerd who always wanted to be cool. So start to the YouTube channel, but couldn't help and still studies. Fine. Now, oh, now we have nine about women. So this is going to be the final one. Final kind of stretch. So far, the French, the guy with the French comment is winning. The only women who want to be touched by you are the gynecology patients. The weather is getting cold. Look who's still got no one to hold. I'm not sure what's longer than you imagine. Time has been since your last date or your nose. Ouch. I've had a date last night, so it's creamy. Oh, god. No. A patron. Same to a virginity. Yes. Hasan Han needs to be a little bit less less like our rated in his roast. You may have all the success Ali, but you should always remain alone and a virgin with no hair. You would have been a virgin forever if you want to doctor. Is your favorite position trying? When she says, I love the Jonas Brothers. And finally, I think this is the last one. You look like the only action you're ever going to get is when you do prostate exams. Okay, so I think actually overall I would say that the winner is the French guy. Your accent says it's British, but the retreating hairline scream is French. I like that one. Let's message as a man saw me and see if he's online. Oh, he messes me on the 11th of November. Sorry, ma. Let's message him. Maybe he's not going to reply immediately. But yeah, that was the roasting video. I feel like, I don't know. Kind of disappointed by the standard of these roasts. Some of them are quite funny, but I think everyone is basically going going for the same things. But, hey, this is just me feeling salty because 117 people have roasted various aspects about me, like my hairline and my looks and stuff. So yeah, I hope you got some kind of enjoyment out of that. I'll add to the end of this video when this guy replies and will donate 100 quid to his charity of choice. But I don't think he's going to reply in the next two seconds. So yeah, thank you very much for watching. If you liked this video, please give it a thumbs up. If you haven't subscribed to the channel. I don't know why you're watching this, but please consider doing so. Have a lovely day. Have a lovely holiday. And I'll see you in the next video. I'm going to go to the bathroom and cry now. Bye-bye.
