# Why everyone should start an email newsletter
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ozWseKZV6Ac
Sign up to Morning Brew for free today - https://morningbrewdaily.com/ali

👉 Watch my chat with Morning Brew founder Alex Lieberman here - https://youtu.be/4U6Nu5-nhXs
👉 Watch an ad-free version of the video on Nebula - https://nebula.tv/videos/aliabdaal-how-to-start-an-email-newsletter-that-changes-your-life

Last month, I spoke to Alex Lieberman about how starting a newsletter completely changed his life. He started Morning Brew in college and eventually sold it for $70 million. I haven't quite made the same amount from my newsletter lol but the single best decision I've made as a creator has been starting a newsletter because it's led to everything else. So in this video, I wanted to break down you should start, what you can actually write about and how to get started.

🚨 KEY LINKS 🚨
Sign up to my newsletter here - https://go.aliabdaal.com/newsletter-sunday-snippets
Sign up to my new Creatorpreneur course here - https://go.aliabdaal.com/creatorpreneur-course
Sign up to my FREE YouTuber Crash Course here - https://go.aliabdaal.com/newsletter-ptycc
Sign up to ConvertKit here - https://go.aliabdaal.com/convertkit
Sign up to Substack here - https://substack.com/
Sign up to Revue here - https://www.getrevue.co/

⏱ Timestamps 
00:00 Intro
00:36 Why you should start a newsletter
04:50 What should you actually write about?
10:12 How to get started with a newsletter

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

PART-TIME YOUTUBER ACADEMY:
🍿 My 6-week live online course - https://academy.aliabdaal.com

CREATORPRENEUR
💰 My flag-ship course for scaling up your creative side-hustle - https://creatorpreneur.academy/course

YOUTUBE FOR BEGINNERS COURSE
📸 This is for anyone who'd like to start a YouTube channel. You'll learn everything you need to get started as a YouTuber including how to script, shoot, and edit your first video - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/YouTube-for-Beginners

MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
✍️ The best summaries of books (Shortform) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
📚  How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound

🎙 Deep Dive podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/
The podcast that delves into the minds of entrepreneurs, creators and other inspiring people to uncover the philosophies, strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. You can find it by searching “Deep Dive” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/friendzone/
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
💙  The Friendzone Discord - https://discord.gg/Dh2kGavffd
🎮  Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I’m Ali, a YouTuber, podcaster, soon-to-be author and ex-Doctor working in London, UK. I make videos that explore the strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. I also have a weekly podcast called Deep Dive (https://www.youtube.com/channel/UChfo46ZNOV-vtehDc25A1Ug), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://email.aliabdaal.com).


GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, email marketing, email newsletter, how to create a newsletter, how to make money online, how to use notion, newsletter, newsletters, notion setup, self improvement, 
**Date:** 2022-08-05

## Transcript
 Last week, I spoke to Alex Lieberman, who started writing an email newsletter in his dorm room, and then a few years later sold it for $17 million. For me, starting an email newsletter was one of the best decisions I've made in my life as a creator, and now every time I send an email, I make around $5,000, which is more than I was making in a whole month of working full-time as a doctor. So in this video, we're going to be breaking down why you should potentially consider starting an email newsletter, what you might want to write about, and then the step-by-step process of how to go about this completely for free. And this is episode one of creator Pranara Club, which is a new series where we're going to explore principle strategies and tools that we can use to kickstart or level up our creative entrepreneurial projects. Let's get into it. Part one, why you should maybe start an email newsletter? Right, so starting an email newsletter is the perfect starting point if you are new to the whole being a creator thing. So firstly, because it's completely free, there are a bunch of platforms out there that we're going to talk about later in the video, and I'm completely free. You do not have to pay a penny at all to start an email newsletter, and this is kind of different to starting a YouTube channel where, yes, you can film with your phone, but then there is an element of like cost that it takes to get started with something like a YouTube channel and email newsletter is completely free. Secondly, an email newsletter is very, very low friction. It's pretty easy to just get started writing. If you know how to type something, you can probably send an email newsletter. Again, something like starting a YouTube channel or starting a TikTok or an Instagram is like, it does take a certain level of friction and a certain level of FAF, whereas when it comes to an email newsletter, all you have to do is type a few things and hit send. And so it's one of the easiest kind of platforms that you can get started with as a creator. Thirdly, an email newsletter is private in a nice kind of way in that you're writing stuff for public consumption, but realistically, no one is going to be finding your thing. There is no algorithm that encourages people to sign up to your email newsletter. So really, if you want, you can send your first several issues completely in private, and hopefully that will help you go over the hurdle, the emotional barriers that get in everyone's ways whenever we're thinking of starting a new creative endeavor. Putting yourself out there on camera on a YouTube channel is admittedly a pretty big step. A lot of people really struggle with that step, but if you can put yourself out there in a small way and take those baby steps. But for example, sending a weekly email update to like a handful of friends, or even no one, or even just your mom or grandma, that really helps you kind of wet your appetite for what it's actually like to be a creator and share stuff publicly on the internet. And the final reason why starting an email newsletter is a great starting point is because ultimately it's all about writing. Now, any other kind of creative platform that you create on like YouTube channels and YouTube videos are really about the writing. Even like TikToks and stuff, if you're going to do them well, it's about scripting it and writing it and like structuring it in a way that makes a lot of sense. But the problem with all these public platforms is that you ultimately don't own the audience. It sounds kind of weird, but you ultimately don't own the audience. YouTube owns the audience, and I right now, I'm just building a house on borrowed land like this YouTube channel is only successful because of YouTube platform. Whereas if I can take some of my audience and put them onto an email list, now I have a direct relationship with that audience. Now I can show up in their inbox because they've given me and I can show up in their inbox every single week and share stuff of value. Which also means that when I have something to sell, I could potentially sell it to my email list. And to be honest, we've made over $2 million, some from selling our part-time YouTuber Academy. Not through selling it on the YouTube channel because I tend not to mention it on that, but actually through selling it on our email list. Because generally when people aren't on an email list, they have given you permission to contact them. They can unsubscribe anytime and it does help you build that relationship. People can reply to the emails you can reply back. I've also made a bunch of friends through the internet because people have signed up to my newsletter and then have replied and then I replied and we've fought and formed an exchange and maybe met up in real life or had zoom calls. So that's one of the downstream benefits of having an email list that you can build up this audience, which you then kind of own in a way that you don't really own your audience in other platforms. And the second main reason is that to be honest, an email newsletter itself could become an asset that you can then monetize further down the line if you want to. I spent like three and a half years writing my weekly email newsletter before I monetized anything in it, although I did have some affiliate links, so I was always making a few dollars from Amazon book recommendations here and there. But recently we've started to get sponsors on the newsletter who pay several thousand dollars for a slot in the newsletter. That's kind of insane that anytime I just send a weekly update, which I treat as a bit of a public journal that, hey, here are some thoughts on my mind. Here are some articles that I like all that kind of stuff. By the way, that's in Sunday snippets. My newsletter, if you want to sign up to it. Anytime I do that, a sponsor is willing to pay five six seven thousand dollars at the moment to basically kind of get their message out to the audience, which is pretty sick. And of course, as I mentioned at the start, there are people like Alex Lieberman, who started an email newsletter called Morning Brew, who are instantly sponsoring this video a bit more on those later. Alex Lieberman started Morning Brew in his university dorm room, and it was just a daily email newsletter that helped people keep up with what's going on in the world of business. And then he sells it five years later for $17 million dollars, and this news that it generates ridiculous amounts of revenue, which is why they're able to sponsor videos like this one. So obviously, I'm not saying that like my newsletter or your newsletter or anything is going to end up selling for $17 million, but I'm saying that there is the potential that this itself just an email. Something as simple as an email that you send once a day or once a week, once every other week, it does have the potential to even make you money for the down the line. And yeah, I just find it pretty insane that like something as simple as an email has the potential to do that. Part two, what should you actually write about? Okay, so at this point, let's say we're sold on the idea of having an email newsletter and you're thinking, okay, cool, it might be a thing. Like generally at this point, most people have this incredible like barrier that stops them from doing anything, which is that I don't know what I would even write about. And what I would say to that is that there's a few different ways of approaching it. Number one, broad brushstroke, you can write about whatever you want. Really being a creator, if you're new to this thing, is about finding a way to create content that you enjoy creating, kind of intrinsically for its own sake. And then you're kind of hoping that that content is able to add value to other people as well. What I wouldn't recommend necessarily is for example, starting a newsletter, starting a YouTube channel, starting at a TikTok, whatever, with the intention that like I want to make money from day one, or I want this to be successful. Because in the early days, when no one is watching your stuff, no one is subscribing to your channel, no one is like reading your email newsletter. It's really hard to have extrinsic motivation be the reason that you do the thing. Whereas, if it's an intrinsically motivated reason of I genuinely enjoy writing Harry Potter fan fiction, and therefore I'm going to make an email newsletter where every week I write a few paragraphs of Harry Potter fan fiction, and I'm doing it for the sheer joy of the craft. To that level of intrinsic motivation, makes it way easier to stay consistent with the habit, and generally in the creator economy, being consistent is the ultimate secret to getting results. So you can just write about whatever you want. When it comes to my email news that are Sunday snippets, I do just write about whatever I want. Every week, I think, huh, what have I been thinking about this week? Last week, I wrote about the Odyssey plan, which is how I'm figuring out what to do with my life. The week before, I wrote about a conversation I had with a friend that made me think about like how I'm considering my career. And over time, I've just built up an audience of people who just care about what's on my mind, which is kind of nice. And I sort of treat my news that her as a public journal of sorts, where I'll just share whatever I want, and then share a few links to articles or books or podcasts that I'd listen to or read that week that I enjoyed. And it's generally pretty chill, and I don't think too hot about the email news letter, which is why I like it so much. To be honest, on my YouTube channel, I don't just make videos that I want to make, because it is like a business asset in a way. And at any time, I feel weird about the YouTube channel. It's because I'm over optimizing for the numbers. But on the email news that are front, it's just so easy to not really care about those. It's just a public journal. I'm sending to people who I consider are my friends. I eat people like you guys who subscribe to the news letter. And people reply to it and say, oh, this was really helpful, or this made me think about this, or have you read this blog post instead? And then I read it. And then I reply to them and it's just it's just a kind of nice relationship builder in a way that's fairly chill. If you're looking for other ideas, if of things you could do, the other option for an email newsletter is to just curate things. So if you're watching this video, and you've gone to this point, chances are you're the sort of person who is quite smart, sophisticated, intelligent, very handsome, very good-looking, of course. But you also probably spend your time reading, stuff, listening to podcasts, watching videos. And every week, you've probably got something or another that you've read that you found is interesting. And you can just share those in a weekly email newsletter. That's how Tim Ferris, who runs one of the most successful news letters in the world, started five bullet Friday. Every Friday, he just sends out a list of five things. He's enjoyed that week. It might be a blog post. It might be a book. It might be a documentary. It might be a gadget. And he just started off sending it to friends. And then started sending it to his audience. And now he's got over two million subscribers to this email list. And he probably had generates millions and millions of dollars a year just off the back of a single email list. So curation is an option. The other thing that you can do is you can write about something that interests you and just do that every week. For example, that's how morning brew got started. Morning brew. By the way, thank you for sponsoring this video. Is a completely free daily email newsletter, which basically gives you updates in the world of business and tech and finance. And so if, like me, you're interested in those things, you can sign up completely for free in the link in the video description. And every morning, they'll descend you a nice summary of what's going on in those worlds straight to your inbox. They do it in a genuinely entertaining way. That helps you understand what's going on. Like what the hell is going on with Elon trying to buy Twitter and then pulling out of it. What's it deal with that? What is happening to the price of Bitcoin these days? And what are the macro economic factors around inflation, stuff that's making that happen? What are some businesses that are succeeding despite the recession? And like how are they doing it? There's interesting things like that that's written in a genuinely engaging and informative and kind of fun way. And it's completely free. You might as well sign up. It's completely free. You can unsubscribe anytime. I read it every morning because it helps me get updates in the world of business and tech and finance, which is three things I care about. So yeah, check out the link in the video description to sign up to morning brew. And thank you so much morning brew for sponsoring this video. And morning brew was started by Alex Lieberman, who I mentioned at the start of the video. And I interviewed on my podcast last week. And he talked about how he was just interested in the world of business. He was getting into the world of business. And he just realized that there was no good resource out there that helped you stay updated on business advice, which is why every day he just decided to write this thing. And then it grew into this ridiculous like enormous media company that he then sold for $70 million. So you can check out that podcast interview done with Alex. We've had a bunch of comments saying that that's like an incredible podcast episode. And we talk about a bunch of things like life and happiness and the death of his father and how he dealt with that. And like a bunch of stuff, that's just generally interesting and outside of the world of newsletters. But it might be quite an inspiring podcast to listen to. If you're looking for ideas for what sort of email newsletter you might want to write about. But really, the overall message here is you can write about whatever you want. And the great thing about an email newsletter is that it's a fantastic practice ground for being able to dabble with what it's like being a creator. After that point, you might decide you don't like it. You might decide, you know what, I see V8, can't be bothered to write anything every week. I don't really like the idea of sending stuff. But I publicly, I'm very happy in my day job and just like, whatever. That's fine. But at least you've tried it out. Or you might do what happened to me and a bunch of my other creative friends. And think, oh, it's actually kind of fun sending out an email every week that just tries to add a more sort of goodness to people's lives and help them out in an interesting way. Or just document something I've learned. And you might decide to stick with it. And I've been sticking with it for the last four years. And it's now a, you know, stable part of the business. And it's really fun. And it's a sort of thing that I probably am going to continue doing for, for the long term. Part three, how to get started with an email newsletter. All right. So the first step to get started with an email newsletter is to pick a platform. Now, there are a few different options you've got here. The option that I use personally for my newsletter and I have been using for the last like two plus years is called ConvertKit. But the problem with ConvertKit is that you have to pay for it. It is a paid platform. It is ridiculously powerful. Incredible. If you want to take this news that I think seriously, they have a free plan. I think you've first 1000 subscribers are free, but you do then have to pay. And it does get quite expensive. Right now we pay several thousand dollars a month for the privilege of using ConvertKit. It's totally worth it. But it is a paid product. I'll put an affiliate link in the video description if you want to check it out. But it's generally not what I would recommend getting started completely from scratch. If you want to get started completely from scratch and you want to do it without spending a penny, there are two main options that you've got that I would recommend. The first one is Substack and the second one is Review. I was using Review for the first two years of my email newsletter and it was absolutely fantastic and it's completely free and it was recently acquired by Twitter. So the nice thing about Review is that if you are serious about growing on Twitter, people can subscribe to your email list directly from your Twitter profile because it's nicely integrated and it's completely free. So you can try out Review. Alternatively, we've got Substack. Now, Substack has been around for a few years now as well. And honestly, if I were getting started completely from scratch today, Substack is probably the root I would go down. Basically, you've gone Substack.com, not sponsoring this video or anything, but people at Substack. If you're watching this, let me know. Would love to work with you. And we'll just hit start writing. You can make an account or you can sign in with Twitter exactly like I've done. And you just write a quick description, musings from my day to day life as a doctor turned creator printer at a LOL kind of cringe. But well, if you have an existing email list, you could bring a CSV in and populate it, but you don't have to. You could add subscribers from day one so you can get your parents or your grandparents or your friends to sign up if you really want to. Again, I'm going to skip this step. And here we are, I've just now got my own newsletter, which also doubles it as a turn website. I'll be at the club. Substack.com. It's live. You can check it out if you want. And now, if I want to send my first issue, all I have to do is click new post. And I can just write whatever I want. And I've just written my very first issue of my email newsletter. And I'm going to hit publish. And then I can send that to everyone. Do you want to add subscribe buttons to your post? Yeah, why not? Now, I have my first email newsletter. I hit publish. And we are good. If I want to I can share it on Facebook and share it on Twitter, or I don't have to. I can just do this like this and treat this like my own personal practice ground for publishing something on the internet. And now, if we open up an incognito window and go to all the other other substack.com, here is what it looks like. All these news letter, musings from my day to day life as a doctor turned creator and wanted to be second to go. And then people can subscribe directly from this, which is kind of nice. It's quite simple. Or they can read it first. And they can read my kind of first issue, which should be here somewhere. My first email newsletter. There we go. This is cute. This is kind of nice. And then there's the option for people to subscribe. And it's all completely free. And I know people, personally, who have made hundreds of thousands of dollars a year by just starting a completely free email newsletter on substack. And later, switching on monetization or getting sponsorships or selling their own product. All that kind of stuff, which is all part of the business of being a creator printer. If you've got into this point in the video and you start an email newsletter, send me an email alia.com. And I promise I will subscribe to your email newsletter. So you will at least have one subscriber if you would like, if you don't want your friends and family to be your first subscribers. If you are potentially interested in learning more about the ins and outs of what it's like being a creator printer, I have any course on this. It's called the Crop time creator printer. You can check it out link in the video description. And if you're looking for more theory, more of a framework and how to get started with being a creator, you might like to check out this video over here, which is my three level system for growing a YouTube channel. But the same thing applies to growing an email newsletter or any other sort of creative business. So check out that video over there. Thank you so much for watching. Do hit the subscribe button if you're not ready. And I'll see you hopefully in the next video. Bye-bye.
