# Why I'm Giving 10% of my Income to Charity
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PHgdXWZLs9g
Giving What We Can: https://www.givingwhatwecan.org/

“I recognise that I can use part of my income to do a significant amount of good. Since I can live well enough on a smaller income, I pledge that for the rest of my life or until the day I retire, I shall give at least ten percent of what I earn to whichever organisations can most effectively use it to improve the lives of others, now and in the years to come. I make this pledge freely, openly, and sincerely.” #TakeThePledge #GivingWhatWeCan

The Life You Can Save by Peter Singer free audiobook or ebook: https://www.thelifeyoucansave.org/the-book/

Myths about aid and charity: https://www.givingwhatwecan.org/get-involved/myths-about-aid/
GiveWell charity evaluator: https://www.givewell.org/

Peter Singer TED talk: The why and how of Effective Altruism https://youtu.be/Diuv3XZQXyc
Beth Barnes TEDx talk: Effective Altruism https://youtu.be/LtWINl3C_7s

How can doctors do the most good: https://80000hours.org/2015/08/how-can-doctors-do-the-most-good-an-interview-with-dr-gregory-lewis/

Effective Altruism - https://www.effectivealtruism.org/

💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking 

📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

📝My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://paperlike.com/ali
🎶 Where I get my music from (amazing for YouTubers) - http://share.epidemicsound.com/ali

🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal

Who am I:

I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 



If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭
**Keywords:** giving what we can, effective altruism, giving what we can pledge, philanthropy, charity, the life you can save, peter singer, drowning child, altruism, utilitarianism, ea global, poverty, will macaskill, ali abdaal, ali abdal, nonprofit, social change, against malaria foundation, give to charity, 10% pledge, philosophy, centre for effective altruism, doing good better, effective altruism global, malaria, global health, 
**Date:** 2019-12-25

## Transcript
 Let's imagine that we're working in a park and we see a child drowning in the pond in front of us. Do we jump in to save the child? Yeah, of course we do. What if we were wearing a new pair of shoes and we had our phone in our pocket? Would we still jump in to save the child? Yeah, of course we would. We would recognize that the life of a child is worth far more than the cost of our shoes or the cost of our iPhone. What if that child were as in a different country and we had to step over the border in order to jump into the pond to save their lives? Would we still do it? Yeah, we would. We would recognize that just because they're in a different country doesn't make the life worth any less. But what if we knew that this child was dying in a different country that we couldn't see? Would we give away the cost of our iPhone or the cost of our pair of shoes in order to save their life? Now, most of us probably don't realise that we're in this position, but we actually could donate the cost of an iPhone, the cost of our pair of shoes, the cost of our latte, to help save the lives of children in different countries. And that's the main idea behind the giving what we can movement. And that's a charity that encourages people to take a pledge whereby we donate 10% of our income every year to effective charities to help save lives. And so I've decided that for my new years resolution from now on and forever more, I'm going to be taking this pledge. And to help guide me through the process and answer the questions that I've got. I've invited my friend Lucia over. She's also a junior doctor. We were friends in medical school and she was the one who first introduced me to this idea. The pledge is a commitment to give 10% of your income over your working life to the charities or organisations that will do the most good with it. So how did you get into this whole, like, effective authorism giving what we can making a different stuff like? What was your gateway drug? So for me, I guess I started thinking about these things pretty early. When I was quite young, the first time I probably started thinking in this way, I think it was probably around like 8 or 9. What happened was a school friend of mine. He died of leukemia. And I remember just thinking about what that meant for his family and his parents, his little brother. And how horrible it was. And I remember thinking when I was around that age, I remember looking around my room and thinking, I would literally give away all of my toys and clothes and everything I had if I could save his life for the sake of his family and people that care about him and his friends as well. And then I started thinking about how obviously I couldn't do that. And we don't have the resources and ability to cure that disease, but there are a lot of diseases that we can cure very easily. And there are a lot of children dying completely preventable causes and that we can use our resources to prevent that. And it just really didn't sit well with me the fact that I would do so much for someone that I cared about. But I wasn't doing anything for someone else cares about someone else's friend who they cared about just as much. Someone else's brother or sister. I came across this character as a movement. I got involved when I was at uni and I kind of made a part of my life. And then also I'm just in a position that I can, right? So in this country, as a UK graduate, like the average starting salary is around 25,000 pounds. Okay. And that person is in the richest 3% of the world. Rich is 3%. Yeah, it's not something we really think about is it. But like we're really like, compared on a global scale, we're like really wealthy. We have so many opportunities compared to other people. And if you take the 10% pledge, you're still in the richest 4% of the world. Okay. Yeah. So you can do it. And then another reason for me is that it's like, it makes me happier. So spending that amount of money on myself isn't going to significantly increase my quality of life. And it does significantly increase my quality of life to feel like I'm doing a good thing. It just feels like fulfilling to me to be living a 9% in line with my values, to make something like that part of my life. Kind of paraphrase what I want to focus on. And it just feels good. We pledge to give 10% of our income to some sort of effective charity every year. And we're defining effective charity by these evidence-based metrics that other people have come up with. Yeah. So the against malaria foundation is one that that's often used in examples of these sorts of things. Could you talk a little bit about that? Yeah. So that's a charity that helps to distribute like insecticide treated bedness to prevent people from getting malaria, dying of malaria or getting disabilities associated with malaria. And it's been shown to be very effective at preventing disability and saving ice. So for example, if you donate maybe, I mean, the estimates are changing because it's kind of like complicated to work it out. Because you have to take everything into account. But the maybe around 1,500 pounds is enough to like actually save a life. So that takes into account how many bed nets you would need to distribute for them to actually save a life. Because obviously not every bed net is going to result in that person not dying. Anyway. So it's about 1,500 pounds to save a life. So how much does a single bed net cost? Just a few pounds. Okay. So you're saying that if we donate, let's say 1,500 pounds to against malaria foundation, then that'll let them buy, let's say 500 different anti-molary nets. Yeah. Or 500. But something like that. And between those 500 nets on average a life will be saved. Yeah. Like an actual life. And actual life. You can save an actual life by donating $1500 quick. Yeah. Or that's like roughly. Yeah. Done. Okay. We've got four different cameras filming this from different angles. So you're saying if I just hadn't bought one of them, I could have pretty much donated that money to some kind of charity to save a life. Yeah. Yeah. So you chose that camera over somebody's life. Yeah. Okay. It's not funny. This is. All right. I mean, that's one way to think about it, right? I mean, those angles are valuable. Yeah. There's valuable angles. Yeah. This is a high impact video. Think it's crossed. All right. I'm sorry. Let's do it. Okay. We're going to do a cheeky iPhone screen recording. Okay. So Safari is a giving what we can. I can just do it. I guess giving what we can become a member. Yeah. The giving what we can pledge. The first step is to take off pledge, making a solemn commitment to giving at least 10% of your income to the organizations that you can. That you think can do the most good with it. This is like the most expensive video we've made. The pledge to give. I recognize that I can use part of my income to do a significant amount of good. Since I can live well enough on a smaller income, I pledge that for the rest of my life. Or until the day I retire, I shall give at least 10% of what I earn to whichever organizations can most effectively use it to improve the lives of others. Now and in the years to come. I make this pledge freely openly and sincerely. For people earning a regular income, you get you give 10% of it. For students and the unemployed. Oh, yeah. How does it work for students? Yeah. So for students. The idea is that you give like 1% of your spending money. So you don't really have an income as a student. So the money that you're spending income. Which is I think more clearly defined on the website. Yeah. Of course the pledge is a no way legally binding. It is a commitment entered into voluntarily and in full solely by your unconscious. Okay. Why a pledge commitment community and publicity keeping track? I'm ready. Take a pledge and become a member. All right. All right. So first name. Last name. Email address. Next. How much would you have given? If you hadn't heard of giving what we can. Roughly how much of you have income do you expect? You have to donate to an average. Two. Maybe. Where do you plan to give? Give all recommendations. I think. Because give what is that. There's that. The thing that analyzes. Yeah. When the charity evaluators. It has influenced my donation decision. Submit. There's a me. Here we go. Oh. Congratulations. Oh. You did it. Oh my god. Okay. Right. So. Yeah. How are you feeling about that right now? So the thing is that. I don't know if this is true for you. Yeah. I'm not emotionally affected by a lot of things. I don't do any sleep over the fact that children are dying in Africa right now. But I feel like most people are in that position. But I just kind of know that. Just kind of rationally. This is like a good thing to do. Do you get that or do you do sleep about the fact that you're dying in Africa? I guess I feel like there is like kind of two different types of approach with that. There are the people that are really kind of emotionally affected by like the suffering in the world. Yeah. And I'm driven by that to to do to try and have an impact. And then there are people who maybe aren't like feeling that kind of like empathizing with that suffering. But have just worked out that logically it makes sense. Like you know that suffering is bad and you want to prevent it. And that's both of those are very different. I'm more of the former. And you're more of the latter. That's like greater valid. Fair enough. All right. So that's about 10% of income gone for this financial year and for over more. All right. So let's say that people are, you know, they've seen this video and they're intrigued and maybe considering maybe giving the pleasure. But at least finding out more about this whole effect of alterism stuff. Do you have any recommended resources that we can kind of point people to? Yeah. There are some cool TED talks about it. I guess we could probably link them. Yes. Links in the video description. And then also, yeah. So there are a couple of books that I think are really good. The life you can say by a peach singer is one of my favorites. It kind of summarizes the kind of ethical arguments behind this movement. And then there's another really interesting one called doing good better. A radical new way to make a difference. And it's about, yeah. Yeah, effect of alterism trying to make a lot better place using evidence and reason. So those are some cool resources. There's loads on the internet. There's loads of websites. And if you just Google about it, there's the find out. It's really interesting. What is effect of alterism? You know, what are in the cascal co-founder of the effect of alterism movement? What's the deal with that? So effect of alterism, which this kind of pledges kind of a part of that in a way. So it's basically a social movement. And it's about wanting to make the world better place. And it's about using a reason evidence to find out the most effective ways to do that. And then actually trying to do it. So that's kind of the idea. So it's pretty, it's a pretty broad concept. And there's lots of different parts of it. So give what we can, pledges part of that. And then there's also 80,000 hours, which is an organization which helps people find out the most impactful things that they can do with that. Because there's obviously as well as the money that you have to donate. You've got the time that you have to spend on important things. So this, an interesting statistic I heard that as doctors, we actually don't save many lives. You're asking the things. How does that work? Yeah, so it's funny, right? Because a lot of people, when they go into medicine, and when we think about being doctors, we think, oh, we're doing loads of good, we're saving lives, we're helping people. But actually, like the impact of a doctor isn't really what you think it would be. And there's some research into this. And a guy called Greg Reloars did quite a lot of it. And he calculated that actually, if you weren't a doctor, and there was one that's doctor working in the NHS or wherever, it wouldn't really make that much of a difference. So on average, probably, in your whole career as a doctor, you'll save around six lives. Okay. But you feel like you're doing more than that, don't you? Actually, when you work it out, it's not really working like that. Yeah, because I suppose healthcare is such a beam as a team-driven, et cetera, that the impact that an individual doctor makes is fairly minimal. Yeah, and more important are the kind of public health things, like sanitation and all those social determinants of health and all of that. Like, those are the things that really kind of have the biggest impact on people not dying. And I suppose with this statistic of an individual doctor, kind of in the UK or in a kind of developed country, saves six lives a year. No, six lives in your career. So also, sorry, six lives. It's six lives a year, it's pretty good. Six lives in a whole career, a whole work in career. But that doesn't take into account the fact that if you were I won't doctors, you know, there would be someone else who would fill that space in medical school. Yeah. So actually, I suppose the... Even yes. Yeah, there's even less impact on you and I individually choosing to become doctors. Yeah. Whereas, by just donating 10% of our junior doctor salary, we could literally save two or three lives just based on what our own salary is. Yes. Yes. You can have more impact in a couple years donating your income as a junior doctor, than you can in your whole career working as a doctor. Yeah. Okay. That's an interesting thought. Yeah. All right. So I guess if people want to find out more, they can check out the links in the video description. Maybe check out these books if they want to. Or they can join us in taking the pledge and trying to make the world a better place. I've got that sound so cringe. Yeah. Thank you very much. Thank you. Anything else you'd like to add? Just want to say, well done, Elliot's awesome. Oh, thanks a lot. So happy. Thank you for introducing me to this whole thing. I don't think I ever would've come across this stuff. I had not been for just kind of meeting you in fourth year. Yeah. And all of our chats on journeys to placement. Yes. Yeah. Cool. All right. So that's it. I've taken the giving what we can pledge and I'm going to be giving away 10% of my income elective charities every year for the rest of my life, or at least until I retire. And yeah, I've been kind of mulling this over for several years now. And I've decided to take the plunge. So if you're watching this and thank you so much for watching this far in the video. We've got loads of links in the video description to other resources, articles, TED Talks videos. Where you can find out more about effective altruism, about giving what we can. And about the difference that our own money can make to the lives of other people. So yeah. Thanks for watching. If you like the video, please give it a thumbs up. If you haven't subscribed to the channel, please consider doing so. Have a lovely day. Have a good new year. And I'll see you in the next video. Bye bye.
