# My PRODUCTIVE Bucket List (2021)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pqUxibdbv38
In this video I'll be going over my bucket list for 2021 using my amazing Anti-Wasteman System.

00:00 Intro
00:09 Writing a Book
06:32 The Wife Quest
09:31 Six Pack Abs
11:35 Busk on the London Underground
12:46 Draw Like a Concept Artist
14:24 Become a Better Storyteller

My art teacher, Alessandro: https://www.instagram.com/alepirrelli/?hl=en

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
📚  How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali
What I Use For Analytics - https://go.aliabdaal.com/tubebuddy
🌐  My website platform (Ghost) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost
🎤  My podcast hosting platform (Transistor) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/transistor

OTHER RECOMMENDED COURSES
📔 Effortless Output with Roam Research - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/roam
📓 Building a Second Brain - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/basb

🎙 MY WEEKLY PODCAST - https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCdXpN-Z7LyTgc3OLo_Zw2Pg
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app. And we post clips + full episodes on the YouTube channel, so please subscribe to that!  

BE MY FRIEND:
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮  Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, new years resolutions, new year resolutions, 2021 resolutions, bucket list, goals for 2021, 2021 new year resolutions, 2021 goals, 2021 new years resolutions, 2021, new year goals, setting goals for 2021, how to set goals for 2021, new year ideas, change your life, how to set goals, new years resolution ideas, new year's resolutions 2021, 2021 goal setting, goal ideas for 2021, goals 2021, 2021 ideas, 2021 planning, 2021 planner, resolutions, 
**Date:** 2021-01-06

## Transcript
 Hey friends, welcome back to the channel. In this video, I'm going to talk you through the six items in my 2021 bucket list, and I'll share with you how I'm planning to make sure they all hopefully happen. Alright, so the first thing is that this year, I want to write an amazing book. I have a book deal to write a book, and it's going to be loosely themed around the idea of meaningful productivity, and I have started writing it already, and things are going reasonably well, although it feels quite scary because it's like the path in front is very, very uncertain, and I don't even know if I'll be able to do it, and every day, it's a struggle to sit down and actually do some writing, and I always think in my head that, oh, I don't know if this is good and often, you know, why would anyone read this? But, you know, from people I've spoken to, this whole like writing a book thing, much like a lot of other things in life, is really a case of kind of believing in yourself, and doing the work, and doing it consistently, and then trying to make a good further down the line, rather than kind of trying to make a good from the beginning, and then stalling in that process. Now, the way that I'm planning out my six items on my bucket list is using my anti waste man system, and so for each of these items, I have a dream, and the dream is like the emotionally resonant goal, like, I want to write an amazing book, and then the next question I ask myself is, why do I want to do that? So, why don't I want to write an amazing book? Well, I've got a book deal, and it seems fun, and it would be really cool if the book is really good, and I know for me, like, the things that have most changed my life have been reading books, like, certain books, so books like the four-hour work week, or anything you want by direct servers, or show your work that I was in play on, those books have had such a huge impact on my life, and I would absolutely freaking love it if the book that I end up writing can come even close to having some kind of that, like, that level of impact on a random person's life, and it would be nice if it's more than one person, so that's, like, a pretty strong y for doing this thing. Now, the next step is converting the emotionally resonant dream of writing an amazing book into a smart goal. Now, smart goal is theoretically, ideally, specific, measurable, achievable, realistic, and timely, or time-bound, and so the smart goal that I've created for this in the first instance is that by mid-February by the 15th of February, I will have a rough messy draft that I can send to my editor to review, and this is going to be aiming for 70,000 words for this rough messy draft, and the next question is, what is the habit or projects that I need to do to make this happen? And so for me, the habit I need to do is that for the next six weeks, I just need to write 2000 words every day. Yeah, that 2000 words a day for the next 42 days will get me to 80, something thousand words, which should be enough to hit the kind of goal of getting the 70,000 word manuscript as a rough first draft by the 15th of February. Now, the next question I ask myself in my wasteman productivity system is, how surprised would I be on a scale of 0 to 10 if I didn't hit the goal? So, how surprising would it be for me? And I've given myself a 3 out of 10 for this. I wouldn't be very surprised if I didn't hit that goal, because it feels too hard and too difficult right now, and knowing myself, I'm a wasteman, and if I got to the 15th of February, and I'd only done 20,000 words, I wouldn't be too surprised. And so knowing that about myself, the next question I ask myself is, what are the top three reasons why I might fail to do the thing? And the only way I would actually fail this is by not hitting my daily word count. So, if we look at the reasons why I might not hit my daily word count, firstly, it's probably a time thing, like even though I will set the intention that, hey, today I'm going to write other stuff might come up, there might be like an urgent thing to do for my YouTube channel, or for my, I don't know, YouTuber Academy, or for some other thing I'm doing for the business, or maybe your friend comes over a post lockdown to visit, or something might get in the way, in which case I might not hit my 2000 words a day, kind of limit. Secondly, I might not hit it, because I don't make time for it in my calendar these days I take a lot of phone calls, and unless I actively block out time to do something in my calendar, basically it never happens. And thirdly, I'm probably massively underestimating the difficulty of writing 2000 words a day. So, maybe while I start the process of doing this for the next six weeks, I might realise, oh crap, this is actually a lot harder than I thought, and this takes me 10 hours each day to do these 2000 words, and I don't have 10 hours physically in the day to do this, because I have other stuff that I need to be doing. And so, the idea there is that I'm being really honest with myself about, right, I'm saying, I want to do this thing, I'm making a video of making a place that I'm going to do this thing. What are the reasons why I might not actually do it? And then the next question is, who can help me achieve this goal? Now, I've got three people who can kind of help me with this. So, number one is my writing coach. His name is Azul. We're here now here and I've been kind of having weekly sessions for the last several months now. He, in a way, is going to hold me accountable, and I'll chat to him anytime I'm struggling, and he can give me some emotional help along the way. Secondly, I think it would be useful to have someone as an accountability buddy with a big forfeit. Like, for example, if I set to my house mate, sheen, every day, if I don't write 2000 words, I'm going to give you 5,000 pounds, and you can do whatever you want with that money. That would be a very strong incentive for me to actually write those 2000 words every day. And thirdly, if I'm making the excuse that, oh, I don't have time to do this, to do this writing, it's possible that if we're just kind of brainstorming like who can help us do the thing, it's possible that if I, for example, had someone to do my laundry, for example, yeah, that would be one aspect of my time that's freed up to do this writing thing. And so the idea behind this exercise is that it doesn't have to be realistic things. It's just kind of like a brainstorm. I probably won't hire someone to do my laundry, but it's good to know that it's an option if I need it. The next question is, how can I stack the deck in my favor to succeed? And so my idea for this is that I'm going to time block three hours a day in my calendar every single day where I'm only allowed to do writing. So I'm going to block out two hours in the morning and one hour in the evening. And I'm hoping that given my typing speed is relatively fast, theoretically, it should be doable to hit 2000 words in those three hours. The other thing that I can do to stack the deck in my favor, which I'm going to do from now on, is I'm going to set up a mailing list of people who want to hear those behind the scenes of how the journey of through writing this book is going. So if you're interested in that, click the link in the video description into your email. And I will be sending you an email once or twice a week with a little update of what I've been working on and the things I've been struggling with. And you know, I might ask for your input like, for example, I'm working on a chapter about this thing related to productivity. Can you reply and tell me what are your thoughts, what are your struggles? And potentially might give you like early drafts of stuff. It's all free. So if you're interested in that, put your email down below and that will be another vehicle for me to kind of actually do this. And oh, actually, each week in the email, I will send you a sort of word count that on Monday, I did this many words Tuesday, this many words. And that will be another way for me to be held accountable to some number of people. I hope some people join this list to actually getting this done. And finally, the most useful part of this exercise is by taking action right now and taking the first step to doing the thing. So I've already made a commitment with my writing coach that this is going to happen. And while I was preparing this video, I timed locked three hours in my calendar every day until the 15th of February where I'm only allowed to write. And by the time you're watching this video, the mailing list should be set up. So hit the link in the video description if you want to check it out. All right, item number two on my bucket list is that I want to make some level of progress towards finding a wife. And I'm going to call this my wife quest. Why? Well, because relationships are like, everyone says relationships are the most important area of life. And I feel like, for me personally, for the last like 26 years of my life, I haven't really taken dating and like relationships, particularly seriously. And so, you know, now is as good a time as any to start taking this stuff more seriously. And I guess like people say that when you're in like a good relationship, it like makes your life better. And honestly, I can't really imagine my life being any better than it currently is right now. Like my happiness level is like a 10 out of 10. And I can't imagine someone else coming into that and making it better. But every one, I know who's in a relationship, say that yeah, they couldn't imagine it either and then they ended up in a relationship and now their life is better. So I feel like this might actually be one of those unknown unknowns whereby it's kind of like when people become parents, they say that nothing can really prepare you for it. And most people still say that having kids is useful. So I don't know. I feel like they're there is probably something I'm missing here, which is why I want to take the whole relationship thing a bit more seriously. Kind of hard to put a smart goal on this, maybe I won't bother. And I think one habit that might help with this is committing to myself that I'm going to go on at least one date every week or at least make time to go on at least one day every week. Maybe I'll have someone to go on a date with, maybe I won't, but at least there'll be a little time slot in my calendar. Maybe Saturday nights or like Sunday morning for brunch where I'm like okay, you know, this is time where I'm not allowed to do work. I'm not allowed to book meetings. I'm not allowed to plan a, I'm not allowed to film a video. This is purely time where in an ideal world I'll be going on a date with someone. This might be a little bit problematic during lockdown. But I've been toying with the idea of doubling with zoom dates. I'm not really sure how I feel about it. And so, you know, like anything, it's worth trying out just to see what it's like. Let me know in the comments if you have any personal experience with the zoom or FaceTime dates and whether you'd recommend them. In terms of who can help, I've been vaguely wondering, do I want to hire a dating coach for a bit? I don't know. Like, I'm not sure how it would help, but I feel like, you know, even Roger Federer has a tennis coach. So, as much as I rate my own ability to talk to women, I feel like maybe getting a dating coach might help and they'll encourage me to wear more shirts and I in the shirts or do things like that. And in terms of how I can stack the deck in my favor and the action point here, I have already time blocked Sunday morning. This coming Sunday to theoretically going to date with someone who knows if it's going to happen. Honestly, I'll put my surprise at like a two out of ten if I don't make progress on this front because I imagine that, you know, this year I'll probably just say, oh, well, you know, I'm too busy or I can't be bothered to make time for this or oh, it's locked down. I'll do it after the pandemic or even stuff like, oh, I'm only 26 or 27 in 2021. I'll start to worry about finding, finding love when I'm like 30 or something. So, those are all reasons why I might not do it, but it is something that I do want to take a bit more seriously. Alright, let's get more exciting now. And item number three on my bucket list is that it will be nice to get six pack abs at some point this year. Why? Well, it would be a fun challenge and I've never had abs before. There was one time. I feel like it was in 2017 or 2018, where I'd been doing like ab workout deep type stuff every time I went to the gym for a solid like month. And I remember once I like folded, I was like folding my arms just for no reason and I felt like, oh, hello, and I never really felt that before. And that was like a really nice feeling and I've not had it since. So it would be nice to get six pack abs at some point this year. Plus, you know, maybe it'll help with the whole wife quest thing. The small goal for this is that by December 2021, I will have had at least a two week period of my abs showing, which I will probably post a photo of on Instagram, maybe if I can, if I feel that narcissistic about it, if it even happens, which realistically, it probably won't. And I guess the only two habits I need for this are a hitting the macros that my personal trainer says. And actually doing the exercise, like apparently the human body is kind of like a science project and that if you put the right inputs in, you will get the outputs that you want. How surprised would I be if this didn't happen? Probably like a two out of ten. I don't really back myself at all to actually get six pack abs at some point this year. And the main reason why I might fail with this is because I've been living off takeaways pretty much for the last three years. And I anticipate that pattern may continue in 2021, where I decide, oh, screw it. I'll just get a takeaway and then I'll completely blow my macro goals. At some point, pretty soon, I might also decide, you know what, doing these ab exercises as a total nightmare and I can't be bothered with this. And you know what, I want to find someone who likes me for me, not because I've got abs. Yeah, I might tell myself all those kind of BS excuses. And at some point, if we're allowed to travel sometime this year, if I do travel, then I anticipate that will make my diet and exercise go inconsistent. So those are reasons why this might not happen. In terms of who can help me, well, I already have a personal trainer who I've been working with for the last couple of months. And we do like Zoom calls twice a week, where he makes me do exercise, and that's always fun and good. And in terms of action points, I have already arranged my next session with a personal trainer. And I'm going to say to him, look, Dan, at some point this year, I only get six pack abs. So can you uh, can you help me out? And he's probably going to say, look, man, you've not been hitting your macros, and you've not been hitting the exercise. And so you just need to do that. I'm going to be like, thank you, Dan. This is this is helpful. This is what I need. Let's do it. I have number four on my bucket list. Is that at some point this year, I want to busk on the London Underground. I eat, I want to play my guitar and sing somewhere on the London Underground. I think that'll be really fun. This is something that's actually been on my bucket list for years now. And I've just like never done it because the annoying thing about the London Underground is that you need to audition and you need to get a license for it once you've passed your audition. And with COVID, apparently, this has actually become quite a lot harder. Reasons I might fail are if they realise that I actually suck at singing and playing the guitar and they reject my audition piece and therefore I don't get a license and therefore I won't end up being able to do it. But I suppose like the the nice thing about living in Cambridge is that in Cambridge, there are no like you don't need a license to busk. So at the very least, I will commit to myself that I will do busking somewhere on the streets of Cambridge with an amplifier in a microphone and a guitar, even if I get rejected from the London Underground Auditions. Who can help me with this? Well, I don't really have a guitar teacher. I sort of have a singing teacher, but we're very on and off because of lockdown. But I actually have a friend who's another YouTuber called Mary Spender and she is a professional guitarist and professional musician and stuff. And I messaged her the other day saying, Mary, I want a busk on the London Underground. Can you help me out? And she was like, yeah, sure. We'll figure something out. So Mary is going to be helping me on this journey to become a busker on the London Underground. Item 5 on my bucket list is that I really want to learn how to draw like a concept artist. I concept art is that like fantastic art that they haven't like video games and movies and stuff. And I absolutely love the idea of being able to draw paint illustrate scenes like my favorite scenes from fantasy books. Like, you know, the Mistborn series by Brandon Sanderson or like Harry Potter or like the store my archive by Brandon Sanderson or like the name of the wind by Patrick Rothford. So all of these like various fantasy books that I read, it would be so sick if I can kind of do those illustrations. The smart goal for this is that by the end of 2021, I will have created one of these illustrations and I will have uploaded it as a time lapse to like YouTube or Instagram or something. And in terms of habit, it just means that I need to practice every day but also have a sort of a roadmap towards actively improving and getting feedback. Now, someone who's helping me with this is actually my art teacher and we had a session this morning because I decided four days ago that I wanted to do this and this is something that I drew this morning. We are working on gestures and on proportions and he was telling me stuff this morning that hey, you know, if the human head is like one, then like the torso should be like three and a half and the legs should be like four and now we're trying to, you know, get an idea of proportionality when it comes to drawing. And the great thing about having an art teacher or link is Instagram and the description if you want to check him out, he's a professional concept artist is that we have, I've committed that I'm going to do three lessons a week with him. And so it's embarrassing for me if I turn up to a lesson not having done any practice. And so theoretically, that shame will actually make me do some practice when we don't have lessons and the lessons are usually at eight o'clock in the morning. So it's like a thing that forces me to get out of bed and I found for the last four days that we've been doing this. I feel like, oh, I'm really annoyed that I have to get up at eight in the morning for this. But I'm really glad that I had to get up at eight in the morning for this once I've had a bit of coffee and once we're into the swing of doing some drawing. And the final item on my 2021 bucket list is that I want to become a better storyteller. Now, why is this? Well, stories are such an important aspect of all of our lives and, you know, if you can tell a good story, then that's like one of the best things in terms of just improving social skills and I'm keen to improve my social skills. Also, telling better stories is a great way of making people more engaged in video. And storytelling is something that I've recently been reading about through books like Storyworthy by Matthew Dix and a million miles and a thousand years by Donald Miller. And I just love the idea of becoming like a pro storyteller because I always look up to this people who you can just like in rapture and audience. Is that the right word? In rapture and audience just through telling the story. And actually this year, there were four interviews that I did on my deep dive livestreams in particular that really helped me want to develop this love of storytelling. Firstly, it was with Austin Cleon, who is the author of show your work, one of my favorite books. Secondly, bestselling author Ryan Holliday, who's written a ton of books that I really like. Thirdly, Alex Benayan, who is also an author who wrote a fantastic book called The Third Door, which made me cry many, many times. And fourthly is David Perrell, who runs an online writing school called Right to Passage and I'm taking this course and it's very good. And in my sort of one to two hour interviews with all four of these guys, like we talked a lot about storytelling and I just kind of, I left it feeling so inspired and feeling like, you know what, I really want to take the stuff really seriously. If for some reason you missed those live streams, then you're really missing out because they were fantastic. And be, you're in luck because they're all actually uploaded over at Nebula. If you haven't heard, Nebula is an independent streaming platform that's run by me and a bunch of other educational-ish creators. And Nebula is the place where we can put things like a two-hour long interview or like random snippets of an interview or various other things without really having to worry about the YouTube algorithm. Like we're not trying to build a competitor to YouTube, it's just purely an alternative place to put our stuff. And so on Nebula, you'll find all of my deep dive interviews, I think have done like between 10 and 20 of them at this point and we also cut them up into snippets. So if you don't have time to sit through a two-hour long interview, we cut each interview up into like between 5 and 10 short bite-sized videos, so you can just watch those while you're eating your food or something. Secondly, on Nebula, you also get early access to my videos completely ad-free and so this video is already out on Nebula and this ad completely disappears from that video. And thirdly, you'll find tons of content from a load of other educational-ish creators. People you might know, like Thomas Frank and Wendover Productions and Legal Eagle and Tom Scott and Lindsay Alice, all of us lots were all like part of the same like Mafia Collective thing and we all upload our exclusive content over at Nebula. Now, the single best way of getting access to Nebula is actually by signing up to CuriosityStream who are very kindly sponsoring this video. Again, if you haven't heard, CuriosityStream is the world's leading documentary streaming subscription platform founded by John Hendrix, the founder of the Discovery Channel and on CuriosityStream, they've got thousands of high budget like fantastically well shot documentaries and actually I've been watching a lot of those recently to try and improve my own storytelling skills because documentaries do give you a good insight into how to tell a good story. And actually one documentary series I've been enjoying recently is called How To Look at a Painting, which I'm watching because I've never really gotten the whole gallery thing and you know, why do people enjoy looking at paintings? But now that I'm trying to become a concept artist, this is helping me kind of get more of an overview of exactly what this happens and all the different things to look for in artwork. And because CuriosityStream loves independent educational creators, we've got a special bundle with Nebula whereby if you sign up to CuriosityStream by going on CuriosityStream.com for slash alley, for less than $15 a year, you'll get a year's access to CuriosityStream so all of these documentaries, but you'll also get free access to Nebula. So all of my stuff, I've even got like a workflow series where I take you behind the scenes of my workflow, for my productivity apps, you'll get all the deep dives, you'll get all the snippets, you'll be able to watch all of my interviews with Austin and David and Ryan Holiday and Alex Benign, all the other people that I've interviewed over at Nebula. If that sounds up your street, then head over to CuriosityStream.com for slash alley, sign up for the account and you'll get your Nebula details emailed to you. So that's why I want to improve my storytelling and the habit that's going to help me get there hopefully is called Homework for Life, which is something that Matthew Dix talks about in the book Storyworthy and that's the idea that every night you sit down and you write down the most storyworthy thing that happened to you that day. Now I've been doing this a little bit on and off for the last year, but I'm going to really start taking it seriously and actually I emailed Matthew Dix himself the other day and said, hey, can you be my storytelling coach? So we have a session book to later in January and hopefully he's going to feature on a deep dive as well, which then again will be uploaded to Nebula. So those were the six items on my bucket list for 2021. If you want access to the template that I've been using to plan these, you should definitely check out this video over here, which is my 2020 annual review using my free notion template, which is linked in the description of that video. So check it out. Thank you so much for watching. Happy New Year and I'll see you in the next video. Bye bye.
