# Answering your Questions
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PQWWKAtYmG4
Answering questions to mark the fact that this channel has passed 600,000 subscribers. Thank you!

Simon Clark’s YouTube Channel  https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCRRr_xrOm66qaigIbwFLvbQ

Blog article David Perell – The Ultimate Guide To Writing Online
https://www.perell.com/blog/the-ultimate-guide-to-writing-online

TIMESTAMPS
00:30 How did you figure out what you wanted to do on YouTube?
01:38 What is something that 99% of your followers don’t know?
02:33 Advice on starting a YouTube channel
04:18 Most important principle in your life
05:57 Favourite Twilight book
06:52 5 Habits that have brought the most value
09:25 Most Valuable Micro-Efficiency
10:18 One thing you’d put on a billboard
11:00 3 things you like and 3 things you dislike about the medical profession
12:41 Which Hogwarts house are you in
12:52 Favourite takeaway
13:22 Most valuable thing outside of your academic/medical career
14:08 Advice for starting a blog
15:51 Time management or attention management for productivity.
17:02 Has Apple sponsored you yet?
17:46 AirPods or Apple Watch?
18:42 If the internet was down, what would you do?
19:10 Best thing you can cook
19:50 Advice on learning to code and build a website
21:35 If you could go back 5 years what would you change?
22:58 Goals for the next 5 years?
24:08 What other career would you choose?
24:53 Have you considered living in another country?
25:42 Will you do collaborations with Thomas Frank and Matt D’Avella?


💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking 
📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

My Spotify profile - https://open.spotify.com/user/1111404...

🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal

Who am I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).
**Keywords:** Q&A, 600K, Ali Abdaal, ali abdaal, question and answer, q&a, questions, answers, question, answer, subscribers, life advice, advice, habits, principles, takeaway, 
**Date:** 2020-04-17

## Transcript
 Hey friends, welcome back to the channel. If you're new here, my name is Aliya. I'm a doctor working in Cambridge and this channel has recently hit 600 values as well, so thank you so much if you're subscribed. If you're not, there's still time, you can click the little subscribe button down below. But in this video, I'm going to be answering questions for the 600k commemoration Q&A series because that's what people seem to do when you're a YouTuber. You do a Q&A when people are asking you questions. So, as usual, there's going to be timestamps in the video description and in the pinned comments, you can just skip around to whatever question interests you the most. So, let's move on to question number one. Okay, so question number one comes from Indian ginger. On Twitter, and he says, hey, I like that all my question is, how did you figure out what you want to do on YouTube before you started? Hashtag asked Ali, congrats on the 600k. Thank you very much, Indian ginger, very kind of you. Honestly, before I started YouTube, I didn't really know what I wanted to do. I knew that I wanted to create educational content for medical students to help market my business, which was for teaching courses for medical applicants. And I knew I wanted, then after that, I knew I wanted to make kind of vlogs. But actually, back in the day, when like 2008, when I first decided, I want to be a YouTuber. I actually wanted to do some like music production stuff. I wanted to be the next coach rider. But yeah, I didn't really know what I wanted to do. I think when you starting off in YouTube, you just start making stuff. And then over time, you start realising that you start kind of niching down and realising the bits that resonate with people, the bits that don't. I think it's a case of trying a lot of things, seeing what's fine and seeing what sticks. And for me, the stuff that was fun, that actually also seemed to stick, which was quite convenient. It was the tech, the productivity, the study tips, education side of things. And so that's what I've kept up with. All right, so question number two, comes from Betsy Gantt who says, what is something that 99% of you followers don't know about you? So I think 99% of my followers probably don't know that I have a stutter. Yeah, I've had a stutter since like the age of five ish. And it used to be quite bad at the start of secondary school. It's now a lot better and I find it really is a lot better. When I get a good amount of sleep, but there are certain words that I let us that I start front like d's and g's and ends. And so often what I have to do is when I'm speaking, I'm sort of planning ahead in my head. Because I know that if one of these bg's or n words comes up, that I'm going to have to kind of swap it out for a different word on the fly. And this is quite annoying when it comes to telling jokes. Because often if I'm in a group situation and I think of an amazing joke, but the words just won't come out. And it's incredibly frustrating. Yeah, it's a part of my life that I don't really talk about very much at all. Right, question number three is from Hamo Don, who says any tips for someone just starting out on YouTube. Yeah, a few things. So firstly, focus on quantity rather than quality. Like your first 100 videos are going to be absolutely terrible. And that was advice that I got from my friend Simon Clark, who I followed for a long time. And we actually became friends in real life recently a few months ago. And yeah, he said this in a video like three years ago. And I watched that video and he said your first 50 videos are going to be awful. So just, you know, he tried and shown those 50 videos at as soon as possible. I would extend that. I would say your first 100 videos are going to be absolutely terrible. So the sooner you can make those 100 terrible videos, the sooner you can get to actually kind of focusing on your channel and actually things starting to work properly. Because I think the problem that we all have whenever we're starting anything new is that we're too focused on trying to make it good. And like we have in our heads the idea of what makes a good YouTube video. And our first few attempts are just nowhere near that. And the the wrong thing to do is to just not publish them or think or need to improve first by churning up quantity over time, eventually the quality improves. And you'll be so glad that you've churned out the quantity because it's so much of a better learning experience than to just try and really kind of perfect those one that that one video. So that would be the main thing I'd say. And just get started. Like this YouTube thing is amazing. It's absolutely changed my life. It's changed the lives of a lot of people I know who've kind of taken it seriously and done it consistently over a very long period of time. But it does require a huge amount of consistency over a very long period of time. But it's really fun. Like it's fantastic. I love the sound of my voice. I love talking to the camera. This is just cool. And the fact that you can make money from it without people watching it, having to pay anything at all, it's completely next level. Like there are so few business models that work on that basis. So yeah, mate, just go for it. Churn out 100, 100 crab videos and then they'll just start to get better. All right. So the next question comes from a Marua Awet who says, what is the most important principle in your life? And I think for me that really varies depending on what stage of life I have been at historically. At the moment, the main thing that I'm trying to optimize for is I'm trying to do the stuff that is fun in the short term. But that contributes to kind of longer term plans and plans is probably the wrong way because I don't really like to have long-term plans. But it's more that I'm trying to optimize for keeping my options open further down the line. And there's a guy called Daniel Gross who has a great phrasing. He calls it randomness and optionality. Basically, given that the world is so uncertain. Like three years ago, I would have had no idea that YouTube was going to be such a big part of my life and now it is. Having like a five, ten-year plan is a bit pointless because things just change so often. And so a principle that I try and live by these days is I want to try and maximize the optionality and the kind of the randomness I have. And the idea is that you want to increase the surface area of like opportunity in life so that when interesting serendipitous opportunities do come along, you can you can see them. And so like right now the decision I'm making is do I want to stay in Cambridge for a long period of time and apply to a training pathway in medicine in the UK? Or do I want to potentially travel around the world for a while after the whole virus situation gets sorted? Or do I want to move to a different country to practice medicine? And I think things like traveling the world and moving to a different country. Both of those keep my options a lot more open and maximize randomness and optionality than just staying in the UK and staying in the same place and being very comfortable. So that's kind of a principle that I'm trying to think about a lot these days so I hope that answers the question. All right so the next question comes from my friend Thomas Frank he says which twilight book is your favorite and I've actually got a copy of the original the first one in series but I think breaking dawn the fourth one is probably my favorite just because it's such a riveting read and it comes to a really nice like sort of actiony bit at the end. I'm not a fan of the end of the book one when James Kidnapp's Bello or something and it becomes all like action packed. I much prefer the copy romance at the start of book one. I think new moon is a bit annoying because this is very whiny and wind you and mopey. I quite like the clips but breaking dawn breaking dawn was the one and it was quite long and I prefer kind of long books because then you can save with them for longer and yeah I need to give a public thank you to Thomas Frank for changing my life because we have a Skype call around like September 2019 and he introduced me to the standard which is the YouTube agency that I'm not part of and it's just such a great and a team to be part of and it's like genuinely changed my life so thank you Tom if you're watching this video and our next question is from Anu the Charmer who says what are the five habits which have brought the most value to your life okay okay so firstly I think getting a Kindle like in 2008 and reading a lot has added an enormous amount of value to my life and there's a phrase from I think is it is it Charlie Munger who says every single successful person says that they read a lot and every single successful person also says that every successful person they know also reads a lot when you look at everyone in history has had success they they can always cite like a ton of books that have influenced them and so it's it's very much the same for me like the single biggest habit is just that I read quite a lot of nonfiction stuff before bed so that's been really useful. Second habit probably listening to podcasts in the car at double speed for the most part unless I need to slow them down to kind of follow the ideas there are some people who are in the kind of single speed camp because they say what's the point of rushing through life but you know when you're in the sort of learning learning phase and you want to kind of so close information in I think listening to podcasts at double speed makes perfect sense and at least it works for me. Thirdly I would say something called the capture habit which I came across in David Allen's book Getting Things Done which is like a classic productivity kind of Bible but the capture habit is basically the idea that our brain is designed for having ideas not for storing them and so anytime I have an idea or anything that I'm thinking of I've tried right to down in some capacity somewhere usually in some kind of app and that means that my brain is actually a lot freer to just kind of like not worry about storing details and storing things that I have to do and storing candle to calendar events and blah blah it means I can focus on actually kind of using my brain to have ideas rather than to store them. Fourthly I think an important habit I'm not sure I'd call it habit it's just sort of a mindset of thinking that if I ever have any kind of negative emotions feel any kind of negative thing towards anything at all it's very much a habit ingrained in me to ask myself is this something that's in my control and if it's not in my control what if I just be like okay it's fine as a days like I can just let it go and just kind of that doing that over and over the past like decade plus has now like so firmly solidified that thought process in my mind that I almost never had negative emotions about anything at all because that you immediately get you know this this treatment of is it in my control okay it's not cool it's not anything I don't do about it fair enough cool let's move on it it's fine it's fine as it is because I can't think of a decent number five I'm going to say brushing my teeth most days probably has had a value to my life because it means my teeth have survived so all right next we have a question from my internet friend karma medic who is a fellow medical youtuber uh shelter to not so much I got as channeled they blow and he says what is a micro efficiency that you do on a daily basis that saves you many minutes of time over a long period oh that is such a great question the biggest micro efficiency I do is that when I use a computer I try and avoid using the mouse I try and navigate with keyboard shortcuts and the app that makes that super easy to do on a Mac is called Alfred and I cannot live without Alfred it saved me so much time over time and now when I see people clicking with the mouse it's just so you're so frustrating and so slow because you can go so much faster on a computer by navigating with the keyboard using something like Alfred and there's all sorts of windows alternatives if you one of those heavens and uses windows and as karma medic says those micro efficiencies those few seconds saved in each interaction really add up to minutes and hours over a long period of time so that would be the thing that I would recommend all right next we have a question from Craig Davison thank you Craig who says if you could put one thing on a billboard what would it be and I'm going to cheat here I'm going to use something an answer from one of the guests on the Tim Ferriss show but I'm blanking on who it was maybe it was Seth Gauden maybe it was Derek Sivers but probably it would be it won't make you happy and that's something because it's that's something that I have to remind myself about a lot like especially when it comes to buying stuff it's just I always have to remind myself buying this thing is not going to make you happy and I think that's a message that we could all kind of kind of learn from because for the most part it is true for the vast majority of things in the world that we buy all right next question comes from Will loves yellow William who says what are three things you enjoy about the medical field and what are three things you dislike about the medical field much love and support from California oh thank you very much so three things that I like about the medical field I like the fact that everyone is really friendly I like the fact that you get to talk to patients and touch their lives in hopefully a positive way and I like the teamwork camaraderie vibe that goes with it and that's especially strong during this like coronavirus period it really feels like we're all part of a big a big family and it's just like a really nice feeling and three things I dislike I dislike the the sense of martyrdom that a lot of medical students and junior doctors seem to have that oh my god my life is so hard I'm working so hard bloody plough you know everyone's working hard everyone's doing their bit I don't think the complaining about that is it's a particularly helpful thing second the like sort of dislike and sort of how backwards it is technologically at least in the UK the national health service and the NHS is fantastic in so many ways but what is not fantastic at is innovation because usually when there's no profit motive there's no real drive for innovation so for like you know we still use systems that are that look like they were designed in the early 2000s or you know even like Windows 95 level of kind of user interface and yeah it's it's not big deal but it's just something that I don't particularly like about it and thirdly I don't really like how for a lot of medics their job is all consuming like because of how kind of though the workload can be in the hours and stuff mostly when people get into medical school they're very very well-rounded people with lots of hobbies and musical instruments these fun things and sports that they do but then most people but I speak to them afterwards they say they end up not able to continue doing those things because of how demanding the job is questioned from holly this is a quick one she says what Hogwarts house are you I have never done the quiz on Pottermore but I have a griffin door scarf and a griffin door hat so I would call myself a griffin door for now and on the quick one from Costa Coffee for life it's good advertising who says what's your favorite takeaway hashtag delivery for life spelled wrong is better than he maybe it's ironic I don't know um these days my favorite takeaways roosters period period we used to go to that quite a lot when me and my family used to live in south and on sea in Essex they used to be one near the town centre so we'd go there very regularly but now there's one that's recently opened up in Cambridge and they do delivery via delivery so I actually ordered from there for lunch and I'm going to order from there for dinner again all right now we are in this cupboard where I keep my wireless router laptop and all the charges and all these sort of accessories and stuff and our question comes from James Elliott Hughes who says what would you say is the most valuable thing you've done outside of your academics slash medical career that's very easy the most valuable thing I've done outside of my academic medical career is this YouTube channel however you want to define value like value to myself it's given me a lot of opportunities and a lot of in-comment a lot of nice things have happened to me as a result of it but hopefully also value to other people in if the messages of you know and emails and stuff anything to go by you know thankfully I get a lot of emails each day from people saying that the study techniques have changed their life you know the podcast that me and my brother run is particularly helpful and all of that is a result of kind of the YouTube channel and the associated activity okay next we have a question from a Jared Carver who says hashtag ask a lady I am thinking of starting a blog I know that not many people will be interested in it and therefore I won't get many readers do you think there are still benefits to writing a blog in this case well yes I will link an article down below from a guy called David Perrell who is another sort of internet home of mine it's called the ultimate guide to writing online and the the case he makes is that writing online like basically having a blog is the single fastest way to accelerate your career no matter what you're doing so whatever you're doing writing online is the way forward but yeah at the start when you're publishing stuff no one's going to read it because you don't really have anything useful starting a blog is very much one of those flywheel things like a flywheel device that stores mechanical rotational energy but the idea is that it's just it's it's it's very slow to get going but once it's get a well once it gets going it's unstoppable and it's the same with the YouTube channel it's the same with starting any sort of venture that's based around this sort of stuff that at the start no one will care and you have to you you'll feel as if you are shouting into the void but the more you can do it the more consistent that you can do it and the more kind of value you can try and add with the stuff that you're writing over time by publishing weekly or twice weekly blog posts every single week for two years at that point you can start look you can start seeing some traction so if that sort of time horizon bothers you then it's probably not for you but I would say absolutely go for it it doesn't matter if you don't have readers initially it's kind of a good thing actually because it means you can experiment a lot with the sort of content you're making without worrying about you know appeasing the audience which is people with something that people with bigger audiences have to worry about so yeah go for it good luck all right our next question comes from a thoric for us who says are you more towards time management or attention management in terms of productivity and there's some good buzzwords there so you know productivity has been historically about time management like how do you figure out what to do with the time that you have how do you optimize your time to do appropriate things but recently it sort of started moving towards attention management the idea being that we all have limited it's it's not really that we have limited not a amount of time but actually we have limited amount of attention and so we should be focused on the things that we're spending our attention on rather than necessarily the things we're spending our time on for me given that I have a full time job I am still very much in the time management camp because my time is physically limited by virtue of having a full time job and also having to do well choosing to do all the other stuff on the side that I do and so I really care a lot about optimizing the time that I've spent on things attention is not really limiting factor for me at the moment but I can see that if I if I didn't have a full time job and I was a full time creator or something then it really would be a case of attention management because now I've suddenly got so much more time but only still a finite amount of attention at the moment time is the limiting factor so yeah good question and then we've got a quick question from Farzad Inaum who says has Apple sponsored you yet off big fan from Toronto keep it up thank you Farzad no Apple has not sponsored me yet I don't think Apple do sponsorships as such I've never seen a video that's been sponsored by Apple what they do is they send out review units to reviewers sometimes if you're like legit enough and they sent me to home pods to review which I'm kind of I've got in in the house at the moment but no I've never got any other products from Apple so I have to just buy this stuff review it and then most of the time I return it because their returns policy is really good but yeah one day may it may be all be able to join their review program or something so if anyone's watching this new and you work at Apple or no someone at Apple yeah put me in touch that'll be good thanks all right tech related question now if you could only keep one would you keep the AirPods or the Apple watch this is easy AirPods any day of week the AirPods are a life-changing piece of tech the Apple watch is absolutely not a life-changing piece of tech the Apple watch is kind of nice to have but it's actually overall very useless the only thing I really use it for is Apple pay and I don't even wear it at work because you know infection controls especially with the coronavirus stuff we're not allowed to have anything you know we have to be bare below the elbows and so my watch stays in my room basically all day and I wear it on weekends and when I'm off work whereas the AirPods are a life-changing invention because the AirPods make it so much less friction to listen to things like audiobooks and podcasts and through having the AirPods for the last I don't know three years since they came out I've listened to so much more audio content than I would have done otherwise and that overall has massively massively helped my life whereas the Apple watch is just a slight flex that you can show off when you're using Apple pay with your watch so yeah it puts any day of the week all right our next question is from overdue ballaban pupa who says if the internet would be down for a month what would you do good question if the internet would be down for a month I would do more exercise read more books uh take notes on lots more books I would uh learn how to cook I would learn how to dance and I would get much more into music theory and learning about music and stuff and the internet currently distracts me from all of those things so that would be the stuff that I would do if the internet would down all right our next question comes from D.T. and who says what is the best thing you can cook and are you planning on learning to cook more foods so the best thing I can cook is probably I make a pretty good spaghetti ballanese from scratch last time I made that was about two years ago though and yes I'm trying to learn how to cook these days in the whole isolation thing not so much um I'm kind of more living off takeaways at the moment but I think I think it's fine it's a special time but I do want to prioritize kind of cooking and healthy eating and stuff in my life soon no rather than later so yeah I want to learn how to cook I want to learn how to meal prep I want to learn how to make productive healthy efficient and reasonably priced meals that I can just kind of do without thinking about it too much all right next we have Aaron Taylor who says what's the best way to learn how to code slash build a website hashtag ask honey so learning how to code in building a website or two different things so the best way to learn how to code is by I don't like following them online course there are so many of them these days people sometimes email me asking me how did you learn to code and that question doesn't make sense anymore because I first learned to code in like 2007 and the market has changed and the landscape of coding has changed so much in the last 13 years that it doesn't matter how I learn to code you know I used to double you three schools and random snippets of JavaScript online and stuff like that's not what I'd recommend just sign up to a course on code academy or code school the one I'd recommend is on brilliant.org they're not even sponsoring this video but you can go to brilliant.org forward slash alley they've got a really good Python course that that link will give you 20% off link in the video description the not sponsoring the video but whatever and then learn Python through that and best way to build a website is different though depends what you want to build a website for if it's a box standard website you can just use something like square space or wicks or those are probably the easiest ones if you want to build a website that has certain functionality like a web app at that point you start having to potentially learn how to code but even so there are so many no code tools these days that the whole I need to learn how to code thing even though I've been peddling that narrative for a while it's no longer strictly true I think it still is helpful to learn how to code just because it gives you an idea of what's possible whereas prior to learning how to code you might not know about that but you don't actually need to kind of sit down and write code and in fact for the last few years I haven't really written much code because now that I know the very basics of coding I know what I can build with no code tools and I know I can just hire people who know how to code properly uh to kind of do what I need to do so yeah basically code academy code school brilliant.org forward slash alley for learning to code and then building a website just use square space for something simple all right next question if you could go back five years what would you change or do more of from jumps islam thank you for the question 43 likes and that one that's quite a good question if I think go back five five years honestly the thing that I would do more of is I would take more notes on the books that I was reading there is a good book by sunky our ends I think his name is called how to take smart notes I'm reading that at the moment and it's blown my mind so I would read that five years ago 10 years ago 15 years ago and for every single thing that I've ever read books articles podcasts I would make it a point to take some notes on them and figure out my own thoughts on the thing and how it fits into my wider or mental models or processes that kind of stuff that is one thing I wish I would I did more of another thing I wish I'd taken music a bit more seriously I wish I'd gotten better at music theory I've been playing the piano now for actually five years I first started when I was in my third year of medical school it's been for yeah five years I cut it because I had a piano in my room and I sort of just did the basics and I can kind of do the basics I can play chords and sing along but I've never really taken music music theory seriously I've never really learned how to read music that is something that would have been easy enough to pick up and you know if I've been doing it consistently over the last five years I had an absolutely pro at this point so taking notes from books anyone can do that you should start doing that from today I've started doing that like now and music theory is again something I'm actively working on okay now we have a question from a man who says what's your goal for the next five years that's a good question but it's hot to answer because I don't really believe in kind of setting goals as such I'm open to changing my mind on this but I for the last few years I've been very uneasy with the idea of having goals like what is a goal like what's you know it's a goal of mind to be financially independent I am not relying on my job for my income and that's that's kind of true now I don't need to I don't need my job as a doctor in order to survive income wise it's a but I've sort of hit that goal but beyond that I don't really have any others really I'd like to keep having fun that doing what I'm doing but to be honest I already am like I don't feel there's any deficiency in my life that I need a goal for I'd like to travel a bit more maybe like to keep my options open I'd like to explore the world that's sort of a goal but again it's not really goal it's more of a lifestyle so yeah I'm not I'm not big on the goal setting thing I'm much more keen on the you know just build build the lifestyle and build systems that you can just you know use and to be happy with just like forever rather than thinking about goals as such so long when did I answer basically I don't I don't do goals alright next we have a question from Sophie and the slothy good name who says if you could choose any other career what would it be assuming you mean instead of my medical career but you know I would say for a full-time content creator but I guess in addition to full to instead of full-time content creator career probably like some some kind of startup like a starter mode business when I was in my second year of med school so 2013 and that was really really really fun for the first few years while it was growing and while it was interesting and that's like really cool stuff and now that I'm trying to set up a few other businesses and things I have always enjoyed that side of it and I've been trying to set up businesses every year since like I was 13 years old with my friend James and it's just always been very accelerating and very fun alright next question from Sean Ahmed who says ask are they have you considered living in another country if so where yes I'm actually contemplating that at the moment so I've been living in the UK since 2003 I'd quite like to check out America for a bit I'd quite like to check out Australian New Zealand for a bit unlike the idea of Hong Kong I like the idea of South Korea I like the idea of Argentina I have all sorts of kind of countries in my head that I think would be cool to live in for some period of time and that's what I'm thinking about these days like from August 2020 I'll be unemployed because I haven't applied to a training pathway for residency or training in medicine in the UK which means I've got this year of time or I can just do whatever I want and so I'm really thinking you know where kind of travel where do I actually want to go assuming the whole virus situation gets sorted out fingers crossed by then okay now we have a question from Jason Evans who says how to take Oscar Lee if slash when you move to the US will you be up for making appearances in video clubs with Tom Franklin Thomas Frank or Matt Evela yes I would love to that would be an absolute dream come true and actually one of the big factors as to why I want to potentially live in the US for a while is that it just unlocks the ability to do clubs with so many other people that I'm like internet friends with and I would absolutely love to do that that would be absolutely sick so yeah Tom slash Matt I will hit you up as and when I I moved to America right so that was the I think 2425 something questions for these 600,000 subscribers Q&A I'll put links over here in these playlists to some more Q&A that I've done where I've gotten more questions and I'm going to be doing a semi regular series where kind of once a week or maybe twice a month or something like that I answer questions like this putting stuff out there without worrying about the lights and the camera and the audio and everything so I want to kind of do a bit more of that so if you have any suggestions to give them down in the comments down below thank you so much for watching and I'll see you hopefully in the next video bye bye
