# Why I Left Medicine (And Why I'm Going Back)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pUmuBfkqBY0
Back in August I took my planned break from medicine after finishing my final placement and in this video I explain why I left and why I've decided that now is the right time to go back, at least for a couple of days per week. So grab a cup of tea and enjoy :) 

00:00 Introduction
00:28 Logistical Context
04:20 Reasons for Leaving
10:25 Reasons for Returning
21:28 What's Happening Now
22:25 Conclusion

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

PART-TIME YOUTUBER ACADEMY:
🍿 My 6-week live online course - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ptya_aliabdaal
CREATORPRENEUR
💰 My flag-ship course for scaling up your creative side-hustle - https://creatorpreneur.academy/course


YOUTUBE FOR BEGINNERS COURSE
📸 This is for anyone who'd like to start a YouTube channel. You'll learn everything you need to get started as a YouTuber including how to script, shoot, and edit your first video - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/YouTube-for-Beginners



MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
✍️ The best summaries of books (Shortform) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
📚  How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
Deep Dive Podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/
The podcast that delves into the minds of entrepreneurs, creators and other inspiring people to uncover the philosophies, strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. You can find it by searching “Deep Dive with Ali Abdaal” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc).
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali
What I Use For Analytics - https://go.aliabdaal.com/tubebuddy

🎙 My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮  Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, 
**Date:** 2021-03-14

## Transcript
 Hey friends, welcome back to the channel. This is going to be a little bit of a rambly video where I explain the thought process behind why I left medicine and quit being a doctor about six months ago and why my mind is now changed and I'm now moving back into the medical world. If that sounds like it might be up your street, then grab a cup of tea and we can we can talk about it. If not, that's totally cool. Lots of other more valuable videos on this channel and elsewhere on the internet and off the internet. So feel free to skip this one if you like. So let's start with a little bit of context. If you have a life and you haven't been following my kind of life trajectory very very carefully. Basically from 2012 to 2018 I was a medical student at Cambridge University. 2017 I started this YouTube channel in my finally 50th year, finally your medical school and then for two years after that, 2018 through to August 2020 I was working as a foundation year doctor in the East Anglia region of the UK. Now when we work as a junior doctor, as a foundation year doctors, we don't have a specialty at that point. We are rotating amongst lots of different specialties to try and figure out what specific thing in medicine we like to do in America, the closest thing would be an intern. And the idea is after these two years we then make a decision as to what specialty or residency, we don't really call it residency, but that's what the American system is, what specialty we want to go into. At that point we can decide do we want to go for internal medicine, or do we want to go for surgery, or do we want to go for some run-through specialties like psychiatry and obstetrics and gynecology and like neurosurgery. And this is a pretty big decision because this decision about which specialty you want to go into really dictates a huge chunk of your life. It like dictates who you spend your time with, what you do, maybe even who you marry, maybe who you meet, who your friends are like it's like a ridiculously important decision. And so in the UK, what the majority of doctors do is that after the first two years of the foundation program we will take a break. And a lot of people take a year out, sometimes two, sometimes three, two, explore other interests. So let's say I thought I wanted to go into surgery, but I thought I'm not really sure I want some more experience. For a year I could spend it doing extra shifts in a local hospital, or going to Australia and doing some surgery stuff, or maybe doing a research project in surgery. And then at the end of my year, I'll be able to decide, you know, what is surgery for me? I'm now going to officially apply to a surgery training program. And so for me, this gap, this sort of two year mark, came at August 2020, where I had to decide, okay, do I want to go straight into a training program, or do I want to take a break from medicine and do something else? Crucially, you actually make this decision about a year in advance. So in August 2019, I had to decide. A year from now, do I think I want to go directly into specialty training, or instead do I want to take a break from medicine and do something else? And in August 2019, when I made this decision, my plan was, I definitely want to take some time out of medicine, and I liked the idea of traveling to different countries around the world. I liked the idea of maybe going to Australia to do some emergency medicine stuff. At the time, I was also doubling with the idea of maybe moving to America instead. And so I was thinking, okay, come August 2020, I'm going to take a year out and then I'll be able to prepare for my U.S. Emily and do all this kind of stuff. And so really, this decision that I made to take a break from medicine to leave medicine was made absolutely ages ago. But it's just like because it just takes so long for the application process to happen. It ended up being August 2020 where I kind of left the job when my two years ended. Now, I'm giving you the specific timeline because I've had occasional comments on Instagram saying that how can you feel okay with leaving medicine in the middle of a pandemic? There's a lot to unpack there. But the main one, honestly, is that I chose to make that decision to leave medicine way before the pandemic was even a thing. And this is just how the system works in the U.K. You apply for training a whole year before you actually start training. And so me and most of my friends chose not to go straight into a training program. This was before we knew the pandemic was the thing. The other reasons as to my thoughts around kind of leaving medicine in the middle of a pandemic I will say for later in the video where I talk about why I'm going back. But in terms of the background context, that's one reason why I left medicine because it's a very natural logistical career gap when you're in the U.K. It's not like we think, hey, screw medicine, I'm going to leave, I'm going to quit. It's more like two years down the line. You're like, okay, cool, I've got a natural career gap where I now need to decide what specialty to go into. I'm not a hundred percent sure of that decision yet. Therefore, let's take a step back. Let's hop off the kind of rotating treadmill of medical training programs and let's assess where I want my life to go. For that was the logistical part. I think slightly more interesting part, at least for me, about why I chose to leave medicine six months ago, is because like I really, really, really wasn't sure what specialty I wanted to go into. Number one and B, I wasn't even sure if I wanted to stay in medicine at all. This decision to go to med school was a decision that I made around about the age of 16 when I was choosing my A level exams. And because medical school is such a competitive admissions process, often people make that decision even before that point. So from the age of 13 and 14, I sort of had in the back of my mind that I might want to go to med school. And so I started doing like St John's ambulance and volunteering for staff and just trying to get my, my kind of resume up to the point where I could have a competitive medical school application. Now, one thing that my mum gets really pissed off about is like, you know, you decided to do medicine. Why are you not now seeing it through? And the thing that I always say is that like, I made this decision when I was like in my mid-teens. And it's now been like 12 years since I've made the decision to do medicine. And I think it's pretty unreasonable to expect a decision made at the age of 14, 15 or 16. Where you really don't know, like I had no idea what the careers were out there. Like my mum's a doctor, my few people in my family are doctors. When you're Asian and you have good grades, it's just like a standard thing and like most most of my friends, parents with doctors, it's hard to note like genuinely when you're in that position, what other possible careers are out there. I knew I could be a doctor, I could be a vet, I could be a lawyer and an engineer, and I really didn't have much scope for like what other career paths are there. And it was only really when I was like 17 and friends of mine in school were applying to study history or English or maths. I mean, like, why are you studying history? They're all like, because I like history. And I used to think like, what can you do with a history degree? Like surely all you can do with a history degree is be a history teacher. And which is obviously not true. There's like thousands of different jobs you could go into. But me sitting there at age 14 to 16, I really didn't know that these kind of jobs existed. That's not to say that if I had known I would have changed my mind and I still think the decision to go to medical school was one of the best things ever and I don't regret a moment of it. But in some ways I kind of prefer the American system here where you kind of go through high school, you go through college and then you decide what you want to, well, you know, what you want your postgraduate qualification to be, because at that point you have a little bit more life experience, you've tried a few more things, whereas here in the UK we have to decide at the age of 16, you know, what you want your whole like career trajectory to look like. And I personally don't want to be welded to a decision that I made when I was 16 and I don't want that decision to necessarily shape the rest of my life, unless I decide that it's actively what I want to do. And to be honest, throughout medical school as well, like I knew that it wasn't medicine itself that brought me fulfillment and joy and meaning. The things that brought me fulfillment joy and meaning were number one teaching. I used to really, really, really enjoy teaching and I still do and that's one of the most meaningful experiences that I have personally. And secondly, the thing that I enjoyed while in med school was building businesses on the side and coding and doing website design and like launching a business and building a question bank and learning service side scripting and like that sort of stuff, that was what really brought me joy in medical school rather than the work that I was doing itself. Equally for the two years that I was working as a doctor, yeah, the work was fun and it was nice hanging out with work colleagues, but really the thing that was driving me there was like looking forward to coming home so that I could work on my YouTube channel or I could work on my businesses. And there was a nice quote that I came across which is that which was the long lines of the thing that you think about in the shower should be the thing that you do with your life. And if I think about like what the sorts of stuff I think in the shower, it's never about medicine. It is always about like my side businesses or my YouTube channel or my website or you know that sort of stuff. And so at the time when I was making this decision about do I want to go straight into a medical training program, this was really weighing on me, this idea that you know, I made this decision 10 years ago to go to medical school and I don't want to look back at my life kind of 30 years from now and think damn, you know, that was like I don't want to regret sticking to that. And while I'm young and while I've got you know lots of opportunities and wild my businesses are going well and the YouTube channel is going all right, it makes sense to take a step back and actually think what do I actually want to do? Do I really want to stick with this decision I made at age 16 or do I want to maybe switch to something else? So that was one part of it, like I wasn't really sure if I want to stay in medicine. The second part of it was that if I did stay in medicine, I really had no idea what specialty I was going to go into. When I started working in my second year as a doctor, I did obstetrics and gynecology for four months. And then because of the pandemic kind of screwed everything up, I ended up staying on obstetrics and gynecology for another four months. And when I went into it, I kind of thought that maybe obstetrics and gynecology was something that I would want to do as a specialty further down the line. But then through doing it for eight months, I kind of fell out of love with it. And I realized that, okay, I've now tried this for eight months and I don't really see myself becoming an obstetrician and or a gynecologist. So at that point, I had experience in cardiology, elderly care medicine, general surgery, psychiatry, and obstetrics and gynecology. And I really couldn't see myself doing any of those specialties. And one thing that was in my mind is that a specialty that I enjoyed most of all in medical school other than obstetrics and gynecology was emergency medicine. Like working in the emergency department, we called it accident in emergency, A&E. The Americans called it ER or the emergency room. But I kind of liked the lifestyle and the idea of working in emergency medicine. The problem was, I just didn't have any experience at all actually doing it. So right now, as I'm thinking like what specialty do I want to go to, go into if any, like A&E, emergency medicine is at the top of the list. But it's like committing myself to a sort of seven year training program in emergency medicine without actually having any experience of emergency medicine and deciding whether I like it is a completely stupid thing to do. And so overall, that brings us to why I quit medicine. It was because logistically it made sense. Be I was intending to travel to Australia and like do some emergency medicine and started making some inquiries about, okay, how can I get a job in Australia? I had some friends who had done that as well. And thirdly, I liked the idea of taking a step back, a severely assessing, do I really want to do medicine at all? Maybe I want to travel the world a bit, broaden my horizons, explore stuff. While I have the luxury of not really having any responsibilities, not needing to worry about money, thanks to this YouTube channel. And all those factors culminated to get me to this point in August 2020, where I was like, cool, that's my this and my last day as a doctor and I don't intend to go back until I figure it out, like what I actually want to do. And that brings us to today. So here we are, it's March 2021. I'm eight months into my unemployment away from medicine. It's been eight months and so set foot inside a hospital. And weirdly, we're still in the middle of a pandemic where things are a little bit weird. But recently, I decided that I was actually going to go back into medicine. And I decided that there's a few reasons for this. Essentially, when I've been thinking about what do I actually want to do with my life, one exercise that I found helpful is kind of imagining 25 years from now. What do I want my life to look like? And this is really hard to imagine life, 25 years from now. But if I think 25 years from now, 10 years from now, 15 years from now, like sort of quite long term. And I think what do I want my average week to look like? As I imagine this, I keep on landing on the idea of still being a doctor, but doing it part time. I love the idea of doing medicine. Maybe two days a week, maybe three days a week, depending on how I'm feeling. And something that I've mentioned on the channel quite a lot, like through the last eight years of medical school and being a doctor. When I become friends with doctors, I would always kind of ask them, hey, if you won the lottery, would you still do medicine for fun? And half of them say they would leave immediately and do something else. And the other half say they would still do medicine, but they would do it part time. And in my eight years of asking that question, there is not a single person I've ever spoken to, who has said, if I won the lottery, I would still continue to do medicine for fun full time. I think that's, it's unreasonable to ask anyone to be in that position, like most of us, if given the choice for anything, we would, you know, however much you enjoy something is probably not that fun if you do it like five or six days a week. And it would be much more fun if you did three or four days a week, for example. And so when I think about what I want my life to look like, I like the idea, like, you know, of doing maybe medicine two days a week, maybe doing some like medical educational stuff, like teaching at a local medical school one or two days a week, and spending the rest of my time making internet videos, maybe writing some books, continuing to write on my website, doing this sort of internet entrepreneur type thing. Now, when it comes to making decisions about what we want to do with our lives, there have been like sort of thousands of studies that have shown this, but you don't really, really need to study to know that we are really, really bad at actually knowing what we want. And so right now, I'm thinking that, hey, it would be cool to work in medicine two or three days a week, but I've never actually tried working in medicine two or three days a week. So I'll never know if that's really what I want until I try it. I've tried working in medicine five or six days a week, and I know that that's not what I want. And so there's a big part of me that thinks, okay, if, if my vision for the future is to do medicine two or three days a week, I should at least test that assumption to see if it's what I really want to do. There's something that Tim Ferris talks about a lot in the four hour work week. Like our default way of living life is to imagine that a kid just need to work really hard and then when I'm 65, I will retire and then when I retire, I'll be chilling on a beach and life will be good. And what he says is that not, don't defer your retirement until the age of 65, try taking a few weeks off work and going to a beach and just sitting there and like try living your retired life and see if it actually brings you happiness. See if it's what you really want. And the way that he phrases, obviously it's like, when you live that kind of life, you realize hang on. Sitting on a beach and sipping cocktails all day is actually not that fun. It gets pretty boring after a while. But if you work for four to years with that vision of like, hey, one day I'm going to sit on a beach all day and do absolutely nothing, you get to that point and you'd be like, damn, I've wasted the last, I've wasted my whole life because this thing that I thought I wanted is not actually what I wanted and now everything is a bit weird. And so the moral of the story there and what I really take from this is that when we think we want something, we should test that assumption. And so part of the reason why I'm going back into medicine right now is because I want to test the assumption that do I enjoy working as a doctor two or three days a week? Part two of why I want to go back into medicine is because this, you know, I'm quite a utilitarian guy in the way that I approach like cost benefit analysis and like partly why, you know, if someone says, hey, I don't feel guilty that you're not working in medicine in the middle of a pandemic. The answer to that is, no, I don't feel guilty at all. And the reason I don't feel guilty at all is because objectively, my kind of marginal impact on the world is so much higher, making these internet videos and being a full-time YouTuber because it just affects so many more people in so many different ways than if I was just another doctor on the front lines, just being a doctor. Like, I'm, I'm not special as a doctor, right? I'm just a junior doctor. I've been doing it for two years. I have very limited experience. I think I'm all right. I think I have all right communication skills. I quite enjoy it, but there is really not much that separates me from other doctors, which is kind of how medicine is supposed to work. It does like medicine is not supposed to rely on individuals standing out and being particularly amazing. The system is supposed to be such that you can put anyone who is sufficiently qualified into the system and because of the evidence-based processes and the guidelines and everything like that, how, you know, the system will deliver a good outcome for the patient, rather than individuals going above and beyond and delivering a good outcome for the patient. And this is how a lot of successful businesses are made as well. Like McDonald's is a perfect example. Yes, I am drawing a comparison between McDonald's and the healthcare system because the point is, it's, it's really all about the system. The nice thing about McDonald's is that you get exactly the same experience, whichever McDonald's you go to anywhere in the country or anywhere in the world, because their system is so tight and so well-chuned that you can put basically anyone with a small amount of training and McDonald's uniform, you can put them into the system and they will deliver a consistent result. And that's kind of what medicine should be as well. Obviously there is an element of like being nice to the patients and like taking care and stuff, but really the system is what gives the results rather than individuals. And so if we do a utilitarian analysis of like, I'll be being a doctor versus, I'll be not being a doctor, I'll be being a doctor is, you know, I slot into an existing well-ord machine. I'm yes another cog in that machine. There's really nothing special about me as a doctor. I'm just as good or just as bad as any other doctor of my, my, my experience level. And so I contribute very, very slightly to being a cog in this like big machine, but ultimately is the machine that gives that gives the patient the results. There's also an element of, if I am not the cog in that machine, someone else will be the cog in that machine. Like, especially in the hospitals that I am, there is occasionally a shortage of doctors, but it's not like particularly dramatic. It's not so dramatic that one extra doctor working part-time in the system is actually going to make any difference. And the way the system is designed, it means that gaps do get filled by extra shifts or locals or things like that. So in the Ali being a doctor road, there is like my marginal impact is like very, very, very tiny as just being a doctor on the front lines. But in the scenario of Ali not being a doctor, my marginal impact, thanks to this YouTube channel and the other stuff I do, is pretty high, because if I wasn't doing these YouTube videos, it's not like someone else would just take up my place and start doing these YouTube videos. And I'm not trying to compare the impact of like making silly internet videos with the impact of actually trying to, of actually saving lives as a doctor. But I mean, like, if it comes down to it, it's like, people have done analyses that on average in the Western world, a doctor will save about eight lives throughout the course of their entire career. If you go by estimates from the website, give well, which is a charity, like, um, sort of analysis platform donating to the against malaria foundation. If I were to donate $3,000 to the against malaria foundation, that would on average save one life. And so if I donate $24,000 to the against malaria foundation, I'm saving eight lives. If I were to be a doctor of my whole career, I'm saving eight lives. So just with that analysis alone, if I can make more money off of YouTube and because I've taken the giving what we can, which is where I give 10% of my income every year to charity, I actually save more lives by making money on the internet and giving that money to charity than I do by working full-time as a doctor for the rest of my life. Now that's what I expect of it. The other aspect of it is like, you know, making videos like this, it's very hard to, it's hard to quantify the the impact of them. But if the messages and emails and stuff is it or anything to go by, people email me saying that, you know, thanks to your videos, I learned how to study for my exams and now I've gone into med school and, you know, I want to have done it without this and there's a lot more kind of marginal impact that I have making videos on the internet than I do as a cog in a machine. So that is why I've never really felt guilty about not working in a pandemic. But having said all of that, there is still something qualitatively different about sitting talking to a camera and putting videos on the internet, that's fine. But like there is something that's much nicer about in person interaction. And this probably doesn't need to be said, but I do genuinely enjoy being a doctor and there is something nice about talking to patients and like being able to help people and having banter with the co-workers and that whole real life community vibe of being a doctor, even though the impact of me being a doctor is like quite small compared to my impact on the internet, there is still something there. And so that's kind of reason number two as to why I've been thinking for a while that maybe I want to go back into medicine because I'm not really getting that side of the human experience sitting here on in front of my camera with a light shining in my face making and part number three of why I'm going back into medicine is that I don't know, I feel like my own creativity, my own like life experience and stuff has been stifled in a way by just sitting in my flat for the last eight months making videos on the internet and being on Zoom calls all day. Partly this is the pandemic to blame and I think if it weren't for the pandemic, I would have been traveling around the world, I would have been doubling in medicine maybe in Australia, maybe New Zealand, you know, I would have done more stuff, but especially because of the pandemic, I feel like my whole life is getting up, being on Zoom calls all day, making a video, being on more Zoom calls, playing water walk raft, going to sleep and basically repeating this process for the last eight months. And there's a huge part of me that thinks that like I don't want to be a professional influencer, like I don't, I actually don't want to be a full-time YouTuber, it's not the life that I imagine for myself and I think there's something more interesting about someone who is actually working as a doctor and using insights from that experience and having that life experience and then making videos about it, rather than someone who is sort of the person that I've turned into, which is, I say on my asshole day in front of a desk, reading stuff and browsing Twitter and then I make videos about the stuff that I've read and the Twitter that I've browsed. Like that's just so much less interesting than actually having real firsthand experience of doing stuff, whatever that stuff is, whether it's being a doctor or a lawyer or traveling the world, just doing anything, doing something and then talking about it is so much more interesting than reading something and then talking about it. And I feel like over the last eight months, probably thanks to the pandemic, probably thanks to this setup that I've got here in my flat, I've become the sort of person who read stuff and then talks about it, whereas I know I want to be the person who does stuff and then talks about it. And so that's why I want to go back into medicine and in fact, in like mid-January, I had a chat with one of the emergency medicine consultants at my local hospital and I explained this to him, I would be like, look man, I quite like the idea of doing some some shifts in emergency medicine, I don't have an experience in it, but like you know me and you know, I'm reasonably legit, can you give me a sort of part-time job? And he was like yeah, sure, no problem, you know, I think you're legit, happy to invite you to do extra shifts and the emergency department if that's what you want. And so now I'm pretty much just waiting for the paperwork to be sorted. This is actually like surprisingly annoying, like even though I've worked at this hospital before and they should have all my paperwork, they're still like a large amount of who to jump through in terms of filling up forms. And right now, sort of six weeks later, my criminal records check is still being processed by the criminal records people. And I can't go back into working as a doctor until I have been cleared that I have no criminal record. And for some reason, this has just been processing since like the first of February. And now it's like middle of March, so for the last six weeks, the criminal records check is just taking ages to come through. And so right now, I'm in this position, I'm kind of in the limbo where I'm like, look, I want to go back to work as a doctor. I want to do it like two or three days a week, maybe even more than that initially to get more experience. I want to see if I like it, want to hang out with colleagues, I want to get vaccinated. I want to sort of help out in the pandemic, all this sort of stuff, but my criminal record check is causing some problems. So that's kind of the position where I'm at. I left medicine thinking I was going to travel the world and explore my horizons and figure out what I want to do. I realized that, well, I can't explore the world and figure out what I want to do. And so now I've decided I want to go back into medicine and see how I feel about emergency medicine as a specialty, is that the specialty I want to go into in the future, who knows, do I like the idea of working part-time as a doctor? I think I would, but I don't know, I'm going to test that assumption. And so here we are today, me sitting here explaining in this video why a left medicine and why I'm going back. That's it. I don't really have any moral story here. Nothing particularly interesting about it. If you like this video, you might like to check out this video over here, which talks about how I feel like I've wasted the last six months of my life working on my book. That's another kind of kind of sharing my feelings and stuff type video, similar to this one. Thank you so much for watching. Have a great evening and I'll see you hopefully in the next video. Bye bye.
