# Last Minute Study Tips, Flashcards, Essays & Maths - Exam Revision Q&A with Cambridge students
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q58SMId-_Ko
We're continuing our mini revision/study tips Q&A series with my two friends, Paul and Katherine, who are fellow medical students at Emmanuel College, Cambridge. In this today, we tackle specific study tips, how to learn content effectively, how to use active recall and tips for essay subjects and maths. Enjoy xx

- Follow ± DM me on Instagram: https://instagram.com/AliAbdaal
- My weekly email newsletter: https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
- Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
- My website / blog - www.aliabdaal.com

TIMESTAMPS

00:55 - We know that AR and SR are legit techniques for recalling stuff, but before you can recall it you have to have learnt it first. Any tips on *learning* stuff initially? 
06:57 - Exams are a month away. Any last minute tips, what you’d be doing?
10:55 - Any tips on how to learn content quickly? Exams are a month away and we haven’t even finished some of our courses yet. 
11:29 - How do your techniques change 1 month 2 weeks 1 week before the exam?
12:46 - With active recall, do you make the questions as you read the book? Or do you make notes from the textbook first, and then read them, and then quiz yourself? How do you do it?
14:21 - How should I use active recall? Do past papers count. 
14:46 - If you have Anki why do you still use your spreadsheet method? Surely you can do all that stuff on Anki with custom decks and filters and stuff. How do you decide what goes on Anki and what goes on Google Sheets?

## Subject Specific
18:37 - How do you apply flashcards/Anki for essay based subjects like History and English Lit? I find they’re working well for Biology but not sure how to use them for analysis subjects. 
21:12 - Tips for A level maths? How to use past papers to your advantage?
22:29 - Tips for exam essay technique? Tips to write a really good essay.

23:43 - Closing Remarks

🎬 My online course on video editing - https://skl.sh/32TpEvm
🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal

Who am I:

I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

- Follow ± DM me on Instagram: https://instagram.com/AliAbdaal
- My weekly email newsletter: https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
- Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
- My website / blog - www.aliabdaal.com
**Keywords:** study with me, study tips, revision tips, how to study, how to revise, cambridge university, effective study, motivation to study, exam revision, revision techniques, revision advice, how to do well in exams, revise with me, gcse revision tips, study tips for exams, study tips 2017, study tips 2018, study tips and organization, lydia violeta, ali abdaal, how to revise for exams, how to revise for gcses, last minute revision tips, 
**Date:** 2018-04-14

## Transcript
 Hey guys, welcome back to the channel. If you're new here, my name is Ali. I'm a final year medical student. I came to university and it's absolutely lovely to see you. Today we're continuing on our little series when me and to my friends answered the questions that you guys very kindly sent in by Instagram about exam revision tips. We're going to start with a question that a lot of you asked, which was, you know, how do you apply active recall? You know, how do you recall material that you haven't yet learned? How do you learn stuff in the first place? Secondly, we're going to be talking about our approach to exams when there's only one month left. So sort of last minute tips. Thirdly, we've got on loads of questions about active recall and how you specifically apply that. So we're going to tackle a few questions about that. And we're going to end with subject specific tips for how to write essays for stuff like English and History. And secondly, how to revise for a level maths. So yeah, as usual, please don't watch this whole video. It's quite long. Times times for all the questions are in the description below. So please kind of look through and find the questions that are most appropriate to you. And you can watch those. Alternatively, if you have a spare half an hour, you can just watch the whole thing because it's kind of entertaining, I think. Yeah, so let's just go into question one and I'll see you at the end. We all know that active recall and space repetition are legit techniques for recalling stuff. But before you can recall it, you have to have learned it first. And he tips on actually learning the stuff in the first place. This is a good question. I was going to make a video about this. But do we have any thoughts on the meantime? About learning stuff. Yeah, how do you learn it in the first place? You know, rather than because obviously active recall requires you to have learned it first before you recall it. But I actually feel like there's a little bit of a misconception there because so many people are like, Oh, I don't want to do the practice paper or I don't want to ask this question that my teachers are asking on the spot because I don't know it yet. And I feel like I can't do it. I can't access it. You only learn it by doing the active recall. So firstly, just be really willing to give it a go and try the practice paper, even if you feel horrendously underprepared for it. Secondly, I just understand the stuff that we all told at school. You know, like the cover test. So you look at it. You read it through. You cover it. You decide what you just read and what you just learn about Leave structures and then see how much but you got. So I'm going to make a video about this at some point where I talk about evidence and all that stuff. But basically, what I'm going to say is that I think there's a misunderstanding kind of as Catherine said, people think that, you know, I have to learn it first before I can then revise it. And I don't think that's a helpful way of thinking about it. I think the first thing to think about is that you need to understand it first. Understanding is the most important thing and the tip and I think the litmus test for understanding is, would I be able to explain this to a friend? Would I be able to explain this to a five-year-old? And if you ask yourself that question after reading through a topic, would I actually be able to explain, you know, hypothyroidism to a five-year-old? Hmm, probably not. Okay, right? Let me work out what it is about it that I can't explain. Or like you start off by explaining it. Okay, hypothyroidism. Okay, it's obviously where you produce less thyroid hormone. What are the causes of it? Ah, can't quite remember. So you're kind of engaging in that process of active recall in the process of learning the topic and process of understanding it. And then once you've understood it once, once you'd be able to explain it to a five-year-old, then you can get to that point where you're starting writing questions for yourself. One of your questions for a hypothyroidism might be, what are the causes of hypothyroidism? And then like in a week's time when you use your space for a petition, you look at that, you think, what are the causes of hypothyroidism? You realize, oh crap, I can't remember the cause of hypothyroidism. Now you're engaging in active recall. So even though you've understood the topic, you're still struggling to recall it because you've gotten some of it. So I don't think we can quite like get learning away from revising because like a chapter two of that book called Make It Stick is entitled to learn retrieve. It's all about retrieving, retrieving is what drives learning. And without retrieval, there is no learning, without mistake, there is no learning. That's not think about learning and revision as being separate things. So kind of related by taking us on a tangent, I like to say that it's so important to actually try questions, so especially like maths, maths questions in particular, because there's one thing reading the answer and thinking, oh, I understand how this works, but it's a completely different thing having a blank question in front of you and trying to work to reason out. So don't be afraid of, you know, going and trying to question and crashing and burning and then after that looking at the answer, because if you don't engage for the question first, if you just go straight and try to read the answer and say like, ah, you know, I know that now, then that's just deceiving yourself. You learn far more by engaging with the question. Yeah, I completely agree with that because it's about unknown unknowns. You don't necessarily know where you're going to go wrong until you just give it a go and go, I can't believe I stumbled on this simple step, simplifying the equation, really I need to be tied to double checking everything through it to make sure that doesn't happen again. That kind of stuff. Um, on a more practical note as well, in terms of that teaching it to other people demonstrating that you really understand it yourself, obviously we don't have any five-year-old hanging around. So what we often tend to do is learn a topic each, you know, privately in self-study and then we try and teach it to each other, because that way you really check feels understanding and it's just a mate. So, you know, they won't mind if you don't have anything doubt everything down Pat. But then they can ask you questions and you can go, hmm, actually, this is how it works and feel self kind of working through it yourself and then you'll understand it better, all turn and typically going, actually I didn't work that bit out myself, I'm going to go look that up. Um, on that note, this is something that that I do quite a lot on placement, it's with what a lot of our squad does. Uh, Paul is our resident guru on cardiology. So, so, so, so, any time said that there's something to do with the heart, that one of us doesn't get, we like, like, over dinner or something, like, Paul, can you explain try and cost me a re-gotitation to me? Don't be like, oh, well, uh, what do you know about try conspiracy negotiations so far? He always asked that question and it's like, really annoying because but it's good because it forces you to actively recall what the hell do I know about try cost me re-gotitation? You realize you don't know much, but you give it a go anyway and then Paul, sort of explains it and he kind of gives you a nice way of doing it. But equally, you know, if Paul would ask me, Ali, well, what MacBook should I get next? I'll be like, oh, that's a very good question, Paul, what MacBook do you think you should get next? You know, we'll have a different areas of expertise and I think kind of working with your friends and this rather than kind of in competition with your friends, because what I like to do is, is treat school exams as sort of you and your mates are a team and you're working against the rest of the world rather than you are an individual and you're working against your mates. And I think a lot of people have this sort of competitive mentality, especially when it comes to medicine applications, I've heard that in a lot of, like, really elite schools where loads of people apply to medicine, you know, there are people that people come on and be in that crash course. I don't want my friends to know I went on your course, because, you know, obviously I'm competing against them. It's a lot of competition. You're like, working with your mates, you're competing against the world. So like, you know, stick together as much as you can. I mean, the the games you're going to get from having that kind of social morale with your friends is going to be trumping what like little tiny advantages you're getting over four other people compared to the thousands of people taking exam anyway. So even if you think of it from a purely selfish point of view, it's still the ways I think to do. Yeah, but don't be selfish, be friendly with your mates. Yeah. Work together. Quite fighting against the world. Complete sidetrack from the original question. What was the original question? Any tips on learning stuff initially? Oh yeah. I mean, that's kind of tip. Learn with your friends. Learn with your friends, guys. Friends, I won't make life legit. That's moving on. Question number two, exams are a month away. Any last minute tips? What would you be doing at this point? Right. A month, a month, a month is not last minute. Like literally like 10, 10 people most of you are Instagramping like, oh my god, exact my first year's season in a month's time. Any last minute tips? A month is not last minute. Like I started in my third year, I started my space repetition thing like five and a half weeks before the exam. Like you know a month is a month is not a long time at all. I don't have that point. That was like only a year after you did well. Absolutely. All the time. A month is not last minute. The question was, any tips on what to do a month before the exam? Everything Ali's already told you about. Space repetition actually recall a month is not last minute. Just do the same thing. Although I'm more practically speaking, again, if you feel like you're completing overwhelmed, you've only got a month left and you've just not covered nearly what you'd hope to by this point. You need to take a step back, take stock of what you have covered, take stock of where the big holes are and try and fill them. And try and stick to like a general overview of those topics that you really haven't covered enough. Don't try and you know, cover them as much detail as you'd hope for because you just want to get through them. Have a plan. You should really, really have a plan and I'm sure Ali will make a video on this sometime. We talked in the previous video, the episode two of the evidence-based tips about scurping your subject. That's a phrase I learned from Paul. He said it's about scurping your subject. Yeah. So I think a lot of people actually have this fear about work because they look at a topic and they think, oh my goodness, I've got so much to do about this. And actually, it is a really scary thing when you look at all the mountain of work, it's your waiting for you. So the first thing you need to do is to bite that bullet and to write down every single thing that you need to do. And then as you write that down, you start thinking, oh maybe I can just maybe if I put this into this week and that thing to the other week. And so long as it sticks to my time table, I will get to the end of it and I will have finished the mountain of work. But the absolute worst error to do is to be scared of it and then you decide that, okay, I'm just going to float through the next month and do a bit of this, do a bit of that because by the time you get to the end of the month, you realize that you haven't actually covered the whole subject. You've just been too scared to deal with the elephant in the room. So you need to write it all down and then put it into divisible chunks that you think you might be able to handle. If it's too much, then you know, decide to not revise some things really even. And then actually, you realize that you can do it. It is actually manageable. I completely agree with Paul. It's so easy to just keep telling yourself, oh I'm just going to keep going, keep doing the bits, just spot things and do them as well and keep jumping from subject to subject as you feel more and more panicked about the ones you haven't covered. But really, doing that hard step at the start and going, okay, I'm going to actually sit down, look at everything I need to do, figure out how I'm going to put piece of all together, and that's going to be so much more important. Yeah, absolutely. And one thing I always say, one of the most useful things, like probably the most useful thing you can do with a given hour or two hours is to sit down and on a single page right down, every single topic that is in your syllabus. And like in the form of a spider diagram or in the form of a sort of number of a list, anything like that, so you see, okay, I've really only got 15 topics. And if I've got a month before my exam, that means if I do one topic a day, I can do each topic twice before my exam, fantastic. Or, you know, topics one to five are kind of the fundamentals of chemistry. I know those already. Let me focus on topics six to 15. That means I can do them three times before. Perfect. So, you know, it's like writing down a list of every single topic and it could have been in a manageable chunk, as Paul said, rather than, you know, each knitting equity detail of the specification, I hate specifications. That's a good way of kind of seeing, serving a subject, seeing kind of visually, what do I have left to do? And you can check out my magical spreadsheet method, which was referenced in the last video if you want more information on this. This that is the absolute key, that it's what I start every revision session doing, as in when I'm revising for exam, there's the first thing I always do and it will absolutely suck. Like, it just, it just is so bad sitting there and writing out all the things you need to do. But it's so necessary. Absolutely. Any tips on how to learn contact quickly, exams are a month away and we haven't even finished some of our courses yet. How do you learn stuff quickly? Broadbrush strokes. Don't go into the crazinessy-gritty detail, especially if you're kind of an actual studyer and feel like you need to cover everything, force yourself to pick that step back, work out what you really actually do need to know what's actually testable knowledge, what's come up in past papers, that kind of things. Study smart. Absolutely. Do some kind of 80, 20 analysis, look at, you know, which 20% of the content gets you 80% of the marks in a lot of past papers. And other than the past papers, based it, you're based your base your revision around your past papers, that's the key. How do you, how do you take next change one month, two weeks, one week before the exams? Based on a petition. Go back just to share your comment. It's fine, you can swear. Go back to shit you've covered before. Try and, especially if you've picked out where you often go wrong in a certain type of exam, question, or on a certain topic in general, for instance, a abdominal exam. I always forget to go down to the patient's levels that you don't know because it's intimidating. And I know I always forget that. So, going over close to the exam, I want to be reminding myself of the common stuff I do wrongs, but I definitely now at the day. One thing I liked to ask myself pretty much every day before any kind of exam study session is, if I had the exam right now, which topic would have been most shitting myself about? And I study that topic, and closer to the exam, I start asking myself this with a lot more frequency. So, then I really try and focus in on the topics that I really, really don't know because we all have the fingers like, if the thyroid examination came up, it wouldn't be good. That's how you know that's the topic that you need to work on. Yeah, and as Paul's mentioned before, often that's the kind of sinking feeling in your gut type topic and so you avoid it because you're scared and because you know it's going to be crap to do that topic, but you just got to face up and do it. You will save yourself so much hassle in a long time. Alright, next question. With Active Recall, do you make the questions as you read the book or do you make notes from the textbook first and then read them and then quiz yourself? How do you do it? Either, both. Next question. It really doesn't matter. Active Recall is not a specific formula you follow and I apologize sincerely if I've given you the impression that there is a specific set thing like a series of things that you need to do. Active Recall is just about actively retrieving stuff from your brain. If you enjoy making notes from the textbook, find, make your notes and base your Active Recall questions on those. If you don't like making notes, I don't like making notes. I think revision guides are amazing. I love CDP. I love letter vision guides. I use exclusively those and make my questions based on that or use their kind of end-of-chapter questions. It really doesn't matter as long as you're making your brain work, do whatever you feel like, do whatever works for you. I'd actually say just, you know, to counter that a little bit. You can try and not let yourself shy away from using great resources that are already out there. A lot of people kind of take a lot of comfort in making their own notes and especially if they're making those notes and basically copying it out of a note form and not actually doing any Active Recall whilst they're making those notes. Obviously that's easier because you don't have to force yourself to think of what you've just learned. But there's some with amazing revision guides all the amazing resources you get online nowadays. You should be using those. You should be forcing yourself to do that hard Active Recall stuff sooner rather than later. Yeah, if you can avoid making your own notes, I might be needing to avoid it completely. Which way? No. I think it's part of the process. I think part of the understanding. So if you're struggling with the topic, making notes can really help. All right, next question. How should I use Active Recall do past papers count? Yes, they do. All right, next question. But make sure you do you attempt the question before you look at the marks game. Don't do the thing of, I'm just going to read through the marks game. Oh yeah, I knew that. I would have totally written that because that's an absolute myth. Absolutely myth. All right, next question. Can you contribution that book? Absolutely myth. Let me say that earlier. We can later. Next question. If you have Ankey, flash got up, why do you still use your spreadsheet method? Thank you. You watch my vlog. Surely you can do all that stuff on Ankey with the custom decks and filters and stuff. Oh, how do you do that? Funny, you should say that. We were having this argument like literally earlier today. I was using my spreadsheets for some Aussky practice and Katherine was saying, why are you using a spreadsheet? Why not just use Ankey? The reason is, spreadsheets make it easy. Anything in my opinion that reduces friction between what you think you want to do and actually doing it is worth doing. This is why I spend lots of money on camera equipment that purely just reduces the friction between kind of me sitting down and making a video. I have having a tripod is worth a 50 pound expense for other than stacking lots of books high and putting a camera on lots of books. This is why I prefer my spreadsheet method to Ankey for a lot of things because spreadsheet is just so easy to do. Ankey is a bit of effort to set up. If you've got it set up already, then maybe it will be easy. Translation, he's a bit lazy and doesn't really know how to use the features. No, it is true that it's a lot more intuitive to do Ali spreadsheet method. You can sort it by category a lot easier. You don't have to do this whole tagging versus whether you put stuff in different decks versus using filter decks, etc, which can be a bit more high effort. Ankey takes a little bit of work to set up. If you can't be bothered, uses spreadsheet method. I can rarely be bothered to use Ankey properly. There's all these weird things with Ankey like close completions and like imaging or masking. That loads people swear by, but I like to keep it simple, Google Sheets. I would actually say on that point though if you're not willing to do Ankey properly, don't do it all. Just use paper flashcards or a spreadsheet method if you know that that's going to be a way you can organize easily and not have loads of flashcards carvings stupid little details that kind of thing. Yeah, one problem with people that people often have with Ankey is that I spent like 18 hours making my Ankey flashcards and then I realised that I just made so many that I just can't be bothered to go through them. Thank you, Baker, had this problem at one point in your life. It's the first year I think I had like 4,000 plus cards. God, definitely thinking through them. Yeah, the first year you're all about, oh my god, Ankey's amazing. You were teaching me how to use all these techniques. Well, you know, and that in me cards. Yeah, and the image occlusion thing, it's just great, but then you realise you've been ever done it and covered lots of niche details. You didn't need to cover, it's a difficult relationship. Indeed, are you snider? Yeah, four don't use any flashcards, it just has the box. Yeah, how do you have you do it? Well, I mean, Active Recall doesn't require you to do Ankey or to, yeah, or to, or to use a Google Sheets, it's way of life. What do you mean it's way of life? It's just, you know, I just try to use to read, try to think about things every time before you look at the answer. It's like, have you seen the time? So like, do you write questions for yourself? Well, not exactly. I mean, even for example, if you were to do the hand examination again, you just think about in your mind mentally rehearse it as far as you get, and then the bits of which you get unstuck. Okay, but if we use something like that, so like, if the thing back to what when you were doing A-levels all those years ago, sort of, or like, in maths, how, how, how, how did you, that's a record? That's a job at how old, old is, by the way. Yeah, old is very old people, but he's from Singapore, so he did three years in the army and all that stuff. How did you do it when you were in A-levels? I mean, the tons of practice papers out there. Yeah, so there's so many opportunities for you to test yourself. Every time, at the end of day, the exams are about testing knowledge, so you will come across questions. You will, you will get to something you'd be like, aha, what is this? And then before you look at the answer, just think about reason from first principle, try to judge up the knowledge from that, you know, that subconscious bit of your brain. And then you'll find that when you actually read the answer, it sticks better. Yeah, that's a really good quote. Active recall is not just about flashcards. Active recall is a way of life. Yeah, I was just thinking that's, I should get it made out of t-shirts or something like that. Oh, it could be your version of Ibsmugs. Oh my god, yeah. Oh my god. So instead of bringing them your seasoning, we can be active, active recall is a way of life. Let us know in the comments if you would purchase those mugs for about 7 pounds. Thank you. I just created a movement. All right. Okay, now we're going onto subject specific stuff. So question number, I lost count. How do you apply flashcards for essay based subjects like history and English bit? I find they're working well for biology, but I'm not really sure how to use them for analysis subjects. I love using flashcards to memorize particular paragraphs. So I use flashcards extensively for my second and third essay and quite a lot of the time with any kind of subject that you do, any kind of essay subject, there are certain building blocks that go into lots of different essays. So let's say you're doing Romeo and Juliet. You can probably make a point about how Samsung and Gregory had the star are using a nude imagery and blah, blah, blah, how this was relevant to like the Victorian times. Was it the Victorian times? No, Elizabethan times. All of this, you can probably make that point in loads of different essays. So if you memorize a really sick paragraph that has a sick quote that you've like gotten from Romeo and Juliet and put it into anchoring like learn this paragraph off by heart, you can chuck it into whatever it is so you want. Equally, if you're doing medicine and you want to talk about the evidence behind the sodium puppet and how like Hodgkin and Hugsley did some experiments and like the giant squid acts on in like 1942. You can memorize that paragraph and chuck it into like 10 different essays about the sodium pump. That's how I would use anchoring memorized stuff essays. Yeah, so basically, yeah, dates and quotations and evidence based, that kind of thing. Cool. Next question, any tips for you? Sorry, just one second. So when you said paragraph, you do kind of mean like the paragraph as in like the citation and then sentence from a paragraph, right? No, literally. I mean I mean, literally for for my psych essays, I had entire paragraph submitted to my Rachel including references. Using the example of you like Romeo and Juliet, Elizabethan, so there's something like some prompt and then you just spurt out of it. Yeah, I'm like, I would like, I'll like craft this paragraph and like in like exquisite detail and just kind of regurgitate it like word-for-word literally memorized using anchoring. And especially for introductions to essays because you know a lot of the times the introduction is really hard bit to write and if you can like hit the examiner well that absolutely killer introduction, then you kind of primed them to give you a decent market at the end of the essay. So you know memorizing introductions was something that I did for my second and third year essay, you know, you usually lose interest after introduction, so you really have to hit them. Yeah, introduction. So memorizing introductions using using classical, that's how you do essay subjects. You're saying I was just thinking about that. Yeah, I see. Oh yeah, Paul is a Cambridge supervisor. He marks essays. He marks like supervisor essays, but he gets bored after the introduction. Right time you get to your fourth essay all the essays just learn to one. So in your introduction if you can you can interest your whoever's marking essay and in an outline where you're going to go from there they can tell whether you're going to get a first or a two one two two genuinely. Yeah. Cool. Sort it. Any tips for level maths? How do you use post papers to your advantage? Talk to about this before just do the paper like do the paper and don't just look at the answer. One thing that helps is when revising for maths what a lot of textbooks do is that they put the questions in a logical structure like you know you find all of all the areas of a square first and then you find all the areas of a rectangle and you find all the areas of a circle and then you kind of do a lot of things and then a lot of things and you kind of block them out like that. They've done studies on maths, students and maths papers and they're realise that actually if you interleve all of the different problems that you're doing, that for some reason improves your performance by quite a lot. So you know when you're revising for maths maybe don't think okay today I'm going to revise all of that stuff, you know, just like try and make your sees kind of, I did it so much, yeah a bit of that, a bit of that, a bit of that, use the pause paper to your advantage and like really actively attempt the question even if you think you can't do it and then focus in on why you didn't do it. Solutions are really good for that, not just dancers, so you see the work solution you see how it goes. Cool. Maths of our practice, that's really about practice. Yeah, cool. Finally it's a subject specific, any tips for essay exam technique, any tips to write a really good essay, we've got to talk about this already, hit them with the introduction, I need tips from you, you're the supervisor. Introduction really matters, conclusion really matters, and actually how you see it looks really matters as well. If your person is bad handwriting, it's really, really worth getting better improving a handwriting. I think in Tripods handwriting is worth up to 5% 3% 5% Tripods is the Cambridge exams. Okay, so if, yeah, if they can't read your handwriting, they can't see all your wonderful ideas that come out from your head. To be honest, I reckon if you're doing a essay exam, the single big of thing you can do to improve your marks is improve your handwriting. You can do it, there are loads of YouTube videos about how to improve your handwriting, like literally take the time to do it, because it's such a pain as a bum of reading an essay, but you won't read it. Yeah, and you just really annoyed the exam, no, it's so, so annoying, reading a bit, I say, with bad handwriting. You want to, you want to look at your essay from far afterwards, and you know, this looks like a beautiful essay, it's a work of art, a bit out of this, you know, it gives good vibes to it. Probably more importantly, you want to get someone else to read it, and see if they can recognise handwriting when it's not, you know, you reading your own thing. Okay, it's all about just developing sick handwriting, and you can do it. Please don't say, oh my handwriting is crap, I don't know how to improve. You can do it if you really work on it. Okay, so that was me, Paul, and Catherine, answering 10 different questions that you guys had about specific study techniques, I hope you found something useful from that. The previous video we were talking about, like, motivation, stress, time management, so if you're into that sort of thing, you can watch that. And in the next video, we'll be tackling questions that were set in by university students, so stuff, you know, more about lectures and essays and managing the huge amount of work that you get at university. So yeah, I hope you got something from this video. Thank you very much for watching. If you liked it, please give it a thumbs up. If you haven't subscribed to the channel, please consider doing so. Have a lovely evening, and I'll see you in the next video. Good luck with your revision. Bye-bye.
