# Obstetrics, Gynaecology and Baking - Cambridge University medical student VLOG #06
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q6fwLEO3G3Q
In today's episode, we attend a meeting of the Cambridge University Obstetrics & Gynaecology Society (CUOGS) and spend the afternoon getting some artsy-looking shots of shortbread being baked (and not turning out so well). 

Who am I:

I'm Ali, a final year medical student at Emmanuel College, Cambridge. This vlogging thing seems quite fun so I'll be vlogging life and other things throughout the year. I'm pretty into music and coding as well, so maybe there'll be some of that on this channel.

Follow me plssss:
- Snapchat: aliabdaal
- Twitter - https://twitter.com/AliAbdaal
- Instagram - https://instagram.com/AliAbdaal
- Website - www.aliabdaal.com
**Keywords:** Cambridge medicine, Cambridge medical student, Cambridge medicine vlog, Cambridge medical student vlog, medical student, medicine vlog, medicine, medical student vlog, Oxbridge, Oxford, Cambridge, cambridge medicine, oxford medicine, med student vlog, med student, oxbridge medicine, oxbridge medicine vlog, life of a medical student, 
**Date:** 2017-09-22

## Transcript
 Good morning everyone. Welcome back to the channel. It is a weekend with back in Cambridge and I'm on my way to the very first meeting of the Cambridge University of Stetrics and Gynecology Society Committee and we've got a meeting. Hi. Hello. Yeah. My name is Ali. Medical student. You should look me up. Okay, so we're having our first meeting in Café Niro. The society is made up of people who want to do who are maybe interested in obstetrics and gynecology as specialties. And as a committee, we need to organize events, put on talks. So I'm the academic lead. So hopefully we're going to be organizing some lectures and stuff. Hey, I'm Sarah. I'm the president of the Cambridge University of Stetrics and Gynecology Society. We're a society that facilitates events. Anyone interested in obstetrics and gynecology to help progress career paths and generally spread the key. Okay, so the meeting's over. It was quite efficient quite fun. I think the first event is in two weeks time and it's going to be a talk that I'm giving to the years below about systematic history taking in obstetrics and gynecology. Obstens the importance of pessimism in age? Evident стiveness. Friends, I think it's not very nécessaire that well, in a certain example. All things concerning of obstetrics and gynecology is including sort of singingBestians that you ask patients, presenting with particular problems, and that's quite scary but. Also quite exciting of the as a community that is a pretty great Pathlaughter just being able to build and at that opportunity is really sending you this. I mean we're doing blind dates. good tonight. It's a good dead smoke and you need to do something with it. So that's what I'm going to carry on. I'm going to be really not sure when it's going to be safe. This is just counterably. Created some kind of weird non-netony and fluid. What is life? What is life? Hello again. Long time no see. It is now about 9.30. I spent a few hours editing a video for our last weekends vlog. This video editing thing take bloody ages. And my desk is currently messed up then I usually like it. Why do one of those desk set up tours actually? I spend hours every month watching YouTube desk set up videos. So it would be cool to actually make fun like that. But yeah. Video editing takes ages. Anyone thinking of starting a vlog. It's probably keep that in mind. But it is really fun. It's really nice going through the footage. Like I wasn't as mad as an expedition. Before doing this vlogging vlogging thing. I wouldn't. I mean it would have just been photos. But now it's like I'm reliving. Reliving the experience. And it was a great experience. So it's worth reliving. But it is 9.30 pm. It's a Sunday night. That means we need to drive to the placement. We're going to be picking up 4 people along the way. And driving to Kingsland for week 3 of our senior medicine place. So thank you very much for watching. If you liked the video, please give it a thumbs up. If you haven't subscribed yet, please consider doing so. And I will see you in the next one.
