# Medicine Interview Questions - How to answer "Why should we choose you?"
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Q87NzojhZDI
Interview Crash Course Online - https://courses.aliabdaal.com/interview-crash-course-online. 

This video tackles the common medicine interview question of 'we have 10,000 applicants - why should we choose you?'. I discuss my own thoughts on the question, and then we hear from 7 medical students giving their perspective. We end with 2 mock interview answers from myself and Kenny. Hope you find the video useful!!

COURSES THAT ME AND MY FRIENDS RUN:
Interview Crash Course Online - https://courses.aliabdaal.com/interview-crash-course-online. 
6med Interview Crash Course - https://6med.co.uk/interview-crash-course
6med MMI Crash Course - https://6med.co.uk/mmi-crash-course

TIMESTAMPS:

00:54 - My thoughts
02:28 - Tip #1 - Show how you're suited to their course
03:37 - Tip #2 - Show how you're the ideal candidate
04:40 - Tip #3 - Play up your strengths
05:51 - Tip #4 - Research university societies
07:10 - Tip #5 - Avoid comparing yourself to others
07:37 - Tip #6 - Make it about them
08:43 - Tip #7 - Be confident but honest
10:11 - Example #1 - Ali (Cambridge)
11:45 - Example #2 - Kenny (Birmingham)
12:41 - Closing remarks

--
If you've got any questions, please comment down below and I'll do my best to get back to you asap.

Chidera's awesome channel - https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCeq4iBads31CT551gDJND5A

Who am I:

I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking 

📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal 

🎬 My online course on video editing - https://skl.sh/32TpEvm
🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
**Keywords:** medicine interview questions, medicine interview, medicine interview preparation, how to prepare for medicine interviews, medical school interviews, interview prep, medicine interview prep, med school interview, med school interviews, medical school interview, medical school interview prep, tips for medicine interview, medicine interview tips, interview tips, medicine tips, cambridge medicine, oxford medicine, oxbridge medicine, 
**Date:** 2017-11-29

## Transcript
 Hey guys, welcome back to the channel. If you're new here, my name is Ali. I'm a final year medical student at Cambridge University and this is part of a series of videos where me and my friends talked to the camera to give you advice about the medicine application process specifically about interviews. Today we're going to be tackling the fairly common question that goes along the lines of we have 10,000 applicants, why should we take you? And this is a really scary question. If you hear it for the first time in your interview, then it just destroys your world. And I would know because I got asked this, I think it in my UCL interview. And I just hadn't prepared for it. I didn't even know it was on the radar. So when they said it, I was I was I was floundering for ages and trying to come up with the answer on the spot. And from speaking to a few of my friends about this video, they said that they were actually asked some variant of that question as well. So I think it is a fairly common question and it's useful to vaguely know what you're going to say in advance. Obviously don't prepare a rehearsed memorised answer. But just having a list of talking points of what you might say if you ask that question is a good thing. So why is this question hard? This question is hard because there's is because you've got to strike that balance between actively selling yourself, which is something a lot of us are uncomfortable with, and trying not to be too arrogant because you know that arrogance is not a useful quality in anyone that alone in medicine interviews. And I think striking that balance is really quite tricky. In my opinion, a good way to answer this question is to split it into two parts. Firstly, if you talk about what about you suits that medical school in the sense that why the course is specifically suited for you. So you'll see in my mock answer further down the line, I talk about why the Cambridge course was particularly suited to me. And I think in the second part of the answer, it's useful to talk about what you can bring to the medical school. And that's quite a nice way of in a non-arrogant way showing and sort of selling yourself to the medical school by saying number one, the school is suited to me. And number two, I will provide to the school in some way or another. So that's the formula that I personally would follow. But as you'll see in this video, people have different views about how they answer this question. And a point that I make in all these videos is that there really isn't a right or wrong answer, which is why we're giving you the perspective of various different medical students. So you can kind of decide what you like the sound of, what would work for you. Because obviously it's not a one-size-fits-all approach. One answer is not going to work for everyone. So yeah, times times for everything down below. But now we're going to hear a fairly unstructured view from various different medical students about how they would approach this question. And then at the end, we're going to be hearing from myself and my friend Kenny, who will be giving a mock interview answer to this question as if we were actually in an interview. So hopefully you'll find that useful as well. But yeah, now without any further ado, let's hear from various medical students about how they would approach this question, times times everything down below. I'll see you in just a moment. There's always the balance between blowing your own trumpet and just the factually recording why you are a good candidate. So it's good in these situations if you can say why you're appropriate for a specific aspect of their course. So for example, with Cambridge, I would have drawn attention to the amount of stuff I'd done in the basic sciences and why I thought I was more appropriate Cambridge medical than I was, perhaps, at other universities. But wherever you're applying, if there's a specific bit of their course that appeals to you, it's really good to sort of drop that in. So for example, when I applied to Bristol, I said that they had a language exchange scheme and I was doing Frenchay level at the time. So I said, you know, I think I'd really benefit from from this particular course because that's something I definitely looked to make the most of and they seem to enjoy that enough. So do research the courses. No, you know, if you're doing pro-section versus dissection, no if you're jumping straight into clinical work or whether you've got a few years in the lectures first. So no what the course entails and then say why you're appropriate for it. And hopefully you won't have to lie because if you've applied to the place then you shouldn't know what it entails and hopefully it does infuse you at least a bit. So I hated this question because I don't like feeling like I'm boasting and saying, you know, oh, I'm special because of their special because of that. What I've said is that basically I described I made it some more so important to me. I said, this is something that I really want to do. I've no no wanted to see it for my pretty much my entire life. And here are the steps that I've taken to make myself a better clinician. And I basically just said that I have it within myself to make myself better and to change myself in a way to become the perfect clinician. So hopefully that would enough of reason for them to pick me because I'm willing to more myself into whatever is that they really wanted. Also you can say that for example in my head what I believe the perfect doctor is is ABC and talk about where you have those characteristics within yourself. So that was the way that I kind of said because I don't want to say, you know, I'm better than everybody else because I do this and they don't do that. Basically what you have to say is pick me because I believe that a doctor should behave in a certain way and these are the ways that I've been acting to make sure that I have those skills and characteristics to myself and what I'm going to do in the future to improve on that. I think you do, you know, no matter how how much you believe it or not you really have to sell yourself in these interviews. And in your personal statement it should be really saying you believe in yourself and you are good enough to do this and here are my skills. And that's something that is really alien to a lot of people. It's the first time you've had to do it. But I think it's important to actually recognise what you're good at because if you're applying to medicine you must be pretty good at a lot of things. So tell them that you're brilliant at sciences, you're really interested in the field. You've done all of these things to further that interest. So you might bring in your work experience, you might bring in your extracurricular activities, you might say that you've read XYZ articles online in order to further that particular interest. Show them that you've used all of these different skills like working in a team, like perseverance, like helping others and if specific examples of when you've used those different things to show them that it's true and you can back up all of your planes. I think always making it specific to the school you're applying for. So if for example there's something specific you like about the university if there's any clubs or any organisations that you want to join or anything you particularly want to do that you know the university is really good at. I mentioned that and say that you're going to pursue that. So always always make things specific. I think generic answers people are going to forget. You've got these talents outside of your work, you might be a musician, you might like acting, you might have a passion for languages and you really want to be part of their community. So something to do that I did before all of my different interviews was look at the individual universities and look at what societies they have and say I'm really interested in this thing and I see you've got a society here that doesn't and I'd really like to sort of join that and help them sort of improve and things like that. So I think if you can link it specifically to the uni as well as your personal traits then I think now they'll see that you are pretty good and that they want you around. And I think the medical interview is so easy to come up with so many generic answers. It's all about really talking about the specifics and like really flashing out our visionary answers to make them about you. We've got 10 talents in that book and this is why should we take you? You could be comparing yourself against all of those other 10 thousand applicants and try and make yourself come out on top of them. You could end up just like underpowering is what I'm saying. You're bringing your 400 meter swimming certificate to a competition of Olympians because you don't know what everyone else is done and so if you try and compare yourself to everyone else it's hard to be sure you're coming out on top so why waste your breath in that way. I think a better way to leave your impression on someone. Why should they pick you? They should pick you because you'll fit in well here because you actually want to come here rather than having put it third or fourth on your choices at medical school. You might well have put it third or fourth on your choices at medical school but convince them that you haven't convinced them that they're your number one that you fit them as well as they fit you. The way to do that I think is to talk about then talk about what of their course fit you. Why you will be particularly good for them rather than just you are particularly good. The answer to why am I better than 10 thousand other people is exactly the same whether you're sitting in Cambridge or St Andrews or London. The answer to why should Cambridge pick me is very specific and you'll have to have different answers wherever you go so think about what medical school in particular will do for you and vice versa compare yourself to them and not to 10 thousand others. It's an intimidating question. I think it's definitely a thing of British culture that people don't like to big themselves up too much and they worry that they're being really arrogant. Obviously you should be arrogant but you should have a quiet confidence in yourself otherwise how are you going to do well in life how are you going to take up those opportunities when they're available how are you going to push yourself if you don't have the confidence to try. So you need to be able to talk about yourself in a positive light and you need to be able to show off your strengths. So again be honest talk about what you truly think are your strengths and again just give the evidence why. Talk about how in your sports club you've done organised this tournament single-handedly or whatever to really demonstrate how you've got initiative or how you've had to work on your timekeeping skills or whatever. Okay so that was seven medical students giving their perspective on how to answer the question of we have 10,000 applicants wish which is you. Hopefully you found some of that useful. There's a little bit of conflicting advice but I mean they're just going to show that there really isn't a right or wrong answer you should just kind of pick whatever you think sounds good what you think might work for you your style your personality and just roll with that because chances are it's going to be absolutely fine. Now we're going to be hearing from myself and my friend Kenny and we will be answering the question as if we were in an actual interview so that might give you some idea of what a full interview answer might look like and I'll see you in a moment. Oh that's a that's a really difficult question. So I'd I'd like to answer that in two ways personally I think I would be I think I'd be the kind of person who would fit well into into Cambridge and secondly I think I'd be the kind of person who could also contribute to Cambridge so in terms of fitting well firstly the course is really suited to me I really like the fact that we do three years of preclinical and then three years of clinical I like the separation of you know getting the foundation right first and then and then going into the hospitals rather than seeing patients from day one which I personally wouldn't be a massive fan of so yeah I'd be like the course aspect of it and I also think I've I really like the idea of the supervision system you know you get to interact with world leaders in their field on a small group basis and I think that I'd be the kind of person who would you know thrive thrive in that environment I quite like asking questions I quite like kind of raising points and I think that's a lot easier to do in a small group setting then in a massive lecture hall of 300 people so that's why I think I'd be suited to Cambridge and I think I'd also be able to give something back so I've got an involved quite a lot in badminton and cricket in school and I'd love to get involved with that in college life and potentially even try it for the university team on that and as as I mentioned earlier I'm also a close-up magician and I hear Cambridge actually has a magic society that does shows you know on a termly basis so I'd really like to get involved with that and maybe even run some workshops teaching people magic it's one of my biggest passions and I'd really like to contribute that to the university as it were. The reason I think I should be chosen for Birmingham is because first of all I've got a background in science I've got a degree in medical physiology that I attain from the University of Leicester and I think that puts me really suitable position to embark on this course because I'll be able to I'm familiar with the content and hopefully I can build on my pride knowledge. I also play squash and badminton in my spare time and I know that in the medical sighting Birmingham there's societies for that so I feel like I can bring extra curriculum to the University also and I'm actually lived in Birmingham before and I've heard that there's a lot of things to offer like for example I don't know what it's called because I don't live here but I know that when you come in there's this huge building that has loads of silver circles around it so I think you choose me because first of all I'd like to be in the area so I can find out what it is and also explore what else does the city has to offer because in the short time I've spent here it's definitely definitely give me some good advice. All right so that brings us to the end of this video we've heard from seven medical students about how they would answer the question we have 10,000 applicants of why should we take you and then we've heard from two students myself and Kenny giving a mock interview answer to that question as if we were in an actual interview so hopefully you found this this video useful and hopefully it's sort of de-mistified and kind of made less anxiety provoking the question of you know why should we choose you for this medical school because that's a really hard question to answer you want to sell yourself but also not to be too arrogant in selling yourself so hopefully that was useful if you like the video please give it a thumbs up if you've got any questions at all about anything please leave a comment down below and I'll get back to you as soon as I can if you haven't subscribed to the channel please consider doing so more videos coming up about interviews we're going to be talking about medical ethics and all that kind of stuff and I pretty much want to make an entire interview syllabus I've been teaching interview courses for the last five years with my company six month the interview crash course you should check it out if you're interested in going on a course but because we're going to be graduating next year I don't want all of this really good course content to go to waste if we end up not having time to run the courses so I'm slowly putting everything online on YouTube so please subscribe to the channel if you'd like to you know learn more about interview preparation and if that's not your thing I also do vlogs every now and then about life as a medical student so some people might find that vaguely interesting so yeah thank you very much for watching I'll see you next time have a lovely day bye
