# GAME-CHANGER - NEW iMac Review (M1)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qffXR9nRO90
Check out my new desk setup with the iMac here - https://youtu.be/QuD7I_o1WP0

In this video I'll be taking a look at the brand new 2021 iMac which I've been using for the past few days. It's the base model, with 256GB SSD, 8GB RAM and the 8-core M1 chip with 7-core GPU. Enjoy! 

00:00 Intro
00:28 Design
02:06 Screen
03:57 Performance
05:56 Sound
07:18 Ports
08:17 Accessories
09:57 Specs
11:46 Conclusion

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

PART-TIME YOUTUBER ACADEMY:
🍿 My 6-week live online course - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ptya_aliabdaal
CREATORPRENEUR
💰 My flag-ship course for scaling up your creative side-hustle - https://creatorpreneur.academy/course


YOUTUBE FOR BEGINNERS COURSE
📸 This is for anyone who'd like to start a YouTube channel. You'll learn everything you need to get started as a YouTuber including how to script, shoot, and edit your first video - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/YouTube-for-Beginners



MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
✍️ The best summaries of books (Shortform) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
📚  How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
Deep Dive Podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/
The podcast that delves into the minds of entrepreneurs, creators and other inspiring people to uncover the philosophies, strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. You can find it by searching “Deep Dive with Ali Abdaal” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc).
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali
🎵  My Favourite Audiobooks platform (Audible) - https://geni.us/AudibleAli

🎙 Deep Dive podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/
The podcast that delves into the minds of entrepreneurs, creators and other inspiring people to uncover the philosophies, strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. You can find it by searching “Deep Dive” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮  Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I’m Ali, a YouTuber, podcaster, soon-to-be author and ex-Doctor working in London, UK. I make videos that explore the strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, imac review 2021, imac 2021, imac 2021 unboxing, new imac 2021, imac, apple imac 2021, imac 2021 m1, new imac, imac 2021 review, m1 imac 2021, imac 24, 24 inch imac, imac 24 inch, imac 24 inch 2021, imac redesign, imac m1, 2021 imac, m1 imac, imac redesign 2021, apple silicon imac, 24 imac, imac 2021 release date, apple m1 imac, imac m1 2021, imac apple silicon, apple imac, 24 inch imac 2021, apple, imac cost, 
**Date:** 2021-05-18

## Transcript
 Hey friends, welcome back to the channel. This is a review of the brand new M1 iMac. I've been using this version in blue for the last few days and it's replaced my monstrosity of a 49 inch ultra wide desktop setup and this is my very first time using a desktop iMac. So there's loads to talk about, let's jump into it. All right, let's start by talking about the design. Now, this is basically the main reason I wanted an iMac. I was really trying to figure out like how can I convince myself to get an iMac? Mostly because of the design. It just looks so pretty. As soon as I saw that it was available in blue, I knew that I really want to replace my desk setup with a more simple minimalistic key iMac in blue and thankfully it's here now. Because it's an iMac, it's literally just a screen. It's an all in one desktop and so you don't have like a box or anything on the side and you don't have all those cables to deal with. If we look on the side, it's ridiculously thin like this then hopefully you can see that and then on the back I hope the cables don't come out. It's like this really nice like dark blue color. I'm kind of an oaks like this blue is really really really pretty. So I sort of wish I had a desk that was facing into the room so that the blue would be visible sadly in this budget to bedroom flat. All I have is in the blue facing the wall but hey that's what the design's like. There is this like lip area at the front of the iMac which looked a little bit weird when I first saw it but now it's really grown on me and now I can't really imagine it looking any different and this is where all of the components of the actual computer are and it comes with a nice little base that lets you do this screen rotationy type thing. It doesn't really go up and down or it's like the side but it does go in this particular angle which is kind of cool. At the back there's only three ports to worry about. There is the power cable cord thing where they're really nice, velvet, velvet corded magnetized cable goes into so that's kind of nice and also on the back we've got two Thunderbolt slash USB-C ports because this is the base model it's only got two ports. I have the fully spiked out version arriving in like six weeks. It's taking ages to arrive but that has four USB-C ports rather than two. All right let's talk about the screen now and this screen is the best screen I have ever used in my life. It is a 4.5k retina display which means it has a resolution of 4,482,520 or something strange like that but it just looks absolutely gorgeous. Previously I was using a 49 inch ultra wide where the resolution wasn't that high if it was 5120 by 1440 or something but I could I could like see the pixels but now that I switched to this it's like I realized what I was missing on and I don't think I could ever go back to a non-retina display as my main monitor. The screen goes up to 500 nits of brightness which looks something like this that's a pretty bright screen and you can dim it all the way down and you can go all the way bright. It does have a reflective surface which is kind of annoying because like occasionally like if there's like broad daylight you can see the light from the window is reflected in the screen. It's not quite as fancy as the Pro display XDR that has the nano-coating that apparently gives it that matte finish but otherwise I mean obviously it's the best screen I've ever used in my life and I can't see myself changing to anything else anytime soon. If the only thing that was a little bit concerning about this for me was the size so this is a 24 inch display for the last like four years I've been using various ultra wide like 34 inch 39 inch 49 inch so I thought 24 inches would feel quite small and certainly when I first set it up and I replaced my 49 inch with a 24 inch I eat basically half of the screen real estate. I thought I'll hang on this monitor is quite small but within about 20 minutes of using it my eyes adjusted to the smallest of the screen and I don't really feel that artam I wish I had more screen real estate. I think if I was doing something like a gaming and streaming or if I was doing something like doing a zoom presentation and screen recording on one screen and then having the zoom chat and the other screen in those contexts I might want another screen and I'm considering getting the Pro Display XDR for it but right now for most of the things that I use a computer for 24.5 inches is completely fine it just looks amazing the rent and display is fantastic and I'm not finding myself missing my 49 inch monitor. Okay let's talk about performance now because this is the new M1 chip we're expecting absolutely fantastic performance across the board because the M1 chip is absolutely amazing I have reviews of the M1 Mac book pro and the MacBook era over here somewhere and because I may want to be tech reviewer I decided to run a Geekbench 5 benchmark and the single core performance was 1728 which is a little bit higher than the other M1 models but basically within the realms of uncertainty and the multi core performance is 77008 whatever that means and now you can see that compared to some other models of the Mac. I'll be honest I don't really give a toss about these Geekbench numbers it doesn't make any difference to me in my life and most people's lives but I know some people are into those numbers when watching tech reviews in terms of real world performance which is the thing that I care about like it's as good as the M1 chip is like I have never once noticed a decrease in performance or anything resembling slowness on any of my M1 devices not the MacBook Air and not the MacBook Pro not the Mac Mini and also now not the iMac so that's nothing new it's kind of what you expect. The only context in which I didn't like the performance of the iMac was when trying to play world of warcraft I was sort of able to play world of warcraft on my M1 Mac Mini at like 2 out of 10 graphics settings at 60 frames per second but that wasn't a Mac Mini that was fully specced out so cost about 2,500 pounds. This being the base model of the iMac it's got 7 GPU cores rather than 8 and only one fan rather than 2 and I found that while trying to play world of warcraft it was you know 30, 25 frames per second for rather than 60 and so what a warcraft was basically unplayable on this device whereas it was very playable on my old M1 Mac Mini. To be honest I think that's just a function of the fact that this is the base model and I'm hoping that in six weeks time when my fully beefed out model arrives I'll be able to play a while on it without any issues. So overall performance wise unless you're trying to play games you are not going to be disappointed at all with the performance and there are thousands of videos on YouTube where people show the power of the M1 chip in video editing and rendering and graphic design and 3D modeling and all sorts of really cool things so we're not going to talk about that here. Let's talk about sound now and in this realm of working from home and having zoom cores all the time a decent webcam and a decent microphone is quite important. This year they have upgraded the webcam and so the webcam is now a 1080p FaceTime HD webcam or something like that and apparently they've upgraded the microphones as well so instead of taking my word for it here is some test footage. Alright so this is recording on photo booth using the built-in camera on the iMac and the built-in microphones. What do you reckon? I think it sounds pretty reasonable. I think it's entirely reasonable for zoom cores. Probably not completely legit for podcasts which is why I'm doing a podcast. I'm going to use my fancy as sure SM7B but this is a bit of a pain to plug in. I have to set it up on my dares and have to plug it into the preamp and all that stuff. So broadly for the most part I'm going to rely on the built-in mics in the iMac and the webcam and I'll just use this for podcasts and videos. And finally let's talk about the speakers so they've upgraded the built-in speakers and honestly they do sound pretty good. They don't obviously compare to you know this 300 dollar set of speakers that I've got but when I was first setting it up and I wasn't sure which ones were plugged in and where the default sound was coming from. I played a song and I kind of thought that oh I'm not really sure whether these are coming from the actual speakers or from the iMac. Then what I did aside by side comparison obviously the actual speakers one out but it was close enough in a way for me to not really notice initially. Like it wasn't obviously a bad set of speakers of the sound was coming from so overall pretty happy with the way the speakers turned out. Let's briefly talk about the ports now so as I said this is the base model so it's only got two Thunderbolt 3 slash USB C ports at the back. Two ports is not enough. You do need more than two ports. Basically whatever your use cases are two ports I reckon are probably not enough which is why I use the Caldigit TS3 Thunderbolt hub dock type thing so that just plugs in via a single USB C cable into the iMac and then I've got all of the other things I need plugged into the dock. So I've got the Ethernet cable, I've got my speakers via USB, I've got my audio interface via USB C, I've got my Elgato cambling to plug in my proper camera via HDMI and conveniently it's got an SD card reader as well for one I need to offload videos and photos and stuff so if you're thinking of getting an iMac you will almost certainly need some kind of dock if you want devices plugged into it and to be honest even when my fully beefed out iMac arrives that's got four Thunderbolt ports two of them are USB 3 to them are USB 4 whatever that means but I'm still gonna need the dock because I still need USB A devices like the microphone and the audio interface and the stuff that isn't USB-C all the way moving on let's talk about the accessories now the really cool thing this time around is that they have color matched the accessories to the iMac so I have the new blue magic keyboard and the new blue magic mouse I don't have the track pad yet that is on order um the keyboard comes in two varieties if you have the base model it comes with the one that does not have touch ID built in but if you order the specced out model which I've got coming in six weeks that will come with the touch ID keyboard which is kind of nice this feels the same as the magic keyboard has always felt it's great it's the single best keyboard I've ever used in my life and it gives me the highest typing speed I've ever got which is 157 words per minute as my record 157 words per minute there we go world record and then we have the magic mouse now I have never been a fan of the magic mouse like anytime I use a magic mouse in an apple store I always think this is the worst thing ever because it just feels so bad and so non-organomic compared to like the Logitech MX Master 3 or like the Razer Pro Click but I've been using this for the last few days and it's kind of grown on me like the gestures and stuff are pretty nice and once you get used to using it it doesn't actually feel all that uncomfortable so for me the jury is still out on whether I'm going to use a magic mouse or if I'm going to switch back to the Razer Pro Click which is more comfortable in the hand and feels more pleasant but there is something really nice about the magic mouse the gestures are good the scrolling is really smooth that sort of back and forth you know gestures are quite nice I don't know maybe I I might become a convict to the magic mouse who knows and they've got the magic trackpad as well usually I have the trackpad on one hand on the left the mouse on the right and I use the trackpad for things like scrolling and gestures and three fingers swipe up and all that stuff sadly I haven't arrived yet so when it does then that will be a staple part of my desk setup all right two more things to talk about and that is how spec'd out should you get it and then my own personal thoughts on what it's like to use an iMac as a first time desktop iMac user let's talk about the specs first so both models come with the M1 chip it's just that if you get the upgraded model you have 8 GPU graphics cores rather than 7 so be honest I'm not sure how much of a difference this should make but given that my M1 Mac mini has the 8 upgraded options and runs world of warcraft nicely and the base model with the 7 graphical cores doesn't run world of warcraft nicely I suspect the upgraded model will actually make a noticeable difference for graphics in terms of RAM it comes with 8 gigabytes by default there's always a bit of controversy around do you upgrade RAM from 8 gigabytes to 16 loads of people on the internet have been saying that because the because of the M1 chip architecture you actually don't really need to upgrade to 16 gigabytes unless you're going to be doing sustained things over a long period of time something like that I don't really understand the ins and outs it's only really a $200 upgrade and when you're spending $2,000 on a device I think the RAM upgrade is probably worth it so the one that I've ordered for myself I've gone for the 16 gigabytes of RAM and then in terms of the hard drive so this comes with a 256 gigabytes solid state drive by default 256 is not that much storage it's probably enough if you're a light computer user it's probably enough if you're a student and you don't do much video gaming you don't do much video editing or graphics or anything like that but for me as a video person as a video editor I basically need a 2 terabyte hard drive otherwise my quality of life is severely impacted and so for the version that I've ordered for myself I've gone for the 2 terabyte hard drive upgrade but if you're not dealing with video files that are absolutely huge then I'd say you're probably be okay with the 512 or the 1 terabyte and you can always expand the storage using those like Samsung T5 SSDs that will tug into the Thunderbolt cable and be perfect for storage if you need any more and finally let's talk about my overall thoughts and my conclusion about the M1 iMac now this is my very first time using an actual iMac in the past ever since since I switched to Apple in like 2012 so nine years ago I've always had a MacBook Air or a MacBook Pro and I've always connected it to an external display and I've always thought okay that's probably fine because when I was a medical student it made sense to have the same device that I'd sort of grab put in my bag take to lectures and then when I'd get home I'd just be able to plug it into a screen and hunky dory but it's your uncle but then a few months ago in November of 2020 when the M1 Mac mini came out I switched my entire desk setup to the M1 Mac mini so I had a MacBook Pro that would keep in my bag at all times as my kind of traveling device and then I had a desktop device that would be on my desk at home that I would use for when I'm at home and obviously this costs twice as much it costs more to have like a desktop and laptop but it was a big quality of life improvement for me personally firstly on the video front because often I'm uploading large amounts of video files to my editor back in the day when I only had one device a MacBook Pro I wouldn't be able to really go out of the house while I was uploading files because I would need the MacBook Pro to be plugged in via ethernet and uploading files to the editor so that's kind of like a niche use case but it's also very nice just being able to keep my laptop in my bag at all times so now with my bag I literally just keep the MacBook in it I keep the iPad in it and it's got everything ready to go for if I want to go to a co-working space or a coffee shop to do some work I know I can just grab the bag I know I never need to worry about have I packed my laptop have I packed my charger because it's always in the bag because I've had a desktop setup with the Mac mini so that's why having a desktop setup itself was really but now in terms of my thoughts on the iMac I'm very pleasantly surprised by how much I like it before I go the iMac I sort of thought that okay I'm the sort of person who needs a 49-inch monitor and he definitely need more than one screen and I couldn't really imagine how I'd get anything done by just using a single screen but I found that it actually is surprisingly good um it does encourage me to be more focused and more like productive on the single thing that I'm doing whereas on my old 49-inch monitor I was often prone to trying to multitask like I'd have slack open on one side of the screen I'd have Safari in the other side of the screen I have like a notes app in the other side notion in the other side I'd bring up Spotify every now and then to play some music I was being like a productivity grease monkey in the multitasking front but I found that with the iMac over the last few days of using it I haven't really felt the need to try and multitask and I found that I am more able to focus on one thing at a time with a small amount of real estate your mileage may well vary for this I know there are some people that can't work with that multiple screens and I'm sure I will get an extra screen at some point just for those edge cases where I'm streaming or doing a zoom presentation for my course the part I need you for Academy and I need lots of screen real estate but for the most part I'm really really happy with the iMac and I feel like moving forward I want my personal desk set up to always have an iMac kind of yeah for work and for play and for all that cool stuff there's also something really nice about the aesthetic of the iMac so because of the way the cable thing works is different just one cable plugged into the back of the computer and then one cable connecting it to the dock and the way I've set up my cable management on my desk I basically don't see any cables at all whereas in my old setup with a Mac mini I could always see cables it was had to have the webcam plugged in able like there would just be a mess of cables and I've got I've gotten so used to kind of messy cable galore for the last few years and it's such a breath of fresh air genuinely to have just a single screen with a wireless keyboard and a wireless mouse and not having to worry about all of the cables that are in the way and I haven't used this for long enough to know whether this is actually going to make a measurable difference on my productivity but it does genuinely make me feel more zen and peaceful and focused when I'm on my desk trying to do work and I guess it's one of those things that when you're living in like this mess you just don't appreciate just how nice it is to not have to worry about cables and so overall what I recommend the new iMac yes absolutely without hesitation unless you are for example a student and you're on a budget and you already have a Mac book there is no need for you to then get an extra iMac because it you're on a budget but if you can then I think it really will improve your quality of life a little bit it is genuinely really nice having a desktop thing separate to your laptop so you can just have the laptop as the on the go thing and the desktop thing as their thing that you do at home when you're trying to be focused so thank you so much for watching if you like this video you might like to check out this video over here which is my iMac desk setup completely revamped for 2021 thank you so much for watching and I'll see you in the next video bye bye
