# Ready Player One + 'My First Million' - Monthly Favourites #12
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Qu1QNcetiK0
🎬My Final Cut video editing class - https://skl.sh/aliabdaal5
👆🏻Sign up for the 2-month free Skillshare trial using this link. 

In this instalment of the Monthly Favourites series, we talk about (1) Ready Player One by Ernest Cline, (2) The My First Million podcast, (3) the blog of Nat Eliason, and (4) the board game One Night Ultimate Werewolf. Enjoy xx

💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking 

📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal

TIMESTAMPS
0:01:01 - Ready Player One (book)
0:04:21 - My First Million (podcast)
0:06:26 - Nat Eliason (blog)
0:10:50 - One Night Ultimate Werewolf (board game)

LINKS
1. Ready Player One - https://www.amazon.com/Ready-Player-One-Ernest-Cline/dp/0307887448/ref=sr_1_2?keywords=ready+player+one&qid=1569340889&s=gateway&sr=8-2 
2. My First Million podcast - https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/my-first-million/id1469759170
3. Nat Eliason's blog - https://www.nateliason.com/
4. One Night Ultimate Werewolf - https://beziergames.com/products/one-night-ultimate-werewolf

Who am I:

I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

My most popular videos:

- How I take notes on my iPad Pro in medical school - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=waR3x...
- How to study for exams - Evidence based revision tips - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ukLnP...
- How I ranked 1st at Cambridge University - The Essay Memorisation Framework - https://youtu.be/-46Vyiwat_Y
- My productivity desk setup - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rApxW...



If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭
**Keywords:** ali abdaal, monthly favourites, monthly favorites, ali abdaal favorites, ali abdaal favourites, my first million, one night ultimate werewolf, ready player one, nat eliason, ali abdaal books, monthly favourites 2019, 
**Date:** 2019-09-24

## Transcript
 Hey guys, welcome back to the channel and to another installment of the monthly favorite series. Today we're going to be talking about a book, a podcast, a blog post, and a board game that I've enjoyed this month. But before we launch into all of that, I just want to flag up that this video is being used as an example in a new online class that I've just made about how to edit videos, or rather my own process for editing videos. So if you care about how I edit videos and you want to learn, you workflow for video editing and final cut pro, I'll put a link below to my Skillshare online class. You can watch it for free if you have a Skillshare premium subscription or if you don't, you can sign up for a free two month trial using the link below and then you can just watch the class. So yeah, in this online class, I'm going to teach you my whole editing workflow from start to finish, how I import the footage, how I do the first a-roll cut, how I do jump cuts to hopefully try and keep things relatively smooth. You'll learn how I bring in stuff from up and down and things just to add a little bit of masala to the video and you'll learn how I do timestamps like all this stuff and how I do iPad, handwritten animations. So if you're into the whole video editing thing, then you should definitely check out my new online class in Skillshare and how to edit videos for beginners. But yeah, that's enough with me plugging that class. Let's get on with the video. Okay, so firstly, I want to talk about a book that I read this month and that is ready, play a one and it's a book by Ernest Klein and you might as seen the movie. I first watched the movie and I absolutely love the movie, but then I thought I'd read the book because I'd heard the book was really good and I absolutely love the book. It took me about two nights to finish this and I stayed up until like 4 a.m. both nights to watch it. And I think I mentioned in last month's favorites video as well that I've got this rating system for books. They can be either good or really good or really, really, really good or really, really good. And they're really, really, really, really good if they keep me up until 4 o'clock in the morning and this definitely kept me up until 4 o'clock in the morning across two nights and it's just absolutely incredible. Let me talk about what the book is actually about. Essentially, it's like post-apocalyptic, not really post-apocalyptic, but it's like setting the future in this future like the Earth is a bit screwed. Pollution is everywhere. People are living in slums in the cities, but there is this guy called James Halliday who has invented this amazing virtual reality like realistic gaming experience. And the whole population pretty much spends their entire life in this game because it's far better than in real life. And the really cool thing that the whole premise of the book is based on is the fact that when James Halliday dies, the guy who invented this virtual reality world, called the Oasis, when he dies, he releases a message out to the world and he says that within the game, within the Oasis, he has hidden a special Easter egg and an Easter egg is kind of like a bonus thing that you see in some video games. And he sets up this challenge for everyone in the world that if you can be the first person to find his Easter egg within the Oasis, then you will inherit his whole fortune and his whole like multi hundreds of billion dollar company and you will control the Oasis. So, every one of the world pretty much then goes on a mission to find this Easter egg and it starts like he starts off with this clue and it becomes a case of trying to interpret the clues and trying to figure out where they lead so you eventually find this Easter egg. And so we follow the story of this guy called Wade on his quest to find this Easter egg and along the journey, he needs a lot of other people who also want to find the Easter egg, there's a cheeky bit of romance in there and there's this big bad guy who's like this big evil corporation that employs thousands of people because they want to get the hands on the Easter egg first because then they can control this amazing commercial property that is the Oasis and they can like literally with advertising and all that stuff. And it's like a really nice sort of coming of a story, a little bit of romance always good, adventure, action, mystery, suspense, following the story of these guys who kind of meet each other online through this video game and how they work to try and defeat this corporation and it's just absolutely sick. So yeah, ready play one, you should absolutely read the book and you can watch the movie as well. Then they're actually surprisingly different. Like I'd probably read the book first and then watch the movie afterwards, but yeah, ready play one, incredible book, I'll put a link in the description below. Check it out. Oh, I forgot to mention, every month I do this thing where when I whenever view a book like the the third door last month, I say that if you leave a comment down below with your Instagram username, I'll randomly pick a comment and mail you a copy of this book. So the winner for last month's giveaway of the third door is, let me just pick a random comment on YouTube. Okay, the winner is Broken Choke, whose Instagram is Sophia Broken Choke. So Sophia, I'm going to be messaging you on Instagram and you will win a copy or you'll mail you out a copy of this with a little message inside from me. So yeah, reply to my Instagram DM, please. Thank you. And yeah, we're going to do the same thing this this month. So if you want to copy of this, I have a physical copy, obviously I've already on Kindle because, you know, I read everything on Kindle, but I bought a physical copy just so I could give it away. If you want this, just leave a comment down below with anything you like, plus your Instagram username and then I'll pick someone next month and we'll mail you a copy of this particular book. Alright, secondly, I want to talk about a podcast that I started listening to recently and really enjoyed and that is called My First Million and it's a podcast that's run by the guys behind the hustle which is really good like tech news daily email newsletter that I've been subscribed to for the last few months and the idea is get the gritty details on how Silicon Valley's most prolific founders made their first million. So that's kind of like the premise behind it how did they like, most of the guys this guy interviews are like multi millionaires, multi tens of millions of areas, multi hundreds of millions of areas. That sounds really weird. But it's more like the story of how they made their first million. So how they got started and what they would do if they were starting today without any of their connections on network money and how they would make go about making their first million. There was an episode with the guy who started the hustle email newsletter and how it grew into a multi million dollar business. There was a very interesting one from some guy who made a website called Hot or Not like in the early 2000s back away before it was like the internet was a thing and how they struggled to pay for like hosting space because at the time web hosting was like super expensive and how they snuck into their university and like piggybacked off the university computer system to host the website for a bit. And yeah it's just all very interesting stuff and this guy Sean Puri I think his name is he's like a really good interview and he really explores the stories behind people making their first million. And one thing I really like about this is that they don't shy away from talking about talking in real terms. So for example he would say okay right and now your company is worth 750 million. How much were you making when you were 24 and your first year of darling this and the guy was like oh I think I was making about 30,000 of year and then he's like okay and how long did it take you to make your first million and then they're like oh actually probably about four or five years and they they're kind of open to breaking down the kind of financial aspect of that. Now I think that's really good because a lot of the time when you hear interviews and things like the Tim Ferriss show where he's interviewing like super super mega successful people you often don't get to hear the numbers behind their success. That's another reason why I really like the indie hackers podcast because that breaks down revenue numbers and shares figures and things. So yeah if you're interested in the whole entrepreneurship thing if you're interested in sort of how to become millionaire and stuff first million my first million really good podcast listen to. All right thirdly I want to talk about a blog that I discovered and that's by this guy called a Nat Eliason and you can find it at nateliason.com he says hi I'm the founder of growth machine co-host of the major think podcast oh I need to listen to that and co-founder of cup and leaf tea this site host all my writing on psychology self education entrepreneurship marketing philosophy health finance improving yourself in general. So basically he's covering all the topics that I I'm interested in all the topics that I pretty much cover on my videos in my website. Really interesting as well he also publishes and of summaries from all the books and stuff that he's ever read. So there's like a really really really huge long-ass list of books and podcasts and videos that he's taken his own personal notes from and just published for free to the world. So that's another thing that I want to do with my website that I found quite inspirational. And there were a few posts of Nat that I really enjoyed and that really touched a nerve with me. So he is done the whole thing whereby he has these multiple businesses that are bringing in passive income and he's he also started off by reading the four hour work week by Tim Ferris and it's a very interesting blog post where he talks about how he first got turned on to this idea like oh my god you can make money like while you sleep and then you can like go and live on the beach and stuff and that was the bug that really caught me about like six, seven years ago when I first read the four hour work week and now for the last six, seven years I've been trying to build up these various sources of passive income in my own life so that I don't have to rely on my full-time job as a doctor to make money. If I wanted to I could quit medicine I won't but if I wanted to I could and that just gives me more freedom to travel the world and like do stuff. But the really interesting thing about his blog is that he he has done this like he has got enough passive income to be able to just travel the world and do whatever he wants. But he talks about the existential dread that comes out of that and Tim Ferris eludes to this in the four hour work week as well and that's like once you've got this lifestyle whereby you don't have to work anymore then what do you do like he this guy went to Argentina for a few months and you know his whole thing is that he he he like traveled a lot and then he realized that actually you know this whole sort of fetishizing the whole traveling thing wasn't the route to happiness and now he's kind of reject his life priorities and actually figured out what actually makes him happy now that he's broken free of this rap race of passive income and that's like a funny thing to say because the people who are into this whole passive income on entrepreneurship make money on the internet type thing are the people that think well we all think we sort of transcended the regular nine to five job and be like you know I don't want to be tied into corporate wage slavery therefore I'm going to build a business on the side and therefore I'm going to be able to do whatever I want now that my finances are taking care of but what this guy says is actually you know you think that's the case but when you get there you realize it actually it's not all that is cracked up to be and actually a lot of the happiness you get from your own life and it will come from you know your relationship and your close friends and family and stuff and most of that is actually based in the city where you currently live rather than this amazing you know era of traveling the world and living on a beach and doing whatever you want so I found that really interesting because I'm still very much in this in this sort of domain of life in this sphere of life where I'm trying to build up the sources of passive income so that I can kind of break free from my job even though I don't want to break free from my job so if it really made me question like what is the point what's the point of setting up these new businesses and and trying to make more and more money just to just break free I think overall it's still a valuable thing to do and obviously I think my life would be a lot better if I had the freedom to do whatever I wanted and with that freedom I could choose to still be adopted whereas a lot of people that I've spoken to within medicine who are kind of the kind of stuck there because you know I asked them if you want the lottery would you still do medicine and there was a senior doctor that I spoke to the other day who was like oh god no I want there's nowhere to be doing medicine if I want the lottery I would open up my own pet sanctuary so for people like that they're exclusively doing medicine because it pays the bills and I never want to be in the position where I am being a doctor because I have to because it pays the bills and so I still think it's very valuable to build up these sources of passive income to build this entrepreneurship lifestyle but I love this guy's blog because it just made me double think think again about why I was doing all of this and really figure out what the priorities are in this whole thing so that's a little abstract stuff that I've just gone on about but yeah I link how some of his blog posts down below and some of my favorite ones and I've actually started making notes and there's so at some point I'm going to do what he does and what my make Derek Sivers does and publish them all online on my website so that's like a thing that I'm working on at the moment but yeah if any of this sounds very interesting if you're interested in psychology entrepreneurship self-improvement stuff like that you should check out this guy next blog yeah and finally I want to talk about a board game and that is one night ultimate whale that I discovered earlier this month and I had some friends over and none of us had ever played this before but I'd heard really good things about it on the board games subreddit and people were like this is like the best thing ever and just this is like boardgame geek.com forum for board games as well and everyone was raving about this and yeah it's really really good so if you're familiar with whale or mafia you'll be vaguely familiar with the concept of this the idea is and I think I was talked about the board game avalan at one point as well in one of these favorites videos it's it's sort of similar I don't know if you will have watched one of those old videos I don't know how many people watch these videos really but anyway um the idea is that there are some people who are bad guys and the bad guys know who each other are because everyone has the rise close and the bad guys open the rise uh but then no one really knows anything else and there are some special characters that have more information and one night ultimate whale is interesting because it's it's like a board game but you have an app like on your phone in the middle and the app does the narration so the app will say you know you hit the play button you tell it how many people you've got and the app will say things like now everyone close your eyes where wolves open your eyes look at each other where wolves close your eyes seeer you may open your eyes look at one of the cards in the middle seeer close your eyes robber open your eyes swap your card with any other card that you want close your eyes you know so all all of these different players in the game and it can I think it's from three to ten players three to ten players all of all of the players have different roles and during the night phase where everyone else has the rise closed different people wake up and do certain actions so then when the night is over and it's daytime then it becomes a case of trying to figure out who the whales are and killing them because at the end of that round the village as a whole has to decide to kill one person and so it becomes a case of people sort of revealing little bit of information and the whale wolves trying to pin the blame on someone else for being whale wolf and you have to weave this complex web of truth and lies to figure out who's who and everyone is sort of working together to try and kill the whales but the whales are working amongst themselves to try and save themselves and try and kill someone else and it's a very interesting game filled with deception and lies and stuff and we had we played about five or six rounds with this and by the third or fourth round we were really getting the hang of it and starting to formulate strategies and stuff so now when we get this group of people together again we're just going to bash through this game one night ultimate whale wolf it only takes about 10-15 minutes per round so it's a very kind of low commitment game it's not like something like through the age just that I've got in the corner over there that takes eight hours to finish a game this is a very nice kind of party game if you have people that are willing to engage engage with it so yeah we really recommend one night ultimate whale and that brings us to the end of another monthly favorites video thank you very much for watching as I said right at the start this video is being used as an exemplar so if you liked the editing on this and you are interested in learning how to edit videos you should check out my class and skill share there there'll be a link in the description below yeah thank you very much for watching if you like this video I'll link my playlist of monthly favorites videos somewhere over here and that'll show you some other of these videos where I share some recommendations and you can also check out my website in my weekly email news letter where I share more things that I like things that I would recommend so if you kind of like this then you might like this so thank you for watching and see you in the next video bye bye
