# My BIGGEST Rejections in Life
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qwywV8VhMkA
Hey friends, in this video I'll be going over a few important life lessons I've learned after rejections and failures, some of which have been pivotal in my life. Hope you enjoy :)

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
😃  How to be Happier - Stoicism Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/stoicism

MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
📚  How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali
What I Use For Analytics - https://go.aliabdaal.com/tubebuddy
🌐  My website platform (Ghost) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost
🎤  My podcast hosting platform (Transistor) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/transistor

OTHER RECOMMENDED COURSES
📔 Effortless Output with Roam Research - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/roam
📓 Building a Second Brain - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/basb

🎙 My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮  Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, failures, rejections, life leasons, things i've learned, things ive learned, life lessons after failure, overcoming failure, overcoming rejection, motivation, failure motivation, motivational video, ali abdaal vlog, powerful motivational video, failure motivational video, inspirational video, success, learning from failure, learning from rejection, failure stories, motivational stories, business motivation, how to get over failure, overcoming fear, 
**Date:** 2020-10-04

## Transcript
 So people often come up to me and they say, Ali, you're just so great, you're a minus celebrity, you did all right at school in university, and you're incredibly handsome and charismatic as well. But what people don't know is that on the other side of the coin, there's actually a long list of things that I failed at, and so this is a video about some of my failures in life, and the seven lessons that I've learned from them. Let's start off juicy with my first official romantic failure. So this happened when I first came to the UK when I was eight years old in 2003 in year four, all the fourth grade, and those as a girl in my class, and name was Lily, hopefully she's not watching this. And as soon as I saw her, I basically like fell in love because I thought she was like incredibly attractive. And so as one does, I tried to sort of be a friend, but I also sort of tried to play it cool and act as if I actually didn't like her at all. And my way of getting close to her was to read all of the books that she was reading. So I remember vividly that she was reading Northern Lights by Philip Perman at one point, and so I got it out of the library, and it was a very good book, so I ended up actually finishing it way before she did as a bit of a flex. And there was one glorious period of a few weeks where the two of us happened to be sitting next to it, each other on the same table in year five, and this was just before she'd like moved out of town. I enjoyed going into school, and I looked forward to being in school because I get to sit next to her and have a chat. But, and this is what I still regret to this day, I never told her how I felt, and I feel like maybe if I had done, I would have had my first kiss at the age of nine, rather than at the age of 19. To be honest, I feel like she was way out of my league, she probably didn't like me back, but less than one from my misadventures in childhood is that you miss 100% of the shots that you don't take, and if you like someone then you just go to tell them, and you know, you've got to shoot your shot because it's better to be rejected there and then than to live in regret as I've done it for the last 17 years of my life. So having read on this pretty girl was out of my league, when I went to secondary school, I decided I was going to really up my sexual market value by becoming really interested in making websites and coding. And so, since about the age of 12, I had three strands of completely failed business ideas. The first was the online game saga, and this was when I told myself that I would build my own online game, and so I learned how to make websites and how to do server side coding in PHP for the purposes of making this online game. Obviously, that was a complete failure, but I think the funny thing is how many times I got rejected when I asked different people for commission about different things. So, on the 19th of February 2007, I sent an email to Robert Muchonwar who's the author of a cherub series of books which I really used to like back in the day. The series is all about these kids who ended up being spies and they have like basic training and they learn martial arts and all this cool stuff. But I am your little him saying, hi Rob, I'm a big fan of your cherub series and I have an interest in game programming. I was wondering if I could have your permission to make an online version of cherub, but blah, blah, blah. You know, this was an email that I sent in February 2007 at the age of 12, and he replied the same day. So he said, hi Ali, it's great to hear that you're a big fan of my books. I think the idea is really cool. The problem is that I don't own the rights to the game. So, sorry about that. But, you know, that was cool. He replied to me. So that was, you know, one small rejection, but ultimately I was happy about it because he replied to me. Then a few months later in August 2007, I decided to go on this thing with building my own game and I wanted to sort of make it look like World of Warcraft and so I emailed Blizzard Entertainment saying, hello, I am currently making an online, not commercial browser-based game. Please, can you answer the following questions about how I can use your content you are on my site 12345? I shall display any copyright information and all links that you want me to. PS, I am only 13 years old, so you can rest assured that I won't make any profit out of this smiley face emoji. This was on the 27th of August 2007 when I was 13, and they didn't even reply to me, so that was another rejection. And then, few months later, November 2007, again, age 13, I emailed Nintendo to ask for permission to make an online text-based version of Pokemon again. I am writing to ask your permission to make an online Pokemon MMORPG. I'm 13, and I want to start off programming games like that. This is my first one, smiley face emoji. This is just so cringe. And they replied saying, dear customer, thank you for your email. I am sorry, but Nintendo will not allow anyone to use the intellectual property rights that they own. This means you cannot use any Pokemon character or the Pokemon name in your game. If the game closely resembles any existing Pokemon, this may also be an infringement, please be very careful. So, you know, I shot my shot, I got rejected, but that was absolutely fine. And so, less than two that I learned from my various rejections from these, like companies, age 12 and 13, is that you kind of have to try some stuff. You've got to shoot your shot, but you've got to be okay with getting rejected, and you've got to accept to win a business idea, like making a Pokemon game. It's just going to fail completely, and then you just abandon ship and move on. So, it's sort of like knowing when to quit with stuff, and that's less than that I've really taken on for the rest of my life as well. So, this online game was the first of the three businesses that I tried to run, that ultimately failed. The second one was that I tried to make my own web design studio, and I did that from about the age of 12 to about the age of 17. Here are some of the websites that I've worked on. So, initially, the company was called UIA web solutions. This was around 2006 when I was 12 years old, and this is what it looked like. UIA, by the way, stands for United Intelligence Agency. This was me and my friends from school thinking that we were going to create our own kids intelligence agency, where we would have like a forum and a website to teach people how to do martial arts and lock picking and hacking and all this kind of stuff, and I thought I'd make a web design studio arm out of this when I was 12. Professional websites now only have price. Want to get aside for your company? Want to get a personal homepage? Want to professionalize your website? UIA web solutions is just for you, and I had my home phone number on it. I don't think anyone replied to this ad, maybe one person did. But hey, you know, it was how I got started. Then about a year later I decided the reason I wasn't getting any business was because the name UIA web solutions wasn't cool sounding enough, and so I changed the name to cybercraft, and this is a screenshot from Photoshop from 2007 about what this looked like. Cybercraft entered the future. That did really help with getting business, and I kind of liked the futuristic vibe of cybercraft, and so sci-fire with a P was what I made age 14 in May 2008, and this was a thing that I designed in Photoshop because back in the day the sort of translucent thing was pretty cool, and I think I copied Microsoft slogan back in the day. Your potential are passion, obviously. This was my web design studio. Clearly that didn't work again because of the branding, and so five months later in October 2008, I decided to make it in Noxus studios or something like that, and that was the name that I used to use when kind of selling my freelance web design services online. And at the time I was super addicted to the idea of alien web PCs. Like I really used to last half of them and think one day when I become rich, I'll be able to buy myself an alien web PC. And so those four was the one-man web design studio that I used to run, or I pretended like I was a bigger company than I actually was, and on loads of different freelance websites, there was one called Get A Coder that I used a lot. I applied to, I think, at least a hundred, maybe even 200 different projects. Essentially the ideas that people would post projects and I would apply to do their job. And I think I got rejected from like 95% of them, and I think overall I only did about five or ten projects over the course of the five years. And here are some screenshots of the web designs that I worked on. So in 2008, I was this site called ReverseBid, which was sort of a spot-of-the-ball competition, and I kind of did some designs with that. And then in 2010, those are the website called Diamond Emporium that I found some screenshots of that I wanted to, I think I found a template online and just kind of modified it a little bit. And then the third failed business idea that I had was this pyramid scheme that I tried to set up between age 14 and 16. It started off with the website called Console Gateway. And here is what the word document said about Console Gateway. The first thing that I'll spring to your mind when you see this site is that it is a scam. You're probably smart enough to be cautious and be wary of sites like this that offer free stuff. After all, nothing in this life is free. Is it? Console Gateway is different. We don't scam you out of your time and money. This is an honest service provided by a few individuals who feel that games consoles are overpriced, and are dedicated to providing free consoles with no strings attached. So this was the idea it was basically a pyramid scheme based on affiliate marketing. That didn't quite work, and you know, in May 2008, having just turned 14, I was like, okay, you know, this console thing is cool, but then I sort of lost interest in the consoles. And so obviously, you know, a year later, we had to do a rebrand, and then became called iZool. Here we go. Here's a screenshot from that. Welcome to iZool, the online store in which money plays no part. We provide customers with a unique and innovative shopping experience, blah, blah, blah. Actually, I think the design is actually quite reasonable. This was quite, this was sort of very web 2.0. And this is the sort of thing that a lot of websites look like, way back in like 2008. And see, you could sign up for free, complete and offer own credits, get your free item, and all these icons online. You know, it's very artful having the icon being cut off by the borders of the square. And this website ended up making me 50 pounds, which is about $70 if you're in America. And I remember I was on a school trip when my mum rang me up and she said, hey, you've just got to check in the mail for 50 pounds. And actually turned out it was just my friend, Godwin, who had like five family members in the house and got four of their credit cards and signed up to a free trial of La Film, which is sort of like Netflix before Netflix was the thing. And I got paid full pound 50 for each one of those. So this was like the first scammy affiliate income that I made online and the last because I don't do scammy affiliate income anymore. And so lesson number three that I took from this whole experience is that you kind of have to do the stuff that you enjoy. I never really considered any of this stuff to be work. And I remember when I used to get home from school, I used to be so excited to bid on more projects online and get a coder or do some more edits to my new web design studio website. This is the sort of stuff that was fun for me. And I think, you know, I get a lot of emails from people these days being like, hey, I want to learn to code, but I feel like I don't have the time. And I think if you're trying to learn something, but you're feeling like you have to force yourself to do it or you have to sort of carve out the time to do it, then you're kind of fighting an uphill battle. And I think if you can find a way to monetize the stuff that you find yourself doing effortlessly, the stuff that you would do anyway, just because it's fun, then things become a lot more interesting and a lot easier. And so if people ask me how are you so productive and stuff, it's because most of the stuff that I do, that it's productive is also inherently enjoyable. I'm not having to force myself to do any of this, although I was procrastinating for the whole day for filming this video, but apart from that, most of the stuff I do is quite fun. And so I think that's kind of what lesson number three is about, that you want to focus on doing the stuff that you enjoy because you know, life is just more fun that way. Let's talk about some other failures. So when I was 16, I had just finished my GCSEs or old levels and I done reasonably well in them. And I remember on results day, my mum and I, we had a meeting with the headmaster of our school and we were having a chat and he was saying, hey, so what do you want to do at university? And I said, hey, I'm thinking of applying to medical school. How do we had like a bit of a polite chat about this? And at the end of it, he said to me, he was like, okay, I'm going to tell you something that no one else really is going to feel comfortable telling you, but I feel you need to hear it. And what he told me is that basically I came across his way to robotic that I wasn't smiling, I wasn't showing any enthusiasm for this medicine thing. And he said that I had a very sort of still-tied robotic manner about myself. And he said that, you know, if you want to apply to medical school, you're going to be completely fine on the grades front, but you really need to change up your kind of vibe and your style because you don't come across as a sort of likable charismatic person who would get into medical school. And he didn't say that in a kind of mean way at all. It was just like very matri-fac that, okay, this is how it is. I'm doing you a favor by telling you this. I'm really glad he said that because I read and I really took this to heart because I was very very robotic back in the day. And from that point onwards, I decided to sort of put an active effort in improving like my charisma and my social skills and all this sort of stuff. And so that was partly why I started doing close-up magic because I thought it would be a good chance to put myself in uncomfortable situations and practice this like charisma stuff. And from that point, I also started reading books about like how to improve your social skills and how to become more charismatic. And all these things, and I remember setting this challenge for myself when I was 16, okay, from now on, every time I go to a talk or a lecture, I'm going to put my hand up and ask a question. And that was like a baby step for me at the time. And I remember at the start, it was like really, really, really scary to do that. And I'd be sort of sweating the whole talk thinking, I need to put my hand up and ask a question because that's a challenge of set for myself. But after a few months, this became very natural. To the point where when I got to university, I had literally zero qualms about putting my hand up and asking a question or volunteering an answer. When most of the people in my year group wouldn't have had that level of confidence, slash that level of not caring what people think. And I remember last year, I went to a YouTuber conference in Delphast in Ireland, the power of video conference. And there were all these like famous YouTubers, people like Peter McKinnon and Chris Howe and Cody Warner and El Mills was another one. And these guys were all doing talks. And at the end, there was Q&A time. And I was asking questions and everyone, to the point where, you know, people would, I'd be talking to people at the conference and they would, they would hear my voice and say, oh, you're the guy who keeps on asking the questions. And I remember when I asked Peter McKinnon, he was, you know, is one of my favorite YouTubers. I asked him a question about how he worked with the editor or something like that. And the guy sitting next to me, he was like some 40 something dude who was like a professional videographer. He said to me, that's a really good question. I really wanted to ask him, but I was too scared to put my hand up. And I think that still such a common thing, like even when we become adults, we still have this fear of putting ourselves out there and like putting our hand up in a conference and asking a question. And I'm really glad for the fact that my headmaster, when I was 16, told me I need to become less of a robot. And so I actively put in the work to change that about myself. And so lesson number four that I've realized over the years is this whole thing of be yourself is kind of all BS because who we are, like ourselves, is purely an accident based on our genetics and on the environment that we've grown up with. Most of us don't actively choose what we want our personality or our vibe to be. And certainly for me before I was told this, my vibe and who I was was very low energy, very, you know, generally non-confident. And I actively put in the effort to changing myself. And so lesson number four is sort of, you know, don't just be yourself, choose yourself. And then, you know, if you want to be the way you're, then that's fine. But if you don't want to, you don't have to, and you can absolutely change it. Then we come to age 18 when I had pretty much the biggest failure of my life. Here is the scene. Like I am in Paddington Station in London. And I've just handed over 900 pounds in cash, which was my entire life savings to some guy whose name was Matthew White, if anyone knows him, allegedly from Tomton in Somerset. And the reason I gave Matthew this 900 pounds is because he was selling me a brand new MacBook Air. I decided this was going to be my first Apple product purchase. You know, for a university, I was about to start my first year of medical school at Cambridge. And I was like, you know what, I want to get a MacBook Air. And this guy was selling a sort of spectacular proportion of the MacBook Air, which would have normally cost 1,800 pounds. He was selling it for 900. And so the two years of life savings that I'd scrounge together from doing private tutoring and working like a part-time job, I withdrew it all in cash and handed over the cash. And I got this laptop and I was super happy about it. And I was super happy about it for about half an hour. And then on the train, ride back home, I kind of had to took a bit of a closer look at it. And I found it said, like somewhere other thing, it said copyright 2008. And I realized, you know, this was in 2012. I realized that he'd actually sold me the four-year-old version of the MacBook Air, which was completely obsolete because it had made kind of leaps and bounds in that four years. And I just hadn't realized it because I just kind of believed him. And he seemed legit. And he had a notebook with the Twitter logo on it. And he said he worked at Twitter. I was like, and he got this for free from work. I was like, oh, that seems reasonable. And he seemed like such a reasonable guy. And there were a few things that didn't add up. Like the fact that the, you know, the keyboard was slightly different, or the design was slightly different. But he said, I was a European model. I was like, oh, well, you know, that seemed reasonable. And there were a few round flags, but just not enough for me to flip that script in my head where I, you know, where I just automatically trusted him. And so when I got home, I was like, you know, bro, what is this? This is not the thing that you sold to me, you know, where my husband and her parents can have my money back. And for around a month, he was kind of stringing me along an email being like, oh, I'm so sorry. I didn't realize this. I'll, I'll, I'll, I'm going to the Western Union right now to transfer you the money. Oh, sorry they were closed. And this ended up going on for about a month. And I think he must have been really enjoying himself, like, sort of pulling the strings of this like 18-year-old kid who wanted to buy his first MacBook. And eventually, I like was, you know, he'd been geo-tagging his tweets. So I found ways of finding his address online. I was going to drive down to some a set where he lived and, you know, serve him some papers to send him to small claims court to try and get the money back. And my mum very kindly sort of realized that I was wasting too much of my life on this guy. And so she said, you know what, forget about this guy. You're about to start university. Here is the 900 pounds and she just bought me a new MacBook from the Apple store, which I'll be forever grateful to her for that amongst everything else. But I suppose lesson five for me was that if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is too good to be true. And over the last few years I've had lots of emails from people who have, I don't know, taken these online courses on how to get rich quickly and this kind of stuff. And everyone is looking for a get-rich quick scheme. And I was certainly looking for those back in the day when I was younger. But I think what I realized after this event is that everyone is an economist. No one is going to be selling you something, you know, at a loss, you know, everyone is looking out for their own personal gain. You can't just blindly trust people. I think it's generally fine to trust people by default. But yeah, I'm now a little bit more careful about sort of picking up a red flag amongst people who are able to dealings with. And so having lost all this money, my entire life savings at the 8 o'clock team just before starting university, I decided I needed to figure out a way to make this money back. And so here's a screenshot from my evident from September 2012. I've gotten money making schemes. A couple of questions first. What am I good at? I said I was good at academics teaching web design. I thought graphic design. I had good A levels. Good GCSEs. It'd be high beam at score. And I said can I use any of that stuff to make money, tutoring courses, uh, teaching people one to one. And I also suggested I might be able to build computers for much cheaper than equivalent specs. I said I might potentially make a website on how to get into medicine, a website and be map preparation, a website on interview preparation. And this kind of brainstorm that I did on ever note to try and recoup back this 900 pounds that I'd lost on this thing. This ended up morphing into the company six men that I found it a year later in 2013. And since then, the company has been doing basically six figures in revenue every year. We've helped thousands of students get into medical school. We've offered bursaries to hundreds of students who wouldn't have been able to afford courses otherwise. And so there's really two lessons from this. The first one, which is lesson number six, is you really want to use your unfair advantages. The two unfair advantages I had when setting up six men and kind of making these websites and around helping people get into medical school. Firstly, was that I was a medical student at Cambridge University and I could therefore trade off of the brand name value of that. That was a big unfair advantage. But secondly, I had the unfair advantage that for the last six years of my life. I had been spending hours and hours each day doing web design, graphic design, and learning how to code. And so when it came to making a website that looked pretty, I had the unfair advantage that I could make a website that looked pretty. And at the time, in 2012, 2013, every other competitor in the space of helping people get into med school, they all had really, really crap-looking websites because at the time it wasn't as easy to make a pretty looking website as it is now. And so this is now the advice that I give to people when they come on to me and they know, ask about will this business idea succeed? What can I do to make money online? All of this stuff? As I say that, well, you kind of want to use your unfair advantages. What do you have that would be very difficult if not impossible for other people to replicate? And you want to figure out some way of using those because what you don't want to do is you don't want to be, I don't know, a random medical student who knows how to code, who then, I don't know, creates a website builder. What's something right? Because there's no unfair advantage that you've got if you're trying to build a website builder, compared to anyone else. Whereas if you're trying to do something specifically in the medical field, then the fact that you're a medic who knows how to code will actually be its own unfair advantage. And so overall, this 900 pounds that I lost, which was absolutely devastating and, you know, my life saving for the time, that turned into something very different. And so initially it turned into six men, which was my company. And then, because I wanted to do content marketing for six men, I created my YouTube channel in 2017, initially making videos about the B-MAT and about interview preparation, which were things that I brainstormed five years back in 2012 as, huh, this is the sort of stuff that I think I'm good at, maybe I could build a website builder on this. And I remember thinking of the time, after I lost all this money, that, like, this is the worst thing that's ever happened to me. You know, thankfully, I live quite a privileged and sheltered life. And so that losing my life savings was genuinely the worst thing that ever happened to me. I remember thinking that, okay, what I want to do now is I want to find a way of turning this into a positive. And I want to be able to look back on this time and think, you know what, I'm really glad this happened to me because I was able to turn it into something much bigger. And so that loss of money initially started at six men, which kind of led to me starting this YouTube channel. And here I'm now having taken a break from doing full-time medicine because essentially this YouTube channel is making so much money that I can afford to travel the world and kind of do what I want. And, you know, not in a kind of bragging way, but more in a way of that the final lesson that I want to share in this video is that when you do have failures and we are going to have failures from time to time, we want to do our best to find ways of turning them into a positive. Sometimes a failure would just randomly become a positive thing that you can look back on in a few years time and think I'm really glad that happened. But, you know, in my case, it wasn't random. I actively set out to turn this failure into an opportunity. And that's something that Ryan Holley talks about in the book The Obstacle is the way the ancient art of turning adversity to advantage. I have a book club episode about that linked in a card up here somewhere if you want to check it out and learn more about stoicism and how you can use it to be happier, healthier and more productive. And so those were seven lessons from my teenage years. I've still got quite a lot of other failures. We haven't really talked about anything that happened at university and we haven't really gone in much into the romantic stuff. So, if you guys found this video helpful and you're interested in hearing more about my CV failures and some of the lessons I've learned from it, do leave a comment down below. And if you have any questions about failures and stuff, then we'll do that. And if if you want, we'll do another part where I talk about all my various personal relationship and business failures and academic failures at university when I suddenly realise that I'm no longer top of the school. But otherwise hopefully you found this video helpful. Thank you so much for watching. If you like this video, you should check out my video over here, which is where I answer assumptions about me that people sent in by Instagram. Thank you so much for watching. I hope you found it helpful and I'll see you in the next video. Bye-bye.
