# Study with Me + Revision tips from friends - Cambridge University medical student VLOG #32
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ra1ykDUnwpM
Continuing my new career as a revision YouTuber, here's another 'Study with Me' video. We do a lot of group work, attend a revision session, have a chill day and hear from various Cambridge medical students offering their tips for effective study / revision. Enjoy xx

- Follow ± DM me on Instagram: https://instagram.com/AliAbdaal
- My weekly email newsletter: https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
- Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
- My website / blog - www.aliabdaal.com

REVISION TIPS VIDEOS:

1. Watch this first - How to study for exams, evidence-based revision tips - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ukLnPbIffxE

2. Watch this second - How to study for exams #2 - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z-zNHHpXoMM

3. Last 'study with me' video featuring the magical active recall spreadsheet - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yiRYn97GJhM

4. Exam Revision Q&A - Motivation, stress and time management - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tkHw25cS_bk 

5. Exam Revision Q&A - Last minute study tips, flashcards, how to use active recall - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=q58SMId-_Ko

🎬 My online course on video editing - https://skl.sh/32TpEvm
🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal

Who am I:

I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

- Follow ± DM me on Instagram: https://instagram.com/AliAbdaal
- My weekly email newsletter: https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
- Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
- My website / blog - www.aliabdaal.com
**Keywords:** study with me, how to study, study tips, motivation to study, a levels, how to revise, cambridge university, exam revision, how to do well in exams, revise with me, gcse revision tips, study motivation, how to study effectively, how to study for exams, how to study smart, study with me a level, study with me university, study with me easter, study tips 2018, 
**Date:** 2018-04-24

## Transcript
 Hey guys, welcome back to the vlog and to get another study with me video. I think the day you're about to see nicely illustrates why exam time is one of my favorite parts of university life. We've got great weather, short bursts of fairly efficient group study sessions and the rest of the day just kind of hanging out with our friends. As usual, I'll be explaining what we're doing in terms of study techniques. But at various points in the day today, I've pointed the camera at my friends who are all obviously experts in study and revision. So you'll be hearing their thoughts on a various study slash revision related tips. Anyway, I wake up at about 8.30 in the morning and lay in bed for the next 45 minutes watching YouTube videos as usual. I then blend some fuel with some milk for breakfast and they usually add a spoon full of instant coffee to turn it into a caffeine plus meal replacement thing that tastes sort of like a Starbucks Frappuccino. I then have a shower and get changed in preparation for a psychiatry revision lecture that Jake and I are attending that morning. So we head over to Emmanuel College and we then switch to vlog mode. Oh, it's sort of beautiful day, it's sunny, it's warm, it's April. We've got exams in about five days time, strolling through Emmanuel College, it's very pretty. Have you got any advice for students who are taking care of that? Goodness, mate. Don't be intimidated by how much work people are answering your claimings to do, because it's probably all in me. But how do you motivate yourself to work Jake? Have you have your eye on the prize? Which is six years with this wonderful gentle learning my kids? Oh, that's for every 8 level, not right? Jake, good six eight levels. Jake, which level did you do? Double math, the triple science and French. And what grades are you getting? They haven't got all day in work. Welcome to Christ College, it's very nice, it's very pretty. We're on our way to one of the lecture theatres. Jake, how do you motivate yourself to go to the gym? We're looking at the mirror and tell myself, I hate myself. What about you? Right, lecture finish. I'd like you really useful, like a solid hour of going through various psychiatry presenting complaints. How did you smash your exams? What was the secret to your success? That's the kind of up front. But if you don't, you know, study then. Hey, I'm Charlotte. I'm a sick theoretic at Emmanuel College. We're going to be some revision. We're going to do some active recall and some cynical communication skills. Because you can vote all the stuff in the world. But if you don't explain it well and thoroughly to patients, they won't know what's going on and that's not offering good care. So yeah, Charlotte's coming over to do some work. I think Alex and Katherine are coming over as well. We're going to do some like role plays. Before we switch to study with me, I just want to point out all of the supplies that Charlotte's bought. Charlotte would you like to explain? Well, you know, when you're studying, you need sustenance. So British strawberries. Race. Some chocolate sandwich fringers. Maltese is a most important thing. It was sparkling, pomegranate and elder flower pressing. And sparkling elder flower. Thank you, Charlotte. And have you got any tips for students who are maybe stressed about exams? I like feel like, oh, you know, the pressures kind of getting to them. Have you got any tips on how to deal with stress when it comes to exams? I think it's really natural to get stressed. Especially when you're doing GCSEs in eight levels. And, you know, that there's a lot riding on it, getting places at College or university. I think it's important to keep some perspective. Like, if things don't go the way you really want them to, it's not the end of the world. The sun will rise the next day. And you'll be able to carry on. And it's never, it's never all over. You can always reset. You can take some time to revise and get some advice from teachers and have a bit of a rethink maybe. So don't pin everything on this set of exams. It doesn't the grades that you get. The letters that are written on that piece of paper don't define here. You are. And yeah, your words shouldn't be in what's written on that piece of paper. So that was some really solid advice from Charlotte there. And as you can probably tell, she's really, really good at talking to patients. So we get down to work properly at around 11.45. And for the first half an hour, Charlotte and I go over the acrimagly and the cushing examination. So because she hasn't gone over it before, I start off by trying to draw the acrimagly and the cushing's diagrams that we went over in the last episode. I try and draw those from memory, so that's active recall for me. And then we look at our kind of master diagram to fill in the gaps. And then immediately she tries drawing it out from memory and then I fill in the gaps. So in a way, I'm sort of teaching it to her, but I'm also active recalling in the process, therefore it's useful for both of us. Then our friend Alex Orives and we switched to doing some neuro revision. And because a lot of you asked, here's a quick look at how I make my active recall spreadsheet. So as you can see, I've got Google Sheets open on one half of the screen and I've got a PDF open on the other half of the screen. And what we're doing here is that we're picking various topics within neuro. So we're starting off with MS, multiple sclerosis. And then in the group, we're brainstorming possible questions that might be asked to us in the examination. So the first one, as you can see, is what is MS? And in column A, we write the question and then in column B, we're at the answer. And then we're just kind of building this up over time for each different topic within neuro where asking ourselves, what question could be asked and we're putting in column A. And then we're working our answers to those questions, putting them in column B. And I'm using a whole host of sources for this. And I'll show it in Alex, have their own books open. I've got cases for paces open on the other side of the screen. I've got my own oski book open in front of me. So we're trying to use all these different sort of sources and collect them into this master spreadsheet for our active recall. And if there's something that we don't understand, obviously, we Google it, we Wikipedia, we do whatever we can to work out. What the answer is before it goes into the spreadsheet. From around one thirty to two o'clock, we have lunch. Then from about two to three o'clock, I head over to the post office to sort out some paperwork for the house that I'm hopefully going to be moving into around July time. So there'll be more on that closer to the time. From around three to three thirty, Jake and I lounge in my room, and we're taking history from each other. So kind of doing a role play. And then we spend about 15 minutes just kind of sitting there and wondering, what do we do now? We then apply our thing of, oh, if the exam was tomorrow, what would I be least happy about? And we realized that we're not fully brushed up on the eyes. So we spend about half an hour revising the eyes, going through some questions, kind of working out what scenarios might come up in our exam. And there's nothing particularly fancy about our techniques for this. We're just throwing questions out there to one another that we think might come up in the exam. So for example, I might ask, right guys, if we get a patient with gradually reducing vision, gradually blurring vision, what are our differentials going to be for that? What possible things might they have? And then we all kind of brainstorm, come up with the answers, and then someone Googles it, and we work out what we missed. Hey guys, so, kind of absolute waste amount for the last hour and a half. It's like 545 now. And for the last hour and a bit, I've been lying on the bed behind, and just having them in a nap. We're even like a proper nap of just kind of lying there with my eyes closed and vaguely listening to Charlotte and Catherine talk about psych stuff. It's very warm, feeling very CBA right now, but I think it's not too bad. We have done some work today. Also, kind of interestingly, on the previous study with me videos, a few of you have been commenting saying that you admire my work ethic and my God, you're such a productivity machine. I'm really not a productivity machine, but productivity machine. I don't really admire my own work ethic. I'm one of the most waste men people in this house when it comes to actually sitting down and doing work properly. But, you know, I think one thing that I do have going for me in that regard is that I like to be efficient with my work. I would never sit there for three hours and just kind of make notes from a textbook, which looks like productivity, but really isn't. Something else I can really like. You can be quite a waste man in terms of the amount of hours you actually put into work, while still kind of doing it efficiently, hopefully. But, yeah. Sometimes it's important to take a break. In Stephen Kovies, seven habits of highly effective people is called sharpening the soil. So that's what I tell myself, sharpening the soil. So you're resting now so that you can more efficient later. I just work outside at the sunshine. So, I go outside, sit the shade, and then I put in headphones, and I make sure I start a timer, start my forest, tree grooming, and then I make sure I actually work. And it worked today. Was that like that? Where if you touch a screen, you tree dies? Yes! Oh my gosh, my trees are like... I just put my phone doing all the stirs and then I don't look weird. So in the UK, the weather is very important. When it's too cold and it's snowing, people are like, we can't go to work. When it's too hot and it's nice, people are like, we can't go to work. So, another reason why I really like working with other people is because then you get a realistic idea of how much of a waste man everyone else says as well. But I think like, when you're... Especially when you're going for a level exam and also especially in a university. If you're kind of working on your own in the library, you get a very inflated idea of what everyone else is doing. And this can make you think that whole crap I'm not doing in a work and don't want you to think about that. Whoever's getting... Hmm. It gets a great idea. Yeah, I think if you spend all of your time in a library or, you know, in a classroom then everyone there is doing revision and they're there with the sole purpose of revision and so you get a full-side idea of what everyone else's rest of life looks like. When we were undergrads and we spend lots of time in the library you would think, oh my goodness, these people have been here for 12 hours straight and they've not done anything else. And in some cases that might have been true. But for the two hours you saw them in the library they were working really hard. But then they also went out and played for full or, you know, went out from your friends with the cinema and I think that that whole thing about comparison can be something that people really struggle with. I know I certainly struggle with that. And I think it's a natural human thing to want to compare yourself to someone else say, if they're doing so much more than me or they understand this better than I do or they can do this faster than I can. And that can just be really degrading to yourself and it can put you in a really bad, bad state of mind. And I think it's quite important to support each other as a group of medics at our college. We've worked really hard to try and collaborate and share resources. Yeah, absolutely. It's not, it's not I kind of get yourself over the line. It's kind of worked together to make sure everyone does well and does so remaining happy and healthy. It's a team effort, definitely. One of my favorite parts of university life has actually been exam term. People say that this is weird. But actually, if you're working on the same stuff as your friends, you've got like a good kind of study group going where you're all kind of doing your own thing but you're doing it in the same place. It's a socialist, I think, exam term is one of the most social times of the year because we all have this thing of, right? We're going to sit in the same room and work. That's one of my favorite parts of uni life and we used to do that in school a little bit as well. Also, I wanted to share it on the end drinking tea as a member of the beautiful Alice face on it. Yeah, a friend of mine from Isock got me this mug in the second year. It says Hacksock ball would be because apparently Hacksock ball was the only thing I'd talk about for a moment. So yeah, if you guys might think like mugs with my face on it to drink from, and that's how it's happened. And we'll add that to our online merchandise in addition to the active recoil of the way of life and save the day. And all these other, like, revision matters. So at this point, it's six o'clock. And I fully intend to do work for the next hour. But it spends the next hour researching how feasible it is to make merchandise for like posters, mugs, t-shirt. And I started doing a few designs for our sort of revision cat phrases like active recoil as a way of life. In the meantime, Charlotte and Katherine are actually being productive that doing some work. But then Jake comes to the room and he starts playing the piano. You might recognise the song. So, starting to better have a little bit of music. Can you listen? Okay. Okay. So now it's seven o'clock. And we're pretty much done for the day. None of us is really going to do any more work. We sort of decided around half past six that, okay, it's too sunny, it's too nice. We're not going to bother doing a hardcore revision session tonight. So we planned for all of us to meet up in my room at 9pm to play Avalon, which is our new favourite board game. One thing I'd say on that front, to be honest, it's very easy to get into this mindset of exams or the only important thing in my life right now. And especially, you know, if your parents are kind of giving you that whole grief about you've got to be working harder, you've got to be working harder. I don't think that's necessarily helpful a lot of the time. We all fairly independently decided that day that we weren't going to do that much work. We still managed to fair bit. It was fairly efficient, fairly reasonably efficient group study. But it was by no means a super productive day. And I think that's fine. Like, when the weather is sunny for the first time in ages and you've got everyone together, it's totally okay to just decide, you know, well, I'm only going to do a little bit of work today. And I'm going to spend the rest of the time playing board games with my friends or having a pizza with another friend or whatever. So that's something that I like to keep in mind, especially in exam terms, that yeah, it's important to have intense focused bursts of study of revision. But there's no real need to really go hardcore with it. Because, you know, to be honest, it's all fine. It's going to be all right in the end. The result we get on this exam is not going to define a worth as a human being, as Charlotte alluded to earlier. So, yeah, we spent four hours from 9pm till 1am, that evening playing Avalon, which is a really, really good board game. It's sort of like mafia-squarewolf. If you've played that, but better, because no one dies. The problem with mafia-squarewolf is that people get eliminated as the game goes on, so it becomes a less inclusive. Paying Avalon, everyone is sort of taking part for the whole game. And it gets very, very heated. And I've got some absolutely sick footage of us like swearing at each other and like shouting and screaming and it's incredible. And I'm going to cut it into like a bloopers reel that we can look back on in like 10 years time, but it's probably not quite fit for public consumption. So, yeah, thank you very much for watching this video. I really hope you found it useful. If you liked it, please give it a thumbs up. If you haven't subscribed to the channel, please consider doing so. All the best with your revision and have a lovely day. See you in the next video. Bye-bye. you
