# A HUGE Unboxing Day
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=reazJx4INyM
Hey guys, today I'm bringing you a super productive day of filming content and unboxing a load of tech goodies. Enjoy xx

To check out my Workflow videos on Notion and Roam, sign up to Curiositystream bundled with free access to Nebula - https://curiositystream.com/ali 

Get your own leather notebook cover: https://aliabdaal.com/notebook-covers/

Check me out on Freshly Grounded: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yQ5MjRNypi0
Didn't Really Name It episode: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FHOvQy8wj9A

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
😃  How to be Happier - Stoicism Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/stoicism

MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️ My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝 My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
📚 How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵 Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
🌐 My website platform (Ghost) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost
🎤 My podcast hosting platform (Transistor) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/transistor

OTHER RECOMMENDED COURSES
📔 Effortless Output with Roam Research - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/roam
📓 Building a Second Brain - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/basb

🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, study with me, study, studying, school, university, how to revise, motivational video, cambridge university, student, studytube, study hacks, junior doctor, doctor on call, productive day, day in the life, filming b-roll, tech blog, tech review, day in the life of a youtuber, how youtubers spend their time, doctor day in the life, derek sivers, anything you want, black magic, unboxing, unboxing camera, tech unboxing, 
**Date:** 2020-06-21

## Transcript
 Hey friends, welcome back to another day in the life vlog, got these are getting repetitive out there, where as usual it's an ongoing struggle to be productive on a day off work during lockdown. The day starts at 8.30 when I wake up and lie in bed for half an hour, feeling sorry for myself and doing absolutely nothing. At 8.55 I wrench myself out of bed because I've scheduled in a podcast recording at 9am. I sometimes exercise this level of massacism to force myself to actually wake up otherwise I end up lying in bed browsing Twitter like a total waste man for a few hours each morning. From 9 to 9.30 I get interviewed by lovely student from India called a fan on his podcast artfully titled, didn't really name it. We talk about side hustles, jobs and Netflix amongst other things. It's a fun little chat that wakes me up and then at 9.30 I spend an hour recording another podcast. This time with Fessel from the UK who runs the podcast freshly grounded. We chat about productivity, YouTube, the world of being a creator on the internet and I'll share love of stoicism. From 10.30 to 10.55 I have a shower, put on some deodorant, change, make my morning cup of coffee and wash the dishes, then at 10.55 I sit down with my coffee, a banana and my iPad Pro with Magic Keyboard. I ask Siri on the home pod to play the pure country radio playlist on Apple Music, which is how I like to start off my mornings and I open up notion to do my daily check-in. I start by answering a few questions that help me get the day off to a nice start. Then I switch over to room research to figure out what I'm actually going to do today. Then I switch over to day one, my journaling app to write out my morning pages, which is where you just write whatever comes to mind for about three pages. You're supposed to do it with pen and paper, but that's way too slow for a self-professed productivity grease monkey like me, so I prefer to type it out instead, and today I typed out 621 words which is a solid start. By 11.20 I'm done with the morning check-in and so I scroll through Twitter for a bit before getting up to do something useful. I warm myself with breakfast burrito, empty the dishwasher, reload the dishwasher, and grab a cheeky bottle of water because it's important to stay hydrated. At 11.37 I'm finally ready to do some actual work, so I start by working through finalizing the script for the upcoming book club video about the book, Make Time. Again, I'm doing this on notion, which is what my team and I use for all our scripts, and what I personally use for a load of other things. If you're wondering about room research, the other note-taking app I use heavily, I'm working on some videos about that, but I've already got like six videos about it in my workflow series available in Nebula, more details in the video description if you fancy checking that out. Anyway, I finish off the writing session at 12.17 when it's time for a poo, I'm out to the loop by 1240, and I'm ready to start my second wave of writing for this video. So, I make another cup of disgusting instant coffee, and pour it into the Mburmark that keeps it warm, which was actually a birthday present from my lovely editor Christian. To mark this change of gears, I switch from the pure country radio Apple Music playlist over to my own study with me Spotify playlist, with lots of instrumental music from movies, TV shows and video games. I finished the script for the book club video by one PM, and now it's time to start filming. As usual, it takes me a solid half an hour to get the cameras and light set up. And then from 130 to 2 PM, I filmed the A-roll for the first video of the day called Is Reading Fiction A Waste of Time, which was actually released on the channel last week, I then have a 15-minute phone call with someone asking me to do a zoom presentation about how to study for exams through a group of students. I say that I'd love to, but I've been making YouTube videos about this for three years, and I've got nothing more to add, so I decline in a hopefully polite fashion. I'm trying to get better at saying no to stuff, and it's always hard, because people's requests are usually so reasonable. I like how Derek Sivers frames this. He says that at the start of your career, it's helpful to say yes to everything to maximize your opportunities, but when you get to a point where the demands on your time are starting to pile up, you switch to a mindset of hell, yeah, or no. I eat something's either a hell, yes, or it's a no, there is no middle ground. Anyway, at 230, I get started with filming the make-time video, which is all done by 3 PM, and so it's now time for a spot of lunch. I finish eating at 335 PM, and now it's time to switch to the living room into overhead camera mode. Before doing that, thankfully, I get a delivery of my proper coffee, so my third cup of coffee for the day can be legit rather than toss. At this point, now that I've got the overhead set up, I decide to bring back the fan favorite male time with Dr. Ali. Hey friends, welcome back to another episode of male time with Dr. Ali. Let's see. This is getting a lot less sharp. Let's see what we've got in store. Oh, hello. That is what I'm talking about. Oh, here we go. That's number one. Eyes in number two. Again, from our good friends over at Amazon, hashtag not gifted, hashtag not spawn. We have the Razor Crackham Tournament edition headsets for chatting with the boys, so what else have we got in this episode of Mild Time? Well, I'm glad you asked, because we have from one's philosophy. The folks over at Blackmagic Design are very kindly lending me some video stuff for another while. And cheek amongst the things that the lending me is, this absolute beast. This is the OSA Mini Pro 4.6K G2 cinema camera. This is next level. Like, I have never even held a cinema camera before, that alone. Oh, I'm going to be using one. This is the Sigma 18 to 35 of 1.8. Very nice. So, in theory, what we should be able to do is, here we go. This is my new toy for the next few weeks. So, I'll try it out. We see how it goes. This is absolutely next level. In fact, it's probably going to thumbnail with this as well. It's really heavy. Maybe thumbnail with this and with the PlayStation. That would be a super flex wouldn't it. So, yeah, this is the cinema camera. I'm going to be trying out for a while, having got a little thumbnail with it. We also have the Blackmagic video assist 12-inch monitor, which attaches to the top of the camera. So, you can see yourself, like I'm looking at myself and that one at it right now. You can see yourself while recording in like a selfie mode. And also, we also have the Blackmagic EGPU, which is like an external graphics card, Thunderbolt 3 EGPU radio on Pro 580. So, the idea is that you plug this into your MacBook and it becomes a sort of external graphics cardy type thing for gaming and a denge video editing and cool stuff like that. So, thank you Blackmagic for lending me all of this stuff to try out. I will be trying it out, and I will report back that in a high goes. Hopefully, trying it up the production value of this sort of stuff a little bit. Okay, final aspect of mail time is very exciting. So, this is a box made by my friend Will, who is a bespoke leather worker based in Cambridge. And, this is really cool. These are some custom hand made notebook covers. So, this is a very high tech look at that. This is sort of box that comes in and this is the first kind of line of merch for this channel. So, Will and I have partnered and they've designed these notebook cover things. They're available in two colours. We've got Sky Blue and we have 10. And they're built for the Lodge Term 1917 notebooks, which are my favorite notebooks that I use kind of for the physical stuff. And they're really cool. So, check this out. Basically, we're calling it the morning dump series. If we look, you'll see there is a little morning dump embossed quite subtly in the corner. So, that's the one that I'm going to be using. And we've got our logos kind of subtly embossed on the inside back cover. So, it's just like a cool way to make your notebook. We've got the option of not having the morning dump if you're not into that sort of stuff. And the idea is that you would take your Lodge Term in fact, if you'd like to use my actual one. This is my actual Lodge Term 1917. So, what you do, you take the notebook and you slide it in to the back cover. It's a bit stiff because this is kind of brand new leather. And here we have the leather bound addition of the Lodge Term notebook. So, you can leave this sort of cover flapping if you want to use this as a pocket for stuff. You've got your notebook. It's on leather. And it's got this little like a pen holdery thingy as well. So, about pen. And what you can do is you can chuck the pen in here. And now, we've got a notebook with the leather holder. And we've got the pen. And these will age very nicely. So, don't know when they're going to be available. But there's, there'll be a link in the video description if you want to like order one. If you like me and Will Amate. So, we thought why not. And this is the Morning Dump Stump. And let's see it over here. This is how we emboss Morning Dump in the corner of these notebooks. So, yeah, that's very exciting. Thank you all for making these. And they'll be available at some point. But link in the video description if you want to like pre order one or something. I kind of imagine many people will burst a bit of banter, right? This is a nice blue colour. And on the brown, obviously, like for the whole age nicely over time, we have this sort of sky blue like one, which is yeah, kind of cute. I love cute stuff like this. Anyway, that concludes this episode of Mailtime. Thank you for joining. It is now 440. So, I've got an hour and 20 minutes before our podcast recording in which to do some actual proper filming with the overhead rig. So, yeah, see you shortly. Bye, 430pm. My flexing is done for the day. And my biceps are a little sore from holding up the camera in a hundred different angles for the thumbnail. Now, it's time to film the videos that I actually needed to film. So, from 430 to 6pm, I filmed the overhead b-roll for the two different videos. All right guys, let's check out the super janky setup. So, I'm sitting here. We've got main camera in front of me with the monitor over there. We've got audio recorder, microphone, overhead camera connected with a guitar cap out to stop the wires getting in the way to the MacBook, which is showing the overhead shot in the microphone, getting in the way over the moment. So, that is kind of what it looks like when I move my hand up and down. Cable over there. And big ass light over there. So, this should hopefully work for the next few hours. Then, from 6 to 7pm, my brother and I do a YouTube live stream where we record an episode of our podcast not overthinking, and we chat to a new friend's cliff and valentine in Los Angeles about friendships, relationships and social skills and stuff. If you haven't checked out our podcast, you can find it on every podcast app by searching not overthinking, or by going to not overthinking.com. Once we're done with the recording, I chat to my grandma for a bit of a WhatsApp video because I'm such a good grandson, and then shoot various overhead thumbnails for the book club video, along with this ridiculous shot of twilight that I posted to my Instagram for banter, PS, please follow me on Instagram, well. From 8pm, I unboxed and shoot a first impressions video of Rukindal Oasis. The idea is that I've got the footage in thumbnail now, so, in a month's time, after I've been using the Kindle Oasis for a month, I'll film another segment and put a video review together, which is hopefully reasonably informed. At 8.50, I take some fancy overhead shots of the morning dump, leather notebook covers. This is a line of merch that I'll be launching soon, and I'm working with a friend in Cambridge who makes bespoke leather goods to put these together. If you'd like to pre order one of those or sign up to our mailing list, check out the link in the video description. Anyway, taking these 200 photos ends up taking a solid hour, so at 10pm, I start wrapping up. I still need to do my workout of the day, so I tidy the living room up a little bit, and then bash out my home workout while listening to the wheel of time fantasy series on audible, obviously at 2.5x speed. This is all done by 10.45, when I unpack this week's food delivery, I need some halumi with pasta and broccoli, which apparently makes 50 grams of protein, 60 grams of carbs, and 19 grams of fat. At 11.30pm, I finish off the home workout with some attempts at planch frog hold things, whatever it's called. And then finally, at 11.45, I offload and organize the various photos and video footage from the day. This ends up taking over an hour, and I'm finally finished with initiating the upload to Google Drive at 1am. The final job of the night is, as usual, to do my nightly reflection practice on notion, where I answer a few reflective prompts, and ask myself the question, what's the most story worthy thing that happened today? After doing this final review, and after this solid day of decent productivity, and surprisingly little procrastination, I call it a night. Tomorrow, I've got another day off work, so I'm going to have a nice lion, so the playstation and play video games all day can't wait. Thank you for watching, and see you in the next video. Good night.
