# iPad Pro 2018 Review - Should you buy it?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rEINNYczPtU
In this video I discuss some overall thoughts about Apple's new 2018 iPad Pro (with Apple Pencil and Smart Keyboard Folio), and share a 3-step flowchart for deciding whether you should buy one. Enjoy xx

My favourite iPad screen protector - http://paperlike.com/Ali 

💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking 

📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

TIMESTAMPS

00:40 - Overall thoughts
02:36 - Should you buy the new iPad Pro? The 3-step flowchart
02:45 - Q1 - Do you have a previous generation iPad Pro?
04:52 - Q2 - Do you have a normal 2018 iPad?
08:25 - Q3 - Do you have spare cash to burn?
11:40 - Wrapping up

Better uses of £600 (in my opinion)

1. Sony a6000 - http://geni.us/sonyA6000aa
2. My favourite lens - http://geni.us/sony35mmf18aa
3. Amazon Kindle - http://geni.us/KindlePaperwhite7thGen
4. Audible Free Trial - http://geni.us/AudibleAli

🎬 My online course on video editing - https://skl.sh/32TpEvm
🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal


Who am I:

I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

My most popular videos:

- How I take notes on my iPad Pro in medical school - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=waR3xBDHMqw
- Mu 2018 university desk setup - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zdew7At9S2U
- How to study for exams - Evidence based revision tips - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ukLnPbIffxE
- Study with Me + My revision method - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yiRYn97GJhM
- iPad Pro vs iPad (2018) comparison for college / university students - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tIdU4Sw6a5Y
**Keywords:** ipad pro, ipad pro 2018, ipad pro review, ipad review, ipad 2018, 2018 ipad pro, 2018 ipad pro review, new ipad, new ipad pro, new ipad pro review, 
**Date:** 2018-11-19

## Transcript
 Hey guys, welcome back to the channel. If you're new here at my name is Ali, I'm a junior doctor working in Cambridge and today I'm going to be talking about this new 2018 iPad Pro with Apple Pencil and basically trying to answer the question of whether you should buy it or not. So to that end, this video is going to be split up into few different parts and everything is going to be linked in timestamps in the video description and in a pinned comment so you can skip around if you feel like it. I'll start off by just sharing some quick overall impressions about the new iPad Pro. And then I'll introduce a three-part flowchart like three questions to ask yourself before deciding whether to buy this or not. So yeah, let's just get into it. Okay, so overall thoughts and I'm just going to echo what every single other reviewer has said and that is that this is an absolute beast of an iPad. It's clearly the best iPad ever made. Its design is incredible. The performance is like second to none, but at the end of the day it's still an iPad and it probably won't quite replace your laptop just yet. And to turn the design, yeah, it's very industrial, it's very iPhone 5, just kind of stretched out and you can see all the fingerprints because I've been using this like all day every day since I got it, it's really thin, you can just kind of flick it around. So it's a nice design and then you've got the new Apple Pencil which is cool, I've got the little engraving on mine, I don't know if you can see that. The new Apple Pencil feels very slightly nicer than the previous one and the best thing about it is that it clips on magnetically so you don't have to do that annoying, you know, sticking out of the side that you had to do with the previous models of iPad Pro. Apart from that, really, like, you know, that's all the rest to say, it's pretty and it's got a nice screen and it's got a nice Apple Pencil and this smart keyboard folio thing is pretty good. I'll do a dedicated review about this because I actually love this thing and I think everyone should get one of these. But, you know, at the end of the day, it's still an iPad. It's not going to replace your laptop and I've done a whole video where I talk about this in depth and to be honest, nothing has really changed. There is nothing really that you can do on this iPad that you couldn't do on the previous generation to the iPad and therefore, if we're asking the question of does the iPad Pro replace your laptop, the answer is still probably not with a few caveats but you can watch my video that will be linked up there for a bit more information on that point. So those were my overall thoughts. I deliberately haven't touched on the specifications or, like, you know, the geek bench scores and all that stuff because as Dave Lee kind of points out on his review of the iPad Pro, which is really good. I'll link it down below. He points out that, really, when was the last time your iPad felt so, you know, my iPad Pro has never felt slow. Even my iPad Air 2 before that never really felt slow. So speed doesn't really matter when it comes to iPads. Yeah, so those were my brief overall impressions and let's now talk about who should buy the new iPad Pro. Okay, so I'm going to structure this bit of the video as a mini flow chart, like an algorithm if you will, that you can follow to decide whether you should buy the new iPad Pro. And the first question on this flow chart is, do you have a previous generation iPad Pro? Because if you do, then you probably should not buy the new iPad Pro 2018. Now, let's break this down a little bit further. In my iPhone XS Max review that I did a few weeks ago, I introduced a different sort of three part framework to decide whether a piece of technology is worth it, subjectively. Question number one on that list was, doesn't make me any happier. And the answer for this iPad is no, obviously not, new tech never makes us happy unless it fulfills points two or points three of this other three part framework. Point number two was, does it remove any salient negatives from my life, does having this new piece of tech stop me from feeling pain in one aspect of my life? And sort of this new one does. The fact that the pencil now sticks to the top, magnetically, removes a massive annoyance because with the old generation, you have to like stick it into the side and charge it like that. And like apart from that, really, there were no real salient negatives of the old 2017 iPad Pro. It was generations, although admittedly, I haven't used the previous generations. There aren't really any salient negatives of that. I don't think anyone was complaining about how bad their iPad Pro was before for them to warrant justifying purchase of a much more expensive new 2018 iPad Pro. So that was point number two on this other three part framework. And the third point was, does this new device allow me to do or make or create anything that would add more value to my life? And again, the answer for this new iPad Pro is no, because it has exactly the same capabilities as the previous iPad Pro's. Therefore, if you have a previous iPad Pro, you're not really going to gain much additional value from the new one apart from the fact that the screen is slightly nicer and the pencil sticks on, which is kind of cool. And you get to show off to your friends that you've got the latest iPad Pro. So yeah, long story short, if you have an old iPad Pro, it's really hard to recommend by the new one. It's just so expensive. The 11 inch model starts at 719 pounds. Let's say you buy AppleCare on top of that for another 100 in something pounds. And then you buy an Apple Pencil. That comes out to over a thousand pounds just for the base 64 gigabyte model. And you're spending a thousand pounds to upgrade and already very, very, very, very good iPad. It's just really, really not worth it in my opinion. Okay, so let's say you don't have an existing iPad Pro. The next question you need to ask yourself is, do I have the 2018 iPad with Apple Pencil? That is the student friend the iPad. It starts at 300 in something pounds with AppleCare and the Apple Pencil. It overall, the cost is about 450 pounds and you get a little bit off if you're a student for the student discount. So you're comparing the 400 pounds of the normal iPad with AppleCare and Apple Pencil with the 1,100 pounds of the iPad Pro with Apple Pencil, excluding the keyboard. If you want the keyboard, that's another like 200 pounds. So that's 1300 quid with a little bit off for student discount. So this thing costs more than twice as much as the 2018 iPad, the normal iPad with Apple Pencil that's aimed at students. If you're a student, then it's, again, it's really, really hard to recommend this. It's just so, so, so expensive compared to what you get for it. The 2018 normal iPad with Apple Pencil is great. The Apple Pencil works really nicely. Admittedly, yes, the writing experience of the Apple Pencil is very slightly nicer on the iPad Pro models because of the reduced screen distance and the increased 120 hertz refresh rate. But other than that, you know, it's such a minor thing that you won't really notice unless you've seen the two devices side by side. So if you have a 2018 iPad, it's, it's, again, so, so hard to recommend buying the new iPad Pro. There's so much more you could be doing with that money instead, you know, 600 pounds is a difference in price between the iPad Pro and the 2018 iPad. For 600 pounds, you can buy a Sony A6000 mirrorless camera with, like, hold on. The Sony A6000 mirrorless camera for about 300, a really, really nice lens for about 250, 300 pounds. For 600 pounds, you have an incredible camera that you can take amazing photos of your friends and family and, you know, your university experiences with that you'll be looking back on in many years time and thinking, wow, I'm so glad I've got these photos. And actually, this has been one of the most, I've probably the single most valuable purchase in my life, the Sony A6000, where the fancy lens on the end of it, because, like, the amount of memories that's created is just absolutely priceless. And I look at all my friends who've got their, you know, crappy iPhone photos, and it's just not the same as the, you know, the high quality, really nice, bokeh, like fancy photos that I've got of me and my friends and my family. So, you could do that with that 600 pounds. Alternatively, you could buy an Amazon Kindle, probably the second most valuable purchase I've ever made other than the camera, that sets you back about 90 pounds for the Kindle Paper White, then you can buy like 50 non-fiction books and all those would add infinitely more value to your life than, you know, this slightly nicer user experience of the iPad Pro. Alternatively, you could turn them to audible, Amazon's audiobook service, there's an affiliate link below if you want, and that costs about 8 pounds a month. So, you can get, like, 5 years worth of an audible subscription with a free audio book every month for the 600 pounds that you'd be paying to upgrade to the iPad Pro over the 2018 iPad and audible is probably the third most valuable purchase I've ever made in my life. And I'm going to do like a whole list of this at a video and in a blog post sometime. But the, the point I want to make is that 600 pounds gets you a lot. And, you know, the upgrade, the incremental upgrade between the 2018 iPad and the 2018 iPad Pro in my opinion does not justify that 600 pounds. Now, when I made my previous video comparing the 2017 iPad Pro with the 2018 normal iPad gosh, this is getting confusing, isn't it? When I made that video, I made the point that I would still personally prefer the Pro because I met, I said something about spreading the extra cost over three years. If you think about it, 600 pounds over three years, that's about £1 a week. And I'm happy to pay one pound a week for the slightly nicer experience of the iPad Pro. But actually, on reflection, there was one really important point that I didn't touch on in that video. And that brings us to point number three in our three part flow chart. And point number three in our flow chart is if you don't have an iPad Pro already, a previous model, and you don't have the 2018 iPad, the question you want to be asking yourself in my opinion, before buying this is, do you have the cash to burn? Now, I'm going to talk a little bit about money here on I, and I know that talking about money is in polite. But when Apple is asking us to spend upwards of £1,000 on one of these, when you could spend £400 on a normal iPad, that's just as good pretty much. We really do need to talk about money and to speak candidly about what money means to different people. And I think the most important question here is, is that £1,000 a significant amount of money to you. Now, the answer for this is going to vary for different people, and, you know, there's no judgment here. For some people, a thousand pounds is ahead of a lot of money, and it is ahead of a lot of money. But for other people, including myself admittedly, a thousand pounds is a lot of money, but it's not a significant amount of money in the sense that it's not going to change the way I live my life if I didn't have that thousand pounds, or if I chose to spend a thousand pounds on this device. And the reason that question is important is because the iPad Pro is less a functional tool and more a luxury product. So, when you're splashing out so much money on a luxury product, it's hard to convince yourself that you're doing it for a functional purpose, for the most part. There's going to be one percent of people that genuinely do need the extra performance of the iPad Pro, and amazing, that's amazing for those people. But I doubt there's a sort of people watching this video. I imagine for the most part, if you're watching this video, you're probably a student, you're probably on some kind of budget, and you're considering whether to buy an iPad Pro, or whether to buy an iPad at all, and maybe going for a surface that gets you the best of both worlds for laptop and iPad, or whatever. And yeah, we just need to answer that question. Is a thousand pounds a significant amount of money? A few years ago, when I was a student, and I didn't have my side business generating income every year, I would never have ever ever have bought this. I spent like a whole year of my life saving up 700 pounds to buy the MacBook Air in like 2012. I was tutoring four times a week, making about 20 pounds an hour, and by the end of the year, I managed to save 700 pounds for a MacBook Air, and I made that MacBook Air last three years, and it added an immense amount of value to my life, and I'm really glad I did it. But would I have saved, you know, would I have worked an extra whole year to buy a MacBook Pro, for 1,400 pounds back in the day? No, of course not, because I didn't need a MacBook Pro. I was quite content, and I could do every single thing I wanted to on the base model of the MacBook Air. And I think it's a similar situation for this iPad versus the iPad Pro. The 2018 iPad is great. Do you need an iPad really? Probably not, but, you know, honestly, it is quite a useful device to have as a student, because if you have seen my previous video up there about taking notes on an iPad, you might want to become paperless with your note taking, and I think it's got the potential to genuinely make your better student if you have an iPad that has Apple Pencil support, because the Apple Pencil is just absolutely incredible. But the reason we're talking about money is because the jump from the normal iPad to the 208 iPad Pro, the extra 600 pounds price difference, is just so, so hard to justify as a student. If, however, you're in the position where a thousand pounds is not that significant and amount of money, then, yeah, feel free to buy one of these. It's still quite hard to recommend, because a thousand pounds is still a lot of money, even if it's not significant. But it's, you know, if that money is not really going to change your life that much, if it's an amount of money that you'd be happy to splash out on a luxury product, then, by all means, you should buy it. So, yeah, those are my thoughts on the subject. We've talked about overall impressions. Yeah, I love this. It's the best iPad ever made, but it's still not a laptop replacement. You know, it's incredible hardware that has hampered by the limitations of iOS 12, as every other tech reviewer has said, and then we talked about the three pop framework, a flu chart of deciding whether you should buy one of these. It's an incredible device, but it's really, really, really bloody expensive. And yeah, that concludes this random review thing. So, thank you very much for watching. If you liked the video, please give it a thumbs up. If you haven't subscribed to the channel yet, please consider doing so. Have a lovely day, and I'll see you in the next video. Goodbye.
