# How to prepare for BMAT Section 2 Chemistry | BMAT Tips series
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rs2BRk-RMJA
My online BMAT video course (75+ videos) = https://courses.aliabdaal.com/bmat-crash-course-online

Today's video discusses the general approach to Section 2 Chemistry - namely content, timing and practice, and we also go over some tips for the 'Factual Recall' questions. 

Part 2 - Approach to Chemistry Calculations: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=f_3IrUKQAQ8

Useful Links:

BMAT Ninja - https://bmat.ninja - 1,800+ free questions that you can do online. You can pay £29 for access to the worked solutions written by Oxbridge medical students, or you can apply for one of our bursaries (we give out hundreds of those each year).

Official Section 2 Assumed Knowledge Guide - http://www.admissionstestingservice.org/for-test-takers/bmat/preparing-for-bmat/overlay.html

BBC Bitesize - http://www.bbc.co.uk/education/subjects/zs6hvcw
**Keywords:** bmat, bmat section 2, bmat tips, how to prepare for bmat, cambridge medicine, oxford medicine, oxbridge medicine, chemistry, bmat chemistry, bmat courses, 6med, 
**Date:** 2017-07-11

## Transcript
 Hey everyone, welcome back to the Be Not Tips series. My name is Ali, I'm a fifth year medical Cambridge and in this video we're going to be talking about the approach to section two chemistry. As we know from the biology and physics videos there are three pinnacles to success in section two. That's content timing and practice. These all apply to section two chemistry as well. So I'm lunched them very briefly, but I want to spend the rest of this video talking about specific tactics and more about what makes the chemistry questions in particular quite hard. Firstly, in terms of content, the section two assumed knowledge guide is your friend, so you probably want to learn as much of that as you possibly can. If you don't understand something, BBC Bite size is quite a good resource and we also have nerds on Be Not Ninja if you want to check those out. In terms of timing, you've got one minute per question as you do for all of section two. But the chemistry questions can be particularly hard because the calculations can sometimes take a little bit of time. I'll be doing a separate video talking about chemistry calculations, which will go more in depth about how to be efficient of your time in those. So here up timing, one minute per question, so it's quite tough. And as we know from hopefully watching the other videos, practice is super important to doing well in section two. And by far, the easiest way to practice lots of chemistry questions is to just bash through all the chemistry questions that we've got on Be Not Ninja completely free of charge. And if you get stuck, you can ask a chemistry teacher, you can get access to the solutions on Be Not Ninja if you want. Or you can just leave a comment in this video below and I'll do my best to give you your work solution to the question of Stockholm. Cool, so that's out of the way, and that's now talk about the types of questions that you get in chemistry. The chemistry questions can be broadly divided into two main categories, both of which have their problems and difficulties. Firstly, we've got the factual recoil questions we'll talk about now. And secondly, we've got the calculation questions we'll be in the topic of a subsequent video, hopefully linked at the end of this one. The factual recoil questions are ones that ask you to remember, for example, that graphite has three electrons or trends of reactivity up and down group one and seven, or what kind of universal indicator paper goes on. It's put in a particular solution, or what element, particular electronic configuration for response to that sort of thing. Don't worry, you don't have to memorize the periodic table, if you ever need a periodic table to answer a question, one will be provided just next to the question. The questions in section two chemistry are GCSE or O level standard, and because practically everyone taking the beam at us A level chemistry, you shouldn't have too much problem with the factual recoil component of the chemistry cylinders. But having said that A level chemistry is quite hard, and there are some graduate students who haven't done it since the 1980s. So if you're in the position where you're finding chemistry difficult, your best bet is probably just to memorize as much of the section two assumed knowledge guide as you possibly can. Sadly, there's no shortcut to this, they could literally ask anything they want, so memorising the guide is actually quite a good tactic. In fact, this isn't just useful for the beam at the more pro you get at beam at chemistry, but better you'll probably do in your A level exams, or IB, or whatever, they use these days. Right, so that's the factual recoil questions. The way to get good at those is to memorize as much of the section two assumed knowledge guide as you can, and I know that's easier said than done, but hey, it's worth trying anyway, and we've got loads of notes on beam at the injured that can supplement the guide if you feel like accessing them. The second type of question that causes problems are the chemistry calculation questions, but those will be the subject of the next video, which will hopefully be linked over here, and also at the end of the video, and also in the description, so you should definitely check that one out, because it's very much a follow on from this video. So let's conclude this video for now. We touched very briefly on content timing and how to practice, and we talked about the factual recoil questions and about how doing well on those is unfortunately a matter of just memorising as much of the official guide as you possibly can. So thank you very much for watching. If you like the video, please give it a thumbs up. If you'd like to subscribe to the channel, please hit the subscribe button, and the next video in the series should appear here somewhere, or to be on chemistry calculations, so please do check that out. Have a lovely day, and I'll see you in the next video. Bye bye.
