# Clinical School Pantomime audition - Cambridge University medical student VLOG #11
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rvuXtQILJcM
Today's episode takes a look at my experiences of auditioning for this year's Addenbrooke's Pantomime, an annual show run, produced, directed and orchestrated entirely by Cambridge clinical medical students. 

Who am I:

I'm Ali, a final year medical student at Emmanuel College, Cambridge. This vlogging thing seems quite fun so I'll be vlogging life and other things throughout the year. I'm also making regular videos about application advice for UK medicine applicants.

💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking 

📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal 

🎬 My online course on video editing - https://skl.sh/32TpEvm
🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
**Keywords:** Cambridge medicine, Cambridge medical student, Cambridge medicine vlog, Cambridge medical student vlog, medical student, medicine vlog, medicine, medical student vlog, Oxbridge, Oxford, Cambridge, cambridge medicine, oxford medicine, med student vlog, med student, oxbridge medicine, oxbridge medicine vlog, life of a medical student, 
**Date:** 2017-11-02

## Transcript
 Hey guys welcome back to the channel. Today's vlog is going to be all about my audition for the Adam Brooks Charity Pantamime. The story begins a few Sundays ago. Good morning. Welcome back to the channel. It's a Sunday morning and it's the day of the Adam Brooks Charity Pantamime Auditions. Now the pantamime is something that the medical school puts on every year. Every year the plot is different, every year it's completely different to raise money for charity. I've been involved with it in the last two years and I can honestly say it's one of the best things I've ever done in my life. In fourth year I was part of the singing treat and then last year in fifth year I was one of the directors. So intimately involved with pretty much everything. And as this is my final year in Cambridge I really want to get involved in the Pantamime again. And I'm going to be singing Let It Go from Frozen. Absolutely Banger. So I arrived with the audition. I do a little bit of acting which is very good and I think a little bit of the song. And here is a little bit of the song. The snow blows white on the mountain tonight. Not a footprint to be seen. A kingdom of isolation. And it looks like I am the queen. Now there's like a voice test on the piano and I really really screw up the first bit of it. ... In my defense I'm a bass and I can't hit those high notes but then we go to a learn notes and then that's all right. And then the audition's over. All right audition over. That was quite fun. Quite scary as well. It's a thing that's crossed. See what happens. And then like two weeks later I got a call back which is like the best news in the world. All right guys, it is the day of the callbacks for the Adam Brook's pantomime auditions. So I'm heading into the lecture theater in the hospital and silently breaking it. I'm going to be reading for two parts and then trying to sing two songs from the Lion King. I've been practicing all day. The people in placement with me have been absolutely sick of hearing. Just can't wait to be king and Hikuna Matata. I'm trying not to get overly attached to the outcome of these auditions. But realistically, if I don't, if I don't get it, I will be very very disappointed. But hey, I hand the camera to one of the producers and ask them to film the audition. This won't play it. This won't come out. I do some more pretty bad acting and then I sing some more songs. Here's a little bit of the song. Thus far, a rather uninspiring thing. I've been reflected a little bit about how the audition went. All right guys, audition over. That was really fun. It was kind of scary at the beginning, but they were really good at encouraging the auditiones to like come out of their shell a little bit because there's always that fear initially when you're doing an audition, especially indoors that you kind of have that fear of failure. So you kind of holding stuff back. Yeah, that was a fun audition. I think I did the best I could. So after the audition, I don't really hear anything for about a week. And by this point, I've kind of resigned myself that I haven't got a part and I was really sad about this for like a day or two, but you know, I try to talk about stuff out of it. It's okay, these things happen and you've fired your best, et cetera, et cetera. But then a few days later, I'm going to Facebook message from one of the directors. And he says he wants to give me a call about the pantomime. And this gets my hopes back up again. And I'm like being super nervous about the phone call. So I turn the camera on just as easy about a call. Good evening. And just as he calls me via Facebook messenger, the internet stops working. Hello. Bloody hell. But then he calls again using like normal phone lines. And then we have a chat. Hello. No, go. Sorry. All right, internet died. What's up? We still have for a little bit of small talk. I'm good. I'm good. My heart rate is currently about 120. And then he offers me a part in the panto. Yes. Absolutely. That sounds wonderful. That sounds great. I try and contain my excitement over the phone. Okay. Yeah, that sounds great. Cool. Wonderful. Thank you very much. See you later. Bye. And as I hang up, can I play something appropriate on the camera? Yeah. And then I'll explain to my friends that I've got a cost roll. It seemed like a small roll at the time, but actually since we've done the read through a handout that it's not just one roll that I've got. It's three rolls. So I get to play three different characters. And it means that I can be involved in this year's pantomime. And before getting this phone call, I kind of resigned myself to not being not being in it, which wasn't nice feeling. So it's I'm like completely overjoyed and actually getting apart in the panto and being able to kind of for the for the third year in a row experience, how amazing it is. Because as I've probably said at the start, it is the best part about life as a Cambridge student. In the last six years, panto has been the single best thing about it. So to be able to be involved again this year is just amazing. So yeah, that was my experience of the of of the auditions. I thought I'd make this into a video because the panto is going to be featuring a lot in the vlogs over the next few weeks. To months, the performances are at the end of January. And we've got loads of rehearsals coming up, we've got the dress rehearsals, the tech rehearsals, all of which would be kind of cool to get some to get some shots off. So yeah, this is like the first introduction. You guys of the panto, I hope you liked the video. If you like to give the thumbs up, if you haven't subscribed to the channel, please consider doing so. We've got more videos coming up about life as a final legal medical student. And also some videos about applying to medicine if you're into that sort of thing. So thanks very much for watching, and I'll see you next time. Bye.
