# This is Incredible - iPad Pro Magic Keyboard Impressions
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s3vVUq2520U
Check out which iPad you should buy in 2021 here - https://youtu.be/Wg3VWhu_M6Q

Hey guys, today we're taking a look at the brand new Magic Keyboard for the iPad Pro and whether it lives up to the hype (Spoiler Alert: IT DOES!)

☕️ My Favourite iPad Screen Protector - if you’ve got an iPad you should definitely get the Paperlike screen protector - it protects the screen, and makes it feel like paper when you’re writing on it with the Apple Pencil :) Here’s a cheeky affiliate link if you fancy supporting my coffee addiction at the same time - https://paperlike.com/ali

OTHER IPAD VIDEOS
1. Which iPad should you buy? - https://youtu.be/xFX-lyLU2X8
2. My Favourite iPad apps - https://youtu.be/xXVnz6t1aMs
3. How I take notes on my iPad Pro - https://youtu.be/waR3xBDHMqw
4. IPad Pro Smart Keyboard Folio Review - https://youtu.be/OLK52vT1YOA
5. iPad vs MacBook for Students - https://youtu.be/STYohijxBNY
6. How I use my iPad Pro as a doctor - https://youtu.be/jFACcujmdE4
7. iPad Pro  2018 Review - https://youtu.be/rEINNYczPtU
8. iPad Mini Review - https://youtu.be/re4Cjf_qqLA

--------

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
😃  How to be Happier - Stoicism Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/stoicism

TOOLS OF THE TRADE:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk
📚  How I remember what I read - Readwise - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali
What I Use For Analytics - https://go.aliabdaal.com/tubebuddy
🌐 My website platform (Ghost) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost

OTHER RECOMMENDED COURSES
📔 Effortless Output with Roam Research - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/roam
📓 Building a Second Brain - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/basb

🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜

If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭
**Keywords:** Magic Keyboard, Apple keyboard, iPad Pro, iPad Pro case, iPad Pro keyboard case, iPad Pro magic keyboard, keyboard case review, review, magic keyboard, magic keyboard review, apple magic keyboard, ipad pro, ipad, ipad keyboard, Smart Keyboard, apple keyboard, keyboard, new keyboard, ipad laptop, laptop, apple, apple laptop, MacBook, MacBook Pro, keyboard review, apple review, hands on, price, weight, dieter bohn, what to buy, how to buy, top 10, gadgets, tech, how to, iphone, 
**Date:** 2020-04-23

## Transcript
 Guys, this is it, this is literally what I've been waiting for, my entire life. Hey guys, welcome back to the channel. If you're new here, my name is Ali, I'm a doctor working in the UK and on this channel, we explore these strategies and tools that help us live happier, more productive lives isn't that fun? Now the iPad Pro has been one of the key tools in my productivity arsenal since way back in 2017 and I actually do really like the old keyboard folio, the keyboard pretty nice, it's actually was one of my favorite typing experiences on the planet. But when I first saw the ad for the new magic keyboard, I nearly had a stroke because this thing just looked absolutely incredible, I've got my hands on it for the first time, this is the first impressions review and it has so far completely blown me away. So let's start with the most important thing and that is the keyboard, the question is how fun is going to type on this thing? Oh, this is the best words per minute I've ever got in my life. Previously my record was 154 on the old version of the Apple Magic Keyboard. This is literally the first time I have ever typed on this magic keyboard. The first typing test I've ever done on it other than just like a few bits here and there, 156 door will work for a minute. Accuracy 99.23%. Yeah, the keyboard is obviously fantastic, like it feels exactly like the MacBook Air Sizzer kind of keyboard which is now what the what the keyboard mechanism is on the 16-inch MacBook Pro as well and this just just feels absolutely perfect. Like the such a nice level of clicking us to the keys, the space bar is good, everything feels well proportioned. The only gripe I would have with it slightly is that as I'm kind of typing in this configuration, my hand is sort of occasionally hitting that. If I do like a big kind of motion and sort of that kind of plane then my hand does occasionally brush against the bottom of the iPad Pro in this sort of configuration. I imagine in this position it's not a problem at all but in this one which is sort of the most horizontal position you can get on this. It is slightly annoying but yeah, now this is this is just so much better than the old one and I thought the old one was absolutely amazing. The keyboard actually apparently has a backlight to it so if I turn this light off, now we should be able to see the backlighting of the keyboards. And apparently it's a bit of a ballic to actually change the backlighting you have to go on settings and then you have to go on like keyboard, keyboard brightness so you can see how the brightness changes as I adjust that. But to be honest, apparently you just based on the ambient light sensors of the iPad and it just kind of works. Right, let's put the light back on. So that is basically the keyboard. Let's talk about the trackpad now. Like the trackpad is quite nice. It feels a lot more natural kind of navigating the iPad using using the trackpad. The thing that that's always annoyed me about the iPad Pro and one of the main reasons why I think everything that you do on an iPad Pro is just inherently less efficient than using a proper MacBook is because you have to reach up and touch stuff like if I want to open a Safari window, the most natural thing to do would be to click on Safari if I want to navigate YouTube the most natural thing to do would be to kind of scroll like this, click the button, type some stuff. But now this is as good a trackpad as you get on the MacBooks. It's a lot smaller obviously. It actually clicks rather than just being a first touch trackpad. But so far it feels really, really good. And I can imagine that this is going to significantly increase my productivity on the iPad just because having this, especially when it comes to adjusting text, let's go on bear and if I were to write out a graph. It feels very natural to use the trackpad to select text. And so for me because I make money on the internet based off of kind of the stuff that I can produce mostly by writing which then turns into video scripts, this is going to pay for itself. It's an absolutely no brainer of a purchase because even though there's just 350 pounds, it would just help me create one more video in a three year period. It would have paid for itself. Like this is an absolute no brainer. If you're someone who values productivity and if you can see the result on investment from buying something like this. Let's now talk about the thing that everyone is talking about, the fact that it floats. So it does sort of float what you can do is you take it off and this thing is very rigid. Like this is as far as this part of the case goes, but it's very, very well built. It's very, it's very strong. And then you gently place the iPad on and it magnetizes to the back of the thing. And now you can see that you can sort of go this angle which is a bit pointless unless you've got it kind of lying in bed which might be useful. And then you can go up to this angle. But you can't press it down any more than that because it just doesn't work and if you overpress then it's going to fall over. So this is I think a pretty good angle to have the keyboard on. I can't really imagine it having more having it more horizontal. Unless for example I was using the Apple Pencil in which case I might want it more horizontal. Apple Pencil goes on to the top. If I want to write with the Apple Pencil it's on no debility, which is my favorite note taking up for the iPad. I'm going to do a comparison between no debility and good notes at some point. Yeah, if I'm writing with the Apple Pencil this sort of configuration, maybe if you're an artist and you're sort of painting and doing your over the hills and far away kind of paintings on the iPad, this would make sense. But as someone who's writing on it, apparently what you can do is you can put it into this sort of configuration. And this actually works. It's rather than you well. This sort of angle just like turning it over. It's a bit ghetto, but it works surprisingly well for writing. I don't think I'll tell you supposed to use it, but that is probably the configuration I would have it in if I were using the Apple Pencil extensively. Unfortunately the experience of writing on this is a bit crap right now because I haven't got the paper-like screen protector on it yet. It's on the way. I had to order a new one because this is the 12.9 inch iPad. It's new. I failed a screen protector of all times. It makes it feel like paper writing on it. I think it's a bit description. Check out the paper-like screen protector at the moment. I'm not a fan of the screen. It looks kind of cool. I'm going to be taking this to work every day for the next month and I'll be filming some b-roll at work and I'll get some impressions from my fellow medical doctor colleagues about what they think about the float. I really want to flex the float on people because I imagine not many people at work will have seen this in real life and so people might be like, oh, is that the new iPad Pro Magic keyboard? I'll be like, yes, thank you for noticing. This is exactly why I have it to flex on people at work. Speaking of flex, there's not much flex to this case. If you look at the old one, there was quite a lot of flex to it. It's a sort of sort of flimsy. It sort of moves around. But with this new one, it is very, very, very rigid and well-built. Like this as a whole package feels kind of heavy. It feels a lot beefier than just having the photo case on it. And in fact, if you look at the comparisons online, people have very kindly weighed just as keyboard case and the iPad. And this weighs about 700 grams, which is more than the iPad weighs supposedly. Yeah, built quality, amazing. One of the annoying things about it that I immediately realized is that when you have the iPad like this, and you want to open up the keyboard case, how do you do it? When you have a laptop, you expect that you can just kind of flick it up and it would just work. But with this, you have to kind of get your fingers underneath it. It becomes almost like a 200 job. Okay, is there a way to do it as a single hand job? That sounds weird. I don't think I can actually open this with just one hand. This has to be a 200 job, so a little bit fiddly to get out, but once you get it out, then it looks pretty great if I say so myself. Another really cool thing about this is the fact that apparently it has passed through charging, plugging in a USB-C cable. Boom, it's charging. So now this USB port is free to do stuff. To be honest, I don't tend to plug a lot of things into here, but now that I've got the top point nine into iPad Pro with, I think I went for the 256 gigabyte hard drive. I can now do things like plug in my Samsung T5 SSDs. To potentially even try editing videos off of this, potentially photo editing off of this. I've got one of these. Why is it? One of these like SD Cardi reader type things. Stick the SD Cardi in and I would still have pass through charging. If I'm doing something intensive like editing photos or editing videos or music production, which is something that I want to get into. Other than that, what else are there to say about this? It feels really good closing it. You just kind of press it and then, oh look at that. I've got to do that again. That is a world design product. You've got the Apple logo on the back. It's not too garrish. It's not like the gold iPhone or something. But a very subtle embossing of the Apple logo. Yeah, I mean, this is absolutely sick. The question is, can it be used in a lap? So I'm going to put it on my lap. Yeah, I would say it can be used in a lap. It does require me to slouch a little bit. In fact, I'm going to go over to the sofa right now and try and use it in a lap in different places around the house. So be right back. It's just so good. I feel like a genuine productivity grease monkey when I'm typing on this. Okay, really good on the sofa like this. What about like this? Yeah, nothing wrong with that either. How far off the lap can it go? Yeah, because it's quite top-heavy. It does need to kind of be supported a bit more. Whereas if it were a lap top, I guess you could put it off the edge a little bit more, but this one is quite top-heavy, so it probably will fall over. And now I am using it on my lap in bed. Yeah, this isn't good stuff. So yeah, lap test, past with flying colors, works beautifully on the sofa and on the bed. It's so keyboard. It's a keyboard case. It probably protects the iPad of Fairbits. It's going to be a bit weird getting used to opening it kind of the wrong way around. I am hugely excited by the possibilities that this keyboard is going to bring between me. And just as a sort of first impressions, this is the single best product I have used in a very, very long time. There's really nothing about this. I can fault other than the price. It's quite expensive. It's 300 pounds of 300 dollars for the 11 inch, 350 for the 12.9 inch. But like I said, you know, for me and for a lot of people I know, the return on investment for this is going to be, it's going to make it an absolutely no brainer. If you're a student, do you need it? Probably not. If you're a student and you have loads of spare cash to burn, then get it. Yeah, you won't be disappointed. This is fantastic. If you like this and you want to see a comparison of the 11 inch versus 12.9 inch and hear the reasons, why I've got the 12.9 inch now and why I was wrong about why I used to think the 11 inch was better and do click the video over there. Or if you haven't yet got an iPad and you don't know which one to get, then click the video here, which will be a long in-depth analysis of exactly which iPad you should get. Thank you so much for watching and see you in the next video. Bye.
