# The Best Headphones To Buy in 2023 🎧
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sBba4MGPc2U
Check out Storyblocks and sign up for their Unlimited All Access Plan: https://www.storyblocks.com/ali

I’ve had this nagging feeling that I’m due an upgrade on my trusty Bose 700 noise-cancelling headphones, which I’ve had for a while. So I bought the 5 best ANC headphones on the market (and one cheap one), and put them head-to-head in this review.

PRODUCTS:
Anker Soundcore Q30 - https://geni.us/NDEMP
Microsoft Surface Headphones 2 - https://geni.us/VCve81i
Sony WH-1000XM4 - https://geni.us/l5D6Wf
Bose QC 700 - https://geni.us/eKlRH
Apple AirPods Max - https://geni.us/YHAO9
B&O Beoplay H95 - https://geni.us/XxQjYBG

✍️ The best summaries of books (Shortform) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform

TIME STAMPS
00:00 Intro
01:17 Anker Soundcore Q30
03:03 Microsoft Surface Headphones 2
04:57 Sony WH-1000XM4
07:57 Bose QC 700
08:52 Apple AirPods Max
10:54 B&O Beoplay H95

💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://go.aliabdaal.com/subscribe-sundaysnippets

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - 
 https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
🎬 YouTube for Beginners - Everything You Need To Know To Start  - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/YouTube-for-Beginners

MY CREATOR COURSES
🎬 Check out my free 7 day email course on how to become a part-time YouTuber: https://aliabdaal.com/part-time-youtuber-crash-course/
🏆 Creatorpreneur - My flagship course for scaling up your creative side-hustle → https://creatorpreneur.academy/course
🗣 Camera Confidence - My self-paced course on how to improve your creativity, career, or communication skills → https://cameraconfidence.aliabdaal.com/

MY FAVOURITE GEAR
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) -https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

🎙 Check out my weekly podcast, Deep Dive - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/ - It's also available on all podcast platforms, including Spotify, Apple Podcasts etc.

MY FAVOURITE TOOLS
🚀 VidIQ - How I optimise my YouTube videos - https://go.aliabdaal.com/vidiq
✍️ Shortform - The BEST summaries of books - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
📚  Readwise - How I remember what I read - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise
🎵  Epidemic Sound - Where I get my music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound

MY KEY LINKS
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com/
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I’m Ali, a YouTuber, podcaster, soon-to-be author and ex-Doctor working in London, UK. I make videos that explore the strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. I also have a weekly podcast called Deep Dive (https://www.youtube.com/channel/UChfo46ZNOV-vtehDc25A1Ug), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://go.aliabdaal.com/subscribe-sundaysnippets).

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, best wireless headphones, noise-cancelling headphones, wireless headphones, best noise cancelling headphones, noise cancelling headphones, best headphones 2022, noise cancelling, sony wh-1000xm4, over ear headphones, noise cancelling headphones budget, best noise cancelling headphones 2022, best wireless earbuds, ali abdaal books, best over the ear headphones, over ear noise cancelling headphones, wireless headphones 2022, best wireless headphones 2022, 
**Date:** 2022-03-16

## Transcript
 All right, so I've recently decided that I need to get better at focusing, and so, obviously, the pair of noise-councing headphones is the way to guarantee this. And so, in this video, we're going to be testing these top six noise-councing headphones to figure out which of these is the best on the market, and which of these I'm going to buy for myself. Now, the cool thing is we actually have a whole range of these in different price points. We have the ridiculously cheap anchor sound course. We have the Microsoft Surface headphone two. We have the Sony WHX M1000 M4, or something like that. We have the Bose QC700. So, we have the Apple AirPods Max, and we have the stupidly expensive B and OBO play H95s. And so, for each of these, what we did is that I tested them extensively myself, and we got the few team members to test them all as well. And we're going to rate them all in terms of aesthetics, in terms of fit and comfort, in terms of noise cancellation, and in terms of sound quality for music. Now, as you know, I'm a fan of upfront conclusions. So, I'm just going to come out and say that the ones I'll be getting are the Sony WHMX 4s whatever they're called. If you're on a budget, the anchors sound course are actually surprisingly reasonable, and if you don't care about long-term comfort, and are happy to spend a bit more money, the Apple AirPods Maxes are the choice for you. So, if that's all you want it from the video, then thank you very much for watching, and do please have a great rest of day. But now we're going to go over these one at a time, and I'm going to share the pros, and the cons of each of these six pairs of headphones, and I'll share the results of my personal and our team testing about the various factors. So, that, whichever one of these you're buying, you can make hopefully a slightly more informed decision about. The noise-cancening headphones that are obviously going to change your life. So, we're going to start with the cheapest ones, and these are the anchors sound core Q30s, which we tell for about a hundred dollars. And if you're on a budget, these are actually a really good option, and probably the best value for money that you can get in terms of the noise cancellation, headphone wireless headphone market. Their design is a little bit plasticky and flimsy, and they come with this sound core case thing, which, again, is nothing to write home about. It's got these little GP cheap-looking pieces of foam in it as well, but to be honest, for the price, it's not bad at all. In terms of fit and comfort, it's actually pretty reasonable. In terms of looks, these did get the lowest rating from our team members, and from me, with most of us rating it either a one or two, for an average rating of 1.5 stars in terms of looks. But in terms of fit and comfort, they're actually pretty reasonable, and most of us rated them a 4 or a 3, so this got a rating of 3.5 in terms of fit and comfort. Now, when it comes to noise cancellation, I'm going to be honest, like I tested these fairly extensively, and I didn't really notice much of a difference between the noise-canceling capabilities of the different headphones. In fairness, we are in this fairly quiet environment. If I was on an airplane or on a train or on the London Underground, maybe the noise-canceling test would have been better, but as far as I could really tell, they were all fairly similar in terms of noise-canceling ability. But in terms of sound quality, there were some noticeable differences between the 6 headphones in the lineup. The sound is pretty good, but I'm not like wild by it. I'm still getting that kind of like cheap feel. And these ones clocked in fairly reasonably, with an average rating of 3.75 stars across our team. The battery life on these is absolutely incredible. It's 40 hours, apparently, with noise-canceling, and 60 hours, if you turn off the noise-canceling, and then go to a few buttons on the bottom, where you can increase the volume, or decrease the volume, or hit play, and pause. Again, there's nothing to write home about, but if, for example, you're a student, and you're on a budget, and you do want a pair of noise-canceling headphones to make it easier to focus when you're working, or if you're on a coffee shop, or whatever, then these are, by far, the best value for money. And they also fall down nicely, and you can go into this case, and you can shove this little piece of plastic in there somewhere if you really want to. But yeah, fairly reasonable options if you are on a budget. Moving up a little bit in terms of price point, we now have the Microsoft surface headphones too, which retail for around about $270. Now, in terms of aesthetics, I actually quite like these, especially because they're this sort of silvery, white tea kind of color, and I'm a fan of things that look white broadly. And they have these interesting features in that, on both knobs, you can like turn the knobs, so one of the knobs is Phil Volum, and the other knob is for the noise cancellation ability of the headphones. Allegedly, they have multi-device support, and so they can connect to two devices at once, and allegedly it can switch between your iPhone and your MacBook. If it recognizes you're getting a phone call, in practice, this feature does not work, like it has never once actually worked as intended for me. And in terms of battery life, it's fairly low, it's got around about 18 hours of battery life, which means you do have to charge it somewhat regularly if you're going to be using it extensively for long work sessions. In terms of aesthetics, I gave this a 5 star rating, but some of the team gave it a 3 and 4 star, so the average rating of this was 4 stars, and in terms of fit and comfort, it's actually very recently, but I've got 5s and 4s across the board, with an average rating of 4.3 stars. But sadly, in terms of sound quality, these are just not as good as some of the alternative, so I gave this personally a 3 out of 5 in terms of sound quality, which was kind of what the team thought as well, so this had an average rating of 3.3 stars in terms of music quality. So I actually used to use these for about 6 months in 2021, and I really liked them, mostly because of the aesthetic, they were quite nice. To be honest, I had an AB tested them with a bunch of different headphones, to be honest, all these review videos are somewhat artificial, because once you have one of these headphones, it doesn't really matter which one you have, you kind of then just get used to it, and that becomes the new normal. It's only when you really compare them side by side with like kind of 6 other headphones that you start to quibble about things like noise quality, but broadly I was a big fan of them, when I had them, and I liked the fact that they came with a nice little case, which meant I could just chuck it in my bag, and the case had a nice little slot for the cables as well. Then sadly, my Tesla got broken into, and these got stolen, so this is just a pair that we ordered for review purposes, but after testing them side by side with all the others, I've decided that I'm no longer going to be using the Microsoft Surface headphones too, because the Sony's are just a little bit better than them across all fronts, except the aesthetics. Anyway, that brings us on to the Sony, what do they call it? The Sony WH1000 XM4's, this is the only real problem with these, is that they seem possible to remember what the name is, Sony really needs to come up with a better way of naming these headphones, but they are the ones that I'm going to be now switching to, because I think they're the perfect mix of comfort and sound quality and noise cancellation and battery life, even if the aesthetic is just slightly less nice than the Microsoft Surface headphones too. Now in terms of fit and comfort, these actually were the best headphones that we tested, they were the most comfortable, by a reasonable margin. This is very comfortable, most comfortable. Yeah, and I think the main reason for that is that these are just so light, they are, I think probably the lightest out of the six headphones that were tested, although I haven't measured it on my head, they feel really light, and when it comes to wearing these for extended periods of time, really the comfort correlates strongly with how heavy the headphones are, or rather how light the headphones are, because the main problem with the AirPods Max, for example, like the amazing sound quality, the amazing and battery life, the amazing across all fronts, it's just that they're really heavy, and after like an hour of using them, my head starts to hurt from having such heavy headphones on, and so the fact that the Sony's are so comfortable to wear for very extended periods of time, I think it's mostly down to just how light they are. In terms of looks, the other not that, the team thought they were 5,000, 4,000 terms of looks, I personally rate them a 3 star, because I do prefer the look of the Microsoft Surface headphones, but I mean, they're very reasonable, they look like just a normal pair of noise casting headphones, and nothing to write home about, and in terms of design, they fold up nicely like this, so it's very easy to pack into a bag, and they also come with this little carry case, that if you want, you can put them in, I'm probably not going to do that, because that's too much fun, I'm just probably going to stick them in my bag, exactly like that. They charge like all these do by USB-C, that's pretty standard, and, unsurprisingly, they've got a power button and a button that lets you control the level of noise cancellation. In terms of battery life, these are actually really good, the advertised is having 30 hours of battery life with a noise cancellation, and 38 hours without noise cancellation, if you're not into noise cancellation for whatever reason. And in terms of sound quality for listening to music, I personally thought these were really good, I gave them a 4 star rating. Sadly, this was not mirrored by our team who thought they were more like 2 stars and 3 stars in terms of noise quality, and so the overall rating for this in terms of sound quality is 3.5 stars, but personally, I think that's a little bit of an under estimate of what's the actual, I say actual, my personal subjective interpretation of there, their musicality was. And to be honest, this sort of subjectiveness, you get a lot when it comes to testing headphones, like, I'm not an audio file, no one in our team is really an audio file, and so we don't objectively know what these headphones sound like, all we can say is what are subjective experience of like, oh, this sounds a bit better than that, and after doing a bunch of hotspots hoping to be like, are these really sounding better than the surface of these really sounding better than the bosses? I kind of decided at the end that like, yeah, whenever I put these on my head, I felt, oh, these are so comfortable, and I also felt that the sound quality on these is pretty good. But yet, not as good as the AirPods Max, AirPods Max wins across the board, just blew everyone else out out of the water in terms of sound quality, but I don't think that trade-off is warranted given how heavy they are, and therefore how uncomfortable they are for long periods of time, at least for me. And so these are the ones that I'm going to be holding on to, I haven't figured out whether I want them in white, or silver, or in blue. I'm not too much of a fan of this matte black colour, but hey, they're really good, and these are now going to be a staple part of my everyday carry. Alright, now I was spending a little bit more money and we come to the Bose QC700s, which retail for $350, these are a little bit more expensive than the Sony's, and actually, I think the main setting point is the look. It does look quite nice. Our team was a bit split on whether we liked this particular style with these like, yeah, it's just a slightly different design to most noise-canceling headphones. I personally quite like them, but in terms of comfort, the not quite as good as the Sony's, and in terms of sound quality, for me, also the not quite as good as the Sony's. Our team rated these pretty poorly across the board, so this got an average of 3.25 stars when it came to fit and comfort. It got a 3 stars in terms of noise cancellation, and it got a 3.1 stars in terms of sound quality, and a 3.2 stars in terms of look, so, like, broadly, if we average the 4, 4, 4, 4, 4 team members that we had testing these, broadly we weren't a fan. These are actually the ones I've been using for the last six months since my Tesla got broken into and I lost my Microsoft Surface Surface Hepburns too, I've actually been using these but I'm going to give them away to a friend and instead replace them with the Sony's, because the Sony's are marginally better in terms of comfort and in terms of sound quality. Next we come to the Apple AirPod Maxis, which are really expensive and retail for around about $640, at least to be convert the pounds will put the actual dollar price over here. Now, these come with a case, but we have two team members, Gordon and Angus, in our studio who use these, and they never carry the case with them. Similarly, when I used to use the Apple AirPod Max, I never carry the case, because the case is totally pointless. And genuinely, these are really good. Their sound quality is just way better than all of the other headphones that we tested, and when you put these on, you immediately think, oh my god, this sounds incredible, compared to the other noise-counseling headphones. And anyway, it kind of screws up your mind a bit, or your ear rather, because it makes you think that the other sound bad compares it to this. But then, after a while of getting used to the others, you kind of forget what it was like to wear the Apple AirPod Max. This is probably the best sounding of the more. The sound is amazing. The design is a bit polarizing, I quite like the blue color personally, rather than the black, and they've got this little mesh thing at the top, which is kind of comfortable. But the main thing, the main drawback of these, as I've said, is that they're just too heavy. They're very comfortable for short months of time, but for more than about half an hour, I started to find my kind of ears getting a bit tired, my head getting a bit tired. Maybe I'm not hinting enough to handle these, but I just really wasn't a fan in terms of long-term comfort levels. Now, if you have Apple devices, these are actually really good, because there is a chip or something inside them that makes them pair with iPhones and Max really easily. So you can literally just wear them, and they will automatically pair to your iPhone or to your Mac. And where do that means that there isn't actually way of turning them off? The way they go into standby mode is when you put them in the case, but given that realistically, no one really carries the case around because it's kind of useless, it does have that slight quirk to them. It's got a little button at the top, which acts a little sort of volume dial, and also if you press the button down, you can access Siri. But the issues that these are the only phones that don't have a 3.5mm headphone jack. So if you listen to stuff on airplanes a lot, and you want to plug your headphones in to the aeroplane system thingy so that you can watch a movie on the aeroplane using your fancy noise canceling headphones, you can do that with all the others, but you can't do it with the Apple AirPods Max. There's not a huge problem, like to be honest, these were the clear winners in most of the categories in terms of comfort. So yeah, great pair headphones, super expensive, but you do get fantastic sound quality for that, but they are not for me because I just can't handle them in terms of the heaviness and the discomfort. And finally, we come to the big daddies, the B&O B-O Play H95s, which are ridiculously expensive, these come in at $940, or they're about. And they have these leather thingies around them, I think you can actually take these off. Yeah, you can take them off. They have leather around them, they have this leather thing of the top, so it's like a more premium higher end feel to these noise canceling headphones. But sadly, they are just not very good. In terms of the aesthetics, our team was a bit spoiled then. I quite like these metal bits, and I would have even liked the Nordic ice color because these come in a multitude of colors, and that color looks really cool. But again, they run into the same issue that the AirPods Max do in that they are quite heavy, and so wearing them for extended periods of time can actually get a little bit uncomfortable. Sound quality as well, again, it's reasonable, most of our team rated them somewhere between three and four stars. It's I would just hope that the sound would be better for this price. So the sound quality doesn't feel amazing. I thought these were a three star personally, I did personally prefer the sound quality of the Sony's. Despite the fact that these are like triple the price, but I guess what you're really paying for here is the sort of more premium leather feel of the noise canceling headphones. And to be honest, I liked the Nordic ice color, at least on the website so much, that if these were slightly lighter, I probably would have gone for these, just to have the flex of like having a really nicely aesthetic pair of headphones, sadly they're not comfortable enough to even warrant that. So basically, I'm not a fan of these, despite them being quite expensive and quite high-end. Oh, the other cool thing about them is that they do come in this fancy like metal case thing, which feels very high and feels very premium. Makes you think, feel real, oh sick. But it's also a case that's quite heavy by itself, and so it's not a case that you're really going to be carrying in a backpack. It's more for the kind of aesthetics of the unboxing experience, and so that you can feel, oh, I'm a legend, because I wear bangin' all of sudden noise canceling headphones. Now, in terms of practical uses of these noise canceling headphones, there's three main demands that have made up the bulk of my use of these over the last few years. Firstly, it's listening to my study with neat playlists on Spotify, while I'm trying to work or focus or do any kind of deep work at all. Second, it's consuming things like music and podcast and audio books, while I'm on things like trains and error planes, because the noise canceling is really helpful. And thirdly, I find these noise canceling headphones really helpful if I'm editing videos, because then with a noise canceling, I can edit videos wherever I go. And speaking of editing videos, another tool that I find incredibly helpful is called Storyblocks, who are very kindly sponsoring this video. I've been using Storyblocks since I started this YouTube channel five years ago in 2017, Storyblocks is absolutely fantastic. It is a subscription service that gives you royalty-free stock photos and stock videos and stock music that you can use in YouTube videos, just like this one. In fact, when we got team members to test out the headphones, some of the tracks we were using were from Storyblocks and royalty-free, so that we can include them in this video without getting copyrights stricken for them. Me and I just personally find Storyblocks super helpful when we're trying to find a be-roll. And especially in the early days of this YouTube channel, when I was trying to juggle making videos with the demands of being a medical student and later the demands of being a doctor, it was super helpful to have this library of high-quality stock footage available to users be-roll, so that I didn't necessarily have to go out and spend hours an hour with shooting my own be-roll for all the videos that I was making. And other than just videos and music, Storyblocks also has things like After Effect templates and Premiere Pro templates for titles, lower thirds, transitions, and even sound effects that you can incorporate into your videos whenever you want. Storyblocks has subscriptions for any budget, and so if you want to check it out, then do hit the link in the video description. So thank you so much Storyblocks for sponsoring this video, and for helping out the channel over the last five years. So overall, when I come to these headphones, the budget pick is the Anchor Sound Cores, which are very reasonable. My personal pick is the Sony WHMX Egg 1,000 XM4s, or whatever they're called, and if you don't care about the comfort thing, the AirPods Maxes are by far the best ones in terms of sound quality. Now, if you like this video, you might be interested in a more sort of podcast I listen to with by fancy pair of noise-canceling headphones, and that'll be in a video over there, called to 20 podcasts that may be millionaire. So thank you so much for watching, and I'll see you in the next video. Bye-bye.
