# Ho Chi Minh City (Vietnam) - Cambridge Medical Elective #10
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sDFe-OJmVXc
Experimenting with a slightly longer format than usual. Let me know what you guys think :)

Social:
- Snapchat: aliabdaal
- Twitter - https://twitter.com/AliAbdaal
- Instagram - https://instagram.com/AliAbdaal
- Website - www.aliabdaal.com
**Keywords:** medical student, medical student vlog, medical elective, medicine at university, electives, cambridge medicine, medical electives, cambridge medical student, cambridge medical students, medical school elective, ho chi minh, vietnam, 
**Date:** 2017-08-19

## Transcript
 Good morning! Today we're saying goodbye to Cambodia for good and heading off to Ho Chi Minh City in Vietnam. Here we are in Ho Chi Minh City. We're about to go up to our Airbnb apartment, so we'll do a quick tour about. And then we'll head out into the city and see what it's like. Feels like we've had a gold mine with this place, and we've not even seen inside the apartment yet. This is very, very exciting. This is a rather nice place. So yesterday we went to the Vietnam War Museum. I don't know about the Vietnam War. I'm honestly not a massive fan of museums. It was very interesting to see the photographs of things, but one of the reasons I really enjoyed was the Cambodia genocide museum. Because the audio guide was so good. And like, told the story, it told you to walk in different places. It was safe to fly right here. You are outside the courtyard. Now we're walking through this place. Now we're walking through that place and it was a walk through it through everything. Whereas with most of the museums I've been to, it's been more of a self-directed learning. I think, which I've read out from the really fun of when it comes to learning about history and things like that. Today we're going to be visiting the tunnels. I think the tunnels look part of the Vietnam War, but not entirely sure. We've got a guide who has played everything. So, hopefully that should be good. Now I'm going to join Martha for coffee at a local coffee shop. But that can't seem to fight. Fashioners, how do we cross the road now? All right, let's enjoy this local coffee shop so you can get used to it. Frankly speaking, we're going to need some dedication. Yes. The city of Madam Randi infections are a hard swab. It used to be those who helped us continue seeing them all at the same time. And here are the buses that we can see. We've seen this monument in the local society. It's crazy, it's pretty cool. So back onto this point about museums. I do kind of feel I'm missing something when I visit museums. And I'm not like overly involved by them. Maybe it's just like a lack of intellectual curiosity. I don't know. Surely a lot of people feel that when they visit museums that they should be interested in it. But they're not really. And they were just quite like a nice coherent story. If I was there anyway, maybe we're not more watching a box media video or watching a crash course. Well, this video explained to me a lot more. It would be really interesting to tell the story. Whereas with museums often, the owners are on us to kind of find the story. And yeah, I can say that I'm not really a massive fan of that. But much rather than it won't be done for me. Someone curates a kind of journey. Thank you very much. It was still out there. And this is the sugar syrup that comes out. I think I just got stood up by Ben's girlfriend. She was the first to meet me here. Turns out she went to the cafe next door to her hotel instead. Which means she didn't have to cross the road. That's what we're going to do. And see you on the side. Right. On our way to the taxi. Which is going to very kindly take us to the tunnels. We're about halfway along our journey to the caves. And we stopped off at this workshop. That's run by people who are victims of Agent Orange. They come with a weapon that the Americans used in the Vietnam War. About 40 years ago. It's like this workshop thing whereby it's all hand-potted goods made by people who are either there at the time. And therefore, they're victims of the effect of Agent Orange. Or who were their genetic offspring. And therefore had their own and their own defects. 50% of all property made by the shop are given to the victims of Agent Orange Fund. And it's some pretty incredible stuff they've got. Alright, paying it for tunneling and thought in the hammers going to be fun. Okay, yeah. Here we go. Here we go. Here we go. Oh my god. Oh my god. Oh my god. Oh my god. How did you get that? I've got a tunnel this pretty small. Apparently they've widened it by 40% of the tourists. So we've just finished our tour of the Vietnam and North Vietnamese army tunnels. And it was really nice having a guide who showed us around and told us the story of what went on. What was particularly interesting for me anyway was that it was almost a sense of national pride with which our guide was explaining things. Like referring to the Vietnamese army as we sang stuff like, oh, so the Americans would walk past this bridge and then weed. Jump out of the ground and shoot them in the head. Kind of with a sense of glee. I'll almost end. It's the kind of explaining the booby traps and everything. That the American soldier fell for when the real sense of pride. And that was interesting because obviously the Americans clearly lost the Vietnam war. And now Vietnam has a sort of communist regime. And as they say history is a story told by the victors. And I suppose that people in Vietnam people who go to school in Vietnam people who brought up in Vietnam. Very much view the war as American aggression against the Vietnamese and feel proud of the fact that they want it. Which is interesting because normally, you know, it's the Americans who win. It's the West that wins. So that was really nice. At any time we learn about the world wars or anything like that. It's always even though we tried to be as unbiased as possible in it. And we've seen it in a few different points of view. It's still very much an as well as a system of conflict. And we're sleeping in the UK. We get it from the side of the Allies rather than the side of Germany. That's why it was particularly interesting to get the other perspectives. Get it from the side of the victors who went to the West. I really quite like to learn more about the Vietnam war. I feel almost positive that the crash course was, and if people have some kind of episode on it, hopefully a hardware history podcast might have some as well. Because it was such a big element of American history. And of course Vietnam history as well. And relatively recent times. So yeah, that was quite a fun trip to see the tunnels. And I understand a bit about how they were used in the Vietnam war. We've got the rest of the day and most of tomorrow to explore how it should be in city. And I think we might go to one of the IMAX cinemas to watch a Dunkirk tonight. So that should be fun. But thank you very much for watching. Please drop a like if you like the video. Please consider subscribing if you're new here. I'll see you in the next one. Bye.
