# My Personal & Business Goals for 2023 - Life Update
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sL5XWO2Z-yw
Would highly recommend checking out Brilliant, go to https://brilliant.org/Ali to get a 30-day free trial + the first 200 people will get 20% off their annual subscription.

Hey friends, this is just a life update video for anyone who's interested and has been following along the journey. I talk about the three most important areas of my life: work, health and relationships and chat how each one is going. Feel free to watch any of my other more useful videos, this one's a bit rambly 😜. Enjoy x

💌  Sign up to my free email to get weekly productivity insights - https://go.aliabdaal.com/subscribe-sundaysnippets

🎙 Check out my weekly podcast, Deep Dive where I interview entrepreneurs, creators and other inspiring people - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/

🍿WATCH NEXT:
Why I Have 12 Employees as a YouTuber: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=66G7TnkdMd8
7 Habits that Save Me 3+ Hours Every Day: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hXP5fUfBGQQ
How to Invest for Beginners: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lNdOtlpmH5U
If I Started a YouTube Channel in 2023, I'd Do This: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T2M9hSswlIs

⌚️Timestamps:
0:00 Introduction
0:55 Work
26:40 Health
32:08 Relationships

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - 
 https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
🎬 YouTube for Beginners - Everything You Need To Know To Start  - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/YouTube-for-Beginners

MY CREATOR COURSES
🎬 Check out my free 7 day email course on how to become a part-time YouTuber: https://aliabdaal.com/part-time-youtuber-crash-course/
🏆 Creatorpreneur - My flagship course for scaling up your creative side-hustle → https://creatorpreneur.academy/course
🗣 Camera Confidence - My self-paced course on how to improve your creativity, career, or communication skills → https://cameraconfidence.aliabdaal.com/

MY FAVOURITE GEAR
🧑‍💻My MacBook Skin (& other tech): https://dbrand.com/palettes
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) -https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE TOOLS
🚀 VidIQ - How I optimise my YouTube videos - https://go.aliabdaal.com/vidiq
✍️ Shortform - The BEST summaries of books - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
📚  Readwise - How I remember what I read - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise
🎵  Epidemic Sound - Where I get my music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound

MY KEY LINKS
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com/
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I’m Ali, a YouTuber, podcaster, soon-to-be author and ex-Doctor working in London, UK. I make videos that explore the strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. I also have a weekly podcast called Deep Dive (https://www.youtube.com/channel/UChfo46ZNOV-vtehDc25A1Ug), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://go.aliabdaal.com/subscribe-sundaysnippets).

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, Life Goals, new year goals, how to set goals, new year resolutions, setting goals, goal setting, personal goals, how to goal set, plan with me, goal setting motivation, Notion Goal Setting, notion new years resolution template, 2022 goals motivation, life goals, life goals ali abdaal, ali abdaal gym shark, new years 2023, 2023 goals, new years 2023 goals, my goals 2023, my new years resolutions 2023, life goals 2023, my new life goals 2023, 
**Date:** 2023-03-29

## Transcript
 Hey friends, welcome back to the channel. This is going to be a little bit of a life update, life and business update. And so this video I want to go through for whatever it's worth. What my goals are for my business and my life in terms of work, in terms of health, in terms of relationships. I'll talk through some of the main projects that we're working on this year. So if you've been following along the journey or you just care for whatever reason, then this might be an interesting video for you to watch. And of course, we'll put times times down in the video description. So you can skip around a different areas of the video. If you feel like it, if you're not particularly interested in how the journey's been progressing around the behind the scenes of this YouTube channel or the business or anything, there are so many more valuable videos to watch on this channel or outside of this channel. So please don't waste your time with this one. But yeah, I'm just going to have a bit of a chatty, chill, tea time, tea time chat around around what's going on. So life and business goals for 2020-3. So let's start with the business, slash work stuff. And then we're going to talk about health. And then we're going to talk about relationships because these are the important areas of life. So on the workfront on the business front, one of the main realizations that I had last year in 2022 was that instead of trying to build a big business, what I wanted instead was a lifestyle business. Now lifestyle business is one where you've kind of got a few things. You're trying to make money, but really the thing that you're optimizing for is freedom and fun and flexibility. You're not trying to build a zillion dollar company. You're not trying to grow a huge team. You're not trying to have a huge enormous impact on the world. You're not really trying to change the world. You're just trying to build a nice business that helps fund your own lifestyle in a way that gives you freedom of fun and flexibility. And I kind of realized at this stage of my life that is what I want to go for. Maybe in the future I might decide I want to build a bigger company, maybe in the future I might decide I want to go back to medicine who knows. But for now, lifestyle business optimizing for this 3F seems pretty ideal. A lifestyle business also, you know, the objective is to make money. But a lifestyle business is broadly focused on profit rather than revenue. So for example, if you're a startup and you take investment from venture capitalists, you might want to grow your user base and try and grow your revenue really high, but have your cost really high so you're making it loss. And then at some point further down the line, you might want to sell or you might want an IPO and go public or whatever that might look like. That's like the opposite of what a lifestyle business wants to do. A lifestyle business wants to make a decent amount, a healthy amount of profit every single month and that can be banked and put into other things. So the spare cash, the business generates. I generally put into index funds. So the S&P 500 or something like that move more on video over there if you want to learn the basics of investing and I'm trying to generally diversify my portfolio of investments so that they are investing and things that are decorrelated with my popularity on the internet. Because kind of the issue with this kind of whole YouTuber creator career path is that longevity in this sort of career path is not a tool guaranteed. And so if I can build a really solid lifestyle business where I've got freedom of fun flexibility, the team is having a good time. We're having the impact that we want and we're making tons of money putting that money aside into safer things other than the internet that would basically let me live this kind of dream life basically forever which is kind of nice. And then the other thing that a business does I mean generally you know impact and I put impact at the bottom of the list because you know for being honest for most people the point of a business is to make money. The secondary point of a business is freedom of fun flexibility and the tertiary point of business is impact. And so whenever I think about this business I think yeah we're making money freedom of fun flexibility and we're having the kind of impact that we want to have and for me personally as I've said before in many videos the thing that I personally care about is teaching and helping people build a life that they love. And if I were to die tomorrow then and people at my funeral would be like yeah you know all of those videos or whatever podcast kind of kind of stuff change my life because it helps me quit my job and follow my passion or because it helped me study better in school or because it helped me whatever discover notion. I think that would be that would be pretty good going and whenever people come up to me in the streets and they say oh my god you're your videos really help me get through medical school or your videos really help me lead medical school you know whatever that might be that always feels really satisfying and fulfilling inside. So that's kind of the sort of big picture of philosophical point of the business and crucially the thing with the lifestyle business is we kind of do want to keep things small. I've got another video which is which will be linked over there in that below around why I currently have I think 14 employees of which like 12 the full time including me and two are like part-time ish because I realize that I don't really want to be a solo printer or I don't just want to do things myself because I really enjoy working with people and working with people in real life but I also don't really enjoy having a huge team and I don't really have the aspiration to build a very big business. So there's like a sweet spot of like how many people you've got on a team and I feel like we're at that sweet spot now and so we're doing cool stuff and as long as the stuff feels energizing and enjoyable then we'll continue doing the thing. Okay so we know we want a lifestyle business at least at least for now. What is then the business model? I've been thinking about this a lot and I think I have come up well I'm really come up with this this is pretty standard stuff but this is at least how I think about the business model. Basically there's two pillars of the business. There's the content and then there's courses and then we make loads of really good content hopefully it's really good content and then some percentage of that audience feeds into buying our courses and that helps fund the content and it basically is a very simple business model that creates this kind of flywheel where I can spend all my focusing on making free stuff on the internet. If people vibe with that then some percentage of that audience will buy my paid stuff and then that allows us to fund the production of more free stuff and it's just just kind of nice. And I think of this as like the 991 rule which is that 99% of the content is free but 1% of the content is expensive for the 1% of people who can afford it. And that seems to be a fairly sustainable business model at least so far that's kind of been the business model for the last six years of now running this creative business that I've been doing and that seems to be the model that creators have been in the in the game for far longer than I have also do essentially info products, info products like basically selling courses and digital downloads and occasionally making software as I think that some people do. And so right now without a team of 14 people including me, 10 of us ish are on the content side and four of us ish are on the courses side which kind of reflect the different waiting that I want to give to these things because for me courses are a bit of a necessary evil in that let's say if I had if I had all the money in the world and I didn't need to make money for the business I wouldn't bother making any courses at all I would literally just spend all my free time creating future videos and writing and learning and exploring and doing cool stuff but the courses are also kind of fun to do but like obviously if I didn't need the money I would just chuck them online on YouTube for free because they'd be accessible to way more people then. So it's kind of like the 10 people on content squad which is how we kind of separate our team and more details in that video but there where I talk about why I have 14 employees the people in content squad are basically helping me kind of create content in a way that's hopefully enjoyable in engaging for the audience and then the people on the courses team are trying to monetize some of that audience through our part time youtuber academy and trying to deliver an amazing experience for them and I absolutely world-class course all of that fun stuff. Now on the course aside we've got our part time youtuber academy which is just actually done phenomenally well this final cohort because we're running as a live cohort for the final time in April of 2023 and then beyond that point we're going to transition it into like an evergreen self-paced course that people can just sign up whenever they want and we'll turn the live cohorts videos into recordings and modules and all that kind of stuff because I've realized after a while that in now that I've been doing the youtuber academy for two and a half years it has kind of gotten a little bit boring repeating the same content over and over and over again and also it's quite a lot of stress and quite a lot of path doing a live cohort course. I'm really glad we did it because it was great during lockdown it added interesting elements to life and it was a really high value high margin product but moving forward I don't really want to be running live courses very much more which is why we're ending this final cohort with a bang um don't really want to be running live cohorts anymore because fundamentally it's a lifestyle business the objective of the business is to create the lifestyle for me essentially where I've got freedom of flexibility and I don't want to be like cohorts because that removes some of the freedom some of the autonomy it means I have to be on Zoom calls at certain times multiple times a week means I can't really travel in those times and you have decent internet it's there's quite a lot of stress so we're basically what I suspect will probably make a lot less money through the youtuber academy but when you're running a lifestyle business that trade-off is actually worth it because you always want to be thinking about at least this how I think of it I'm always kind of thinking you know when is enough enough and at what point do we need to put the brakes on making more money and instead actually just focus on the freedom of the fun the flexibility and having the impact that we want all right we're just going to take a very quick break from the video to tell you about this video sponsor which is brilliant.org now brilliant is the world's best platform for learning anything around maths or science or computer science in a really fun and interactive way I've been working with brilliant now for over three years and the platform just keeps getting better and better they've got thousands of lessons across maths and science and computer science the ones that I'm personally most interested in are the computer science ones as you guys might know when I was first applying to medical school I was actually torn between medical school and computer science and I went with medicine in the end but I've always had a bit of a bug in the back of my mind for computer science used to make websites when I was young I'm still into a little bit of the coding stuff and so my personal favorite courses on brilliant have been the computer science themed ones like introduction to algorithms the fundamentals of computer science back when crypto was a big thing you know prior to investing tons of money into crypto I took their cryptocurrency series which is a super fun and interactive way of explaining the maths and computer science and cryptography behind the idea of crypto and now that this AI stuff is going big and I really want to understand how neural networks and transformers and stuff work I've been going through their course in neural networks to try and just get a little bit of a foundational understanding so that when I start using AI tools and maybe talking about them are at least have some kind of basis to go on but don't just take my word for it if you are at all interested in learning more about this AI stuff then head over to brilliant.org forward slash LA and that will give you a 30 day completely free trial to brilliant and then you can check out the courses you can try the interactive content the quizzes and stuff and you can see if you like it and if you do end up liking it and you're one of the first 200 people to have signed up using that link then you'll also get 20% off the annual premium subscription so thank you so much brilliant for sponsoring this video and let's get back to it. Content wise interesting things are happening this year so we're you know doubling down on the YouTube channel obviously the YouTube channel whoops the YouTube channel is the foundation of the business and if the YouTube channel were to die the business is gonna die as well. We found that actually a surprisingly large chunk of the audience is now students there was a period where students were like following the channel a little bit less I think maybe during the pandemic or maybe it could be wrong and it seemed like we were getting more traction with the amongst the entrepreneur audience but we've done a few community post recently across YouTube and socials and stuff and that's still a ridiculously large contingent of the audience that students and so yeah just leaning into some of the student content productivity content like tech stuff basically basically the point of the YouTube channel is for me to share share cool stuff that I've learnt along the journey and to explore new things so some of it is me sharing stuff that I already know about for example study tips and things but some of it is me sharing stuff that I've explored newly so for example we've recently gone into some health topics like skincare and sleep and that's stuff that I want to explore more more about I'm personally getting into fitness more of that more about that and the health section and really the I'm trying to come for the name for this but like there's a bit of a a bit of a mood going on here where it's like for me personally I get to explore and learn stuff and as I learn stuff I share it and then I just keep on exploring and there's this sort of explore learn share loop which is what this kind of creature printer educational type thing looks like it's not really what like the vloggers do or the entertaining type youtubers but I think this is a model that a lot of educators educator type people people who do educational content on the internet that I know they kind of follow that model they learn cool stuff and then they share it with their audience and then over time they build an audience that know likes and that knows likes and trust them and then at some point they'll sell of course to some percentage of that audience and then they'll repeat the process and then over time as they get older they are essentially doing the same thing but the topic areas are changing like you know I don't really see myself making productivity content for the rest of my life I see myself making videos and sharing cool stuff about whatever I enjoy learning along the way um at least that's the idea that's a dream that's a plan and hopefully if that can be sustainable which seems like it is for now if that can be sustainable over the long term then that's me kind of living living living living my best life and playing the infinite game in addition to YouTube we've also got the podcast so the deep dive podcast has nearly hit 200,000 subscribers in YouTube which is very exciting last year we were in the top 1% of podcasts on Spotify that were shared and like they were listened to and that's really cool and the great thing about the podcast is that I get to have incredible conversations with experts from a whole range of fields it might be other creators it's often other entrepreneurs or academics and I can like learn stuff from them and ask them questions about things that I want to learn about like you know interview to gut health expert or a couple of sleep experts or you know guy who runs a center for compassion science and loads of entrepreneurs and I find it got about their business models and then those conversations I get to have in real life mostly and then we just share them with the audience for free on a podcast and that's pretty sick but then really the dream behind the podcast is that it becomes a way for me to share insights outside of my own realm of personal expertise like we did a video recently um kind of seven seven myths that are ruining your sleep and that video is done phenomenally well but I don't really know anything about sleep I was learning about about the subject myself but then by virtue of being able to interview professor Russell Foster who's literally a world expert on sleep and circadian science through the podcast we were able to tone that interview into what I think is a pretty solid YouTube and that video is like 3 million full million views something like that and we've had loads of emails and comments from people being like oh my god this video is sick so you know cool stuff like that is what the podcast on locks the other thing we're trying to do more of this year is also kind of take the different social media platforms a little bit more seriously so so far um you know Twitter Instagram LinkedIn TikTok Facebook these have all been kind of secondary platforms for me because I don't really spend a lot of time on them I don't think about them too hard but you know building a building an entire business on the borrowed land of YouTube is a little bit risky and so of partly for diversification um it's worth trying to build an audience across all these other platforms but also because genuinely there are people out there that's been all that time of Twitter LinkedIn and Instagram and that don't don't really watch very many YouTube videos there are so many content creators that I follow where I don't watch any of their long form YouTube videos but I might watch what I might watch their YouTube shorts or their Instagram and so given that the aim of the business is to help people build a like they love through inspiring educational content I've realized that this year we want to just have more just take the other social media platforms a little bit more seriously like we're producing all this content across like for the YouTube channel and the podcast anyway so we may as well also then chop it up and put it on these other platforms in a way that makes sense for the platform the other exciting thing about the the various different social media platforms is that I can share stuff in a little bit less of a high production value way which is really cool um like for example on this YouTube channel I I feel like I have to put a lot of time and effort into preparing a video before it can I can make it because the pressure is too high on on this on this main YouTube channel we kind of started the second YouTube channel last year and done it at a daily vlog and that was super fun but it took a lot of time and effort and it was actually taking a traffic away from the main channel which then is bad for the business so now what we started doing as of like two weeks ago is basically every day I'm trying to post something on socials like sharing something that I've learned from a conversation or from a coaching session with our CEO coach or from a book that I've read and just doing a little bit more of that sharing-y type stuff because really one of the questions that I I've been asking myself on on the business front is you know if I if I if I want the lottery how would I spend my time if I didn't need to make money how would I spend my time and honestly I was still I would still continue to make videos because it's really fun making videos but I'd want to I'd want to have a lower bar for sharing things if I wasn't concerned like will this video perform well I would probably make more stuff because I'd be like hey I've just you know I've just just re-reads show your work by Austin Clayon I can't be bothered to do a whole like eight hour job trying to turn this into a really super condensed thing but if I could just hit record and say something about like a lesson I've learned from the book I would love to do that that would be fun but maybe there's this whole that I've created for myself but I feel like I can't really do that on the YouTube channel but I can absolutely do that on my Instagram story or on LinkedIn or on Twitter or anything like that on my email newsletter which is actually where I share most of the sort of week by week stuff that I come across and so really the objective of I that that we're thinking this year in in terms of the social media platforms and also the email list is to be like more of a just sharing stuff that's sharing cool things as I discover them and if people like them then great and if not then that's fine there was a little bit of other people in the world to follow and for me personally I'm just trying it like this this whole journey of the last six years has been an exercise in trying to get over imposter syndrome like even for a video like this you know where it's I don't know what the title of this is going to be like life update 2023 you know a big thing in the back of my mind all day has been why would anyone care like what is anyone care about what's going on in my life like you know and then I I'll occasionally speak to people and they say oh yeah I love your life update videos because it really helps me see how you're thinking about your goals and your business and that helps me with my creative business or whatever and I'm like oh damn people actually enjoy these videos at least some people do and so I'm just really trying to get over the fear of videos not performing well or not being applicable to literally everyone in the audience and just having more of an attitude of sharing without fear there's like sharing stuff sticking on the internet if people want to watch it they can watch it if not what ifs I would share it anyway and actually it was um I had a bit of a coaching session with Dr. Aria who's coming out on the podcast very soon and he was saying that it's it's less about sharing without fear and more about sharing in the face of fear like where was going to feel that fear every creative I ever spoken to feels that fear when they you know just before the hip hip hip public should just before the hip record where they think oh my god who am I who am I to make to have the audacity to make a video about topic ex and then you know you feel the fear and you do it anyway because sharing stuff online is pretty great and what a world we live in where people can make a full-time living or even a part-time living through learning about stuff that they enjoy and following their passions and then just literally sharing that with the world that's absolutely incredible I had breakfast this morning was a chap called Nick who runs a fantastic course called linking your thinking um he's got a YouTube channel he's got a course and everything and over lockdown he was telling me he got really into note taking and he got super into obsidian which is a note taking up that both here and I use and he just started sharing stuff about obsidian in the obsidian discord community and through that he managed to like you just being helpful sharing his love of obsidian and helping people out and then he just he thought you know what let me make a course you didn't have an audience he didn't have any unfair advantages he just made a course helping people and you know gave free access to the first 10 people it rated the course over time and now he's built a freaking seven figure business off the back of that was able to quit his job to go full-time on this and he's following this business model he's exploring following a passion learning about it sharing it trying to be as helpful to people as possible and then repeating that over and over again um in a way that hopefully evolves over time and I think like what a what a time to be alive that you know you can do that today it's it's Monday the 13th of March my friends who are doctors are currently on strike they're striking because you know junior doctor pay has gone down to 14 pounds an hour inflation is not keeping up with things like the NHS the national health service and the UK is absolutely dying all my friends on instagram are sharing posts about how they're picketing and how they're protesting and demonstrating and stuff and like it's really sad that they're having to do that because obviously they are way more valuable to society than I am for example making videos on the internet but in terms of optimizing for kind of freedom of fun and flexibility having the power of the internet to be able to build a kind of business where you can just literally for a full-time job just learn about cool things and then just share them online and build a business around that that's so sick like yeah anytime I meet people where that's that's been their journey as well I'm just thinking that damn what a time to be alive anyway if anyone's thinking become a creator what 100% recommend now the other thing we're trying to do keeping things to the business front is I am working on my book I haven't talked about it too much recently because basically I mean a book is a long process I tried to James Clare a couple years ago who wrote atomic habits and he said that that process that book took about five years to come together so far I've been working on mine for around three the three two and a half years it's been about two and a half years when I have the editing stages so we've got the third draft of the book that's that's ready that's about like 110 thousand words and now it's in the editing stages where we're trying to cut things down to about 70 thousand words so it's a bit more reasonable we're going back and forth with the publishers with Penguin UK and McMillan US on cover designs and it's all kind of coming together and a few months ago I was thinking oh god this book is never going to be over it's really bad like what is this why did I agree to write this you know the whole imposter syndrome stuff but now that it's actually gone through a couple of rounds of editing I'm thinking you know what this is actually not bad this actually could be a pretty a pretty good book maybe good as a stronger it could at least be reasonable and so as as the process progresses I'm I find myself having more fun with it realizing that that's a quite fun writing a book it's cool and the main thing for the book is again and like with everything in the business what I'm trying to focus on is the the goal that's within my control all I want to do is write a book that I'm proud of that's it you know if it does well great if it doesn't great if people like it great if not then that's fine as well at least that's what I tell myself I know in reality when I see negative reviews for the book people being like oh this could have been a blog post lol oh my god this blow-hard like whatever whatever the reviews some of the reviews will say that's probably gonna be quite like painful but I can at least tell myself that that's not the thing I'm I'm optimizing for I'm optimizing for how can I write a book and proud of and how can I learn something interesting along the way so yeah hopefully things across the book will be released at some point in the next 12 months maybe don't want to commit to a release date yet because anything could change and there's all sorts of stuff happening and we would rather take longer to write to release a book that is better then release one quickly that's not very good and when I interviewed Matthew Hussie on the podcast he wrote a book called GetTheGirl I think like 10 years ago and I asked him for advice you know anything he'd recommend and he said like man this book is gonna be with you for the rest of your life so really take your time and getting it right and so that's what we're doing we're taking your time to get it right because I don't want to publish something it's not that hard to publish a book anyone can publish a book on Amazon you can do it within like a weekend but that's not really the point like I don't want to publish the sort of book that I can write in a weekend and stick on Amazon I want to I want to write something that I'm genuinely proud of that for the next like five years 10 years I could be holding up in videos and being like hey you know I wrote this book and you can check it out if you like so we're not quite there yet but we're we're getting there in each week we're making progress me and the editing team to get to that point so that's that's been pretty exciting but I will definitely share more details on that as we go along and if you like you can sign up to my book journey it's a segment of my email newsletter where every month ish a send an email just updating people and what's going on on the book front if you're potentially interested in that and then the final thing that we are exploring as a bit of a side hustle is products so we are attempting to build our own line of hardware products now this is pretty interesting we've been working with a company called Genflow who specialize in kind of you know they've got factories and manufacturing relationships and stuff and we're just trying to build really cool tech accessories like a mechanical keyboard and a backpack for your laptop and like notebooks and phone cases and you know this sort of stuff that every every discerning productivity enthusiast needs as part of their arsenal so we're actually meeting with them next week we're going to their offices to see some prototypes that they've got shipped from the factories in China and I was going to be sick because I got to try out loads of keyboards and be like okay we're only going to release this when it's the absolutely perfect mechanical keyboard that I genuinely use every single day so that's a bit of a side hustle that we're doubting with yeah obviously we'll give you give you more updates as that process goes along and we're also kind of documenting the whole behind the scenes process off this so if every end ends up getting off the ground then we'll have all of the things documented but also one thing that I'm sort of exploring as a little bit of a side hustle is software like I've had the idea in the back of my mind that would be really cool to build my own productivity app like if I could build my own to do this I would do it in a way that like really works for me and so we're starting to work with the developer to see what does it look like if we try and make software there's always a bit of a danger with the stuff you know our core business competency is content and courses which is basically content we don't do hardware we don't do software so we don't really want to line extend our business in trying to be really good at everything which is why we're partnering with people who are really good at those things and trying to work with them but also you know it's kind of like explore versus exploit there's always a bit of a trade-off between how much do you explore new avenues that might be interesting versus how much do you just focus and stay in your lane and focus on what you know because if you just stay in your lane forever you're going to end up dying because you need you've got to like iterate and have some level of I guess exploration but similarly if you're exploring all the time and trying out all these different niches and never committing to anything you're also then your business is also not going to work so there's like a bit of attention between these things so for me the thing that we are quite exploiting I hate where we're focusing and doubling down is the content and the courses more so the content because we already know how to do that kind of stuff but the side the side quests the side hustles that we're exploring as a business are the hardware and the software and if things work out fantastic and if they don't then call whatever we've at least tried we've tried to really something interesting and see what happens we did a bit of a side quest with a physical product stationary line last year and the year before well the last year yeah I think it was in 2022 essentially a product line I actually got the one pants with this stuff and we built around like productivity planners and notebooks and stuff and that was an interesting side hustle we've ended up shutting it down because it wasn't particularly profitable and yeah it just wasn't that fun you know in the end shilling paper of planners and stuff and if I'm being honest you know I was super excited about this paper planners initially and then after a few months of using my product productivity planner I stopped using it because my own workflow changed and then it was like so much faster change of physical product to be like molded to my workflow ended up just using a normal pen and paper notebook that I could just write on but I'm glad we explored that because you know for a business like this we've been going for six years now in total and there's always this this like level there there's always this balance between yeah staying staying in your lane and also exploring other avenues and seeing seeing how they go so well it's it's it's sort of like planting a few seeds well plant a few seeds in various different various different areas some of them might start growing and the ones that start growing will be like oh let's water that tree over there and let's see what happens while hopefully trying to maintain the glutton that we've got growing in terms of the content and the courses thing as part of the business okay that is it for the first time of this video I'm going to do a wee and grab a coffee with a friend so I'll see you shortly and we're back so I've actually just come back from a kickboxing lesson which segues us very nicely into the health stuff so firstly on the health front I have decided to start taking kickboxing lessons I had my third one just now and the reason I went for kickboxing is mainly because it's it seems to be a really solid combination of fitness and flexibility and mobility and cardio and also like some level of self defense but crucially the mobility and stuff is all in the hips and my hips are really really really inflexible and bad so I thought I've been thinking for months hey I want to start kickboxing and I've just met random people through just meeting random people that seem to have done kickboxing and it's like they're feeling where you know where you know if you're going to buy a car or something and you think no one has that car and then suddenly you see that car everywhere in the road because you start noticing it more manifestation all that kind of stuff over the last several months I've noticed more and more people in my life taking up kickboxing in various capacities and they seem to be really enjoying it so I thought I'd start and I love it so far it's absolutely fantastic so definitely going to continue with that and then alongside I've been working with a health slash fitness coach his name is Dan Dan Go I actually discovered him on Twitter because he writes really good threads on how to how to stay fit as like an adult and stuff like that and I really vibed with his style of communication and the way he does his content so I reached out to him on Twitter and then we became mates and now we're working together where he's basically my remote fitness so what he does he's got this app which sinks really nicely on the back end with his with his like system and he basically programs my workouts so when I go to the gym I have a plan that I follow and I stick to the plan and I just slowly go up each time with progressive overload so I'm finding myself getting a bit more hench and on the app I can also take progress photos and submit like measurements of like how big my biceps are and all that kind of fun stuff the app is also great it's called trainer eyes I'm not sure you can use it if you're a normal person but the app I would recommend for normal people is strong trainer eyes I think has to sink to another personal trainer but strong is a fantastic app that I've been using for years before then and the app is great because it also links to my fitness pal so I've been tracking my macros and stuff for the last several months well two months now and that sinks so he can see it on his end and then occasionally he'll send me a WhatsApp message being like hey how's the diet going and I'm finding the diet is the thing that I'm struggling with because the objective I'm currently on about 72 kg, objective is to cut to about 68 so I can get to around about I don't know 15 to 17% body fat fingers crossed visible apps maybe and then slow bulk lean gains from that point onwards but when it comes to fitness I don't really have any specific goals in mind like my whole vibe is I prefer to set goals that are within my control and input goals rather than outcome goals and then alongside that I'm using a website called alo moves that has this this guy I think Dylan Dylan Warner or something he has this whole series on flexibility and mobility for beginners so I'm just kind of following that so basically every day I try and do at least something for my health because I realize that for me and for the last several years like work and business and stuff has taken a significant priority role in my life but I you know I'm very much in danger of neglecting my health and fitness and relationships as well so those are areas in which for this year I really want to actively focus more on a two more components in health the first is nutrition in which I have actually started to take more of an interest in cooking and I'm decided that the identity I want to embody for myself is a cooking adventurer what is cooking adventurer mean honestly I have no idea but in my to do list on things which is the app that I used to manage my to do list I've got a little project called cooking adventurer which reminds me that that's the kind of identity I want to embody when it comes to cooking food so most evenings instead of ordering takeout I will now cook something whether it's for myself or with friends and my main focus is to try and enjoy the process and think of it as an adventure so instead of just being like hey let me just get a takeaway because it's easy I think you know what it's going to be an adventure I'm going to go down to the shops going to get a steak or get some chicken or get some whatever look up a cool recipe from like babbage or from like Ethan Chiblosky or from Josh Weissman probably not Josh because he's too complicated or like pro home cooks and then just follow the recipe and do the thing and treat it like it's a bit of a game a bit of a project a bit of an adventure and I've been finding that through that framing of it it's really encouraged me to keep going with the thing because again I like that and go that are that are within my control and previously in the past I think I've had a very kind of I really should start cooking I've had a very shitty attitude to cooking and that's meant that I felt like I had to coerce myself to cook even though I really didn't feel like it whereas now just that simple framing shift of a prudging it like an adventure at least for me it's super super helps if you want to keep up today with the recipes I'm cooking please follow me on Instagram that's where I post random stories and stuff where I share cooking recipes but the final area in health is that I really want to get kind of take this longevity stuff seriously and start getting into it so a I want to become an expert on the longevity stuff like the whole anti-aging field by reading books and listening to podcasts and stuff over the next year but I've also started working with a company called EverSpan Life. I met the founder in Miami when I was there a few weeks ago and here I got talking and there this sort of longevity lab based in the US and so they've sent me a bunch of tests to do and I'm going to be working with their team to try and get like a longevity regimen in terms of like what are the things that I need to be doing right now at the age of 28 that can help maximize my health span as I as I as I as a golder so those are all the goals for health and the way that I'm trying my best to stick to them or rather the way I am sticking to them is by making sure that every single day in my calendar I have at least an hour and a half like 90 minutes blocked out for some sort of exercise so there might be a gym workout it might be a kickboxing session it might be going for a run it might be going for a walk it might be walking on my treadmill desk while playing World of Warcraft to get my 10,000 steps in it might be doing a stretch thing and the whole attitude I'm approaching the health stuff with is progress over perfection so as long as I'm taking steps in the direction of a healthy lifestyle every single day and making carving out that time in my calendar for something related to health or exercise then that's a win for me and then finally the realm of relationships I've got a couple of different goals so firstly there is goals in terms of the romantic relationship in my life with my girlfriend maybe more on that later maybe not we'll see not really sure about how open to be about that kind of stuff but yeah we'll see I also have a bit of a goal to be a group adventure leader so I realize that I actually want to make more of an effort to keep in touch with friends and one of the great one of the best ways of doing that is by arranging group holidays and I have not yet done this but this is the plan for this year that every every quarter or so every three months to have like a weekend or a long weekend or a week away with friends is a road trip in the UK or maybe a trip outside of the UK where I can just find a day put it in the diary and I can do the organization so that I can message all my friends and be like hey do you want to come to this thing and then hopefully different friendship groups can meet up and then that will be great vibes so that's something I'm really aiming for this year on top of that I also want to be a dinner party chef so you'll see that like with a lot of these goals I'm trying to frame them in terms of an identity that I want to have like a cooking adventurer and a group adventure leader and a dinner party chef um because I want to be that kind of person and that's how I'm approaching that that's how I'm approaching goal setting this year so for dinner party chef I've blocked out basically every Thursday evening as being like a block in the calendar for some sort of social dinner where I can invite friends over and cook for them and so actually for the last several weeks I've had friends over most weeks and I've cooked for them most times might be steak or burgers or fajitas or bolognese or vegan bolognese we've done various different dishes and I've been finding that it's actually more fun having friends over where I cook for them then it is for all of us to go to a restaurant because then the cooking itself becomes a bit of an activity and a bit of a group shared experience I can delicate some of the chopping of the veg give the knives out and it's great vibes we all chill in the kitchen we all sort of cook the thing together and then we take it into the dining room and then we eat in the dining room so that's been super super fun would recommend and again because I know that I wanted to learn how to cook I thought what is a way that I can do that that actually makes it enjoyable and sustainable and fun for myself rather than feeling like a chore. If you've watched this far and you're interested in keeping up to date with how these various goals are going and the strategies and tools and stuff I'm using to hopefully try and get there then do please subscribe to my email newsletter every Sunday I just send a quick email with some thoughts for the week and some links to interesting things that I've discovered or watched or listened to and occasionally kind of post a little update that oh I've discovered this new strategy to help with my cooking goals or with my food goals with my fitness goals and if you're interested in more of the business stuff check out this video over here which is a breakdown of exactly why I have 14 employees in this business so thank you so much for watching have a great day and I'll see you in the next video. Bye.
