# Do students need an iPad or a MacBook?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=STYohijxBNY
To get your free 60-day trial, sign up for Skillshare at https://skl.sh/aliabdaal6
You can then enrol in Thomas Frank's productivity class, and my own Video Editing masterclass 😁
🎬 Check out my FREE 36-video online class on how to study for exams - https://skl.sh/2UOx68x 

In this video, we discuss whether an iPad can replace your laptop. We analyse this age-old question from the perspective of (1) Efficiency, (2) Complexity, and (3) Delight. Enjoy xx

--------

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
😃  How to be Happier - Stoicism Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/stoicism

TOOLS OF THE TRADE:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk
📚  How I remember what I read - Readwise - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali
What I Use For Analytics - https://go.aliabdaal.com/tubebuddy
🌐 My website platform (Ghost) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost

OTHER RECOMMENDED COURSES
📔 Effortless Output with Roam Research - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/roam
📓 Building a Second Brain - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/basb

🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** ipad vs laptop, ipad vs macbook, ipad pro vs macbook, ipad pro vs laptop, can ipad pro replace laptop, can ipad replace laptop, can ipad pro replace macbook, can ipad replace macbook, ipad pro 2019, ipad pro for students, tablet vs laptop, ipad pro students, macbook pro vs ipad pro, ipad pro vs, ipad pro, ipad pro 2018, ali abdaal, macbook pro, ipad air, ipad 2018, 2019 ipad, new ipad, 2018 ipad pro, ipad vs macbook pro, ipad vs mac, ali abdaal ipad, 
**Date:** 2019-10-14

## Transcript
 Hey friends, welcome back to the channel. If you're new here, my name is Ali. I'm a doctor working in Cambridge and today we're going to be tackling the aid or question of whether an iPad can feasibly replace your laptop. As usual to save you time, I'm going to start off with a conclusion and then I'll be spending the rest of the video exploring the reasons for that conclusion. So here we go. Yes, I now think that for most people whether you're a student or not, your iPad can probably replace your laptop. There's a lot of caveats to this. It really depends on how much you care about efficiency, what sort of work you're doing on your iPad on your laptop and so it's not really a decision to take lightly and that's what I'm going to be spending the rest of the video talking about and I'll be doing that with reference to three main points. Firstly, efficiency, secondly, complexity and third leap to light. Firstly, let's talk about efficiency and we can define efficiency as minimizing the amount of time between thought and action. So if I have the thought that I wonder whether Thomas Frank has uploaded a YouTube video recently, that would be the thought and then the action would be going on YouTube.com, going on Thomas Frank's channel, clicking on uploads and seeing all the latest videos or if the thought is I need to email a physiology essay to my supervisor, then the action will be opening up my email client, hitting compose, typing in the supervisors email address, clicking a touch, finding the file, attaching it, typing something and sending the message. And the reason I say all that is because, yes, and iPad can probably do everything you want it to, but it's just, it's inherently going to be less efficient than using your laptop to do the same thing. On Mac and on Windows, we've got these really powerful system-wide utilities like Alfred or like the Windows logo key that you search across the entire system. So if you want to open a file, you can just search for it very easily. That sort of stuff is still quite difficult to do with an iPad. You still have to tap a few things, click a few things, that sort of stuff. And if you're doing any kind of work involving tech selection and writing and things, yeah, you can do it on an iPad. And in fact, I now prefer to get the majority of my writing work done on an iPad, but it is just still more efficient using the MacBook because you've got the trackpad, you've got a mouse, you can move stuff around, you can drag and drop, you can copy and paste. And all of that just isn't quite the same experience with an iPad, it's just a little bit less efficient. So really, the first thing to consider, if you're thinking of replacing your iPad with a laptop, is how much do you value this efficiency saving? If you're like me, you know, I spend seven hours a day, if not more in front of a computer, I'm doing a hundred different things, not at the same time, but sort of overall have a very high actions per minute. And the way I use a computer, it's I'm doing everything I can to maximize the efficiency of that. I'm using keyboard shortcuts for absolutely everything. I'm using apps like Alfred, I'm using automations and workflows and text expanders, and all these fancy features that helped me shave off seconds off of each interaction. And that means that I can't really replace my laptop with an iPad because it's just so inefficient. But if you're like my housemate, Molly, for example, she is a more normal computer user in that she has a laptop which has had for several years. She mostly spends most of her time on a phone rather than on a computer. The only thing she really does on a computer is write essays, do research, projects, and maybe watch Netflix. I think Molly's use cases far more than standard use case for students. So in that in that sense, it is very reasonable to replace a laptop with an iPad, because those extra few seconds of efficiency really don't make any difference at all in the crowd scheme effects. Secondly, I think we should consider the complexity of the actions that we want to perform on a iPad or on a laptop. So again, going back to my housemate, Molly's example, what's the stuff that she does on a laptop? She watches Netflix, she browser's YouTube, she browser's the internet, she writes assignments for university, and she makes the occasional PowerPoint presentation if she has to give a talk. That sort of use of a laptop, which, again, is similar to what most students seem to do, is very much on the casual end of the spectrum, and I don't mean that in a derogatory way at all. You know, we all have different hobbies, and my hobby is spending a ton of time in front of the computer. Her hobby is wheelchair racing, and running a food blog and doing all sorts of other things with a life other than spending time on the computer. So for her, it's more casual complexity, and therefore she can very feasibly replace a laptop with an iPad, and that's something I've actually actively been encouraging her to do. Then if we take my use case, I'm a massive note, and so I'd like to think that I use a laptop for complex things like video editing, graphic design, web development, coding of some sort, server management for my various businesses, audio editing for my podcast, music production, if I fancy plugging microphones into my audio interface and recording a song. All of that sort of stuff is fairly complex, and yes, you can do all of those things on an iPad, but it just requires a lot more sort of hackery, a lot more sort of fighting against the system. So yeah, if you're considering the iPad versus laptop thing, then really consider how complex are your use cases feasibly. If you're a student and you're like most students and not sort of a massive note when it comes to computers, then you can completely replace your laptop with an iPad. The iPad is just a nicer experience and that brings me on to my final point, which is about the delight of using an iPad. Now, I'm not going to be replacing my laptop with an iPad completely because of efficiency and complexity, but I actually do use the iPad for more hours in the day than I use my laptop. Like anything that's light, you know, rising the web, writing something, planning out videos, making notes, all of that stuff I do on my iPad. I only use my laptop now for heavy lifting type things. This iPad 11-inch iPad Pro is 11 inches by the way for everyone that's going to ask. It's such a delight to use that. I almost feel bad when I have to use my laptop now because this 15-inch MacBook Pro is a big, long-bring, heavy beast. I don't like carrying this around. The only time I carry my MacBook around is if I'm going home for the weekend and I know I'm going to be plugging it into my brother's monitor and doing some video editing. Otherwise, that's soon going on holiday. I have no need for my laptop because I'm not going to be doing video editing on holiday. I will just take my iPad and the iPad is this trotty device that comes with me everywhere. You know, this stains on the keyboard, that sounds weird. Some of the paint on the keys is broken off because we've just been using it so often. But this is the device that I use for the majority of the day. I take it to work. I take it to coffee shops with me. I do everything on an iPad. I apart from heavy lifting because it's just such a delight to use. I would love to be able to replace my MacBook completely with my iPad, but I just know that because I value efficiency and productivity, it's just not really going to be feasible. So overall, this whole debate really between MacBook versus iPad really comes down to how productive can you be with each device and how productive do you need to be with each device? If you're a student and you're just getting basic stuff done, then you can easily do that on an iPad. And to be honest, unless you're a major productivity nerd, like me, you probably won't benefit much from the efficiency savings that come with having a laptop or real laptop to do stuff on. Instead, if you're, let's say, a student and you're aiming for productivity, you want to first get to a point where you understand and you sort of, you've got your own productivity system before you then start optimizing for speed. Sort of like if you're learning a musical instrument like playing the piano, you start off playing it slowly so that you learn the basics and then over time you can speed up and start doing things really quickly. If this idea of building your own productivity system sounds kind of cool and you want to learn more, you should definitely check out my friend Thomas Frank's online course over at Skillshare. In that online class, which I've taken, I think is really good. He teaches you how to manage it to do list, how to use a calendar properly, how to have an efficient file management system, how to track your tasks and projects, how to do a weekly review. And if you aiming for productivity, all of that stuff should definitely come before sort of optimizing for speed and efficiency at using your various devices. So if you want to check out that productivity masterclass, which I'd highly recommend, I've taken it. I think it's really good. Then you can click the link in the video description and that'll give you two months of a free trial to Skillshare and after that two months, you can continue your thing, which is less than $10 a month. And you can watch loads of other online classes, including one of my own. I've got my own how to edit videos in Final Cut Pro type masterclass thing, which is like three and a half hours of videos. I think there's like 30 videos in that, or I literally take you through the beginning middle and end of my entire process for making videos exactly like this one. So yeah, in summary, if you're considering iPad versus laptop, then consider complexity and consider efficiency and consider delight. The iPad is so much more of a delight to use than the laptop, but the laptop is obviously just inherently more suited to efficiency and to complex computer-based tasks. So yeah, if you haven't gone iPad yet and you're considering which one to get, because you can get the cheap iPad, the iPad Air, the iPad Pro, and all the different configurations, I'll put a video over there that has my full analysis of that. And in that video, I explore these various issues and give a recommendation based on various different factors. So yeah, hopefully you'll check that out. Thanks very much for watching and I'll see you in the next video. Bye-bye.
