# Crushes, Challenges and Irritating Habits - Q&A With My Roommate Molly
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=t6GPiy7fuEQ
Today I'm bringing you part of a long Q&A I did with my roommate, Molly on May 27. You can find the rest of the questions answered on Nebula by signing up through CuriosityStream. 

Get a 30-day free trial of CuriosityStream - https://curiositystream.com/ali and use the code ALI at checkout! If you sign up to CuriosityStream, you also get access to Nebula for free, where I'll be posting exclusive content that you won't find on YouTube.

My Nebula profile: https://watchnebula.com/aliabdaal

Check out Molly's instagram (and DM her if you've got any questions about life) - https://instagram.com/cambridge.foodie

Over the Wall - The charity that changed Molly's life - https://www.otw.org.uk/

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
😃  How to be Happier - Stoicism Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/stoicism

Timestamps
01:36 Why did you want to become a doctor?
02:37 What is your least favourite aspect of being junior doctors?
04:09 What was the greatest challenge for you growing up?
11:30 Did you ever have self doubt in your life?
15:33 How did Molly and you become flatmates?
17:08 How did your mom react when you told her that you’re going to live with her?
17:37 How often do you guys fight?
18:29 Does it ever happen that you get tired of seeing each other daily?
19:21 How do you guys cook at home vs eat takeout?
21:55 Childhood crushes?
24:01 What is each other’s most irritating habit?
25:03 Favorite thing about living together?
26:05 What gear does Molly use?
28:07 Favorite Disney song?

Questions we answer in the Nebula videos:
- How do you stay consistent to the very end? It could be with anything you do.
- How to destress?
- How do you live in the moment and not constantly think about the future?
- Any good personal finance advice/book recommendations?
- How do you guys balance social life and academics and how do you set your priorities?
- How do you get over your fear when starting and sharing my work online is a must?
- Tell us about what feelings your job brings you/how much you enjoy it
- How to have a social life while having decent grades in medicine
- During your studies, how many times did you think of giving up? Why did/didn't you?
- If you could tell your past self one thing before uni, what would it be?
- What's your opinion on pretty note taking? Is it effective in any way?
- Do you recommend digital note taking or handwritten notes for students in high-school?
- Any tips for staying focused while studying at home during social distancing?
- What's the best thing you do in your leisure time after a hectic study session?
- What is the best dish that Ali can cook?
- Who's the messiest?
- Best way to pick a housemate?
- If you could have a dinner with anyone in the world, who would it be and why?
- What are you afraid of?

TOOLS OF THE TRADE:
🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️ My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://iqunix.store/ali 
📝 My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://paperlike.com/ali 
📚 How I remember what I read - Readwise - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 

🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, Q&A, oxford university, cambridge university, student life, q&a, life advice, productivity, motivation, ali abdaal, student advice, studying advice, doctor Q&A, doctor interview, life of a doctor, ali molly, ali abdaal molly, ali abdaal roommate, 
**Date:** 2020-06-12

## Transcript
 Hey friends, welcome back to the channel. This is a cheeky little Q&A that me and my house made Molly filmed a few months ago. It's kind of long so you'll find timestamps in the video description and in the pinned comments you can jump around to feel like it. And in this video we've answered 15 questions, but over a nebula we've got two more videos where we answered 20 more questions and you'll find more details about that in the video description. So enjoy the Q&A. So Molly, this is the first time you've appeared on the channel in several years. Can you introduce yourself to the viewers? Hello, my name is Molly. I am also junior doctor working in the Cambridge region and I know Ali through having gone to medical school with him here at Cambridge. Yeah, that's essentially me. Yeah, so Molly and I have known each other since 2012 that was when we ended up in the same year in the same college studying medicine and so we've known each other for eight years now. And I would have to get this. So that's that. Before we get started we need to address an important query that lots of people sent in and that was about our relationship. So we've got why aren't you two together? How's that cuties? Have you guys ever hooked up? If not why are you two dating? When are you getting married? Are you two together? Hot face? Are you guys together? Are you dating? Is your girlfriend she is? Are you guys just like we should probably address this one for all are we dating? Yes. Right. We are not dating. If anyone's interested let me know but we are not dating. Molly is in a happy relationship or she says right let's move on swiftly. Why did you want to become a doctor? So from Marvin Dressel. I think I've already answered this. So you want to become a doctor? I'm going to paraphrase you answer. So you had cancer at the age of 10 went through loads of operations during your childhood and that gave you the appreciation of what life and medicine would be like and you thought now that you were sort of home free on the side of it you wanted to do the same and help other people. Is that fair to say? Yeah essentially. Okay anything more to add or is that? No. Cool. And I wanted to be a doctor because I didn't really know what else to do with my life. If I'm being honest and when you're brown then the default thing that you do is you become a doctor and I also made I sort of at the age of like 16. It was a choice between being a doctor like medicine and computer science because I liked computers and coding and stuff and I thought it would be more interesting to be a doctor who can code than to just be a computer scientist. Plus I thought that six years at uni would be better than three years at uni. So all those factors were my motivations for being a doctor. Yeah which is pretty pretty. Yeah pretty pretty abnormal compared to yours. All right what is your least favorite aspect of being junior doctors? Oh we're on to the doctor questions now. What's your least favorite aspect of being junior doctor? For me that's easy it's the fact that it's a full-time job. I freaking hate having a full-time job because if I want to take time off and go on a holiday I have to ask permission from my rotor coordinator and at the moment like she's very nice and give me permission to take leave but the fact that I have to ask permission to go on a holiday with my mates and then if I'm on call a given week and my friends are going skiing that week have to arrange swaps it's such an absolute nightmare having a full-time job. The other really annoying thing about it is that going into work is no longer optional. Like when you're a medical student it's optional whether or not you go into the hospital because no one actually cares but as soon as you start working as a doctor or in any kind of real job it's it's not an option anymore you just you have to go in every morning whether you feel like it or not. So those are my least favorite aspect of being junior doctor but that's more about the fact that it's a full-time job rather than it's about the fact that I'm a doctor. I'll throw that. Okay. Oh, I really have to get that off. Yeah, totally. I feel like an email. Okay, um mine is similar. I mean it's not this full-time job but I don't hate that bit but I hate the rotor and the annual Eve side of it. I think that is the you know the the work itself is not a normal mindless favorite aspect. I think it's the logistics of it that's my least favorite aspect. So as Ali said if you've got like a friend's wedding in a years time that like low level anxiety that at some point you're going to have to try and beg for that leave or swap it around that's the thing I find most difficult. What was the greatest challenge for you growing up says Ali Rashid? Go ahead. I haven't really had a much-hound as growing up at all in my life. I've lived a very, very privileged life with basically no adversity in slightest, you know, thank you mom for you know, bringing me up in an environment where I didn't really have to worry about anything. So yeah, I've just been really lucky. So what's your story? What's your story, what's your story, Molly? I mean I had some challenges growing up. I mean to be fair I had a very good childhood and a very loving parents, good school, et cetera, et cetera. So everything was great, realistically. So in the grand scheme of things, all fine. But I did spend quite a lot of time in hospital when I was a child and three my teenage years, which I guess for me was a pretty big challenge at the time, and still is to some extent. So you were in hospital? Why were you in a hospital? What happened? So I had, so when I was 10 years old I was diagnosed with bone cancer and it was in my hip and so initially I had to have chemotherapy and mixture of quite intense drugs with lots of different side effects for about three months and then after that I had to have a hip and femur replacement. So I had my, so where you're sort of hip joins here like this you're hip joined my hip bit the femur was replaced. So that was initially when I was 10 years old and then after that various things went wrong and I had to have replacements of the hip replacement and eventually this part of the hip as well was replaced. So yeah, lots of different, a lot of operations and times went in hospital. Because for most of your teenage years you were sort of in an hour of hospital. Yeah, so so I was 10 when I was diagnosed so that I was in in UK that's year five. So I missed most of year five through all of that and then year six I had to have another operation so I missed half of that year seven I didn't start initially at the same time as if when I was because I was having an operation so I missed off of that as well and then I think I went to the whole of year eight. It gets a bit hazy in 9-11. I can't remember which bits it was but for two of those years I had another operation and I think year 11 I was at school the whole time. Okay. And year 12 when you're 13. So I improved was the end. Okay. And what impact is that having cancer and the various hip replacements that went wrong and then more hip replacements what impact does that happen your life today? I think it's had a huge impact. I mean it's difficult to tell because before you're 10 I don't know how much of your personality is already made by that point and whether I would just be the same person as I was before that but I feel like well firstly it probably made me interested in medicine. I think I was scientific anyway up until that point I'd always enjoyed science most so I don't think it's changed me in that way but it just showed me a possible career and I was so exposed to it that it made me much more likely and more interested to go into it I think. So I would say that has had a huge impact because it's probably what I'm doing what I'm doing at the moment and I think it has maybe with the question about living in the moment I think it's it has made me more like that to some extent and I do really appreciate good things that happening around me and good people now but then I also think it does the other way as well in that it makes me fear for the future more because I know that things have gone wrong in the past so why I went there in the future. So I think it's complex is part of every part of my personality I think to some extent. Are you completely back to normal now? What physically or mentally? I well not physically obviously I still have my big hip replacement and I have some nerve damage because what and the operations went wrong and so I've got something called foot drop which means that my essentially I'm sort of paralyzed in my foot and various different other things but essentially it means that I don't walk as well as everyone else I need crutches or walking stick to get around a wheelchair for going for a field so physically no I'm not back to normal but I'm very used to this being my normal now. Okay and so having had all of these sort of like challenges which I've certainly never experienced like anything anything near that magnitude how do you cope with it how do you like pick yourself up from such a I want to say trouble childhood but that's not really what me. Yeah well I think the thing is it's strange because when I look back at my childhood I it's not sad to me I look back and I think of this amazing childhood I had and I think that is testament to my family and my friends and the people who around me supporting me through it all. So because I was really lucky to have those people and that's important at work I'm not as sort of traumatised as I think I could have been but I definitely as a teenager I struggled a huge amount with not being the same as other people around me not being able to do the same things with one else feeling very different and I think that a lot of teenagers feel that way anyway about something but for me my thing was my disability which became nothing I fixated on then and maybe have very low self-esteem and things like that so I think at that time for anyone growing up with any kind of adversity is very tricky yeah the support network is the first thing I guess I mean I have to mention over the wall which I've talked to you about a lot of talk to lots of people about which was an ease the charity that runs a free activity camps for children with illnesses or disabilities and also for their families and they I was pointing their direction after a few of my operations and essentially it's a chance to sort of go to this activity camp where they're all very set up for people with various needs and illnesses there's doctor doctor nurses at the camps themselves so they're very safe and you get to just do amazing things that you get to do horse riding or rock climbing or things that you just as a disabled person or an ill child wouldn't be able to do and that essentially started the process of building back my confidence and learning that even though I wasn't as able as other people I could find a way to do things and so I think that is a huge part now of my mentality in when I come up against a struggle or something I can't do as well as someone else I try to find a way around it and find a new way to do it and I today have really tried not to let my disability stop me doing anything so yeah thanks over the wall all right that's all deep right that's all you're just well linked over the wall in the in the video description there was looking for volunteers and stuff yeah all right did you ever have self-adoubt in your life says ready shunthin what do you reckon did you ever have self-doubt in your life I have always and think I will always have self-doubt what does self-doubt mean to you like uh well good luck I'm curious to me worry I think worry that you're not good enough that you're not doing a good enough job that you won't achieve the things you've set out to do that you would disappoint other people all of those things I just can't relate better to me have you ever had self-doubt I mean I guess if it's like I'm running a race and I know I'm not the fastest in in the race then that would give me a sense of self-doubt that I don't know if I can win the race but I like to not think too hard about outcomes because winning the race would then be being outcome dependent whereas competing in the race and doing my best is what matters to me and so I have no self-doubt about I doubt I'll be able to do my best because I know I'll do my best because I just will yeah but I don't even think about whether I'll win the race because it seems totally pointless to think about the outcomes yeah I can't think like that or I could think like that but I don't okay so when you say some for example not doing a good enough job like as a doctor do you feel these like how how often do you feel like set like self-doubt like what what does that mean on so I guess I mean the thing is we both probably experience the same thing but you just rationalise that feeling straight away whereas I would take a much more personally because you know every time we change rotations as doctors we have to change in your first few years every four months you move to a different specialty and so each time you do that it feels almost like you're going back to the beginning and you suddenly don't know where anything is how logistically to organize things like scans or blood tests or things like that you might move to a different hospital there's a different computer system etc etc I would in those times I think that it's me that's the problem even though obviously looking at the outside situation you would think you're in a new job you're not going to be so good but I would have self-doubt every time I start in a full month period and think am I ever going to get better at this is it me that's being really slow does everyone else think I'm being really slow whereas you would obviously go in and just have that exact same feeling you're in the same situation as me but you would go in and say I can completely rationalise why this is happening and it's not me it's the system therefore I don't need to worry about it yeah I'll just kind of learn on the job and it's all good exactly but I think the thing is now I don't have that feeling as much having rotated five times now whatever it is but then there'll be a new scenario where that same cycle happens again and I think for me I need more I need to build up more evidence to myself to prove that it's not me but for you I think you inherently like understand that the system can cause these things or at least you look for an alternative explanation other than I am at fault yeah whereas I have to have a catalog of histories about me up to remind myself each time okay before I go into that cycle of turmoil got it but like for me it's not a case of because it's it's not a case of finding any sort of explanation to blame the system rather than to blame myself I'm completely condemned to blame I if I've made a mistake or something I'd be like yeah I should've done that differently that differently that differently and that's fine but I wouldn't feel like self-doubt in that sense I'm like okay yeah I made a mistake I know what I'm doing next time it's fine yeah whereas I would take every mistake I made very personally okay and you think that reflects on me rather than that it's something I can learn from and you know there's the whole growth mindset thing that you've been trying to teach me for the past sort of like eight years which I gradually I'm getting better on but it's a process okay awesome how did you and Molly become flatmates uh Annie gradually asked me until I said yes I swear it wasn't that it was not cool it was really I wasn't that keen initially I saw you pretty often to the idea from day one I was open to the idea but I had my reservations okay whereas you from the beginning we're just like this is what I will do yeah so basically when Molly and I I think it was around February like June like April May 2018 we found out that we were both going to be basically up in the same hospital in our first year of being doctors and then in a nearby hospital in our second year of being doctors and around that time I was thinking of buying a flat or buying a house or something and like from from that moment I was like right I need to leave it by and this is how it's going to work I'm going to buy a place I'm going to get a joint mortgage with my brother and Molly's going to help pay the rent pay the mortgage and little did I know but this has been planned out for me it was it was pretty planned out yeah and I was like hey Molly should we dip together and you were like you all right and I've said many conversations with my family yeah why did you have to have so many conversations with your family well I was in I was worried about living with one person would I get lonely would I get bored worried about living with you would I hate you would you be annoying etc it's all coming out now yeah I think no it's the mainly living with one person okay I was worried about but basically there were no no other people yeah yeah you had no other option yeah you stuck here and and here we are now so right all right Rahul who just is how did your mum react to when you told her that you're going to dip with her oh my mum it was Molly probably it means um my mum actually didn't mind my grandmother wasn't a fan of me living with my mother because my grandmother's theory was that what if people think that you were together and then no one's going to want to marry you because they think you've got a girlfriend that was my grandma's sort of thesis on that front and so far I think that's why no one wants to marry because they think I've got a girlfriend so it's my fault oh yeah basically um yeah cool how often do you guys fight oh this is Rahul who jerking what if the usual reason behind this fight how often do we fight I feel the fight the most of you know that for we've only ever properly fought two or three times what are you defining on the fight when I've actually been an you okay right yeah and when we've had to actually like figure something out yeah but that's only two or three times in eight years yeah true and there's and like the genre of that has always been sort of in the last year with sort of with you two yeah and you not been comfortable with bits of your life being on like the gram yeah but I feel like you're becoming more and more okay with more of that now over time I think you're learning more and more what my limits okay fine that seems reasonable ah Rahul or who you're again does it ever happen that you get tired of seeing each other daily oh that's interesting we don't see each other daily no we really really don't we hardly ever see each other I want to say hardly ever I think about about a half of the time I think yeah yeah about 50% of the time we're both in the house yeah but when we're based in the house we don't talk that yeah no we might talk over dinner or take away or something or just casually or if money's like trying to talk to this as we talk basically all year yeah we haven't talked this much we're just getting it all out but like that's that's what I think is a really nice thing about living with someone that you already know really well is that you know I can get home from work I can literally sit in front of a computer and show notes and videos and Molly wouldn't really care very occasionally you're like hey give me a suggestion that's very occasionally it doesn't get irritating too much is that fair to say yeah cool how do you guys cook at home versus eat takeout with your schedules on the cost of eating out I eat in restaurants and Emily gets take away yeah I think this year over half of my meals have been takeaways I've eaten a home cooked meal in the house fewer than 10 times this year everything else I eat is either take away or I eat at work anything at work is really common because like you know skip I skip breakfast to get a coffee in the morning and then lunch I always have a work and then dinner if I'm working a long day I'll all always have a work or if you know I come home and no my what's all to take away basically if you're looking off fridge it's all my stuff that I've gone out and bought you never put anything you know you never buy anything really I've got a fan 10 day out of the moment yeah I like there's so it's crazy you're good things so I cook I probably eat out a few times a week and then the rest of the time I will cook and I'll take things to work for lunch so I don't buy lunch there so I'll take like ready meals or I'll cook a big thing a pastor and then take it the rest for lunch the next day but I wouldn't say I cook because I don't do interesting recipes or anything I just make pasta fish cakes yeah I mean ready meals they're simple things this often you put pasta and pasta sauce and add some veg to it that was pretty good meal yeah but it's so delicious okay if you went in the house I would go take one yeah and I suppose when it comes to when it comes to the cost of eating out this is something I think about a fair bit but the way I rationalize it is that you know that extra half an hour of time where I don't have to think about food or cooking or cleaning up and stuff that's an extra half an hour of time I could put into making a YouTube video and just because of the staggering difference in what the value of my time is making a YouTube video versus the value of my time and not getting a takeaway I just make it to my mind it makes absolutely no sense to be thinking about food and washing up when I could be spending that time making a YouTube video but for my point of you food is a hobby and food is something I love and I love eating out restaurants as an activity in itself so the way I rationalize it is that I literally don't buy clothes like I don't go shopping I don't spend money on that I maybe I have like a few other hobbies that I would spend money on so food I treat as a hobby okay yeah things are very reasonable childhood crush is question mark so for me that is so in the in the Aladdin original film the cartoon when Jasmine is like chained up by default that was like my first childhood crush why leave that there whatever um who is my childhood crush I'm trying to think um Annie from 9210 you've got loads I got friends from the van podores here we go but not in a Catherine had nice curly hair I had more of a sassy attitude whereas Elena was a bit whining and moopy even though it was the same actress I mean Zac Efron but he's still my adult crush but wait was Zac Efron crush were the in like classical musical one yeah at the time oh because he was like what is it yeah yeah I believe I don't know about childhood oh timber in the Lion King really yeah the crush on the Simba you know that moment where the like young Simba is walking along yeah in the film of childhood then it becomes millions from Bert and he like does a flick you were like yeah okay I think that's more weird than my crush and does me but then when we did you come see the Lion King with me the new one I wish it was someone else I think okay well when I went to see the new Lion King yeah you thought nothing for those of the same thing do I 2D or 3D I don't care yeah it's longer than life like animals get old Simba it's just yeah something about their hair flick yeah what about childhood crush isn't real life I think I mean oh real people yeah I think first girl that had a crush on was in primary school in Africa and it was Tanya second girl had a crush and wasn't in primary school in Pakistan how name was Tanya as well so I think Tanya's and there was a girl called Lily in primary school in the UK it was like my first like proper crush I didn't have any you don't have any no I need that you want to say poetry yeah there is zero chance that any of those three watching videos what is each other's most irritating habit go on I find it really annoying that you don't put things away okay wish I realise I don't do either but like when someone else does it you're really grinds a gear so no it really annoys me when like you've opened something you know you've certainly got a delivery it's come through the door you've opened it in the kitchen yeah and then you can literally see where you've like picked it out of the box and moved into here and started playing with your new toy and like two days later the box is still there newly unwrapped yeah that's annoying fine um what annoys you about what annoys me about you I don't think anything does really yeah but does anything annoying I mean I have a very high threshold to be coming I don't think it's that I'm not an irritating person I think that you're not an irritated person oh what do you do that really annoys me yeah no I don't I don't everything like literally everything about living together from pricilla in transit that's cute what's your favorite thing about living together uh that we're both very chilled maybe don't think this about me but we are fundamentally quite chilled and allow the other person to sort of get on with their own life which it I think sometimes if you're living with someone you are like duty bound to spend time with them or like not have friends around it so you're saying you're favorite thing about living together is not having to interact yes I actually fully agree I think it's it's really nice having someone just you're just a kind of there by default yeah but that you literally have to put zero effort into sort of maintaining the relationship point because like like like even with my mum now I have to put in a modicum effort to like maintain that relationship whereas with you I literally have zero in the slightest could not care that yeah when we move out yeah we're done that's hey you're gonna be lucky to get birthday card and what gear does Molly use to date today and it's elegant influence when purchasing tech does mean tech gear I don't think it means like what you what necklace you wear what perfume you wear thinking means like what's new pocket it's like that's what I think so I mean my my phone is the main thing I use all the time for everything because my laptop I've had since day one of uni so eight years ago yeah some of those crappy brick to see it like way yeah really really doesn't work needs plugging in constantly now and is very very slow so basically I don't use my laptop anymore and my phone is basically my camera my laptop my sat nav my everything yeah you're one of those people that you were just sitting on the sofa literally on your phone for hours yeah and I'd be thinking what the hell are you doing when you're phone for that long yeah I spend so much time on my phone and is early in influence on purchasing tech yes honey made me buy my phone because you had an iPhone SE 5 SE or something like that that tiny little crappy one and I'm talking to getting iPhone 11 that change your life it did change my life like honestly not sponsored by Apple unfortunately no I wish no it was a particularly bad day at work that wasn't it and I came home yeah I had no I didn't even come home I met you at the Apple store yeah you were like I've had a I was like I've had a really and we've been like vaguely talking about this iPhone and I've been playing on Ali's phone and thinking oh this is quite nice and then I had a terrible time at work I can't even remember why anymore but I basically texted Ali being like what are you doing that was like I'm in the Apple store and he said I'm going to the Apple store meet me there and I was like okay and drove there and now you were returning all of it I was returning all of it all of the iPhones that I really did yeah and I ended up coming away with the new one and then we went to all you can eat sushi yeah that was good with some enable students yes Tristan Tristan and yes favorite Disney song oh toss up between can you feel the love tonight and I see the light oh good ones I see I would I used to love when will my life begin tangled you said absolutely love that festive union had a tangled poster really cool and I used to go around and sing to myself doing that um anyway I would say well the two I listen most to are now making man out of you and zero to hero actually nice and that's it that brings us to the end of the Q&A finally that was long how long we've been recording for one hour and 23 minutes damn that's a long time I'm sorry you have to sit through all of this um any parting comments this is fun well actually yeah I feel like you enjoyed this yeah I did yeah it's not something I'm not sure I will enjoy it when it's in the public sphere but that's fine maybe we should talk more maybe we should yeah it's been nice just fun but I feel like talking with an audience is different to talking normally we could set this up and not yeah we we could just pretend yeah um cool so thanks for watching what puts I put another playlist here of more Q&A's that I've done with other people including my brother which loads of people seem to like and loads would just myself because I didn't have any friends before I became famous on YouTube thanks for watching and we'll see in the next video so those were answers to around 15 questions that we got um we ended up actually filming for around about an hour and a half and we answered 40 questions I think in total um but obviously we couldn't put all of those on YouTube so you'll find the rest of the questions in two separate videos over on Nebula if you haven't heard Nebula is the streaming platform that me and a bunch of other creators are helping to build on Nebula you've got loads of exclusive content along with this Q&A along with my work first series where I kind of deep dive into my favorite productivity apps along with my bite-side series where we look at snippets of bite-sized wisdom from people who have featured an interview so I've done over the years if you want to get access to Nebula check out the video description essentially the easiest way is to sign up to CuriosityStream they're not sponsoring this video but it is the best way to sign up for them I'm just letting you know that um that's $3 a month or $20 a year and CuriosityStream is like this amazing documentary subscription platform and bundled with that you've got free access to Nebula as well so best Elon streaming available right now but yeah if you want to see the other 20 questions that we answered in two separate videos check him out on Nebula link in the video description thanks for watching I will put a playlist here with some more Q&As that I've done have a lovely day and I'll see you in the next video bye bye
