# How to Build the Ultimate Productivity System (2023)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T6hmdrsLQj8
Read Morning Brew ☕️ https://morningbrewdaily.com/ali 

The whole point of a productivity system is to get your life in order and free up valuable brain space. No one wants to be spending tons of time organising emails or searching for a book quote that they forgot to highlight. 

There are broadly three levels of building an ultimate productivity system: keeping your life in order, capturing new info, and creating a system around it. You can stop at layer one or use all three. I cover it all in more detail in this video, including suggestions for apps that I like to use daily. 

00:00 Intro
01:37 Ron: keep your life in order
01:37 Calendar
04:21 Email
06:12 To-do list
09:06 File management
10:32 Hermoine: capture new information
11:09 Kindle
11:47 Read-it-later app
14:53 Readwise
15:59 Capture app
17:04 Dumbledore: create a system
17:07 Building a Second Brain

LINKS MENTIONED: 
🧠 Check out the Dumbledore Level with my Building a Second Brain video -
https://youtu.be/K-ssUVyfn5g
📘 Grab your own Essentiali planner - https://aliabdaal.com/essentiali/
💡 If you have a suggestion for a future video, submit it here. If we use your concept, we'll send you $100 - https://aliabdaal.typeform.com/video-ideas

💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://go.aliabdaal.com/subscribe-sundaysnippets

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - 
 https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
🎬 YouTube for Beginners - Everything You Need To Know To Start  - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/YouTube-for-Beginners

MY CREATOR COURSES
🎬 Check out my free 7 day email course on how to become a part-time YouTuber: https://aliabdaal.com/part-time-youtuber-crash-course/
🏆 Creatorpreneur - My flagship course for scaling up your creative side-hustle → https://creatorpreneur.academy/course
🗣 Camera Confidence - My self-paced course on how to improve your creativity, career, or communication skills → https://cameraconfidence.aliabdaal.com/

MY FAVOURITE GEAR
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) -https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

🎙 Check out my weekly podcast, Deep Dive - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/ - It's also available on all podcast platforms, including Spotify, Apple Podcasts etc.

MY FAVOURITE TOOLS
🚀 VidIQ - How I optimise my YouTube videos - https://go.aliabdaal.com/vidiq
✍️ Shortform - The BEST summaries of books - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
📚  Readwise - How I remember what I read - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise
🎵  Epidemic Sound - Where I get my music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound

MY KEY LINKS
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com/
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I’m Ali, a YouTuber, podcaster, soon-to-be author and ex-Doctor working in London, UK. I make videos that explore the strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. I also have a weekly podcast called Deep Dive (https://www.youtube.com/channel/UChfo46ZNOV-vtehDc25A1Ug), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://go.aliabdaal.com/subscribe-sundaysnippets).

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, 
**Date:** 2022-07-14

## Transcript
 In this video we are talking about how to build a productivity system and the first question to start with is why do you in fact need a productivity system? And really the main reason is so that we can do the stuff that we want to do, we can do things that are meaningful to us in an efficient way without wasting our time. And so that will less stress start doing it because then we don't have to rely on our brain to do things that it's not designed to do. And we can almost think of this as like a bit of a venn diagram where we've got the brain and we've got our system. And broadly we can categorize tasks into one of three things. So type 1 tasks are things that our brain itself does best. This is things like creativity and enjoyment and relaxing and living in the present moment and all that fun stuff, connecting with other people, all of this stuff totally cool if our brain does the thing. Then we've got type 2 types of thing which is stuff that like we often use our brain for, but that our productivity system or some kind of system can probably do a little bit more efficiently. For example, things like keeping on top of tasks, keeping on top of calendars, keeping on top of emails, having to use our brain to remember all of that stuff is really taxing and quite stressful, especially if you have a lot of stuff to be doing. And then thirdly there is the type 3 stuff, the stuff that we definitely should be using some kind of system for. There's generally involves kind of remembering information that is not directly connected to the things we actually care about. So for example, memorizing phone numbers is a bit of a waste of time. In a way memorizing a lot of people's birthdays, a bit of a waste of time, you can just outsource that to a system like calendar. And so really the idea of a productivity system is, well, productivity is using our time intentionally and effectively. And so the point of having a system for it is so that our brain doesn't have to do so much work. So anyway, in this video, we're going to talk about kind of three different layers of a productivity system that you can choose to build if you feel that it helps you with your life. It certainly helps with mine. And we're going to split that into layer one, which is Ron, layer two, which is Hermione, and layer three, which is Dumbledore. So the Ron layer, i.e. layer one of the systems is all about keeping your life in order. And there are really four things, four different components that you need in a productivity system in my humble opinion, to kind of get to a place where your life is reasonably in order. Let the feast begin. The first one is a calendar. Now, it is amazing how many people I know who don't live their lives based on a calendar and who are trying to remember in their own heads, all of the information for like events that they need to attend. A friend invites you for a birthday party two weeks from now. Oh, it's cool. It's fine. I won't write it down. I will just try and remember. I've got to have dinner with my mum next week. It's fine. I'm just going to remember. Like, our brain is so bad at remembering these things. And one of the quotes that I always come back to is from David Allen, who is one of the worlds biggest productivity gurus, who says that your brain is for having ideas, not for storing them. And one of the principles of productivity that I always come back to, and I have done over the last five years, is that my brain is a dumbass. I want my brain to not have to remember things that it doesn't need to. So, feel free to use a physical calendar if you really want to, but basically, everyone in the world, these days uses some kind of digital calendar, usually some kind of app on your phone. Apple calendar is good, Google calendar is good. There are a bunch of different third-party alternatives. The one I personally use is fantastic hell. This is, for example, what my fantastic hell looks like. Earlier today, breakfast with a salmon, shrimp, and a same page meeting with Angus, a table read for this video, podcast Q&A for the podcast, video filming, video filming, and then I'm going to Cambridge for some talks this evening. I have an Orthodox appointment tomorrow. I've got this whole retreat thing that I'm going to in the evening. And basically, for the last several years, I have been running my life based on my calendar. And this is amazing. This takes an enormous amount of stress off my shoulders, because if something is not in the calendar, then it doesn't exist. Like, as soon as a friend says to me, hey, do you want to do this thing on this date? I look at my calendar and be like, let me have a look. Yep. And I'll just add it there there and then, so that I'm not trying to remember. Like, what was that thing that I'd like Catherine and Whiteman to, etc. etc. So a calendar is really good for remembering stuff that you need to do. But it's also really good for actively intentionally blocking out time for the things that you actually want to do. So, for example, for me, I know that every morning I want to block out three hours to work on my book. And so there's a block out in my calendar. And then I know that, oh, okay, cool. When I get to the morning at 9 o'clock, this is the thing that I'm doing. I block a time for exercise. I block a time for sports event, for social events, Friday nights. I want to host a dinner there for a block that time out in my calendar. And then the third and final really good reason to use a calendar is that you can then use automatic scheduling apps like calendar, or tiny cowl, or savvy cowl, or any of these others. And what that does is it generates a link and that link connects to your calendar. And then if you want to arrange a meeting with someone or a Zoom call with someone you met on the internet or even a hangout with friends, you could, if you wanted to, save the whole back and forth of scheduling, especially if it's with emails, especially if it's a work thing, by just sending them a calendar link. And then they'd be able to kind of book a time in your calendar. Now, I use this a lot for kind of booking interviews for book research and all this kind of stuff. And it's just super, super, super helpful. And it saves a lot of time. And again, means that my own brain doesn't have to kind of do the work in arranging all these things. All right. The next thing, every productivity system needs at the Ron level is some kind of system for email management. Most of us use something like Gmail that's totally fine. You can use an app like Apple Mail. I use an app called Superhuman, which is very good, but it's expensive. You have to pay for it, but it's, it's pretty solid. And that doesn't approach to email that I really like from my friend Tiago Forte, who is, again, productivity expert. And it's called One Touch to Inbox Zero. And basically the idea behind this method is that every email touches your inbox only once. If it's something that requires a calendar event, then it goes into your calendar and then you archive the email. If it's a to do, if it's something that needs action, it goes into a task manager, more on that in a minute, and then you archive the email. If it's information that you need to reference at some point, you put it into a note taking up. And if it's an article or something that you might want to read, it goes into your read it later app. And we'll talk much more about those further in the video. There's a few general tips that apply to emails as well, which, again, are a completely game changing for productivity if you haven't done them already. The first one is to just unsubscribe from all these random emails like Amazon or like sales or like shops and like all of this stuff is pretty unnecessary. We don't want to treat our inbox like kind of this place where any kind of marketer from any kind of company can just spam stuff into it. One thing that you can actually do, and this is what I do, is that I've created a smart filter in Gmail, which searches the content of every email for the word unsubscribe. Now, if the word unsubscribe is in an email, it is probably not an important email because no real person is going to email you with the word unsubscribe in their thing. Whereas if you're getting like a marketing communication or a newsletter or whatever, and it has the word unsubscribe in it, you can just automatically make it skip your inbox, so it doesn't kind of clog up the inbox. The other thing you should do is that ideally, only have one place to deal with all your email. So, for example, when I was at university, I forwarded all my university email to my personal Gmail and also all my personal Gmail. To my personal Gmail, because Gmail has just way better features than whatever Hermes app that Cambridge University was using. But really, the main point is that we want to avoid using our inbox, our email inbox, as a place to find articles to read, or even worse, using our email inbox as a to-do list, which brings us on to component number three of a decent productivity system, and that is to have some kind of to-do list. Now, again, David Allen's advice from getting things done comes in here. Your brain is for having ideas not for holding them, and if you don't write something down in a to-do list, your brain is very unlikely to remember the thing. You could do this on pen and paper if you really want to. I sometimes do, like my daily planner, I use my essentially productivity pod time productivity notebook, and in that, I ask myself one question, which is, what is the most important thing I need to do today? That's my daily highlight, and every day I try and fill the end to be like it. Today, the single most important thing I want to do is X, and then I have a might-do list. This is just stuff that I might do later in the day, and I like calling it a might-do list because it just takes a little bit of the pressure off me, and it means I don't have to stress too much if I don't get all those things done. So, that tends to be what I do on a day-by-day basis when I figure out what I'm doing for the day. But the actual app that I use to track all of the other stuff is to doist. I've tried a bunch of different apps over the years, but essentially what I do is that if I need to add a task to my to-do list, then usually I'll input it on my phone or on my MacBook if I happen to be on my MacBook, and you'll see on my iPhone that I've literally got to doist as like one of the primary things in my dock. So, if I do think of anything at all, anytime a task pops into my mind, I think, okay, this is not going to happen until I write it down, and I just open up to do list, and I write down whatever the task is. So, for example, I know right now I need to find bow-tie from Cambridge flat. Cool. Now, that's written down. Now, I will get to it at some point. Similarly, I use this for shopping lists. I use it for any thank you emails I need to send. As soon as anything pops into mind, it just goes straight into the to-do list app, either on my phone or on my MacBook, and then whenever I've got some time where I feel like, you know what, I'm going to batch go through my to-do list because I've got half an hour and nothing better to do than I'll just go through and just bang my mama bang. I'll delete the ones that are no longer relevant. Like, should I get all plants smoothies? Probably, maybe not. Screw it. Doesn't need to go. I'll just take that off or delete it. But for something I actually need to do, it's great because then I can batch do these things like any to send a bunch of thank you emails, and so I've just batched them all into to-do list, knowing that at some point I'll get around to sending all these emails in one go. Something I like to do is sort of got this someday maybe list for like, you know, work stuff, someday maybe list for like personal stuff, these are things I'd like to do at some point, roller-blading archery, hunting, glamping, mountain biking, treehouse, glamping retreat, all these different things like, when I have an idea for something cool, I just chuck it into the someday maybe list. This is again a tip from David Allen, and that means that I know at some point, when it comes to planning my next holiday, I'll just be able to look at that and think, you know what, the idea of kite surfing sounds pretty cool. I mean Google and figure out where I can potentially go kite surfing. Now, at this point, the mistake that the vast majority of people seem to make with their to-do lists, at least from all the people that have coached in productivity, is actually not having 100% coverage. So, for example, if you have a to-do list and it only covers 90% of your things rather than a 100%, you're going to get into one of these problems. I can't remember what's a forgotten. So, like the point of the to-do list is so that you don't forget things, but if 10% of things are in your brain, you won't know what that 10% is, and so you're always going to be stressed thinking, I know my to-do list has most of the things I need to do, but it doesn't have all the things I need to do, and for I still need to remember my brain to do stuff, and then it just adds this sort of low level tension and stress to every single thing that we do in life. Anyway, the final thing in our Ron level of productivity system is some kind of file management system. Again, this is like super basic stuff, but again, there are so many people who have literally coached in productivity who don't have a decent file management system, generally what you want is some kind of cloud storage. Now, the one that I use, even though I'm an Apple fanboy for absolutely everything, I still use Google Drive as my cloud storage system of choice. I've got my personal Google Drive, and I've got the business Google Drive, and I've got the folders on my Mac. So, for example, I can look in my drive, I can look at all of my business stuff, all of my med school staff, let's look at pre-clinical medicine. Let's look at first here. These are all the notes that I had in first year across all my different subjects. Let's look at home. That's physiology, essays, examples, documents, all of this stuff. It is all in my Google Drive. My whole life is basically on Google Drive. Photos, memories, files, all of the things on Google Drive. So, that, if I ever lose my computer, if my heart risk it discover goes, if ever gets stolen, if I want to upgrade computers, it's so easy. I know every single thing is on Google Drive, and these days, like searching functions and these things are so good that if I know that I need to find a certain file, I'll just search my Google Drive for it, because I know it's probably in their somewhere. All right, so that was the wrong layer of the productivity system for essential life management, the four components that, in my humble opinion, every single person needs to survive in this world that we live in so that your brain is not super, super stressed out, trying to remember all these random details. The next layer up of the productivity system is an optional extra, and this is for people that consume a lot of books. And this is where the Hermione level of the productivity system comes in. And basically the idea here is that it's a layer above. It's like additional modules that you can add to your basic productivity system if you want. If you consume a lot of media, media, meaning books, or audio books, or podcasts, or videos, or anything like that, that you might want to remember later. This layer of the productivity system is about taking notes. It's about capturing information that resonates with us from the stuff that we consume. And again, this is for people who, you know, if you've had that feeling where you read all these things or you listen to all these things, and you have all these insights, but you don't write them down. And then like two months later, you've forgotten what you read in that book that potentially changed your life. That's the point of this level of the productivity system. And here we have another four modules of the system. So the first one is the Kindle app. Yes, there are other ways to read there's Apple Books and stuff, but like to be honest, I've tested them all and I found the Kindle app to be by far the best one. You don't even need to have a physical Kindle, although that's one of the most life-changing products I do recommend. Yeah, the Kindle app is absolutely sick. I tend to read most things on ebook format rather than physical book format, but it's not just reading that I can do in the Kindle app. It is also highlighting. And highlighting on the Kindle app is an absolute breeze. And what I can do is that once I've read a book, I can always look at my highlights in the Kindle notebook. And then if I need to revisit things that I learn from a book, or a quote from a paranormal romance book that I particularly enjoyed, I can just open up my highlights, and I can see everything that's previously resonated with me. All right, so that was the Kindle app. Next we have a read it later app. Now the one that I've been using for the last several years is called InstaPaper. It's free. And essentially the point of InstaPaper is that anytime you're reading something or you want to read an article on the internet, if you don't want to read it there and then on your phone or your new browser, you can just share it into something like InstaPaper. And then it will just show up on your list. And now, again, when I have a spare moment, if I'm commuting if I'm on a tube or whatever, I'll just open up InstaPaper, usually on my phone. And I'll just flick through some of the articles in InstaPaper, and I'll be like, oh, okay, cool. This one looks interesting. I'm improving ourselves to death. This is a bit of a critique about self-help. And I can look through that article. I can highlight stuff as well. It's all very handy. And it's just a great way of separating the reading of articles from coming across the articles. Because often I find that, you know, if I'm on the toilet for like three minutes and I'm scrolling through Twitter and I come across an interesting article, if I read it there and then it might take 10 minutes and then I'm on the toilet for three hours and that's not very good. Or if I'm in the middle of something and someone recommends an article, I know I want to read it at some point, but I know I don't want to read it there and then. I'll just send it straight to InstaPaper and trust that at some point I will get around to reading that article. And again, this separation from separation of things, like, if I'm trying to focus on something that I genuinely care about. But then I get, I get de-brailed by an article recommendation and go down this Wikipedia rabbit hole, trying to figure out all these conspiracy theories. That ends up actually taking time away from the thing that I actually care about and kind of stopping me from kind of being productive and being intentional with how I'm spending my time. And because time is our most valuable and non-renewable resource, it's the only thing we can't make more of. It's like, it always felt a bit like, oh, I know I've carved out this time to work on this thing that's important to me, but I've just been stolen away by being distracted by this article. InstaPaper or something like that completely solves that problem. Now, when it comes to actually finding articles and interesting things to read that will level up your life and, like, things you actually care about, people always ask me like, how do you find stuff to read? And for me, it's because I subscribe to a bunch of email newsletters and one of the main ones that I read every single day is called Morning Brew, who are very kindly sponsoring this video. Now, Morning Brew is a completely free daily email newsletter that lands in your inbox every morning or in your really late wrap if you've set up a forwarding rule, which is what I've done. Basically, it gets you up to speed on what's happening in the world of tech and finance and business. And if you care about those three things, like I do, then it's just a fantastic newsletter and it's also completely free, so you might as well sign up. It takes most people around five minutes to go through it and catch up to date with the news, usually I skim through it in about two and a half minutes flat while I'm waiting for my morning coffee to brew. And if there's any interesting articles from that, I'll send those articles directly to my rated later app as well and then usually read them later on in the day on the toilet and that means every day I'm up to date on these things that I care about, like tech and finance and business and a lot of those topics then generate interesting content ideas that I can talk about in the podcast or in YouTube videos or in anything else or just generally keeping up to date with interesting things in the world. It's also great because it gives you interesting and in-depth coverage around weird things like even musk, how he's financing it's Twitter by or like the recent crypto crash which is massively affected by a crypto portfolio but I've got the information from Morning Brew because I trust them as a legit non-fake news source and all it is is take out a few minutes out of my day to read these interesting articles rather than be keeping up to date with the whole 24 hours news cycle. So yeah, if you're interested in tech, finance, business, any of that kind of stuff then you might as well subscribe to this newsletter, it is completely free, they don't charge just single penny for it, completely free, check out the link in the video description and it'll help support the channel as well. So thank you so much Morning Brew for sponsoring this video and for making my personal life much better. Alright, component 3 of the Hermione layer is an app called Readwise. I'll put an affiliate link down below, they're not sponsoring this video, but if you click the link you'll get an extra two month trial rather than just a one month trial and I'll get a bit of a kickback if you sign up. I've been recommending Readwise for the last like three years now, Readwise is incredible. It's like this little hub that takes in details like it takes in your Kindle highlights and your Insta paper highlights and a few other sources and it puts them all in one place and it means you can then export those highlights to apps like Notion or Rome, more on those in Layer 3 and it's really handy because now all of this stuff gets automated. Anytime I see a passage in Kindle or an Insta paper that resonates with me where I think, ooh, I want to save this passage, all I have to do is highlight it and I trust, I just trust that Readwise will behind the scenes, sort it all out. And before Readwise existed, before we had this this kind of thing, what we'd have to do is if you find a passage that resonated with you, you'd have to write it down, you have to highlight it, you have to store it somewhere, you have to figure out where you're trying to store it, it becomes a real path and again coming back to a point, what is the point of a productivity system? People always ask, it's to get shit off of your own brain, like I now don't need to remember all these things because the system is remembering it for me and then I trusted the system will resurface it as and when I need to access those highlights again. And then finally the fourth component of this sort of system is some sort of capture app from Notes. Now again I've tried a bunch of systems over the years but actually the one that I've come back to most often is actually Apple Notes and essentially any time I need to remember something, for example if I'm taking a note while I'm on the toilet or if I'm on the train and listening to an audio book and I want to take notes on something, I'll just open up Apple Notes and I'll write it down. And I'll trust that if I need to resurface that thing sometime further down the line it will always be in my Apple Notes and it will always be something that I could potentially search for. At this point honestly I've got hundreds and hundreds of notes in my Apple Notes and then I just trusted there like I know I don't need to worry about doing stuff with them as soon as they come in I don't need to worry about an elaborate system for this. What I care about is having the minimum viable level of organization, the minimum viable level of systems and structure to again reduce my own strain, reduce my own stress. You've got an ask like how do you seem to not burn out, how do you manage like, honestly like having a decent system is a massive cure for burn out because you just trust the system, you trust the system to do stuff, you don't have to again have that low level of anxiety running in your actual brain. All right so that was the hominy layer of the productivity system and now the final layer that if you want to layer on top of that you can if you really want to is the dumbledore layer which relates to a concept called building a second brain. You might have heard me talk about building a second brain before, it is a book, it is a system, it's a course written and done by my friend Tiago Gforte and it's like a pretty game-changing productivity system because the idea like level one, the run, the run layer, level whatever you want to call it was about just being able to organize our life and kind of get by. Level two was about capturing insights from all the stuff that we read and consume and level three this dumbledore level is all about making connections and in a way using our productivity system for creativity rather than just for storage and in a way if you can actually build your own second brain this ends up acting as a thought partner for you. I've been using this system since like mid-2019 now it's been three years and I've found so many ways in which particularly for writing my book but also for creating content and for writing new letters and for doing podcasts the information I've captured into my second brain using an app called room when I use these days although I might switch to obsidian more in that later but capturing all this information into an app called room research means that it just sort of resurfaces and if you want to find out more about this dumbledore level then check out this video over here which is my book club episode all about breaking down the C O D E component of the building a second brain system and that will give you a step-by-step guide and how to apply in your own lives. Thank you so much for watching. Check out this video over here and I'll see you in the next one. Bye bye.
