# How To Make Money Online - The 3 Levels
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TH0nNn6SmXw
To learn how to code and start your own journey to passive income, visit https://brilliant.org/ali and sign up for free. The first 200 people will get 20% off the annual Premium subscription :)

In this video, I'll be breaking down the 3 levels to making money online - a video I wish I had seen when I started out on my journey 13 years ago...

Timestamps:
01:30 - What is money?
01:55 - The 3 Levels of Making Money Online
02:25 - Level 1 Make Money Online By Selling Your Services
06:10 - Level 2 Make Money Online By Selling Products
12:40 - Level 3 Supercharge Your Money Making Powers  

💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://go.aliabdaal.com/subscribe-sundaysnippets

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - 
 https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
🎬 YouTube for Beginners - Everything You Need To Know To Start  - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/YouTube-for-Beginners

MY CREATOR COURSES
🎬 Check out my free 7 day email course on how to become a part-time YouTuber: https://aliabdaal.com/part-time-youtuber-crash-course/
🏆 Creatorpreneur - My flagship course for scaling up your creative side-hustle → https://creatorpreneur.academy/course
🗣 Camera Confidence - My self-paced course on how to improve your creativity, career, or communication skills → https://cameraconfidence.aliabdaal.com/

MY FAVOURITE GEAR
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) -https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

🎙 Check out my weekly podcast, Deep Dive - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/ - It's also available on all podcast platforms, including Spotify, Apple Podcasts etc.

MY FAVOURITE TOOLS
🚀 VidIQ - How I optimise my YouTube videos - https://go.aliabdaal.com/vidiq
✍️ Shortform - The BEST summaries of books - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
📚  Readwise - How I remember what I read - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise
🎵  Epidemic Sound - Where I get my music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound

MY KEY LINKS
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com/
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I’m Ali, a YouTuber, podcaster, soon-to-be author and ex-Doctor working in London, UK. I make videos that explore the strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. I also have a weekly podcast called Deep Dive (https://www.youtube.com/channel/UChfo46ZNOV-vtehDc25A1Ug), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://go.aliabdaal.com/subscribe-sundaysnippets).

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, how to make money online, dropshipping, how to make money on the internet, making money online, business advice, entrepreneurship, how to become an entrepreneur, business inspiration, online business, starting an online business, how to start an online business, how to make money from home, income streams online, how to build income streams, how to get rich, how to make a lot of money, how to make money, entrepreneur, online entrepreneur, doctor vlog, 
**Date:** 2020-05-19

## Transcript
 When I was 12 years old, I had this dream of making money on the internet. Now, 13 years later, and with a ton of failures and experience under my belt, I make over three times as much money from the internet on the side, as I do in my full-time job as a doctor in the NHS, the UK's National Health Service. This is the video I wish I would have had when I first got started. Hey friends, welcome back to the channel. If you're new here, my name is Ali and on this channel, we explore the various principles, strategies and tools that help us live happier, more productive lives. And we're talking about money in this video because firstly, more people should do it, and secondly, because money is such a massive source of stress in most of our lives. We often feel like we don't have enough of it, and most of us trade more than 80,000 hours of our lives, a huge chunk of our short time on this earth to go to work so we can make money, which we need to live. Being able to make money online outside of our day jobs is pretty cool. It means that if we're lucky enough to be doing a job that we love, then happy days, we've got some spare cash to go on holiday with. But if maybe we're not entirely happy with working 40 to 80 hours a week, then we've got the option of going part-time, or taking a job that pays less, but that we enjoy more, or even to stop working all together if that's what we want. Obviously, this isn't an overnight thing, like it takes a lot of time and effort and luck to get to the point where we can quit our jobs and stick it to the man. But to be honest, I don't think anyone watching this would say no to having an extra few hundred dollars a month kicking around. And the process of getting there isn't as mysterious as it can sometimes feel. So let's break it down. Basically, there's only three ways, three legit ways of making money online. But before we go there, we need to talk about what money actually is. And there's a poem from the early 1900s that goes as follows. Money is a matter of functions for a medium, a measure, a standard, a store. And so putting this all together, and it's core, money is just a medium for exchanging value. Like we all use money to buy things that we find valuable. And so if we want to make money or make money online, we need to be providing some kind of value that someone else is willing to pay for. So there's basically three forms of value that people will pay for over the internet. And these are our three levels of making money online. And that is level one services, level two products and level three attention. I've been doing variants of all three over the last 13 years. I started off studying services as a web and graphic designer. I then moved towards selling products, so products were meant school applicants and online question banks. And now it's mostly through the attention that I've got on platforms like YouTube that I can leverage to superpower, the sale of services and products. And those are sort of the three levels of making money online. Level one, make money online by selling your services. This one's probably the easiest way of making money online. It's the one I'd recommend to everyone to begin with. And it was how I got my start. There's only two things we need to do. Firstly, we need to develop a skill that people are willing to pay for. And secondly, we need to find people who are willing to pay for that skill. Step one, develop a skill that others are willing to pay for. If you're thinking that I don't have any valuable skills, that's okay, you've got the internet and you can learn. When I was 12, I decided I wanted to be super cool and therefore learn how to code. Through using Google and finding a ton of free resources online, I taught myself HTML and CSS, which are the basic and markup languages of websites. And then, because I wanted to make a video game for my nerd friends, I decided to teach myself PHP, which is a service side programming language. And I did that in 2006 with just free information on the internet, way back when all of these online courses and stuff were a thing. So you can pretty much learn anything online for free. These days, there's hundreds of ways you can learn how to code online. I'd recommend starting with the basics of HTML and CSS by following random YouTube tutorials, or by paying for something like code school or code academy, and then trying to build your own personal website. And if you want to learn proper coding, I'd recommend the introduction to Python course over brilliant who are sponsoring this video, but I'll tell you more about them later. If you're not into coding, there are literally hundreds of services you can offer online. Like if you just look on the website's fiber or upwork and browse their categories, there are literally hundreds, if not thousands of different things, that people will pay you for. Some of them are related to doing stuff on the computer, like coding and websites and graphic design and illustration and stuff, but there's loads of other things like writing and copyrighting and data entry and being a personal assistant and admin services. And just they're just like this whole world of stuff that you can do on the internet, wherever you are in the world, pretty much as long as you have a reasonable internet connection. Another easy-ish one to learn is video editing. If you want, you can check out my Skillshare class on how to edit videos in Final Cut. And after working through that, you'll be pretty good, like not having a monetizable skill is not an excuse anymore at all if you want to actually make money online because you can literally teach yourself anything over the internet and then you can sell that skill to other people. A step two, find people who will pay you money for that skill or service. Now, there's two sorts of people who will pay you for your services, essentially. There's eight people in real life or secondly, people in the internet. I got started with people in real life. I learned how to make websites when I was 12, 13. And then I sent an email to like my eight email contact and told all of my friends that I was going to be designing website. And I made this really terrible looking banner thing to advertise my services. I had my home for a number on it at the time. Don't worry, it's not my home for a number anymore. We've moved houses many times since then. But I actually found like one of my friends, Dads, wanted a website built. And so my first website that I made was this junkie-looking HTML CSS thingy that I made for my mates, Dad. And he paid me 30 pounds for it, so that was pretty solid. Alternatively, and a much more viable long-term solution is that you can find people to pay you for your services over the internet. Now, I got my start on a website called GetToCoder.com where, you know, people would post projects saying they need a web designer or a developer to do these various things. And I would bid on those projects and say, I'll do it for $10. I'll do it for $5. I would basically undercut everyone else in the market because I was like 12, 13. And for me, five or $10 was like, oh my god, I'm rich. These days, this places like Upwork and Fiverr that seem to be the biggest ones and you can just kind of browse through all the different things people are looking for. And then you can sell your services there, you can say, I'll do it for a five or I'll do it for $10, I'll do it for $20, 50. And over time, as you get better at the thing, you can start charging more and more, especially as you start getting decent reviews and you start building up your own portfolio of whatever the thing is that you're doing. And so I did this whole selling services thing for a few years, but I realized pretty quickly that ultimately what I was doing is I was trading my time for money. And that's ultimately not very scalable model because obviously my time, our time is limited. And so if you really want to make money online, then we want to get to level two, level two, make money online by selling products. When you start selling products like physical or digital goods, then your ability to make money online magnifies a lot because it's suddenly become scalable like it's not directly tied to the amount of time you're putting it. Now, if we want, we could sell pretty much anything online, but the ideal thing that we want to sell is something that has a one-time cost of time a money to make, but then we can sell infinite copies of and we want the cost of reproduction to be zero. And ideally we want the cost of distribution to be zero. And ideally we want the ongoing time commitment to be as low as possible so we can make the thing once and then we can sell it like a million times without having to spend much more time. So the ideal product category then is digital goods or digital products. Now, a digital good is anything from a website to an app or an online course or an ebook. All of these things have a one-time cost of production, a zero cost of reproduction, zero cost of distribution, and hopefully a zero cost of maintenance as well. All right, so we can either sell digital or physical stuff, but obviously I think digital is. It's better, but there's basically two ways of selling it. Like we can either sell other people's stuff or we can sell our own stuff. Level two basic is selling other people's products. Now, there's various different ways of doing this, but just to simplify for clarity, the two that we're going to talk about today are firstly dropshipping and secondly affiliate marketing, let's start with dropshipping. The basic idea is that we could make a pretty looking website that sells nice looking watches, let's say for a hundred pounds of peace. When a customer orders that watch, we then buy it from a third party, that's actually selling the watch, and we arrange them to ship it to the customer, so we're making 50 pounds without ever handling the watch at all. Now, I've never really done this myself and I would recommend you probably stay away from it as well, just because I've seen so many kind of online courses that seem to seem a little bit scammy about how you can make money online by dropshipping. I also don't like the fact that dropshipping generally focuses on physical goods, and as we talked about, physical goods are just not as fun to sell as digital stuff because you actually have to pay for it, you have to arrange the logistics of the shipping, it's just a massive ballic, whereas digital products really are the way to go. The second way of selling other people's products is with affiliate marketing. Now, affiliate marketing is when you're selling someone else's stuff, but you're getting a commission from each sale, like there's a really good review website called Wirecutter, and they do reviews about the best electronics in different categories, and they have Amazon affiliate links, so when someone clicks on that link and buys from Amazon, then Wirecutter, the website will make, I don't know, 1% 2% 3% commission on that sale, and so if you get enough visitors buying enough things, you can make a load of money from affiliate marketing, or you can do what I do, which is to have affiliate partnerships with certain products, like there is the paper-like screen protector who I've been evangelizing for the last two years, because I genuinely love the product, and so if someone buys a paper-like screen protector for the iPad Pro using my link, I will get some percentage commission on that sale, and if enough people are doing that, that can make a reasonable amount of money, so that is how affiliate marketing works, you're selling someone else's stuff, but you're getting a percentage commission on the sale. If you're interested in learning more about this, there's a dude called Pat Flynn, who runs a website and a podcast called Smart Passive Income, and they've got a load of materials that teach you the ins and outs of how to do affiliate marketing properly, but selling someone else's stuff is absolutely fine, but really we want to be getting to the holy grail, and holy grail is level 2 expert. Level 2 expert is when we're selling our own products. If we're selling our own stuff, then we control everything from the aesthetics to the price to the distribution to the logistics that are the entire customer experience we are controlling ourselves. So here this kind of three broad categories of things that you could sell. You could try selling physical products, Peter McKinnon has done very well selling his camera bag, Pat Flynn has done really well selling this switch pot, which is a tripod for vloggers. It's quite hard selling a physical product, it's a lot of work, you have to manufacture it, distribute logistics, it costs a load of money. I wouldn't recommend doing the physical products thing. It's something I'm kind of looking into myself when it comes to selling merch, but it's kind of hard and I think personally more trouble than it's probably worth. Secondly, you could make a website or an app and you could sell access to that. Like for example, that's a you make an iOS game or something and people buy it from the app store, you're making money off of that. Or that's a you're making a website that's offering some kind of service and you're charging people a subscription fee or something for access to that service. This is something that my brother and I did in 2015, we both know how to code, and so in the summer of 2015, we built an online question bag for students in the UK applying to medical school, taking these certain exams. And so we charged people for access to the question bag and through the platform, they could do the questions, they could mark their answers right, they could see solutions. But the problem with this whole, I want to build a website and make money off of that, is that it's really quite hard to do. In general, you need to know how to code. Usually you want to find some co-founders, you can go down the startup route, this is kind of so much stuff out there for essentially building an app that makes money. But if you're a bit complete beginner to making money online, the very first thing you should do probably shouldn't be to try and get rich off making an app, it's really very hard and it's kind of a more advanced way of doing things. Point number three is I think a much easier way that anyone can make money online, and that is by selling info products. So by info products, I mean things like ebooks or digital downloads or online courses, because if you can teach something and you can teach it in a compelling and interesting way online, increasingly it's becoming easier and easier to find people who are willing to pay you for that online education. More and more people are turning to online education, so if you can teach something well, you can make money off of that. So with me for example, I've got a series of online courses aimed at medical school applicants that teach them how to do well in these exams and medical interviews, so that makes some money every week every month by selling online without me having to put any more effort in, I've also got online courses over on Skillshare, like a course on how to edit videos and a classmate, how to study for your exams. And again, those generate passive income, I've put the effort into creating the course once, and then is just selling itself repeatedly without me having to do much else. And to be honest, it's reasonably straightforward to develop the sort of expertise that then means you can teach the thing. And I think a lot of us really struggle with this because we think, oh, I'm not an expert therefore I can't teach online. But you can, because if you're a beginner, you can teach other beginners. Right now, if you're thinking I want to make money online, you could very easily sign up to a free trial of Skillshare, and then you could watch my course and how to edit videos and final cut pro. And then you could make your own course for complete beginners and how to edit videos and find a cut pro. Like it's so easy, you could literally learn anything online, and then you can make an online class teaching that thing to other people. And if you want, you can set it through your own website, or if you want, you can scale it through you to make course for our Skillshare. There's all sorts of different platforms that you can sell your expertise on, and as long as it's good, obviously it has to be good because, you know, we make money online by providing value. If it's valuable, then people will buy it, and you'll just kind of make money, and it's pretty kind of magical system really. But as you might be thinking, you know, we can make all of the digital products that we want, the physical products that've gone on courses, whatever, the problem is, we still need to find people who are willing to part with their hard earned cash to buy the thing that we're trying to sell them. So how do we do that? And that's where level three comes in. Level three is when we supercharge our money making powers with attention. Now there are ways that you can get your product in front of people, whatever it is, you could try running Facebook or Instagram ads, you can go around knocking on doors in your neighborhood, you can send cold emails to mailing list, whatever you want. But really, the easiest way of selling anything online is by using attention. And that's the attention of people who know like and trust you. And by far, the easiest way of getting people to know like and trust you is by providing valuable content on the internet completely free of charge. For example, if you wanted to right now, you could start a blog about productivity tips. And every week, you could write one or two blog posts sharing your favorite productivity tips from books, from academic papers, from articles, from podcasts, from your own life. And over time, if you do this consistently and provide value, because again, there's an exchange of value. We all care about value. There's no snake oil that you can sell here. There is no shortcut to making money online. You're providing value for free across the internet over a long period of time. And then in three years time, you build up a mailing list of 20,000 people. And now, when you want to run your own productivity course, you've got this mailing list of 20,000 people who know like and trust you from the value that you've given them for free over an extended period of time. And now they're far more likely to buy your thing. You've got an audience of people that you can sell to. There's a guy called Gary Vaynerchuk who you should definitely be following across every single social platform. If you care about making money online and you haven't heard of him, you know Gary Vaynerchuk loads of links in the video description. He's got a book called jab jab jab right hook. And the model for that is that a jab is like kind of a boxing analogy. I think a jab is when you give someone content valuable content for free. And a right hook is when you ask them for something or try and sell them something. And he says an interview is that actually he wished he could have called the book. Jab jab jab jab jab. Like 25 times and then right hook. But obviously he can't do that because it's a title of a book. Because that's the ratio that free content versus paid content needs to be. You need to be providing 25 pieces of valuable free content for every right hook that you're launching. Every time you're asking someone to buy stuff. And really this is the exact playbook word for word that I've been following with this YouTube channel since 2017. I've been following Gary Vaynerchuk for years. I've been following people like Tim Ferris who kind of models this perfectly over time by just flooding the market with a ton of really valuable free content not really worrying about trying to charge people for things. And then later on, you know, once you've got this audience of people who know like and trust you hopefully, you know, through this YouTube channel, I've managed to do that. Now for me, if I want to sell them online course, if I want to put a class in Skillshare, I automatically have this audience of 600,000 people who are willing to hear my message and will be far more likely to buy the thing from me. And so if you can build up that personal brand that professional reputation, this this audience of people that know like and trust you, at that point you are super charging your abilities to make money online. Because now you can sell goods. Now you can sell services. And in fact, you could even sell attention directly by doing sponsorships and stuff like that. Like, I do two an audience of people that cares. And there's just that that's like completely an utterly life-changing when you've got this huge audience that you can leverage to make money online. And in fact, the audience doesn't even need to be that big. Like, there's a load of podcasts. You know, my friend Noah Kagan runs one about marketing. And he shows that even with a very small amount of people, if you've got the right audience following you, you could easily sell a product. There's a guy called Kevin Kelly who wrote a famous essay ages ago called 1000 true fans, where if you can just get a thousand people following you on the internet. And those are your true fans. Those are the people that let's say you're a musician. They're the people who will, you know, go to every show. They'll buy the special edition of your album. If you can get a thousand people who like you enough to potentially pay you $100 a year for the stuff that you make, you're making $100,000 a year. You've got a full-time living from a thousand true fans. And so the audience doesn't need to be that big. But the way of building any kind of audience, as Gary Vaynerchuk and Tim Ferrissay is to just produce a ton of really valuable free content over a long period of time. But Ali, if I give away content for free, people won't buy my paid stuff. That's not how it works. People will buy paid stuff, but only if you give them content for free. You don't build an audience by selling them stuff. You build an audience by giving them a load of stuff for free. And then you can sell to them three years down the line. And so for me, right now I'm at the point with passive income, where I make so much more money on the side through these online activities, through selling good services and attention online. Then I do my day job of working 60 hours a week of being a doctor in the UK. Honestly, all of this started 13 years ago when I decided that I wanted to be a super nerd and learn how to code. And so if you're watching this right now and you're thinking that you want to maybe start this journey, one thing that I'd really recommend is that you learn how to code. Yes, in this day and age, you don't absolutely have to learn how to code. But it's a sort of thing that really helps if you're trying to sell any kind of a software product online. And honestly, the best place that I'd recommend you learning how to code is firstly, teach yourself HTML and CSS using random free tutorials on YouTube. You can learn HTML in a single day. You can learn CSS in two days and then you can try building your own personal website. Then once you've done that, you should definitely go over to Brilliant for their online course on learning Python and the fundamentals of computer science. Brilliant are kindly sponsoring this video. There are a fantastic online platform for maths, science and computer science courses and their introduction to Python and also their advanced Python courses. A really good at learning Python, which is the world's most popular programming language. And with Python, you can do anything from making an app, making a website to making even a question bank that gives people access to medical questions, which is sort of the thing that me and my brother did. So if that sounds good, you should head over to Brilliant.org forward slash Ali and the first 200 people to click on that link will get 20% of the annual premium subscription. But yeah, those were the three levels of making money online. If you're interested in learning more, I put together a playlist for you right here that has a lot of my other videos about how to make money online. The watch those read the books that I recommend and then I promise you'll start on your path to getting rich by making money on the internet. So thanks for watching and see in the next video.
