# Day in the Life as a Doctor
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tH_Jriu7XkU
Get a 30-day free trial of CuriosityStream - https://curiositystream.com/ali and use the code ALI at checkout! 

My new discord server - https://discord.gg/jwYwgUv (where we chat about books, productivity, study tips, podcasts and other wholesome things)

💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking 
📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

My Spotify profile - https://open.spotify.com/user/1111404728?si=7QYptBTLREWbU1OCHHxrBw

🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal

Who am I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 


If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭
**Keywords:** day in the life as a doctor, day in the life of a doctor, life as a doctor, doctor vlog, student, life as a resident, residency, physician, medicine, surgeon, medical student, medical school, resident, hospital vlog, doctor on call, how to study, doctor vlogging in hospital, vlogging in the hospital, work life balance, junior doctor, hospital food, studying while working, notion for studying, how to use notion, what it's like to be a doctor, psychiatry ward, 
**Date:** 2019-12-06

## Transcript
 Hey friends, welcome back to the channel. If you're new here, my name is Ali, I'm a doctor at working in Cambridge and this is a day in my life. It's a Saturday and I'm on call at the hospital, so I get up at 6.30 and take half an hour for general life maintenance before setting up my camera stuff to film a video before work. From 7am to 10 past 8, I stumbled my way through this video wishing that I'd scripted it better. This 70 minutes of filming later turns into a 22 minute video with the hopefully clickback title of how to rank first at medical school. And then I rush out of the door and drive 45 minutes to work. During the commute, if I'm feeling productive, I listen to podcasts or if I'm feeling lazy, I listen to audiobooks on audible or if I'm feeling reflective, I drive in silence with my thoughts, which is what I do today. I get into the hospital by 9am and get a hand over from the doctor who was on call overnight. She tells me there's a new patient who needs to have a physical examination done and another patient who needs a blood test. This is admittedly quite a light list of jobs, so I'm happy and feel optimistic that I'll be able to get some studying done that day as well. We chat for a bit until 9.30 when I get a phone call from the nurse asking for a prescription for some medication. While I'm on the ward, I do a few other bits of paperwork that needed doing and then at 10am I go and see one of the patients to take their blood, because I'm a pro and she had good veins. I get it on my first attempt. After sending the blood to the lab for testing, I head over to the hospital's restaurant to grab some breakfast, and while I'm there, I run into a friend who's very confused as to why I'm filming food. She films me pouring ketchup onto my plate and then at 11am I head back to the ward. I turn on the Bluetooth speaker that I brought into the office. I play my Spotify playlist from my first year of university and then get started on some discharge letters for patients that have gone home that week. At 11.30 I get two calls in a row, one to see a patient with painful knees and another to prescribe various medications for various patients on the ward. Sorting this stuff takes around an hour and I get back to the doctor's office at 12.40. I spend the next 20 minutes continuing with my discharge letters and then head back to the restaurant at 1pm to grab some lunch. I happen to run into colleagues from other specialties who are also in call that day and so we chat for half an hour over lunch and then one of them visits my ward afterwards and we play some cheeky table tennis in the gym for about 20 minutes. At 150 I head back to the office to continue working on these discharge letters. On psychiatry the discharge letter is super long and complicated and so I finished the first one at half past two and then popped down to the ward to rewrite a drug chart then take a toilet break where I scroll through Twitter on my phone for a few minutes and finally I finished the second discharge letter at 3.40pm. At this point my day is looking reasonably free and so I decide to do some studying. I get started on lecture four in the heart and circulation series in human physiology, the subject that I'm supervising some medical students in at Cambridge University. I only managed this for around half an hour before losing concentration realising that the early start this morning to film the video meant that I only got around five hours of sleep so I head down to the on-call junior doctors room to have a quick nap. I managed to sleep for a few minutes but at quarter to five I get working up to review a patient who was having an anxiety attack. I get back to bed but over the next hour every time I do a job and think I'm finally done for the day I get caught again to do something else. Eventually I give up on the thought of having an up and I head back to the doctors office to do some more studying. I spend half an hour doing some more cardiovascular physiology and planning out my teaching session for the medical students. From 7 to 8pm I've wrapped in a, again, at the hospital restaurant with some colleagues who happened to be there at the same time. I don't film anything properly here because I don't want them to think I'm weird and then I head back to the office and spend half an hour making a start on the next series of cardiovascular physiology lectures. Immediately I realise that the lecture nodes don't really make sense to me and so I bust out a PDF of a physiology textbook and grapple my way through it while thinking down. This is a really good book I wish I discovered it sooner. It hits 835pm and at this point I've got 25 minutes left in my shift and I'm pretty confident I won't get caught so I decided to chill out and watch documentary about Alzheimer's disease. I'm actually on my old age psychiatry placement at the moment and we see a lot of patients with advanced Alzheimer's disease which has actually made me really scared about getting it when I'm older. This documentary goes over the pathophysiology of the disease in a very easy to understand fashion and discusses some of the ways that researchers are trying to reverse the disease process. I'm watching it on curiosity stream who are very kindly sponsoring this video. Curiosity stream is the world's leading documentary streaming subscription platform founded by John Hendrix who's the founder of the Discovery Channel and they've got thousands of documentaries across all genres from science and history to technology and lifestyle. I quite enjoy watching documentaries as a form of productive procrastination so if you'd like to join me you can sign them to a free trial at curiositystream.com forward slash alley and if you enter the coupon code alley at checkout you'll get a free 30 day trial in which you can watch any or all of the documentaries that you like. Anyway at 9pm I hand over to the evening on call doctor giving her the good news that there's nothing else standing that needs doing because I've done everything for the day and wishing her a pleasant night ahead and so that brings us to the end of this day in the life video. I hope you found it big and interesting. I haven't really done one of these videos before so I'd love to hear your thoughts in the comments. Do you want to see more of these? Is there anything else you'd like to see instead? Let me know. But if you like the video then here is a playlist of some of my other vlog-esque videos. Have a lovely day and I'll see you hopefully in the next one. Bye bye.
