# iPad Pro vs iPad (2018) comparison for college / university students
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tIdU4Sw6a5Y
In today's video, we compare the iPad Pro with the new iPad (2018) for college / university students. We recommend the cheaper iPad for the majority of students, and then discuss some of the differences in the user experience (using the Apple Pencil) in more detail. We end with a discussion about pricing, and I share my personal reasons for choosing the iPad Pro over the standard iPad. Enjoy xx

💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking 

📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

📝My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://paperlike.com/ali
🎶 Where I get my music from (amazing for YouTubers) - http://share.epidemicsound.com/ali

TIMESTAMPS:

01:46 - Note-taking comparison - iPad Pro vs iPad 2018
02:49 - The 2 main differences between iPad Pro and iPad 2018
05:21 - Why I would still buy the iPad Pro

🎬 My online course on video editing - https://skl.sh/32TpEvm
🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal

Who am I:

I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com

My most popular videos:

- How I take notes on my iPad Pro in medical school - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=waR3xBDHMqw
- How to study for exams - Evidence based revision tips - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ukLnPbIffxE
- How I ranked 1st at Cambridge University - The Essay Memorisation Framework - https://youtu.be/-46Vyiwat_Y
- My productivity desk setup - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rApxWtDIRAM



If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭
**Keywords:** ipad pro, 2018 ipad, apple pencil, ipad pro vs ipad 2018, ipad pro vs 2018 ipad, ipad pro vs ipad, ipad comparison, which ipad, ali abdaal, how to take notes, how i take notes, ipad for college, ipad pro for students, ipad pro for college, ipad pro 10.5, ipad pro 2018, ipad for college students pros and cons, ipad for college 2018, ipad for college students, ipad for college notes, ipad for college note taking, using ipad for college, best ipad for college, 
**Date:** 2018-06-09

## Transcript
 Hey guys, welcome back to the channel. If you're new here, my name is Ali. I'm a final year medical student at Cambridge University and today we're going to be comparing the iPad Pro with the normal iPad specifically their handling of the Apple Pencil and more specifically if you're a student whether you should buy the iPad Pro or the iPad To answer this question earlier today my friend Charlotte came over she has the 2018 iPad and I have the iPad Pro and we filmed ourselves making notes on each other's iPads to see if we could tell what the difference was between the two Now whenever I watch comparison videos like this, I always wish that the YouTuber would give the conclusion up front so that if I don't want to watch the whole video I don't have to. So here we go. In summary, the experience of making notes on an iPad Pro versus an iPad was pretty much identical. My friend Charlotte could notice no difference between writing on her iPad and my iPad Pro and I could only notice a very very very very slight difference between the two user experiences. Therefore, if you're a student, I would probably recommend that you save the £300 or £300 and you buy the normal iPad with the Apple Pencil instead of the iPad Pro. So that's out of the way. If that's all you wanted to know then thank you for watching the video and please give it a thumbs up and consider subscribing but we're going to spend the rest of this video elaborating on that. First I'm going to show the quick clip of me and Charlotte reacting to using each other's iPads so you can see what that experience was like for us if you're into that sort of thing. Secondly, I'm going to elaborate on the main differences between the iPad Pro and the iPad. Namely, the 120 versus 60 Hertz refresh rate and the slightly increased gap between the screen and the glass which is what everyone is talking about and finally we're going to end with some of my own personal thoughts on pricing of iPad Pro versus iPad and why I would still personally probably get the iPad Pro instead of the iPad but I'll explain why this is not a recommendation that I would kind of impart upon everyone. As usual, timestamps for everything are going to be in the video description so please don't watch this whole video if you don't have time just skip to the appropriate timestamp. But now we're going to cut to the video of me and Charlotte testing each others iPads earlier this morning and pretty much showing how we found no difference between the two. Okay, so we're going to go to ability and we're just going to create and you know let's just kind of doodle a bit or kind of write how we would normally write notes and then we'll swap iPads and we'll see if we can notice the difference between the two. So hello my name is early. So you're used to writing that you've been using it for the past few months or you've been used to writing on this or been using it for the past like six months to a year. Let's swap now and let's see if we can if we can actually notice the difference. Right. I still think pencils as well. Right. Here we go. This is the moment of truth. Okay. What do you think? What do you think of the iPad Pro versus your one? I can't tell it difference. I know what you mean. This is pretty legit. This is really, really good. This is really responsive. Okay so there's loads of other videos on YouTube where people are comparing the specifications of the iPad versus the iPad Pro. We're not really going to be talking about technical comparisons with this. We're just going to be talking about what it's like as a student using the device and as a student using this device there's really not much difference between this and that. I can't. When I'm writing I feel no difference at all. So that was our first experience of using each other's iPads and as you saw the difference wasn't particularly noticeable. But there were some differences in the user experience between the two. The basically two differences that I noticed between the iPad Pro and the iPad. The main one is that with the iPad there was a very slight increased input lag between the Apple Pencil, touching the glass and the words appearing on screen. And here is a slow move side by side comparison of the two. And as you can see on the iPad Pro it's pretty much instantaneous between when you touch the glass and write the thing. Whereas on the iPad there is a slight delay. This has been slowed down four times it's normal rates so you can notice the difference quite clearly here. But in real life it's really not that noticeable. If you are considering the iPad Pro versus the iPad and you're thinking that maybe this input lag is going to make a difference for you. I would really suggest you go to an Apple store and try both of them out. You will notice a very slight input lag on the normal iPad that is just completely gone with the iPad Pro. Now the reason for this is too filled firstly there is a in that increased gap between the glass and the screen on the iPad which is not there on the iPad Pro. The iPad Pro has a laminated screen so it it looks and feels as if you're writing on the screen itself. And secondly the iPad Pro has the 120Hz refresh rate which means stuff appears more smoothly. And you kind of notice this one swiping between out. You notice that well the frame rate of this is a lot higher. That was the first thing I noticed the first time I tried out an iPad Pro and that is again a contrary to this slightly noticeable input lag on the iPad that's not there on the iPad Pro. So that was the main difference this input lag. The second very minor difference was that the iPad Pro feels like a very premium product. The laminated screen feels lovely. The normal iPad felt slightly more plasticky than the iPad Pro because the screen is not fully like laminated. I don't know about all the technical details or loads of other YouTube videos for that but I could I could tell holding it in my hands that this feels slightly inferior in quality to the iPad Pro. And maybe that's perceived perfect but I don't think it is. I think there is a noticeable decrease in quality between the iPad Pro and the iPad. Those were the two main differences and of course if you are using graphics in tens of applications then the iPad Pro is going to perform better than the iPad. But you know Charlotte has been using the iPad 2018 for the last few months since she's got it and she said there was there's literally never any time that she's felt that the iPad is a little bit slow. I noticed that it was very slightly slower than my iPad Pro like for example when I click on a button and a noteability they would be like a very slight lag between you know clicking on the button and the button click getting registered when for example changing pens and changing colors and things. Charlotte didn't really notice that. I suppose she's gotten used to it but as someone who's been using an iPad Pro for the last few months it was it was slightly noticeable. So I suppose the real question is and if you're still with us then you're probably interested in this is that you know there is a 300 pound 300 dollar difference between the base model of the iPad Pro and the base model of the iPad and do these differences justify that 300 pound price tag and as I said at the start of the video for most people for most students if you're a student looking to just take notes browse YouTube maybe edits more documents do student you sort of stuff there's pretty much no reason for you to get the iPad Pro unless you have a lot of spare cash to burn and you like want the top of the range thing because the iPad Pro is the Rolls Royce the iPad is really good and is half the price but it's not quite the Rolls Royce if that makes sense. For me personally knowing now what I know about those two I would still probably buy the iPad Pro and here's the so the iPad Pro is a 300 pounds price price difference between the iPad. I anticipate that I'm going to be using the iPad Pro for at least the next three years so three years is about 150 weeks so 300 pounds spread out over 150 weeks comes out to about two pounds a week so the calculation I'm thinking in my head is would I pay two pounds every week to have the benefit of an iPad Pro over a standard iPad and I think the answer to that question for me personally is yes the reason relates to those two things first is the input lag between kind of the pencil and random writing stuff on it which like I said is not very noticeable but it is there secondly the plastic key sort of feeling this of the iPad Pro the reason why I think the iPad Pro is worth that two pounds a week extra extra price point is that for me personally I would find it less of a pleasure to use the iPad than it is to use the iPad Pro like when I was using shoulder tie pad I I was thinking this is good but it's not an absolute joy to use whereas when I use my iPad Pro it really is an absolute joy to write on I feel excited when I'm taking notes and lectures I feel excited about whenever I have a new idea for a video because I get to bust out the alpha pencil I get to do some like spinny stuff on it and I get to write stuff down my iPad Pro and it just feels so good that is encouraged me over time to write more notes to make more plans for videos all of this sort of stuff it also feels so good that I've sort of taken up a hand lettering on on an iPad and I'm also learning how to do like digital artistry and I've I wanted to be like a concept artist you know sort of concept art that you get in games and movies and stuff I've I just absolutely loved that style of art and I'm kind of following some YouTube tutorials trying to learn how to do all that stuff so having the iPad Pro for all that stuff sort of makes sense because it's the Rolls Royce and because you know the very act of using it is so pleasurable whereas the iPad is more functional it's quite nice to use but it's not as pleasurable so that pleasure factor as weird as it sounds to me personally justifies this two pounds a week extra price tag and secondly because I personally make money by doing text stuff so for example making videos or you know coding or running my business or doing graphic design or all of this sort of stuff I think personally that the fact that the iPad Pro encourages me to use my iPad more I think that will overall bring me more money than I'm spending this two pounds a week on having an iPad Pro rather than an normal iPad and again this is gonna sound weird but you know this is a video comparing the iPad Pro and the iPad and whenever I watch these videos I always appreciate kind of the the person giving a personal sort of insight into why they use what they use I think if I get good at hand lecturing and get good at like graphic design on an iPad possibly doing illustration that would benefit all of my websites that would benefit my YouTube channel all of this I think would in the long run make me more money than the two pounds a week than spending on having an iPad Pro rather than an iPad and of course the longer that I keep hold of the iPad Pro the more skinning you know this cost to get spread out over time so if it becomes one pound a week you know because if I use it for six years then that's even better you get what I mean so yeah this was a bit all over the place but I hope it's given you some sort of insight into whether you should get the normal iPad or the iPad Pro to summarize again there is very little difference between the iPad Pro and the iPad but it's a big jump in price it's a difference between $300 or $300 and $600 so it's $600 for most students I would probably just recommend you get the normal iPad don't worry about the iPad Pro but if you fall into this category of people where you sort of make money using the internet and you sort of you know like this luxurious factor and you think that maybe it'll increase the amount of time that you spend on it and therefore that will have enough on effect and therefore that's probably worth the money all of this kind of stuff bottom line is if you're even concerned about that in the slightest definitely go to an Apple store try them both out and see what you think don't take my word for it but for the most part for the vast vast majority of students who are not actively trying to make money on the internet using you know illustration and graphics and all of this kind of stuff for the vast majority of students I would highly recommend you get the normal iPad instead of the iPad Pro so that concludes this video thank you very much for watching if you liked the video please give it a thumbs up if you haven't subscribed to the channel please consider doing so let me know the comments what you thought of this this sort of format video if you have any any suggestions that always much appreciate it thank you very much for watching and I'll see you in the next video bye bye
