# Motivation, Stress & Time Management - Exam Revision Q&A with Cambridge students
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tkHw25cS_bk
In today's video, we tackle 7 questions around motivation, dealing with stress and time management when it comes to studying/revising for exams. This video features the perspective of 3 6th-year Cambridge medical students (myself, Paul and Katherine). Enjoy xx

-💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking 

📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

TIMESTAMPS:

02:26 - Q1 - How do you stay focused during a study session?
05:31 - Q2 - How many hours should you work in exam term?
07:19 - Q3 - How do you stay motivated to consistently study?
09:18 - Q4 - How do you structure your study sessions, how long do you study for etc?
09:55 - Q5 - How do you cope with stress/pressure from having an offer?
12:21 - Q6 - I hate maths. How do you revise for a subject you hate?
14:31 - Q7 - What do you do the night before/morning of an exam? First GCSE in a month and I'm nervous about sitting an official exam.

🎬 My online course on video editing - https://skl.sh/32TpEvm
🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal

Who am I:

I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

-💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking 

📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal
**Keywords:** a level, how to revise, exam motivation, how to cope with exam stress, exam tips, how to do well in exams, revision advice, time management, a levels, revision advice for gcse, a levels advice, a levels motivation, a levels revision, how to revise effectively, cambridge medicine, exams stress, how many hours to study, 
**Date:** 2018-04-12

## Transcript
 Hey guys, welcome back to the channel. If you're new here, my name is Ali. I'm a finally medical student at Cambridge University. In this video, me and to my friends, we're going to be answering a few questions that you guys have sent in via Instagram about revision and about study tips. It's just gone midnight. I've got massive light shining in my face and we spent like the last hour, hour and a half filming answers to about 25 questions that you guys sent in about 150 of you sent in messages on Instagram. Thank you so much for that. There were a lot to get through, but we've tried to kind of find the most common ones, the ones that are most broadly applicable to you, whether you're a GCSE or levels of university and studying for exams. So those are the questions that we're going to be focusing on in this series. And to keep things semi-manageable, this video is going to be probably about 20 minutes long because we're going to be focusing on the questions related to motivation, stress, time management. So as usual, everything we're going to be talking about is going to be linked in timestamps in the description below. We all have exams coming up, so please don't feel like you have to watch this whole video, feel free to look in the description, and like read all the questions, and just click on the timestamp for the one that applies to you the most. Or, you know, if you've done you work for the day and you've got 20 minutes to spare any one of your advice from three Cambridge medical students who have done lots of exams in their lives. And, you know, if I can say we've all done reasonably well in all of our exams, we obviously smashed our GCSEs in eight levels, especially. Anyway, if you want to hear advice from us, then please do you work first and then kind of watch this whole video. Firstly, we're going to be talking about how to stay focused during your study periods. Secondly, it's a quick discussion about how many hours minimum you should be doing per day. Thirdly, we're talking about motivation and, you know, that feeling of, oh, I can't be asked to do anything and how you combat that. Fourthly, we're going to talk about authorising your time while setting up study sessions and like revision timetables and all that. Fifthly, we're going to talk about how to cope with the stress of having an offer that you need to make and kind of, you know, a lot of the anxiety associated with that. Sixth, we're going to give you some tips on how to cope with subjects that you absolutely hate revising pork for, but you have to do anyway. And finally, we're going to give you some tips on what you can do the night before the morning of your exams to reduce levels of anxiety and stress. So, as I said, this video is going to be focused on like the motivation, the stress, the feeling these sort of things. And then in the next video, that'll be us talking about specific study tips, a lot of you have some questions and about specific things about space repetition, active recall flashcards and specific questions about certain subjects. So, we'll be tackling that in the next video. But yeah, now we're going to switch back to us from about two hours ago when we're answering questions about motivation again times times and then in the description below, please don't feel like you have to watch this whole video. But I really hope you gained something from it. And yeah, Paul and Catherine are going to be helping me give answers to these questions. So, thank you for sending them in and we'll see you at the end. So, question number one, is how do you stay focused during a study session? Doesn't your mind wonder any ideas on this front view, guys? So, sometimes what I'm doing flashcards, I get really distracted and just start thinking about what I'm having for dinner, it's a common theme. So, writing stuff down as you go along helps just like even writing like a letter or like the first few letters of what a fancy medical term is. That's a really good point actually. This is this is why I make notes in lectures. I've talked about in the past about why making notes is the waste of time. But I think making notes inside a lecture by hand is a useful strategy because it keeps you awake and that's what you do as well as not. Yeah, I definitely do make notes in lectures because I think I'm a kinesthetic learner so that means that I learn best when I'm doing things, fiddling around. Yeah, writing stuff down. Okay, on that note there is no evidence for any of this visual or literary kinesthetic stuff. Is this? It's all BS that we've been taught by teachers in school, absolutely no evidence for it. But yeah, so yeah, that was a tip for staying focused right stuff down. Any other tips for staying focused? Well, I think people, we always tend to get distracted so you can tell us after you want to work in short bursts. So you can say five minutes of doing this or 20 minutes of doing this and then you take a five minute break off to that. So incentivizing yourself to show me those short bursts and then telling yourself that for the period of time you're working, you have to stay focused. On that note there's two great tools on along those lines, which are firstly the Pomodoro technique. I've said that funny well, which is where you work for about 25 minutes to give it to yourself a five minute rest and you can do that repeatedly so you do 25, 25, 25, and I have friends who sit in cafes working furiously with their friends for 25 minutes, for five minutes they all chat about like their plans the weekend and then they go straight back into work again. And that works really well for some people. Secondly, there's apps like forest, which lock you out of your social media accounts and whatever apps and your phone so that you can't get distracted by those and again you can set them for a time so you can do stuff in short bursts at yourself like nice little goals. As you guys say, just leave your phone in another room. Dennyoening. It's a good tactic for staying focused. A good tactic for us is helping get to sleep as well apparently leaving your phone like on your desk or in a different room. On the note of the Pomodoro technique, I really like the Pomodoro technique. I don't really use it these days but in the undergrad days we used to get a group of my Asian friends. We'd all go to the Emmanuel College Library and we'd all kind of do the same Pomodoro's kind of like Catherine said. We used to tap once on the table like when the palm was when the palm would start, we used to call it a palm and then we tap twice when it was time to have a break and then we tap three times when the break was over so we had this kind of thing. It probably annoyed people in the library but oh my gosh, she was the worst guy. Yeah, but it's fine and actually we formed a WhatsApp group called the Pomodoro Society and then shortened it to Pomosoc and that group has been going strong for the last five years because yeah, this is like a big friendship group created in exam time when we were all studying together. That's another tip, study with your friends, it's really fun. Along the same lines, setting yourself short-term people's goals really have really helped. If you've got an entire textbook to tackle a whole heap of notes to get through instead of just saying oh I'll go at whatever pace and see what I get through when I get through it, set yourself a little mini goals by the end of the day I want to get this done because if it's a big pile broke up into little chunks, it's a lot easier. Cool, question number two, how many hours per day minimum should you do in exam time? So there's working and there's working. So basically, I think what matters is the quality of the time which has been working, not so much a quantity of time which you spend doing the work. I think one of the things which I find really useful is that I set myself at time table and set myself as goals for each day so so long as I know that I've picked off the goal for that day, then that's been a good day. So whether that is five hours of really bashing at it or maybe more, maybe less, all depends. I think this question of how many hours should you do is it's a bit of a pointless question to ask because everyone learns a different pace as everyone has different baseline levels of intelligence, everyone wants different grades from their exams, everyone has different marks for their coursework which means they need better marks and their exams together. There's all sorts of different factors that go into it. The EBS moment that is the eight hours of sleep, eight hours of work and then eight hours of doing anything else you want. I think that works quite well. If you're really going for that first or that top of the year or whatever or you really really really want to smash it, you know, might as well do nine a.m. and nine a.m. starting the library 11 p.m. go home sleep repeat the process. If you do that for a short enough kind of bursty period of time, you can probably sustain that. I don't know. It's just very through everyone. I think I think also that you don't want to bind yourself out. I find that if I have two days which I work for a long period of time then the third day I'll just be completely mind wondering time wasting and then they'll be right of so pace yourself. Yeah. So in answer to how many hours you do do I don't know like work it up for yourself. It's it's better to be consistent than it is to like do 10 hours one day and then nothing for two days because you know space repetition works on the basis of consistency. So you know even if you only do three hours a day or four hours a day or two hours a day as long as you're doing a fish and work and you're doing it well and you're keeping on top of it don't worry too much. Question number three do you ever have days where you CBA and don't get anything done? How do you motivate yourself to stay consistent and work each day of the holidays? Yes we all have days where we see being and then we're like can't be able to do anything and just kind of waste my the whole day. Uh today what do we do? Then lots of uski examinations. We did. Yeah we did about three hours of uski prep in the afternoon but absolutely nothing in the morning. Paul has a really good concept of save the day. Can you tell us about that? So save today is basically this idea that no matter how late it gets in the day you can still save it. So even if it gets to 10pm and you want to be in bed by 11pm you can still put in a good half an hour of work or 45 minutes or whatever it is it's never too late to save the day you can always squeeze some time up to get some stuff done. So even if you come to the end of a day and you're annoyed it yourself will be unproductive for procrastinating you can still save today. I think in the context of holidays as well it's quite good to give yourself more of a scheme for the week and rather than just trying to work day after day after day and everything murders into the same pattern. Actually decide no assassins on day I'm going to take part break. Do something nice for myself, keep my morale up and that way it breaks up the week. It's not just like this day after day after day, slog you can keep it a bit structured to it. And it answered to the question of how how do you motivate yourself to just take consistent. One thing that I really like doing is changing up the work environment and someone actually specifically asked about this. So in exams in undergrad when we used to live in Cambridge Town Center like in the city center I'd have this thing where each day I'd go to different library. So I kind of went around like 20 different libraries in Cambridge. This could it's a nice to change up your surroundings and sometimes I find that if I'm going really bored I would like literally just go to Costa down the road, treat myself to a flat white and just try and do some work then because changing the atmosphere really helps. If you're a person in time today was your vision like me then always budget for some days in which you just don't feel like doing anything and that gives you a bit of play gives you a bit of wiggle room and it gives you these days where you can tell yourself fine you know I'm not feeling like doing work today I'll use it to hang up my friends so I take a revision break. All right question number four how do you organize your time when it comes to studying three hour sessions or 30 minute sessions and how long do you study for before taking a break? So I guess we sort of answered that in the Pomodoro technique thing 25 minutes on five minutes off. I find kind of 45 minutes on five minutes off or equivalent used to work for me back when I was like really focused on essay preparation. Yeah about the same and it varies according to tasks so if you're doing flashcards it might be a different intensity to if you're making notes. At the end of the day it's about taking your girls off it's not so much how much I tell you work. I will give to least talk about this. Yeah true yeah the thing we're going to keep going back to it's all about having girls in mind rather than thinking oh I've got to get eight hours done today. Cool right question number five how do you cope with the pressure of having an offer and sometimes freezing when you think about it what if you work super hard and don't get the grades. One of the best pieces of advice I was given at school about applying to university because you've got space for you know four or five applications. One of them should be shooting above what you could possibly hope for. So if you're applying right and maximising your potential one of those should be applying beyond what you ever thought you could be and then one you know matching what you think you'd get one as a backup and probably another one as backup. But you know having that one that you could never believe you'd get and achieve that highly gives you something to strive for make sure that you're fulfilling your potential and if you don't get it that's okay because at least you give it go. So I don't think it should be thinking about oh I've got to make this offer offer the world's going to end if like I miss this offer everyone's going to be so disappointed in me it's going to be horrible. Just focus on the fact that you give it your very best shot. Yeah so I like to think of it as telling myself to be motivated positively and not negatively. So what I mean by that is look at things like for example I think you know oh you know I have this chance to for example go to Cambridge I have an office from Cambridge and Cambridge is an amazing place I would love to go there I'm going to work hard so that I can get there rather than being rather thinking of got an ace down to ace kind of offered to meet I might not make it you know I'm being negative about it. So look at it positively look at it as you've got this chance you've got this opportunity and go I'm getting something I wanted to add to that is sort of practical advice in the sense that yeah even if you don't get the grades even if you don't make that offer even if you end up going to a in your opinion less good university because it was your insurance rather than your firm it's kind of I think it's it's a comforting thought to know that to be honest most of us that this is thing called hedonic adaptation in psychology where you know even in in the presence of major events in our lives most of us just kind of river back to our baseline level of happiness very very quickly if don't study whether to people winning the lottery people like losing access to all the limbs becoming paraplegic tetraplagic and you find that within like two months they all go back to the baseline level of happiness so you know regardless of how much you covered that place of what at Oxford I Cambridge or Imperial use your own like industry any other university even if you don't end up going there you'll still be as happy as if you went there so I think that's a comforting thought and that's one of the things that helped me cope with and of thinking about stuff in the future. Or a really good thought depending on how you look at it. Anyway a question number six I am struggling with a level maths I've got my mocks coming up how do you motivate yourself to deal with a subject that you absolutely hate studying? I think my advice for this would be ask yourself why you hate studying it like why do you hate maths usually we enjoy the things that we good at usually we enjoy the things we understand and the less and and kind of the more we understand the more interest develops in this subject so I've like I've never particularly hated any subject at university it's just all it's always the subjects I've enjoyed less have been the ones that have been less good at like I was in middle set for French which was a real kind of source of embarrassment from all my friends or obviously in top set for everything and I was like oh yeah you're a middle set French yes screw you I wasn't very good at French but then while I was in middle set French I decided to actively work on it and then moved up to top set obviously and then I started enjoying French a lot more so I think this is kind of like you know you get you start enjoying the stuff that you work on and you know if you if you find that you're hating maths I don't know try and understand it more because maths is sick so obviously that's not a solution for everyone considering not everyone could be good at everything but you know when I'm doing things that I really hate like tidying my room I tend to break it up and try and gameify the task so instead of having a big massive room to clean I'll think break it up into little sections and think okay after I've done this section I'll go have a coffee after I've done this section I'll check Facebook or whatever you know just break it up set little goals maybe put a time on and see how quickly you can do the whole thing whatever it takes to game fire and make it a bit more enjoyable. That's a really good point that's something that I fully advocate in in terms of revision generally even for stuff that you like if you kind of treat it as a game it it kind of changes the dynamic and I've actually written a post about this on my on my website all the available.com which will be linked here and you can check it out if you want to read it. It's kind of based on an on advice that a friend of a friend of ours got from her grandma who said that actually you know the the way to not stress about exam just to treat them as a game it's a little personal game that you play with yourself it's not about what results you get relative to your friends or your peers it's just about you know whether you can kind of beat your personal best and if not it's fine it's just a game. Alright final question on the motivation stress time management thing what do you do on the morning of an exam I'm sitting my first GCSE in under a month and the idea of sitting an official exam is quite nerve-racking. Also everyone has different regimes and you can see that from just walking into exam room like whenever it's milling around outside an exam room and then you see some people pouring over notes some people chatting some people hiding away from everyone else because they don't want it stress to to assimilate into them. Myself and I'd to wake up have a coffee and just climb a mine of everything and hopefully get to the exam place early and maybe ever walk around there to climb a mine again and then just go in and sit down and do the exam that's what I do. What do you do? What do you do? Hmm yeah it is really individual to each person some people would really really stress out if they're doing work last minute outside the exam hall some people they find that quite comforting you know going over their main bullet points that they made throughout their hard times studying it obviously doesn't necessarily mean a lot goes in but it means they're kind of reassured by looking at the work they've done over time. So really it depends completely on you and from the sound of it if you're a bit nervous about your exams I'd take Paul's approach just make sure you have a really chill morning make sure you focus on reminding yourself how much work you've done that kind of thing. One thing which my mum used to make us do when we were kids us to the so the day before an exam we were sure take us to the park or something and then and then we would just play for the for the evening and that just took all the minds off the exam and have to just refuse to stress. So there you go maybe it's from my childhood that's why I do that in the morning of exam. So that's a nice sort of advice yeah. All right so that was me Paul and Catherine all finally a medics at Emmanuel College Cambridge we were answering various questions that you guys sent him regarding motivation stress time management that sort of stuff. In tomorrow's video we're going to be answering questions related to specific study techniques at specific things about active recall space repetition flashcards a lot of you asked you know active recall is designed for you know recall but had you learned stuff in the first place so we we tackle issues like that in in tomorrow's video so yeah I really hope you enjoyed this one this was a little bit a little bit informal please do let me know the comments what you thought of this format. I sometimes have that thing where I spent like 10 hours making like an absolutely sick video about active recall that's taken like three hours to film and like eight hours to edit and like loads of research goes into it but you know given that it is exam term and like I do want to kind of maintain this YouTube thing but it feels like realistically I can't be making high production value value videos for everything but so I thought I thought for this Q&A would be good to kind of get my friends perspective on this as well they're they've both done obviously absolutely smashed the juices in a level so that's why they're in Cambridge law so I you know if you if you if you didn't mind this format of video if you like the fact that you know we're getting a bit of extra perspective please do let me know in the comments I've got lots of friends around who are more than happy to be featured on the YouTube channel and if you have loads of really good advice to give so if you guys don't mind the fact that you know we just we've just had a tripod and you know sat on a bed and just talked to each other then yeah let me know in the comments it would be good to hear thoughts on that equally let me know if you do prefer the the sorts of videos where I am kind of giving a real sort of thought-out response to a certain a certain thing I do like to do a mixture of the two but I'd be interested to know what you guys think so yeah thanks my very much for watching good luck with the vision for tomorrow I think I'm going to finish editing this video and sleep now and yeah we'll see you in tomorrow's video where we're going to be talking about specific strategies really hope you found some value from this video have a good day please subscribe to the channel if you're not already damn I don't do that properly if you if you like the video please give it a thumbs up if you haven't subscribed to the channel please consider doing so have a lovely day and I'll see you in the next video good night
