# How to Spin a Pen - Thumb Around Pen Spinning Tutorial (2019)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=TvytweSNkiE
The first 500 people to click my link will get two months of Skillshare Premium for FREE! https://skl.sh/ali3

In this video, we're learning how to do the Thumbaround Pen Spin, a simple-enough pen trick that's sure to amaze and astonish your friends, family and coworkers. Enjoy xx

--------

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
😃  How to be Happier - Stoicism Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/stoicism

TOOLS OF THE TRADE:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk
📚  How I remember what I read - Readwise - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali
What I Use For Analytics - https://go.aliabdaal.com/tubebuddy
🌐 My website platform (Ghost) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost

OTHER RECOMMENDED COURSES
📔 Effortless Output with Roam Research - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/roam
📓 Building a Second Brain - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/basb

🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** pen spinning, pen spinning tutorial, pen spin, pen trick, apple pencil, pen tricks, how to do pen tricks, pen spin tutorial, pen spinning tricks, pen tricks tutorial, pen tricks for beginners, how to pen spin, how to do pen spin, how to spin pen, how to spin a pen, thumb around, tricks with pen, pencil tricks, pen spinning thumb around, ali abdaal, 
**Date:** 2019-05-28

## Transcript
 This video is kindly sponsored by Skillshare. Check out the link in the video description to get your two month free trial. Hey guys, welcome back to the channel. If you're new here, my name is Ali. I'm a junior doctor working in Cambridge and in this video, I'm going to be teaching you how to do this annoying but fancy looking apple pencil spinning thing. To be honest, it doesn't have to be done with an apple pencil. You could use any other apple pencil shaped objects, but because I'm an apple fanboy, I prefer to do it with the apple pencil. This is one of my favorite ways to impress people when I'm at work. I bust out my iPad pro magnetically detached the apple pencil from it. Do a few spins, hopefully don't drop it and then people are all very impressed. I've heard as well that this is the sort of thing that really impresses romantic prospects. So let's say you want to impress a girl or impress a guy, whatever floats your boat. I think getting your pencil out and spinning it around a bit might be my big idea. Anyway, if you want to learn this, here's how this video is going to be broken down. Firstly, I'll go over the high level theory, the abstract concept of how do you actually spin an apple pencil. And then in the second part of the video, we'll switch the cameras so we can slow it down and we can show you in slow motion how this actually works. And then once you get the skill, then you can just use it forever and it's a skill that will never ever leave you and will be impressing people in your wake for the rest of your life. So yeah, let's get into part one where we talk about exactly how to spin an apple pencil. So here is the general concept. You want to have your apple pencil resting with your like in between your thumb and your middle finger. Your index finger doesn't really do anything other than provide a bit of support. So this is sort of your starting position. You've got thumb and middle finger over here as such and you've got your index finger sort of on the top providing support. And what you're doing is that you're applying a forward force with your thumb. So your thumb is pushing the pencil away from you whereas your middle finger is pulling the pencil towards you and you've got your index finger here acting as a stop for this. So it's in a way you've got your index and middle finger pushing this way and you've got your thumb pushing that way. So this is the position that gives you a certain amount of tension. Then once you want to release that tension what you do is you let your index finger go. What you want to do is the objective is to end up with the pencil pivoting about your thumb and then eventually re-landing in that same position. So you want to pull push towards you with your middle finger. So you're kind of in this position and then you're pushing towards you with your middle finger and it's coming towards you and then eventually if you try this enough times you get the knack for it such that the pencil is then able to rotate about your thumb and it kind of lands in the same place. So here's that again got my index finger providing support middle finger pushing towards me thumb pushing that way and the pencil is pivoting about my thumb to land in that same position. That's pretty much how it works. Let's now switch to slowmo and we can show this in well slow motion. All right so we've got this overhead camera now filming in a hundred frames per second which means I can slow it down four times and it'll still look legit. So this is how it works in slow motion. And like in a way my index finger isn't really doing anything is just providing the initial support but if I were to get rid of the index the index finger will probably still work. Yeah so even without the index finger it's the middle finger that's doing all of the work that's pushing it over the thumb. Okay so a few tips as to how to how to make this work firstly it's it's important that when we're holding the apple pencil or whatever other apple pencil like do as you want to use that our thumb is slightly away from the center we are not holding it in the middle it's really hard to do it from them yeah it's it's really hard to do it when your thumb is sort of in the midpoint of the pencil which is why you want your thumb to be slightly at that end of the pencil and then when you spin it around it becomes very easy and you end up catching it in a almost writing position. So your thumb is sort of three quarters of the way up your index your your middle finger rather is quite close to the middle and then what you're doing is you're just you're you're giving it a bit of a push and allowing it to allowing it to rotate on the thumb. The way I practice this is that I'd start off by doing it on a table like eventually you can get to the point where you can start spinning it like this in the air but initially you want to have your the back of your hand resting on the table and you just want to try and do this thing with you know where you're just pushing with your middle finger and making it rotate about your thumb and you just keep on doing this and it's going to take many many, many hundreds of attempts until you get the knack but then once you've got the knack you'll be able to do it with any hand that you like and you'll be able to do it with any device that you like so it's basically just the same concept. It's just the middle finger providing a bit of a pushing force and then the pen or pencil or apple pencil rotating about your thumb the thumb kind of stay still if you watch this back over and over again you'll notice that my thumb doesn't actually move. It's literally just middle finger pushing thumb staying still and pushing with the right amount of force which means it doesn't like fly away but you're pushing with the right amount of force so that it eventually lands over there and once you've kind of picked up the knack of spinning the apple pencil then you can start doing things in the air it doesn't really matter you can use your ring finger to spin it around rather than your middle finger I mean the wall is really or oyster sometimes you can even use your your pinky to spin it around oh there we go yeah so you can go pinky ring middle middle ring and pinky yeah so you can start doing gymnastics with your apple pencil if you really want to but the most important thing is you get the knack of pushing with your middle finger so that it rotates about the thumb and then you catch it in a writing position and then you're going to find yourself doing this every single day many times a day for the rest of your life all right so that was how to spin an apple pencil I hope you found this video useful and I hope you're going to be practicing this technique for many many hours and that one day you'll leave a comment on this video saying thank you I now know how to spin an apple pencil I have been impressing people with it and I've even managed to attract a spouse by my spinning of my apple pencil or whatever other apple pencil shaped implement you would like to use the cool thing about the world of apple pencil spinning is that it doesn't stop there once you've learned how to spin an apple pencil you then have a magical power and you can use that magical power to do other sorts of tricks for example you could get a coin and you could start doing all this kind of fancy stuff with that coin and that's always guaranteed to impress people if you wanted to you could even take that same coin and you can use your apple wand as a magic wand to make it disappear if coins don't float your boat you can even use like small objects this is a date that I got from my kitchen for example you can just grab that usually magic wand and you can make it disappear without any camera tricks involved and ultimately you can get to a point where you don't even need your apple pencil you'll just be able to take a coin you'll be able to put it into your hand and it would go invisible just like that with absolutely no camera tricks obviously so yeah thank you for watching I hope you enjoyed this video before we wrap up I just want to say a massive thank you to Skillshare for sponsoring this video you probably heard of them Skillshare is a massive online learning community with thousands of online classes from all sorts of things ranging from entrepreneurship to creativity to graphic design to video editing to coding pretty much anything you can think of it's very affordable as well the premium membership is less than $10 a month and gives you access to all of these classes and I've recently enjoyed this class that's made by the animators behind the Kurtzgesar YouTube channel which is one of my favorite YouTube channels of all time and this class teaches you how to animate illustrations in Adobe After Effects animation and illustration is something that I've never really done before and so I'm browsing loads of different Skillshare classes to try and get a hang of it so that when I'm making these YouTube videos I can then start using animation and illustration if that sort of thing sounds up your street then you should definitely sign up to the free trial of Skillshare I've got a link in the video description in the first 500 people to click that link will be able to get two months of Skillshare premium completely free of charge so you can browse the classes to your hearts content and you might also like to follow my own Skillshare account as well I'm working on a series of videos where I talk about how I film edit produce these YouTube videos so if you like the editing of these videos and think the quality is reasonable you might like to follow my profile and wait for those classes to come online but yeah thanks again to Skillshare for sponsoring this video and I suppose that brings us to the end thank you very much for watching if you like the video please give it a thumbs up if you haven't subscribed to the channel then please consider doing so have a lovely day and I'll see you in the next video. Goodbye.
