# Life Advice Q&A with my Brother
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=u2jUmds5ZFU
In this video, my brother Taimur and I answer various life advice-themed questions that our audience sent in via Instagram. As 24- and 25-year olds we do our best to answer life's most philosophical questions, like how to combat procrastination, how to study more efficiently, how to juggle multiple audiobooks and much more. Enjoy! 

🎙Our weekly podcast - https://www.notoverthinking.com 

🏙 Taimur's Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/refrigerated/
📸 Ali's Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal

🐧 Taimur's Twitter: https://twitter.com/taimurabdaal
🐦 Ali's Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal

TIMESTAMPS 
0:00:57 - How to deal with procrastination?
0:01:49 - How do I motivate myself to study more?
0:02:47 - How do you pull yourself up after a failure? 
0:04:31 - Any advice on starting an online business?
0:06:07 - How do you balance reading multiple books and audiobooks?
0:08:00 - How has reading books helped you over the years?
0:09:10 - How can I make money during school / university? 
0:10:49 - What’s been the single most worthwhile investment for your personal development? 
0:12:10 - Have you ever struggled with mental health? If so, how did you cope?
0:13:17 - What’s the most valuable thing you’ve learned in your life so far? 
0:15:02 - What are your thoughts on Finasteride for hair loss?
0:15:51 - Does hard work always lead to success? 
0:16:08 - If you had a spare £1,000 floating around, what would you do with it together?
0:16:58 - Any tips for studying data science?
0:20:26 - How do you deal with imposter syndrome?
0:21:42 - Favourite piece of tech released in 2019?

LINKS TO STUFF MENTIONED
- Our podcast episode: Why do we struggle with motivation? - https://www.notoverthinking.com/episodes/010-why-do-we-struggle-with-motivation
- Our podcast episode: Why do we struggle with consistency? - https://www.notoverthinking.com/episodes/004-why-do-we-struggle-with-consistency
- Our podcast episode: How can we get into the habit of reading? - https://www.notoverthinking.com/episodes/011-how-can-we-get-into-the-habit-of-reading

- Podcast - Conan O'Brien Needs a Friend - https://www.earwolf.com/show/conan-obrien/
- Book - The 4-Hour Work Week (Tim Ferriss) - https://geni.us/cucm
- Book - Show Your Work (Austin Kleon) - https://geni.us/RAkz8J5
- Book - Anything You Want (Derek Sivers) - https://geni.us/AnythingYouWant
- Book - The Courage to be Disliked - https://geni.us/zrVq

👩🏼💻 Taimur's startup: https://causal.app
✍️ Taimur's blog: https://taimur.me

--------

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
😃  How to be Happier - Stoicism Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/stoicism

TOOLS OF THE TRADE:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
📚  How I remember what I read - Readwise - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
🌐 My website platform (Ghost) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost

OTHER RECOMMENDED COURSES
📔 Effortless Output with Roam Research - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/roam
📓 Building a Second Brain - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/basb

🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.notoverthinking.com
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.notoverthinking.com), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** oxford university, cambridge university, student life, q&a, life advice, productivity, motivation, ali abdaal, taimur abdaal, 
**Date:** 2019-09-06

## Transcript
 What's the most valuable thing you've learnt in your life so far? I don't know how to learn. This is not a question, this is possible to learn. What do you thought of an asteroid for hair loss? Amazing! Does hard work always lead to success? How do you feel about that? That's all question-table. Hey guys, welcome back to the channel. If you knew here, my name is Ali, I'm a junior doctor working in Cambridge, and today I'm joined by my brother. You want to introduce yourself? Hey, I'm Tamor, I'm Ali's brother. I studied Math University, I graduated a couple of years ago, and I'm currently working on my own startup with one of my friends. It's very exciting. Isn't that cool? Well, have we actually started recording? We have started recording. Oh, okay. This is not the way we normally talk to each other. It's not more friendly on camera. So today we're going to be answering some questions that people sent in via Instagram. So things like motivation, productivity, but also there's a question about data science in there, somewhere. Sounds great. That's a good idea. Alright, so I've got some questions. We'll load them up, and obviously we'll put timestamps in the video description. Other than a pinned comment. Sorry. In the video description, add an pinned comment, so you can skip around the video if you feel like it. How do you effectively deal with procrastination? Any ideas? Is there a chronic procrastinator? There's a nice movement in certain Twitter spheres at the moment, which is sort of in favor of things like procrastination, but the point is to guide your procrastination in the right ways. It's actually a lot of the things that I'm quite glad I did over the past few years. I've kind of started out as I had something important. I was supposed to be doing, and I was procrastinating from that, and I ended up doing this other thing, which was actually valuable in the end. So I think if you have this stack of responsibilities, you should be doing number one, you have to number two at some point. As long as the whole stack is roughly valuable, it actually doesn't matter too much if you're procrastinating, because you're still doing something valuable. And I think there is something to be said for doing the things you feel like doing. If you're sort of really forcing yourself to do something, then I feel like you're not going to do it to as good a degree as if you were like really into it at the time. Hey, Dee, how do I motivate myself to study more? You're an expert on studying motivation? Yeah, I really do. I haven't got a clue. I was never particularly good at this. You want to Oxford, by the way. You didn't mention it at the start. It's probably embarrassed. They're all out of this, you don't know. I don't think I was particularly good at studying at university. I think environment actually helps. So it took me about four years to realise I actually don't work best in my bedroom, what I have lots of distractions. It took me about three years to realise that actually going to lectures is more productive for me than thinking I can stay at home in my room and read lecture notes and do it in half the time that never really works out. Yeah, and we actually have a full like 50 minute podcast episode. By the way, if you don't know, we have a podcast together. It's called Not Over Thinking. You can find it at notoverthinking.com. And so far, at the time of this recording, we've released like 17, 18, 18 episodes. We've been doing this every week for the last 18 weeks. And one of our episodes that we'll link in the video description is all about motivation and we discuss in-depth kind of techniques to get motivated but also have to think about motivation and how not to think about motivation. So if you're interested in motivation, you should definitely check that one out. How do you pull yourself up after something doesn't go to plan? Like, not getting the grades you want for uni or equivalent. So we'll link the podcast episode where we talked about this for like an hour and he thought about how to pull yourself up when things don't go according to plan. I don't think this is anything anyone can advise anyone on. I think this is, this is, I like this is an internal battle that we all face. To random dudes on YouTube can say, do this when something didn't go to plan and feel this way when something didn't go to plan. But that's not actually how it works. I know, you're going to say, no, there are, I read all these books right. I read about stoicism and there are actionable things you can do. Maybe there are, but I feel like it's mostly an internal battle. And like no one can really give you the answers to this. I agree that it's an internal battle, but I think it's an internal battle of diversifying your identity. The reason we feel down about certain things that don't go away is because AR hopes and expectations are tied up in that thing, but be our identities in some way tied up in that thing. Like if I tried really, really, really, really hard to get into a particular university and set my whole identity based on the fact that I was going to become a medical student at Oxford and then I didn't end up getting in. I would feel absolutely crushed and there's not much anyone can do about that because all of the previous time that's kind of led up to this moment has set me up for this disappointment. So what most people suggested that you diversify your identity. Like in an ideal world or identity would cut in our sense of self-esteem, wouldn't come from anything external at all. It would purely be internally generated. I have values of human being. I know I'm going to be fine. That's kind of like the ideal, but in real life we all have our identity tied up in various different things. And I find that for me to kind of hang my identity of various different things rather than just on being because the guy with good grades or what he used to be in school, that's been really helpful for me, which means if any one thing doesn't go my way, it means that I've got these other things that I can make myself feel good about. Yeah, I actually back that, that's pretty good actually. That's good. Okay, from all the other who says any advice is on starting an online business. Yeah, I've got some advice on that front. I'm going to make a video that breaks this down like properly in depth. Point number one is you should learn how to code and it's really also helpful if you learn the basics of kind of web design because being able to code and being able to design stuff to make it look pretty is an absolute superpower when it comes to starting an online business. Any other general tips? I think I might actually disagree with the learning how to code this thing. Okay, I think nowadays, yeah, I think a lot of people think there's a huge barriers entry and starting like an online business, but now there's tools that let you do pretty much anything. If you want to start like an e-commerce thing, you don't need to know a single line of code. You can use something like Shopify. Even if you want to make something a bit more custom, there are now actually tools that let you do that without writing code. So don't worry too much about the code thing. I think developing design taste is really valuable, like you said. Because then you can get a really high production value in anything you do. That's just like an immediate boost when you're getting started. But I wouldn't worry too much about the code. I want to disagree with that. I think the code thing is kind of important because knowing the basics of coding actually opens you up to a lot more business ideas than you would have thought possible. So the mistake that people make when deciding to start an online business is that they think, you know what, I'm going to sit down with my mates and we're all going to brainstorm business ideas. But all the common advice in the entrepreneurship world is that this is not the way to get ideas. The way to get ideas is to identify problems in your own life that you can then solve using technology. And just knowing the basics of code just opens your mind up to the realms of possibility. Like what's possible to make on the internet? Even if you're not going to be the one to fully custom code your product, it is kind of useful knowing. Yeah, look, I backed that. I'm just saying that if you lead by saying, if you want to start an online business, you have to know how to code. I feel like that implies a higher barrier to entry them. Alright, next one. Wandering Zeffer says, how to balance and prioritise reading books, listening to multiple podcasts, audio, etc. I listen to an awful lot of podcasts. I think I kind of put my podcasts in two categories. There's this podcast, I listen to sort of for fun and for entertainment. So there's one called Conan O'Brien, Needs of Friend, Conan's a really famous American late night talk show host, very funny guy. And those are always really funny. And so I listen to those kind of for fun. But then I also listen to a lot of like businessy, techy kind of podcasts, where I'm just trying to glean information. And so for those ones, I listen to it on like two X speed, you know, skipping the pauses in between using the podcast app. I kind of have two different workflows. I should probably do more note taking when listening to podcasts. Yeah, I actually do note taking when listening to podcasts. So if I'm listening to a podcast and driving in the car, I will tap my air pods and be like, hey, Siri, record a new voice note. And then as I'm driving, I'll record a voice note about the stuff that I listen to in that podcast. Or if it's like a really big point that I'm like, oh my god, I will literally stop the car on the side of the road, open up, ever note and put some notes into that or open up notion. Depending on which app I'm using that particular week. Equally for reading books and stuff. When it comes to fiction, I don't read multiple books. I just have one that's ongoing and then I switch to the next one. But at the moment, I'm reading about six different non-fiction books. And each night, I just think before sleeping. And I got my Kindle in front of me. What do I most feel like reading right now? And then I just kind of read some of that. Yeah, I think one thing that really helped me sort of read more. And we've talked about this in the podcast, we should check out. Is that I stopped thinking that I have to sort of read a book, like cover to cover every single word. And so what I'll often do is especially if it's like a non-fiction kind of businessy book from which I'm trying to get information. I'll sort of skim it, give it like a first pass skim it and see if it's going to be any good. See which sections I particularly care about. And then sort of read those and maybe make notes on them. I don't worry too much about reading cover to cover any more. Yeah, good point. And we will link that podcast episode as well. It's called something like, how do we get into the habit of reading consistently? Yeah, and we talk about this for like 40 minutes. Because I read a lot, you don't read that. And we're kind of sharing some thoughts about the topic. HR, the 18th, 17th, X, X, X, X, V, I, 17th, 17th. How has reading books over many years help you in any aspect of life? I haven't read that many books, but I am constantly reading stuff online. And I think in the long run, you actually do become very clear up on the things that you are reading about. So for example, I read a lot about tech and business and stuff. I can't point to a single thing that I've read and said, Oh, that particular thing was read useful, but just accumulating a wide range of kind of knowledge from reading stuff. So it's interesting to say that. So one of the kind of new trends in reading books these days is where you start to think of books as if they're blog posts. There's no kind of prestige associated with reading a book. There's no prestige associated internally with kind of reading it, sort of covered to cover, as you said. But instead, you're quite happy to kind of skim it, get the lessons you want, and then highlight some bits and then leave it. So I find that helpful. And secondly, I've got a video called three books that changed my life. So in that bit, I've now mentioned four are a work week by Tim Ferriss. Anything you want by direct service and show your work by Austin Plion. So I think those are good starting points if you're looking for specific book recommendations. I'll track in one recommendation on top of that. Oh yeah, which is the courage to be disliked. Ah, good. It's quite a click-based title if you just forget about that, that it's really good. I was surprised at how much of an impact, just like a couple of the ideas in this one book had on me. Do you have some advice for earning money during school, Session University period? Using your summers, productively, and as the summers are always a good way to earn money, depending on what you want to go into, lots of people do internships where they make money, or get, you know, some jobs. Obviously, we're into the whole, like, online business thing. So I'd highly recommend trying to sort of some kind of online business that gets you some kind of passive income. You've got videos about this, I'm sure. I don't actually yet, but they're coming soon, so thank you for the cheeky plug in advance. But for any money during school, I worked at this tutoring agency thing and made a six pounds an hour. Which was pretty good, because I was doing that four hours a week, and that was 24 pounds a week, six times four, 24 pounds a week. 24 pounds a week, which was 96 pounds a month. Oh, and I was like super loaded. I felt like super, super raged, because none of my friends were making 96 quite a month, and I was like, yeah, and then I could kind of pay for my own sent in my tickets and stuff like that. When you're starting out, and you don't have any extra skills, I'd recommend kind of just doing something like two drinks. It's very easy to do, and you can use your academic skills if you've got those two to kind of do that. But then quite early on, after I taught myself to code, I started doing a freelance work for, like you can get on the internet, you can hire out your services to random people on the internet, sounds weird. You know, I made a few websites that got a few hundred quid that way. Yeah, there's a lot of sites we can do round of stuff. I remember when I was about, I think when we were sort of mid teenagers, we were both really into trying to make a quick buck online, rather than doing something actually meaningful and valuable. And so I used to do psychic readings for five bucks a pop. Oh, and five, I'm five, yeah. I made about $100 doing psychic readings online, which was a lot of money as a 15, 16 year old, and then the ad design development stuff. Like you did. Cool. And we can talk more about your psychic reading thing at the later date. If you guys are interested, leave a comment down below, and we'll do another video with Tamerway, where he shares the technique for doing psychic readings. So the next question is, what's been the single most worthwhile investment for your personal development, with investment referencing time, financial, or otherwise? It sounds like he's been listening to the Tim Ferrero Show. That's easy, Kindle. Getting a Kindle has been the single most worthwhile investment of my life, except maybe getting a camera because then I started YouTube channel. But Kindle completely changes the game for reading books. It means when you think of a book or when you hear a book recommendation, you can immediately buy it. It means you can read and read the toilet, you can read wherever you are. You're not distracted by notifications but using the Kindle app on your phone. And it just changes the game. And there are actually studies that show that people who use e-readers read about 50% more books or something than people who don't use e-readers. So Kindle is the thing I always recommend. For me, it was specifically learning design and learning how to code. But really, that's just learning how to code. All right, okay. I don't like it when you tell people you don't need to learn how to code to start up on your own business. Explore your own interests and taking the time to actually learn new things that you're interested has been very valuable for me. I didn't know that tech was a career that existed. I didn't know it ended up trying to do this as a job or anything like that. I was sort of exploring my own interests and design and making websites and things. And that happened to lead somewhere quite good. So I'm really glad I kind of actually did that when I was in school. So yeah, I think it's a really valuable to kind of cultivate your interest and things and explore stuff on your own. I think most of the valuable stuff I've learned has not come from school or university. It's come from random stuff that I'm just doing on the side for fun. Have you ever struggled with your mental health? If so, how did you cook? Thanks, love your vids. Yeah, there have definitely been periods of my life where I have struggled. I've been in third year of university. There was one particularly dark week. But I don't think anything in particular happened during that week that sort of affected me badly by it. I think I was just really depressed for about a week. I don't think I left my room. I was having serial three meals a day. At one point I paid my roommate 10 pounds to go literally just outside the college and buy me some chips from a kebab fan. Yeah, it was really dark time. I think you just sort of wore off, maybe I was fortunate in that respect. But I think having a good support network of friends. Yeah, I think one of the realizations I had was that I had really good friends who love me unconditionally and I love what that was really valuable and that kind of got me out of that phase. Yeah, I always have days like this. I actually haven't have never struggled with my mental health. Thankfully, they say it affects one and four of us at some point. So maybe it'll happen at some point, but so far I've been very fortunate. But yeah, if you are struggling with mental health step number one, see a doctor because this is like a medical thing. We can do stuff about it. But secondly, our support network is really important. What's the most valuable thing you've learned in your life so far? I don't know how to that. This is not a question. This is possible to us. This is a sort of a question from someone kind of wanting a quick fit. Oh, I mean, I don't know. I think it's good. It's good to ask these sorts of questions because occasionally you get snippets of life advice that you wouldn't otherwise kind of arrive at. One thing that I've been appreciating a lot is that everyone is making it up as they go along. No one has all the answers. This is something that you preach as well. The thing is you can say this and this is undoubtedly stuff that you would have heard 15 years ago and you wouldn't have been able to appreciate it at the time. And these are things that show you can hear them and these are all cliches, right? You're told all of these cliches from a very young age and at various points in your life, you can't, some of them actually click and you kind of actually understand what they mean. And that's not because anyone has told you that thing, you want to hear this on a YouTube video and immediately get what at least trying to say here. I don't think there's any value in trying to say these things. I think there is value in trying to say these things because the objective is not to say something on camera in the 30 seconds later someone's life has changed. The objective is to be, again, yet one of those people that are hammering these cliches home because and there's another good phrase, the secrets of life are hidden behind the word cliché. Like things are cliché for a reason and eventually when you get old and you start giving people life advice, you're going to start reciting these cliches to them and you're going to be like, but there's so much context tied up in this cliché and there's so much background knowledge that you just can't get across by saying the phrase, but having said that, I think saying the phrase is to the helpful. For example, money doesn't buy happiness. Sure, for some people, it's going to click fairly early on and they're going to realise that O'Crap have been chasing money and it's actually not been helpful. For a lot of people, they're going to think, yeah, easy for you to say, you're really rich and they're going to try and chase money and eventually they're realised for themselves that it doesn't buy happiness. There are still some people that the cliché is still helpful too. Yeah, all right. What do your thoughts on fenasteride for Hellos? Amazing. Just today, my order of fenasteride arrives, I ordered like six, six months worth from some simple pharmacy.co.uk or something. You've been using it for longer than me. I've been using it for a few months, but I think there's some weird rules around doctors recommending off-licensed drugs, so I'm not allowed to say anything on the topic. All right. So fenasteride. No, I mean, it seems like it's the only thing, it's the only like Hellos thing that's backed by research, apparently it works for like 70% of men. I told you that, I think I did. Yeah, but you're not allowed to say that. I mean, oh yeah, so I heard from credible sources, the friend of a friend of a friend. It's like the only sort of legit hellos thing, the side effects don't seem too bad. Don't take my word for it. Don't take his word for it. You should probably look into this and talk to a doctor. Does hard work always lead to success? How do you feel about that? That's all a question table. There's no valuable answers to be given it. Yeah, I don't think the answer is well, it depends how we define success. It depends how we define hard work. And I think if you're doing what you like and the work is fun, then you're inherently successful. If you had a spare thousand pounds floating around, what would you do with it together? And let's add the caveat that you're not allowed to just invest in Bitcoin or stick it in the S&P 500. I know what I would do. I would take off some of cruise for like two weeks. I've been reading the things about cruise ships and how that is like the best place to get worked on because everything is sort of out for you. Your bed is made, your food is free, et cetera, et cetera. If you find a good deal, it costs maybe £50 a day to actually live on a cruise ship for like a two week period. And you can use that time to just bash out a ton of work so you can do your coding. I could try to write a book, you know, you can do whatever you want on a cruise ship. And I think that would be a very valuable use of a thousand pounds. Yeah, it also sounds like a novel sort of cultural experience like, is it kind of weird, right? Like who had this idea? That's kind of massive shit. Get people to pay money to sit on this ship on a holiday. It is crazy. I would have just be cool to experience that. Ah Lam says, hey guys, I just finished university few months ago, but I know I want to study data science, any tips. Right. Well, well, but that was good. Thank you. Tim was a data scientist. Do you want to join us? Oh yeah, so my first job out of university was as a data scientist. I think what is a data scientist? What do they do? It means a lot of different things nowadays. Essentially the reason this title exists is I think because lots of companies now have lots of data, especially if they're a tech company, you'll have data coming in from, you know, the finance department of money coming in and out of the company, you'll have data coming in about your products and so on. And there are helpful things that you can do if you analyze this data. So for example, at the company I used to work, we were in the property space and we were trying to use data to figure out a way to automatically figure out the value of a house. So you don't need someone to go and visit the house, you just have a bunch of data about the house and boom, this house is worth 500k or whatever. So that's roughly what a data scientist does. In terms of actually getting into it, I think as a graduate, it's kind of hard because it's not as developed as a field as, say, software engineering or other kind of roles. And so there's not really many graduate schemes for people who've just graduated and want to become data scientists. I think the way I sort of did it was to make sure I had like a solid foundation and things I needed. So I studied maths at university and I specialized in statistics, which is very in line with the kinds of things you need to do as a scientist. I also knew how to code, which is really, really important. Yeah, so I think foundationally learned Python, that's sort of the lingua franca of data science. Oh, god, how about that? Yeah, learn Python, learn the statistic, sort of like a foundational kind of statistics that you understand, you know, pitfalls when when working with data. To be honest, I got a bit lucky in that. I reached out to a startup in London that seemed really cool. They need to lined with mine. So try and find a company where you think you're actually interested in working there. And typically, if it's like a smaller startup, they're probably more willing to take a bet on a recent grad than if it's like an established company with a very established like hiring protocols and things like that. So you've told this person that you'd recommend learning Python and learning stats? Yes. I suppose that that kind of begs the question from most people. How do I go about learning Python or how do I go about learning stats? Do you have any thoughts on the how to learn stuff front? I think the Python one is more straightforward because you can kind of do, I look, there's, I haven't actually done any of this stuff myself. So take this with a pinch of salt. There are sites like Kaggle where you can do data science challenges. And so a lot of people do just to kind of get up to speed and practice their skills is to like do these challenges on Kaggle. And then when you apply to jobs and things, you can say, oh, you know, I've done these like Kaggle challenges. I know these kinds of techniques and stuff. So I think that's a bit more tractable. In terms of learning stats, I feel like in my case, I just studied the stuff for four years and at some point things started to click and that was kind of independent of why I was studying at the time. So like in fourth year when we were doing some, you know, Bayesian inference stuff, then that somehow shed some light on some like really fundamental things. I sort of developed really good intuition around like really basic stuff. So I actually don't know how I advice someone to study stats. Okay, very enough. And if you're kind of stuck at the bit before, you've actually even taught yourself Python. The thing I was trying to get you to say was just kind of Google it because if you want to learn Python, if you want to learn the basics of Python, you would start by Googling it, following some like online courses or something. Oh, yeah. And then you can start doing all this Kaggle stuff once you've learned it. Yeah, that was such a given that. Yeah, that's a given. Yeah, of course, Google it online courses, these are all really good. Did either of you ever deal with them in postus syndrome and if so, how did you deal with it? I think I had this for a while in like tech stuff, but after, yeah, just hearing enough about, oh god, this is going to make you see right eventually. Yeah. Hearing enough, people to talk about imposter syndrome and say that, you know, everyone's making it out. It eventually sunk in. Yeah, so I had imposter syndrome big time when I was in my fifth year of university and I was co-directing the clinical school pantomime and the other co-director his name was Will. He was like amazing. He was like tons of theatre experience, was a really good actor and credible singer like had been doing this for years and years. And I had zero acting or zero theatre experience at all. So he knew what he was doing and I had absolutely no idea. Every time we have rehearsals, I was kind of thinking, oh, I bet everyone's thinking that, oh, that's a really crap director. Very quickly, I was hang on. No one is thinking about me. Everyone's worried about themselves. People don't give a toss about what I'm feeling or how I'm coming across. You know, as long as I'm being friendly and happy and doing a reasonably okay job, people are going to be so tied up in their own and their own selves that no one's thinking about me at all. And I think that, well, once I had that realization, which again came from hearing phrases like, you know, you'll stop caring so much what others think of you when you realise how sells them to sell them, they do. And cliche is like that, you know, just internalising that, maybe realise no one cares. It's all good. And then the imposter syndrome vanished. Favorite piece of tech released in 2019? I think I've bought any new tech in 2019. Well, that monitor. Ah, I got, yes, the new Apple 4K. It's not Apple, it's LG. The LG 4K monitor. It's very nice. They haven't made any particularly groundbreaking moves with it. Apple have been doing LG kind of a rest in it. It's played more just for a while. There's a bunch of other like, you know, impressionate equivalent monsters from like Dell and NEC and stuff that really good. It's a nice monitor. And that's all right. I'm going to mention this in my next monthly favorite video. But there's this like a mass size of thing that you like put on your back and you plug into the wall and then it kind of gives you one of those shiatsu mass sizes. So that's been, yeah, my back actually really hurts right now. Yeah, this is it's actually a really awkward situation. It's really comfortable sitting on the sofa trying to set up straight and also sort of leaning forward. You get kind of that lower back pair. Are these that we have to lean forward? It's have to lean forward camera. Yeah, that's what we're seeing like to be more engaging. Otherwise, it'd kind of be lounging like this and which we're a lot more comfortable. Every more comfortable, but then the microphone's not going to pick it anyway. All right. Yeah. Oh, we'll put a fillet links in the description below for all those things. And that brings us to the end. All right. Of this kind of life advice segment of the Q&A. Thank you very much for watching. I hope you found that useful and gained maybe something from it. If you like the sort of life advice you sort of stuff and you stick your stuff with it to the end of the video, there's going to be a video over there that's like other sort of life advice you stuff. And you can check out our podcast not overthinking.com, but it's also available on everywhere else where you get a spot for costs. It's like wherever you go, your podcast. I tuned spot if I stay true in Blubber Blubber Blubber. All that stuff. Thanks for watching and we'll see you in the next video. Bye. Bye.
