# Journey to placement - Cambridge University medical student VLOG #02
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=U31WDm6RNYc
Second vlog of final year. It's bank holiday Monday so we don't have too much going on, but it's still a reasonably packed day of running errands around town, visiting college, watching the Game of Thrones season 7 finale and driving to our placement in Kings Lynn for the first time. Enjoy xx

Who am I:

I'm Ali, a final year medical student at Emmanuel College, Cambridge. This vlogging thing seems quite fun so I'll be vlogging life and other things throughout the year. I'm pretty into music and coding as well, so maybe there'll be some of that on this channel.

Follow me plssss:
- Snapchat: aliabdaal
- Twitter - https://twitter.com/AliAbdaal
- Instagram - https://instagram.com/AliAbdaal
- Website - www.aliabdaal.com
**Keywords:** Cambridge medicine, Cambridge medical student, Cambridge medicine vlog, Cambridge medical student vlog, medical student, medicine vlog, medicine, medical student vlog, Oxbridge, Oxford, Cambridge, cambridge medicine, oxford medicine, bmat, 6med, bmat crash course, bmat tips, ukcat, medicine interviews, 
**Date:** 2017-09-07

## Transcript
 Hey guys, welcome back to the channel. If you're new here, my name is Ali and I'm a final yametic, and I'm just kind of vlogging life for a bit of fun. It's a beautiful bank holiday Monday today, which means we don't really have anything in particular going on, but I just thought I'd start by reading you an email that we got this morning from one of the senior faculty members. I found it really nice, so I just, I just thought I'd share it. She starts the email off with a beautiful paragraph. It says, I love bank holidays. For me, they are like three bonus days and it's fantastic to celebrate them by doing something different and getting away from work. However, they can also be used just like the end of British summer time to catch up on yourself and allow some extra planning for the week ahead. My bank holiday Monday will be a combination of this, cooking for the week ahead, making plans for my children's return to school, and a long dog walk into the morning. Probably less exciting than you are, but I'm quite happy with this. I just like a really nice kind of personal touch to kind of an otherwise very admin-heavy email kind of explaining dates and timing and things like that. But I really liked it. I really want to work with this morning and I kind of brought some extra sunshine into the day. So I just thought I'd share that with you guys. So one thing that I've got to do today, it's I've got to go to John Lewis in Cambridge Town Center to return. This is the DJI Mavic Pro and it's a really nice drone that I got a few days ago with the intention of flying around Cambridge getting some aerial shots for the vlog. I also had this great plan that I was going to kind of fly over the colleges and the kind of beautiful sides of Cambridge. Get some 4K footage and then be able to set it on like some stock video website. Unfortunately, I was talking about this plan to Colum, yesterday who you might have seen in last week's vlog if you watched it. And he very kindly did some research and found that most of Cambridge is actually a no-fly zone unfortunately because Cambridge is in the direct landing path of the Cambridge airport. You're not allowed to fly any drones and it without permission from air traffic control. So long story short, we're going to go to John Lewis, return the drone and it's going to be sad. But hey, what can you do? So your prayers folks. All right, the drone has been returned. Shout out to John Lewis for amazing customer service. One of the sad things about being in clinical school is that we don't really get a chance to come back to Colum's much. So when we do have business in town, we just come back to Colum, say hello to the ducks and appreciate the nice scenery. Breathing the breathing, trying to go. The story behind this piano is kind of interesting. So here we have a piano in the room. It's quite nice. I want to teach myself site reading this year. So the plan is to practice five minutes a day. We'll see how that goes. Probably what happened, but hey, worth a try. All right, today is Game of Thrones finale day. We've got the set up. So we were like, let's do this. What's this? This is the impact of fact we just brought back to life. It's just this Yeah, I mean, this is a bit of a strange thing. I don't know, this was not been today. Oh my days. That was incredible. That was an absolutely fantastic season finale. The next order of business to round off this bank holiday weekend is to drive to our placement to King's Lynn for the very first time. So we've all been packing our stuff. Marcus is here. He's brought all this stuff. Paul lives in the house and we're going to grab Shaline on the way there. Hopefully the combination will be good, but even if not, hey, that's life. I'm sure it will be liveable. Oh, that's quite pretty. That's quite a nice color in the sky. If only Cambridge wasn't a no fly zone for drones. All right, we've got everyone on the car. Everyone say hello. Time to go to King's Lynn for the first time. One of the best parts of our driving to placement is that there's always a McDonald's drive through on the way to pretty much everywhere we've been. It's weird. Bedford. Yeah. Newton's drive. 10 30 pm. We've arrived. Just got to collect our keys from Main Switchboard. Okay, we think this might be the accommodation. It's basically in the hospital, which is quite nice. Part of the hospital is like in the middle of nowhere. The nearest thing is about a 20 minute walk away. We're kind of locked out of this building. We don't have to get anything. We're the medical students who came by earlier. So we're going to knock that right now because that's like a key code. Well, there's not, there's no hope for the door for the key actually. It's just um, it's just an access code, like a pin code for the main door. Should we walk around? You want us to live entrance? I do hope we're not in the at the wrong door, so we're just trying to walk around and make sure that we're there. We've been at the wrong door for the last 20 minutes. Oh, there we go. Oh, this is nice and cute. This is pretty great. I don't know why people are complaining. It's got a desk wardrobe, chest of drawers, chair, sink, mirror bed, what more can a child want? It's a pretty reasonable kitchen as well. We'd be good for a communal space to do some work. Play some articulating pandemic. If you mix it with jogger, it'll basically taste like last, so you need to mix it with your leg and then it's healthy. I'll just place it like this. Sorry, that was horrible. But let's ask me if I'd like when you chair, when we do a chair tonight, actually supposed to cling to glasses. Oh, it's supposed to. Yeah, it's all about the sound. All right guys, thank you very much for watching. It's been a long day. Hope you enjoyed it. Please give the video a like if you liked it. Please subscribe if you haven't already. I will see you in the next one. Bye. Bye.
