# How to Make Money from your Passion
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UE4dTKiNGa0
Get free access to my Deep Dive interviews and my Workflow series on Nebula, along with a load of other exclusive content, bundled with CuriosityStream - https://curiositystream.com/ali and use the code ALI at checkout for a 26% discount on the annual premium plan!

@Sara Dietschy is one of my favourite YouTubers, and one of the people who most inspired me when I was starting my channel. In this video, you'll hear her thoughts on how to discover and develop your passions, tips for getting started as an original content creator as well as her thoughts on fulfilment, creativity and branding. 

00:00 Intro
00:36 Passion
02:15 Self-Awareness and Fulfilment
04:07 Getting Started
06:05 Creativity and Originality
08:18 Branding

Sara's Links:
YouTube - https://www.youtube.com/user/saradietschy
Podcast - https://www.thatcreative.life

My interview on That Creative Life - https://www.thatcreative.life/episodes/ali-abdaal-YQsrLxz6

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
😃  How to be Happier - Stoicism Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/stoicism

MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️ My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝 My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
📚 How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵 Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
🌐 My website platform (Ghost) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost
🎤 My podcast hosting platform (Transistor) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/transistor

OTHER RECOMMENDED COURSES
📔 Effortless Output with Roam Research - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/roam
📓 Building a Second Brain - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/basb

🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, sara dietschy, dietschy, passion, career, career advice, how to develop a passion, life advice, lessons, advice, how to get started, branding, how to develop a brand, how to turn a passion into a career, finding a passion, how to find your passion, personal growth, self improvement, personal development, entrepreneur, successful, be happy, happiness, creativity, getting started, 
**Date:** 2020-08-04

## Transcript
 Hey friends welcome back to the channel. In this video we're taking a look at some lessons learned from Sarah Dichy who is one of my favorite YouTubers and one of the people who most inspired me when I was starting this channel. Sarah dropped out of college to become a full-time filmmaker and she's now got over 650,000 subscribers on YouTube where she regularly uploads vlogs, tech reviews and lifestyle videos along with creative and entrepreneurial focused interviews and films. She's also got a fantastic podcast called That Creative Life that I was lucky enough to be featured on a few months ago. In this compilation video you'll hear our thoughts on how to discover and develop your passion, how to choose a career based on money and lifestyle factors and some top tips for getting started as an original content creator. How do you know what to focus your time on if you have so many different passions? I always tend to really focus on one at one point in time and then you figure out if that's going to be the one. So I've had a lot of moments in my life where in the beginning I was basketball, I was obsessed playing basketball, basketball was my entire life. Y'all I thought I was going to go into the WMBA. Then three or four years later, okay wait, I don't think this is it and it's just a lot of trial and error go full on with what you're stoked about now because it's a great thing if you found a passion. The harder thing is to be aimlessly wondering around the world and nothing lighting a fire underneath your butt, right? That is the actual problem. So if you have things that you like, if you have too many things, oh that's great. Like go and do all of those things. Really focus on one, if it turns out you know it's not working out then go to the next thing. So that's pretty good advice if you're in the fortunate position where you've got multiple things that you're passionate about but you're not really sure which one to go for. But if you're sitting there and thinking well, I don't really have any passions apart from video games and anime or whatever. Then I want to just you're probably not doing enough exploration and that's something that's talked about in this book of Gritz by Angela Duckworth. She talks about why passion and resilience are the secrets to success and there's a great quote which is that passion for your work is a little bit of discovery followed by a lot of development and then a lifetime of deepening. And so if you haven't yet found the thing or things that you're passionate about then I would suggest tentatively that it's all about doing a bit of exploration, stepping outside the comfort zone and then eventually you'll find something that you want to throw yourself into. How do you think about that kind of balance between doing what makes money versus kind of doing what you enjoy and ideally kind of the dream is where you're doing the same thing and it gives you both? That is probably the hardest thing and then the second hardest question is do you actually want to pursue that as your job your passion? I know a lot of people whose happiness is coming home at 6 p.m. breaking open a beer playing Netflix and that's their that's their evening and they love it and then maybe they don't 100% love their job but they have some friends at work and just life is good right and there's that separation and they like that and they have their weekends. If you want to keep that life kind of compartmentalized then there's nothing wrong with finding a 9 to 5 again I think it comes down to your personality type what you enjoy and how you do things. I am a very full on person being able to be free to do whatever I want even though I work every Saturday and Sunday and this doesn't end at 6 p.m. I get a lot of joy from it and I really love building but if I had to go to an office and just deal with BS I think I would die inside. I think it was the ancient Greeks or someone who had that phrase know that I self which is like the most important thing. Sarah is you know on the outside living the dream she is a youtuber full-time living in New York she gets sent free tech products to review she gets companies flying her around the world to make videos and vlogs and stuff and she's very right in saying that that sort of lifestyle isn't really for everyone but I think a lot of us talk ourselves out of doing something like starting a youtube channel or a podcast or a blog by looking at an extreme example like Sarah and thinking I don't really want to be a full-time youtuber. It's kind of like going to the gym and exercising you don't have to compete in bodybuilding competitions to get some benefits out of exercising equally you don't have to be a full-time youtuber to get the benefits of sharing your workout there and building an audience. Next I will Sarah about her tips for getting started on youtube but I think the general advice applies to getting started with anything and not just youtube. It seems like every year where even if you were starting youtube in 2016 like 2014 like you did I guess even at the time it would have seemed like youtube is too saturated. Now was always a perfect time to start if you really want if you have something that is driving you that you want to create and you know it's it's such a passion of yours to where it's almost an extension of you to where if you're not creating then a small piece of you will die inside. It's always the right time if you have that itch like you got to scratch that itch. You really have to start with what are you good at first? I had a passion for video. I was obsessed with video editing you know I wasn't going to go ham on blogging and and tumblr. The reason why youtubers current youtubers hate youtube is the reason why new youtubers can come on the spot and still be successful. That is the algorithm. When you get a certain audience you do feel like you're kind of a product of the algorithm. You have to cater to it you know it's means but that same reason is why new youtubers can come on the spot. Maybe only making you know videos for a few months have one that really pops off and oh all of a sudden you have momentum you know it's all about having a platform with an algorithm actually help people who start out with nothing. Case in point there is this new youtuber who I came across on twitter about a month ago she's a junior doctor in London and her name's honey and she's started making videos on youtube a month ago and she's made five videos and the fifth one of those videos really popped because it was an important subject that she was educating people about and she's already got 30,000 subscribers in just a month of making youtube videos. I was looking through my analytics and it took me a whole year of making two or three videos a week to get to 30,000 subscribers. It just goes to show that if you start today even in the very saturated market that is YouTube and you're creating stuff that's valuable to people and that people are finding useful then you know it can completely change your life. Our next point is something that I used to worry about a lot and that is the idea of originality and creativity. What does creativity kind of mean to you and to what extent are you like an original think of versus a sort of remixer of other people stuff? I think the internet is remix culture. I mean look at the early days of tumblr. Who is it in our sphere that says that there's no such thing as an original thought? I think with me you know even I hopped on the vlogging bandwagon. Once I discovered and I didn't create that and even Casey didn't create that. Why Casey got so big was he took something that was really popular vlogging but put his own spin on it making it really beautiful. Make it you know oh be roll to music all that's exciting. It was really those those tweaks that I think create new genres. It's what you make of all of these things that you're into and putting your own spin on it. You know I feel like you and Thomas Frank and that section of YouTube wasn't even a thing five years ago and then you and then you get Matt D'Avella. All of these combinations of other YouTubers they come together and form the great Matt D'Avella and you're like oh it's all of us combined. So I used to really worry about this original stuff. I used to really worry that you know I feel like none of my stuff that I put out on YouTube or my blog or email newsletter or anything. I feel like none of it is actually original. All I'm doing is taking insights from other people and packaging them up in the form of these videos and then I made these videos about how to study for exams and then after making the video I realised that oh crap Thomas Frank made the identical three years ago and it's got like five million views on it. Why did I feel I need to take this video? But there's a quote that I always come back to whenever I think that way which is that there are no unique messages, only unique messengers. And I really like what Sarah said about the internet is remix culture like nothing is original. Everything is just a remix of something else. And so if you're thinking I'm getting started with something like a YouTube channel, a blog, a podcast or anything and you're being held back by this idea that well people have already done it. I don't want to do a review of tech because MKBHD is already done that. Like don't worry about it. There's no such thing as originality. Everything is a remix. The fact that you're creating something means it's going to be unique because in theory you are the only you out there that's something I still struggle with and it's something that I always have to keep reminding myself of. And point number five is discussion about branding and I think Sarah is a master of the personal brand. How do you think about your sort of personal brand? I think design is super helpful when it can solve a problem. So Sarah Dichi rhymes with Pichi. That started out of a need of oh my gosh people don't know how to pronounce my name. I think that's the most important thing for a brand is do people know how to spell it? Do people know how to say it? So if someone can at least remember how to say it and then they can associate Pichi or Sarah Pichi or something with it, then I can do the back-in work of the SEO stuff and if you can Google Sarah Pichi you'll find my channel. You'll find all my socials. When no one interfaces through really these anymore but maybe everything is voice and people are going to need to know how to say Sarah Dichi if they're going to find my podcast. You know I think that's just like for starters the most important thing and then if you can associate something like fun and zeitgeisty like the Pichi emoji then then bonus point. See you now. Again this branding stuff is something that I used to I used to worry about at the start of my channel like if I meet people and they're like oh what's your YouTube channel and I'm like ah well it's just my name, Ali Abdullah spelled ABDWL you know you know if you just type in Ali medical student or I did your new doctor came bridge you why it? It was really hard to make that decision to go with my real name but I'm really glad I went with my real name. I think if you use your real name then it is something that'll stay with you for the rest of your life in theory and so your content can always evolve with you. Whereas if someone like Peter McKinnon or to call himself photo video tutorials guy suddenly he is like very very much type cast into that role and so when it comes to personal branding if you can figure out a way to make your real name the brand and I think Sarah's done it very intelligently with the whole Pichi stuff then that has much more future potential than sticking to a brand name. If you like these five lessons from Sarah and my own commentary on them then you might like to check out the extended version of this video where we also talk about things like diversifying revenue streams and how to manufacture like how to create viral videos. It's less about that oh this one time you got it perfect it's more about doing it every single week and hoping you strike fire on one out of those 50 weeks. The extended version of this video is available over at Nebula the independent streaming platform that meet and a bunch of other creative friends are helping to build as a sort of alternative place where we can put content like longer form content without worrying about the YouTube algorithm. So on Nebula you'll find a load of long form interviews that I've done with people along with snippets of bite-sized wisdom from those. There's also my exclusive workflow series which at the moment has 20 videos in here and I add more videos each month and those videos are breaking down some of the ways in which I use my favorite productivity apps like Notion and Room and on top of that you get early access to all my YouTube videos add free. So for example in the Nebula version of this video this add disappears and instead it's got these two extra bits where we talk about diversifying revenue and manufacturing viral content. To get access to Nebula the best way to sign up to cure Ross Distream who very kindly sponsoring this video. Cure Ross Distream is the world's leading documentary streaming platform so through that you get access to big budget documentaries from people like Chris have failed and David Attenborough but because Cure Ross Distream love educational content and educational ish creators we've got this bundle deal where if you sign up to Cure Ross Distream you also get free access to Nebula. The currently running a promotion where you can get 26% off the annual Cure Ross Distream subscription which makes it less than $15 and so for $15 for the year you get access to these amazing high quality documentaries but also all of my stuff on Nebula and also stuff from a load of other creators on Nebula he might have heard of people like Thomas Frank, Tom Scott, Wendover Productions and Lindsay Ellis. So if you click on the link in the video description or head over to curiositystream.com forward slash alle that'll give you 26% off the Cure Ross Distream subscription which comes with Nebula and when you sign up to Cure Ross Distream you'll get your Nebula details emailed to you. If you like this video you should definitely check out some of the videos in my book club series where I summarise insights and ideas from some of my favorite nonfiction books that'll be linked over here somewhere. Thank you for watching and I'll see you in the next video. Bye bye.
