# How to write a Medicine Personal Statement - 13 tips
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UJmz89F_bqA
This video covers 13 tips for the medicine personal statement from 6 medical students who have been helping students with their personal statements for years. Here's a table of contents:

1. Don't start by writing the introduction - 00:38
2. Feel free to chop and change stuff - 00:58
3. Ignore the character limit initially - 01:29
4. Start early - 01:51
5. Include personal anecdotes - 02:13
6. Remember to make it at least partly sciency - 02:38
7. Don't give everything away - 03:14
8. Be prepared to defend what you write - 04:06
9. Remember to reflect - 05:11
10. Make it flow - 06:06
11. Show your PS to lots of people - 07:36
12. Feel free to ignore advice (including this) - 08:04
13. Don't overly worry about being original - 09:01

--

If you've got any questions, please comment down below and I'll do my best to get back to you asap.

Chidera's awesome channel - https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCeq4iBads31CT551gDJND5A

--

Who am I:

I'm Ali, a final year medical student at Emmanuel College, Cambridge. This vlogging thing seems quite fun so I'll be vlogging life and other things throughout the year. I'll also be featuring some videos of myself and my friends giving medicine application advice on camera :)

Follow me plssss:
- Snapchat: aliabdaal
- Twitter - https://twitter.com/AliAbdaal
- Instagram - https://instagram.com/AliAbdaal
- Website - www.aliabdaal.com
**Keywords:** medicine, medicine personal statement, how to write a personal statement, personal statement tips, medicine personal statement tips, oxbridge medicine, oxford medicine, cambridge medicine, medicine application, medical school statement, medical school personal statement, med school personal statement, UCAS personal statement, medicine UCAS, UCAS, 
**Date:** 2017-09-23

## Transcript
 Hey guys, welcome back to the channel. My name is Ali. I'm a finally medical student at Cambridge University and this is a new series of videos where me and quite a lot of my medical student friends are going to be giving you advice on your medicine application. Today we're going to be talking about personal statements and we've got a handful of students who are giving different tips about the personal statement and I'll kind of be commenting as we go along. If you look down below in the description, I've got timestamps to each of the different tips. So, you know, if if something is a bit too slow for you or if you've heard it already before, you can just kind of skip to the appropriate sections. But be fun, useful. We're going to start with a few tips from myself, Kenny, Marcus and Shalin about how to start your personal statements and I'll see you in just a moment. Okay, so, um, one tip I would say is don't start with the introduction. The introduction is always the hardest part to write. So, I mean, I tried so many times to write an introduction and then eventually just gave up and started with the second paragraph. And I think I wrote my introduction after my conclusion and then kind of reformatted everything to make it flu. So, yeah, don't start with the introduction. Don't try and write in one go. I think my personal statement, it was like, it took me forever to write. Because I'd start the introduction and I don't know, I don't like it, so I'll be like, let me just go to the conclusion because I know how I want to conclude. So, I write my conclusion and then I go back to my introduction and be like, I'm still not happy to write this. Let me write about my work experience first. And so, so, Ryan's personal statement is not a flu process. It's very chop and changey. So, I definitely recommend that there's nothing wrong with not being able to write or wouldn't want to go. I think your chat is to not immediately limit yourself to the 4,000 characters. You write as much as you want, get everything on the page and then edit downwards. Because otherwise, you're going to cut things out that you really should be fitting in. You don't really want to limit when you talk about something you're passionate about. So, go all out, write as much as you want and then sort of edit backwards to say what you really want to keep in them. Start early as well because you will draft and redraw and send it to loads of people and they're all same-flicting things. So, you want to have time to tie those together. Okay, so that was four tips about how to start your personal statement. Let's now move to content and we've got markers to ensure that you're talking about the kinds of things you want to be putting in your personal statement and giving you some tips for that. So, you really want to, again, and then to be you want to stand out, you want it to be really personal. And I find it always helps if you write the start, you catch them off guard or something, like an anecdote or something that really stands out and makes them like, oh, this is interesting. And it also sets a scene. It meant to be quite a personal thing so I felt feel starting with an anecdote or why you want to go into this. That's quite a good way of starting. So, I'll actually be uploading a video on my channel of going into more detail about the personal statement, but I will say that particularly if you're applying for an integrated course, always remember that you're applying not only to be a medic but to be a scientist as well. So, as much as talking about how you love medicine and that's what you're saying, make sure that you make it clear that you love the science behind it as well because that will make you stand out. Okay, so those are some tips about the content of your personal statement. Now we've got markers to ensure that there's some thoughts about what not to put in your personal statement, what you can save into your instead. And then we've got Jake talking about the importance of knowing the content of your personal statement and also the importance of reflecting on everything that you say. And there might be lots of things you want to put in your personal statement, but remember, you can always talk about that at interviews. Put in, you know, you're absolutely top 10 things that make you amazing. And remember, you can talk about other things that you're into. So, yeah, it's your personal statement is not the be-all in the end. It's important, but it is one of the things they look like when to sign up. And also, I guess, you can sometimes be a little clever. You could sign post things, put in things you know they're going to ask you about, don't put in too much information because as she says, you just want to leave enough for them to realize that's an interesting point. He hasn't had the time to explain it. That's asking about that. And that actually, for you, gives you a bit of like a heads up because you're like, you know what? I talked about this. I didn't really explain it. I'm going to prep an answer for that because they might ask me. And when they do, you'll have an answer ready. And again, because it's a funny, great personal statement. You be able to talk about it quite well. One thing to say about my UCL interview, they had my personal statement in front of me. They went through it with a fine tooth comb. They picked up phrases, words, particular ways I'd express things and sort of interrogate me on them. So, make sure you know it like the back of your hand. I was called up on claiming that I'd read the answer every week for a year, which, you know, I subscribed to it. I read it every so often. And the guy was like, well, what was in it this week? What was in the week before? Do you really read it? It's incredibly technical isn't it? I was like, yeah, okay, fine. I tried. It was a bit much. So, don't put something in there that you're not prepared to defend. It's my number one piece of advice, but you're going to hear that elsewhere as well. So, if you say you've read something, read it. If you say you've done some experience, make sure I'm sure you will have done it, but make sure you're prepared to talk about it as well, because it doesn't look very good if you did something after GCSEs as you're somewhat working experience. And then when they come to ask you about you think I'll goodness what was that a year and a half ago now, I can't really remember. So, yeah, generic advice, you'll hear it from plenty of people, but make sure that you have prepared to defend what you've written in your personal statement. And don't have it as just a list of things, try and include what you've learned from it. So, if you've done Duke of Edinburgh, what did it teach you about leadership and teamwork? What did you find about sort of interpersonal challenges in communication? If you've done a sport, does that help you with time management? Does it help us address the release? These are all better than just saying I'm great at this. I did count you this, count you that. So, again with work experience, what did you learn from it? Whether a good example is a communication or a team work or care that you saw, was there anything that you think could have been done differently? It's better than look at how many operations I watched because my dad's a surgeon. So, anything you can do that shows that you've applied, what you saw, and are thinking about how it relates to a future medical career would be very good. Okay, hope you found that useful. Now, we've got a segment of myself talking about the importance of making a personal statement flow. Then we've got Kenny and Marcus talking about why you shouldn't be giving your personal statement to other people to look at even if they're not medics. I really think about the flow of the personal statement. So, I've seen at least a hundred personal statements over the last five years from people emailing them to me, and the one criticism that I almost invariably always have is that it doesn't flow nicely. It feels as if each paragraph is like a distinct entity, and the whole thing doesn't like to tell a cohesive narrative of that makes sense. Luckily, this is quite easy to sort of simple words like after that or like at the end then or furthermore, I don't really like the word furthermore because it seems a bit stuffy. So, for example, a lot of people do is they're in their introduction, they would say I love medicine because ABCDE, and then the second paragraph would start with, on my work experience, I learned that I think a way of making that flow better would have be to have your first paragraph saying I love medicine blah blah, second paragraph starts with to learn more about what a career in medicine would entail, I arranged work experience at a local hospital, and this taught me blah blah. So, you've kind of started by saying you like medicine, and then you're saying that right, having decided I like medicine, I wanted to learn more about what it entail their threaded work experience. So, you're kind of leading the reader through, through kind of the thought process, through the story, and it just becomes more of a pleasant experience to read, and that's one thing that's missing from the majority of personal statements that I read, and that's what I always tell people, make it flow, use these connected words of phrases, if you have to get rid of the fact that you did Duke of Edinburgh bronze, get rid of the Duke of Edinburgh bronze, just you know, use that space to make these sentences that make the whole thing flow, that would be my advice. I'd also recommend just giving your personal statement to your friends and family after you've written it too, because, for example, I know people who've done like English, so there was things that I thought I phrased well, the people thought I phrased I could like change maybe, and there was other people who did things like art, for example, who would bring a completely different kind of perspective on a way that I can't actually say, so I think definitely handle personal statements as diverse a number of people as possible. And like with regards to the advice that you get from people, I should say, so you're going to get so many conflicting things, some people like all that paragraph is really good and other people would say that it was really bad, it just doesn't make sense, and I think it's important to be able to decide which changes you want to make, because you want to sort of be true to yourself almost, because it is your personal statement, and you really want it to be your reason why you want to do medicine. So, if you completely, there's so many times I completely disagree with someone and I was like, I really like this paragraph, I feel that it really talked about something else, really, that I was really going through, so I was keeping that in, even though teachers would say, maybe take it out. So just do what you would feel would be best. Okay, so if you're still with us, and thank you for watching this far, hope you found it useful. Now we've got a very brief segment of Jake giving some thoughts about how personal statements can never really be original, and then I'll see you for some closing words in just a moment. With personal statements, I think it's easy to overstate the importance of these, because they do take a very similar formula. Well, when I wrote mine, I thought I was being incredibly original and writing very loosely and putting stuff that was fantastically personal, but then in my role as doing a bit of tutoring, I've seen tensed hundreds of personal statements from students at the same stage I was, and they do all take a pretty similar shape. Okay, so that brings us to the end of this video about personal statements. I really hope you found it useful, and a big thank you to all my friends at TidPart and offered their perspectives on the medicine personal statement. We've gone over like 12 or 13 different tips, all of which will be linked in the description below to appropriate timestamps. So if you want to share it with a friend, you can just kind of reference the appropriate bit. Or you can just share the whole video, which would be quite nice as well. So thank you very much for watching. If you found it useful, please give it a thumbs up. If you haven't subscribed to the channel, please consider doing so. We've got loads more videos coming up in the next few weeks to months about B-MAT interviews, more about personal statements, specifically stuff about the ultimate interview. So hopefully you'll find that useful. I'm also making vlogs every now and then about life as a final year medic. So I mean, if you'd like to subscribe to the channel to see more of that, and please do so. Alois, I will see you in the next one. Bye.
