# My Bookshelf Tour + Recommendations
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UlIDxrK43ko
To improve your thinking and learn new skills, visit https://brilliant.org/ali and sign up for free. The first 200 people will get 20% off the annual Premium subscription :)

This video is a not-so-little talk through every single book on my bookshelf... Enjoy the ride, and let me know in the comments which one of these books you like the most.

✍️ The best summaries of books (Shortform) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform

How To Read More Books: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL7BImOT2srcFo3OVgEAhOEKW0QYJNWOMO
Books That Changed My Life: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL7BImOT2srcFZZtV_7h3UTc-g6Kp3qxYx
Book Club with Ali Abdaal: https://www.youtube.com/playlist?app=desktop&list=PL7BImOT2srcE-wLIlCcgTCa_jznOZZLwS

Episodes of my podcast @DeepDivewithAliAbdaal with authors mentioned in the video:
1. How To Change Your Life with UnJaded Jade & Ali Abdaal - https://youtu.be/lapAN1eO9VA
How To Build Career Success - Behavioural Scientist Dr Grace Lordan - https://youtu.be/FwvZf0IjaiQ
2. How To Find Your Purpose in Life with Vee Kativhu - https://youtu.be/an2413AMr6I
3. A Psychologists Guide To A Meaningful Life - Dr Julie Smith - https://youtu.be/DM1_15bzU5M
Productivity Expert On How Productivity Ruins Your Life - Oliver Burkeman - https://youtu.be/KvuM4yrlYxY
4. How To Think Like A Life Coach - Hasan Kubba - https://youtu.be/GM1ZzMpF3NI
5. How to Not Die Alone - A Dating Expert's Guide - https://youtu.be/CTLWzzmfOxQ
6. How To Break Through Limitations - Bobby Seagull - https://youtu.be/njzXbWIUxZ4
7. How And Why We Play Social Status Games - Will Storr - https://youtu.be/UkNiID1m3x4

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

PART-TIME YOUTUBER ACADEMY:
🍿 My 6-week live online course - https://academy.aliabdaal.com

MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
📚  How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound

🎙 My weekly podcast - https://www.notoverthinking.com
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/friendzone/
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮  Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I’m Ali, a YouTuber, podcaster, soon-to-be author and ex-Doctor working in London, UK. I make videos that explore the strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. I also have a weekly podcast called Deep Dive (https://www.youtube.com/channel/UChfo46ZNOV-vtehDc25A1Ug), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://email.aliabdaal.com).


GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, bookshelf tour, bookshelf organization, bookshelf reorganization, book collection, bookshelf tour 2022, book haul, book recommendations, Ali Abdaal Books, Book Club, Ali Abdaal Book Club, ali abdaal book recommendations, book reviews, bookshelf organization 2022, organizing my bookshelf, my book collection, books to read for self improvement, books to read before you die, books to read in your 20s, 
**Date:** 2022-03-21

## Transcript
 Hey friends, welcome back to the channel. This video is going to be a little talk through the 110 books we've got on the bookshelf over here. 90 of them are books I've already read. 20 of them are books that are on my 2B read list. And so for each of them I'm going to talk through what the main lesson that I've learned from the book is and who I would recommend it for. As usual, timestamps to everything down below. Let's get started. All right, book number one is Think Big. Take small steps and build the future you want by Dr. Grace Lordan. She actually appeared on an episode of the deep dive podcast linked down below if you want to check it out. And Dr. Lordan is a behavioral scientist and this is basically it's like genuinely a really good book and listen to it on audible initially but then I got the physical copy because why not? And it's basically an encyclopedia of all of the different insights from behavioral science and behavioral economics about how we can get ahead in our careers and her general broad thesis here is that we want to think big. He set a goal for me plus kind of that version of our self that we want to be and then break it down into smaller steps to achieve the goal. And that sounds obvious. You all kind of know that that advice but to be honest there's loads of stuff along the way in this book that I actually didn't know that I found quite surprising quite interesting. So if you want to learn more about that check out the deep dive podcast linked up below. Next on the list we have Atomic Habits by James Clear, huge, huge, huge mega best seller, fantastic book and so many people I know who've read this book who've told me that it's the single best self improvement book they have ever read and often the only self improvement book that these people have ever read. The basic premise is that to build good habits and break bad ones we should focus on the small 1% improvement changes that we can make over a very long period of time and then he talks about the four different laws of habit change about how we can actually do that. And if you want to learn more I actually have two videos all about this book one is a full episode of book club and one is a short as well again linked down below. Next we have the seven habits of highly effective people by Stephen Covey. Now this is a book that I have actually not yet read. I've read multiple summaries of this book. My favorite one is the one on a short form linked down below if you want to check it out. But this is definitely on my TBR because every time I even flick through this I'm just like bloody hell this book is incredible and it's super old and it's like the OG self improvement book which combines all of the insights from the whole world of like things to help us be better people, build better habits or that kind of stuff into one book. It's really dense. It's really long it's definitely on my read list for this year. Then we have Kant hurt me by David Goggins. Now I first listened to this last year and I listened to an audible and I'd really recommend the audible narration version because on audible after the narrator narrates each chapter then he literally has a chat with David Goggins like in the recording studio about like going deeper into some of the things there. I'd never really seen David Goggins stuff before listening to the book but it was absolutely incredible and like super super motivating. I'm not a huge fan of his whole philosophy around like suffering is good and you've got to like push through suffering and all that kind of stuff doesn't really vibe with me because I'm kind of soft but genuinely really really good book linked down below if you want to check it out. Next we have the book The Gap and The Gain by Ben Hardy and Dan Sullivan. Dan Sullivan is really famous business coach Ben Hardy is a psychologist and author and the subtitle here is the high achievers guide to happiness, confidence and success so it's trying to do quite a lot of things and basically that core thesis and why it's called The Gap and The Gain is that when we are measuring ourselves we should measure the gain like how far we've come rather than The Gap between where we are now and where we want to be and the whole thing is that if you apply this insight to all the different areas of your life it makes you much more confident and much happier and potentially even leads to more success. Next we have The Third Door by Alex Benayan. I think I read this in 2019 one of my favorite books of all time absolutely fantastic and I've recommended this to so many people. It sounds on the surface to be like a book for like career advice and business advice but it's told as a sort of narrative where Alex is a 22 year old college student and he's on a mission to try and interview the world's most successful people to figure out what it is that made them take when they were his age and he starts with the journey intending to write a book of life advice but it ends up being the personal transformation narrative about how you know the stuff he's learned personally along the way while trying to interview these famous successful people and it's all about the concept of The Third Door. Genuinely absolutely game changing book and they are cried at the end of it multiple times. I even cried at the end of the acknowledgement section like it was that good. The acknowledgement section is like the best acknowledgement section I've ever read. So yeah 100% would recommend The Third Door by Alex Benayan. Next we have The Power of Habit by Charles DuHick. I have not read this but it's part of my research for the book that I'm writing so we'll see what happens. Next we have mindset by Carol DuHick which is all about this idea of fixed mindset versus growth mindset. It's a really good book. It's very dense, quite hard to get through a little bit academic sometimes a little bit dry. But to be honest you can get most of the value from the book we're just reading the short form book summary or checking out my book club video on the top. Next we have The Daily Stoic by Ryan Holiday 365 Meditations on wisdom, perseverance and the art of living. He's also got an email to be honest I read the email I have not yet read the book but I mean it's really nice and it's nice to flick through occasionally to be like you know May the 23rd show me how to live April the 10th, Josh Smith's course disturbance and just like a little nice snippets of wisdom that you can get from the world of the Stoics, nice one, Ryan Holiday. Next we have a little small self-published book, Superhuman Social Skills by Tynon, a guide to being likable, winning friends and building your social circle which is actually really really really good. I read this a few years ago a god of large amount of value from it helped me become a better storyteller and helped me think more intentionally about my social life and you know, treating it a little bit more like something that I could actively improve. Next we have Y has nobody told me this before by Dr. Julie Smith who is a clinical psychologist 3 million top followers on TikTok in normal social media presence gives a lot of really good advice about mental health, about anxiety, about things like that and I also interviewed her on an episode of the deep dive podcast link down below and this book is good because it's not the sort of book that you need to read cover to cover. It's more like it's a guide to all the different issues that we might struggle with in life and kind of each little issue has a few pages where she uses her experience as a clinical psychologist as a therapist to kind of explain how we can go about solving that problem for ourselves. So for example she talks about things like motivation, emotional pain, grief, self-doubt, fear, stress and then the final chapter which is my favorite on a meaningful life. So yeah I thought I'd book by Dr. Julie Smith. Then we have time smart by Ashley Williams, how to reclaim your time and live a happier life. This admittedly is on my two-view red list because it's going to be part of the research for the book that I'm working on myself. And then we have another productivity book, make time, how to focus on what matters every day by Jacob Knapp and John Zeratsky which is in fact one of my favorite productivity books of all time and I actually have a book lab episode about this which you can check out if you want. Next we have deep work by Kal Newport, an absolute cult classic that basically talks about why the secret to getting things done is to lock yourself up in a room and actually just work for extended periods of time without being interrupted by random shit that comes up. Again the book is pretty dense, so you don't necessarily need to read it to get the core idea and you can get a summary of it for example on short form if you want. But this was published in 2016 and over the last six years it's become an absolute cult classic in the world of productivity so well done Kal Newport for that one. Next we have 4,000 weeks time and how to use it by Oliver Burkeman which was very recently published and again we have an interview with Oliver Burkeman on the deep dive podcast linked upload but this is really good book. It's very interesting basically it's all about the finitude of existence and it's about how our struggle to manage our time and make the most from our time is fundamentally misguided, life is short, we can only do a finite number of things and so we should be intentional about what are the things we're going to cut out from my life and what are the things we're going to do in it rather than feeling this frenetic desire to be more and more productive. And then we have empowered by our friend V Katowoo live your life with passion and purpose and again we have an interview with her on the deep dive podcast this is fantastic isn't it? But this is basically V's book and how she's grown up through various forms of adversity under the kind of life lessons she's learned along the way and it's nice because she's not trying to be a guru she's kind of very much speaking from her own personal experience and it's a beautifully designed book as well it's like absolutely beautiful and I absolutely enjoy I read it initially I'm Kindle but now I like I have multiple copies of this just because it's so nice to leave through once in a while. Next a little book anything you want by Derek Sivers 40 lessons for a new kind of entrepreneur one of my favorite books of all time and the book that's probably top three in books that changed my life which I first talked about way back in 2018. Next we have the courage to be disliked which is amazing how to free yourself change your life and achieve real happiness all of the slogans for these books are a little bit somewhat cringe mine is probably going to be the same as well it's a really good book it basically tells a story of a young man speaking to a philosopher and it's in the form of a dialogue where young man says this philosopher says that and it's essentially all about Adlyurian psychology Adlyur was like one of the three pro psychologists like Freud in young but he's the one that most people have not heard of and there's a bunch of really controversial points in the book like the fact that trauma does not exist and that all problems in life are inter personal relationship problems and it's very juicy it's somewhat controversial and we've got a book club about this coming in a little while. Next we have the power of now by Eckhart Tolly a guide to spiritual enlightenment and I'm actually in the process of reading this right now I don't quite get it just yet but I'm finding myself getting glimpses the glimpses of enlightenment as I'm reading it so more and more on that to come once I've become enlightened then I will share it on this YouTube channel. Next we have Ego's the enemy by Ryan Holliday very good introduction to the world of stoicism which is basically all of the stuff that Ryan Holliday writes about then we have Anti-Fragile by Nassim Taleb absolute classic amongst people I follow and Twitter really dense I've read about 10 pages of it and it's really hard to get through but I intend to read more of that this year. Next we have digital minimalism by a friend Kalnyu port again I have not read this cup to cover I did read a summary and I think I got most of the insights from it but this is also part of research that I'm doing for my own book I'm writing. Next we have two books A Master's Secret Whisperers and That's my Moon by Capital Gupta MD. These are books again about like enlightenment and spiritual development and stuff and funny story I actually tweeted at him saying I was starting to read one of these books and he replied to my tweet saying you are probably not ready for this book like what a burn what an absolute burn but also these are these are actually actually quite good books that I need to reread and reread and reread to really get get the most value out of them I'm sure I'll be revisiting them at various points throughout my life on my journey to spiritual enlightenment or something like that. Capital if you're watching this you're probably not but I'd love to interview you on the podcast if you want to come on. Next we have Hell Yeah or No again by Derrick Sivis Watts worth doing. Derrick Sivis one of my favorite writers on the internet very very very short book I bought about 10 copies eight of which I've given away to various friends uh hundred percent would recommend this short book about life advice and then of course we have the four hour work week by Tim Ferriss I've talked about this book ad knows you're already it's the single book that is most single-handedly trechanged the trajectory of my life again time if you're watching this you're probably not but would love to interview you on the podcast at some point. All right we're getting into the middle of the bookshelf next we have this status game by Will Store enormous book basically about on social position and how we use it I listen to this on audible rather than reading the book book is huge and I've even interviewed Will Store on the deep black podcast where we talked all about main thesis of his book the idea of status and how everything that we do as humans is ultimately geared towards increasing our social status and I find this to be a really interesting topic because whenever I think what are my own motivations for doing YouTube it's hard to get away from the social status the prestige the money the fame all of that stuff that comes with being a YouTuber so super interesting look at how all of human societies basically evolved play status games next we have what to expect when you're expecting I have not yet read this one and next we have how to not die alone by Logan Yuri which is the book that's most single-handedly changed my love life and a book that might now go for and recommend it to me when we were first starting to date and one of my favorite episodes of the deep black podcast was an interview I did with Logan Yuri the author talking you all about how we can optimize our dating life and how we can ultimately aim for actually not dying alone so link below if you want to check that out next we have the Almanac of Naval Robert Kant which is probably the book I read on Kindle that I've highlighted the most out of I basically felt like I was highlighting every single sentence in the book if you haven't come across Naval he's like an angel investor he's a tech bro based in the US and he's also like a philosopher and he has all these philosophies about life about wealth about happiness about success and this book is written by Eric Urgenson where he summarized all of the things that Naval has said through all of his tweets all of his interviews all of his appearances into this very digestible guide a guide to wealth and happiness so 100% would recommend next we have models by Mark Manson attract women through honesty it's by far the best book I've ever read on the topic and I've read a few other books in the genre just for fun obviously and basically it's all about how you can become a more attractive man not by relying on tricks and manipulation and routine it's like some of the other books teach you but instead about how you can cultivate inner confidence in a string then how you just improve yourself as a person so it's more like a self development book rather than a how to get girls kind of book even though that's sort of the title and thumbnail on the cover then we have unconditional parenting by Alfie Cohn I've actually listened to this twice on audible it's that good and I'm not yet apparent but I'm hoping to apply the insights when I become apparent but I would recommend this to anyone who has ever been a child because it will be really really interesting next we have a little happier notes for reassurance by Darren Brown this is a fairly recently published book it's sort of like the summary of his huge book called Happy which is one of my favorite books about happiness and stoicism this is like a condensed version of the insights from that although I would recommend the main book if you can get through there somewhat difficult to read prose because he's quite like a verbose with his words although freaking love Darren Brown Darren again if you're watching this you're probably not but would love to interview you are my absolute dream guest to have on the podcast at some point next we have Bill Perkins die with zero where the premise is that you should reach the end of your life with zero dollars in your back account and if you have any more than that you have done something wrong if you're concerned about the kids and what about charity his point is that if you want to give money to your kids give it to them when they're young in the 20s or 30s when they can make the most use of it rather than when they are 67 and you die and similarly if you actually do want to give money to charity charities need money right now and donating on your deathbed is probably a suboptimal way of giving to charity but either way it's kind of a book about how to make the most of life how to maximise a life experience while thinking a little bit harder about money being a thing that we can exchange for life experiences rather than being the thing that we hoard for the sake of it like a lot of us tend to do. Next we have men off from Mars women off from Venus I've read this a few times in my life the first time I read this was about like seven years ago and it's a bit controversial these days because it's quite like a gendered but it genuinely gave me some tools that were helpful when it came to understanding the way that I communicate and that's different to the way that most of my female friends for example communicate. And next of course we have 50 shades of grey which is an entertaining and sometimes educational read as well. I've completely lost kind of where we are but the next one is the happiness advantage by Sean Acco which is a really good book kind of dry but genuinely very good and he talks about the seven principles that fuel success and performance at work and the core thesis is that people who are happier perform better at work rather than people who perform better at work end up getting rewards and end up being happier and I have a book club episode about this very book linked down below if you want to check it out. Next we have your money or your life which is a book that has genuinely changed my relationship with money and the core thesis that Vicky Robbins talks about is the idea that money is the thing that we exchange our life force for like we go to work to make money and yes we get all these other different benefits from work but ultimately we could get all of those benefits from volunteering if we really wanted to and so really the reason we work is for money and if we recognize that then it kind of changes our relationship with work and this is a book that enormously shaped my own decision to leave medicine for example and next we have the course of love by Alanda Botan which is in fact one of my top three most gifted books and it basically tells a story of this like couple but like chapter one and two is when they get married and the rest of the book is what happens while they are married and it's really interesting it talks about all the arguments or the issues the infertility that goes on and this point really is that like so many of us you know love stories stop at the point when they get together but actually it's after people have gotten together once they've got married once they're in a relationship that most of the real problems start to happen and we should try and develop a little bit more understanding about what that's like so that when we're in those positions we've got the tools needed to kind of overcome them. And next we in fact have a trilogy of books steal like an artist show your work and keep going by Austin Cleon. The second one in the series show your work is the book that first encouraged me to start a blog and later encouraged me to start a YouTube channel so this book has that an enormous impact on my life. Do you like an artist is very good if you're concerned about originality and creativity and it's a whole point is that you should still like an artist and keep going as a nice little reminder like if you're struggling with creative work like whatever you're doing then keep going has like ten different tips about how you can break through those creative blocks. Or if you're really good they take about 20 minutes to read each if not less than that so 100% would recommend the whole trilogy. Next we have jab jab jab right hook by Gary Vaynerchark incredible bug that was way ahead of its time I think he was rewrote it in like 2009 and this basically talks about how to make a living on the internet by really leading with free content and providing value to the audience i.e. jabs and then occasionally landing a right hook where you ask for something like for example subscribe to my channel or buy my product or whatever. Next we have who the aim method for hiring which is a book all about hiring if you run a business i wish i'd discover this two years ago i in fact only read it a few months ago after i'd already hired about 16 people. Next we have good to great by Jim Collins absolute classic in the world of business about the five or so different skills that separate good businesses from great businesses and we have high velocity hiring which is the book that's on my TBR i've not read it yet because i'm trying to understand more about how to hire better no offense to anyone in the room. And next we have the minimalist entrepreneur by Saw Hill Living year who's the founder of Gumroad and this is not one of the books that i'm most recommended to people who are thinking of starting a business because it's very much about building a community first and then business second and i think that's the right order of operations to do things in 2022 and beyond. Next we have the great CEO within incredible very very short book by Matt Mookrey and next we have the psychology of money by Morgan Housel one of my favorite books about money 15 different rules for how money affects our psychology and our life and that we've even got a book club episode about it if you want to learn the lessons without having to read the book. Next we have the 22 immutable laws of marketing which is recommended to me by Julian Hurn the founder of Hill when he appeared on the deep dot podcast and i'm literally in the process of reading this right now and encouraging everyone on our team to read it as well because it's just an absolute like cult classic. Next we have start with why by Simon Sinek how greatly does inspire everyone to take action the global best seller apparently this is a book i have not yet read i've read some reads of it multiple times and seen his loads of his talks on youtube so i think i kind of get the idea but this is going to form part of the research of the book that i'm writing so it's on my TBR. Next we have the new one minute manager really really short read which is absolutely safe for anyone who is a manager and next we have this tiny book powerful by patty McCord which is all about kind of how Netflix creates a high performance culture so not really relevant for most normal people but if you run a business and you have a team this is a really good read. Next we have the millionaire fast lane again one of the books i most recommend to anyone who's thinking of starting a business because it's just absolutely incite the pedic in and packed with like really useful insights and it's very very easy to read written and written in a very nice and accessible way and then we have the four obsessions of an extraordinary executive really really good book but very much recommended if you are a leader within an organization and then we have the pathless path by my friend Paul Miller this is absolutely sick i've given away about eight copies of this book so far and we've got another ten in the studio that he sent to us because i just love giving this book away tip basically anyone who you know is struggling with figuring out what they're trying to do in their life and Paul story is really inspiring and the way he encourages to think a little bit harder about what we actually want to do with our career what we actually want to do with our life and not necessarily following a prescribed path hence the idea of the pathless path so if you're in the same position that i am and maybe a little bit unsure of what you want to do in life with your career in particular you should definitely check this out because it's a very interesting perspective that i haven't really come across before next we have a happy sexy millionaire unexpected truths about fulfillment love and success by Stephen Bartlett and it's hard to describe this so i'm just going to read out the blog as an 18 year old black broke lonely insecure university dropout from a bankrupt family i wrote in my diary that i wanted to be a happy sexy millionaire by the age of 25 by 25 i was a multi millionaire having created a business worth over $300 million ironically in achieving everything i set out to i learned that i was wrong about almost everything the world had lied to me it lied to me about how you attain fulfillment love and success why those things matter and what those words actually mean and so this is 20 different chapters 20 different little life lessons Stephen has picked up along the way very very inspiring really nice listen to an audible would 100% recommend next we have predictably irrational by Dan are really which is really popular in the world of psychology i've not yet read it it's on my to be read list again for book research next we have team of teams by general Stanley crystal u.s army retired new rules of engagement for a complex world again i have not yet read this but it's on my list because i've heard it's very good in terms of like team culture and working with the team next we have bullshit jobs by David Grayber really really entertaining read i have highlighted a lot of it i read this analog even like put little like stickers in place per way in black paragraph that i wanted to highlight it's basically about the rise of pointless work and what we can do about it really really entertaining and informative and somewhat depressing book around how a lot of the jobs that we do are kind of bullshity and kind of pointless at the end of the day and next we have never split the difference negotiating as if you're left dependent on it by Chris Voss which i've listened to twice on audible so far and every time i listen to it i get some new insights about negotiation next we have the personal MBA by Josh Kaufman a world-class business education in a single volume and slowly making my way through it over time because it's very very very dense read but really good so far next we have the unfair advantage by my friends Ash Ali and Hassan Kubo who i got to know while interviewing them when they were doing promo for their book and basically it's about the idea that success is not just about hard work it's also about unfair advantages and how a lot of the successful people that we know today had unfair advantages that you and i don't have but the nice part is that we all have our own unfair advantages and it just encourages us to figure out what those advantages are so that we can potentially have more success in business and in life next we have the e-mith revisited why most small businesses don't work and what do about it i read this twenty twenty nineteen and it's the book that's most changed my life beyond like once i actually started a business that was successful and i've recommended this to so many creators and entrepreneurs who are at the point where their business is successful but they are feeling burnt out because they don't have they haven't yet delegated or built a team around them so this is absolutely brilliant for that if you're in that position and next we have overlap which is a self-published book by my friends Sean McCabe and this is a book about how you can build a side hustle while retaining your full-time job and his idea is that you don't just want to quit your job and do your side hustle you want to overlap them you want to work on your side hustle and the evenings and weekends until it gets to a point where it makes enough money that you can then quit your job if that's what you really want and this is really good i came across this after i had already accidentally done it but it's a book that i recommend to anyone who is in that position where they want i built that side hustle they want to but they want to do the job at the same time and they don't just want to kind of be up and dry without anything if the side hustle doesn't work next we have goal which is a book i've not yet read which is going to form my book research all about goals and then we have traction which is a book i read in 2021 and it was probably again in 2021 the book that most accelerated our business trajectory it was the e-mith way back in 2019 and then traction in 2021 if you've got a business and you have more than three employees i would recommend this it's not very relevant before that point and then we have the visual MBA a quick guide to everything you'll learn in two years of business school which is again more of a reference book and like really nice to flick through rather than a book that you necessarily read cover to cover we have it doesn't have to be crazy at work by dhh and json freed the base campfellers i love this every day about four times so far highlighted the hell out of it it's fantastic and then we have principles by radyo which all of the tech bros absolutely rave on about i haven't read it cup to cover it's more of like a sort of reference book but i think his way of achieving goals and goals setting and stuff is particularly interesting again this but it's just it's really nice as well it's one of those books that you just have on your bookshelf you pick up occasionally turn to a random page and you think oh damn this is actually really good i should probably read the whole thing but next we have scale or fail how to build your dream team explode your growth and let your business saw again i'm not yet read this it's on my TBR for the year and then we have over subscribed by Daniel Priestley which is the book i have read repeatedly and is my most highlighted book on kindle of all time it's just absolutely safe i recommended to so many people who run creator type businesses and they've all been like oh my god this is absolutely sick so if you run a business and you are a creator running a business this is absolutely required reading if you're not in that position you probably won't get much value from it but it might be kind of interesting anyway next we have the mom test by Rob Fitzpatrick which is a book that I mean and my team have read when we do interviews with customers about how we can make a course is better it's kind of short kind of easy read it's good for that sort of thing and then we have primal branding by Patrick Hanlon which is looking at all of the seven or eight different components that the most powerful brands in the world sort of brands that have sellers behind them like apple and Starbucks rather than like in del for example like what are the elements that those like high value highly loved brands have in common and how can we apply those principles to our brand or our own business next we have a really non-descript book how to hire eight players again on my TBR and we have nine lies about work which i've listened to twice on audible as a full run through and revisited certain chapters because it's really really interesting if you are an employee at a company and you don't really enjoy your job or if you're managing your company and you want to figure out how like ways to make things better next we have the only study guy you'll ever need by on jerry jade and this is genuinely the only study guy you'll ever need so if you're a student and you're looking for a guide on how to study for your exams in a better way 100% would recommend this and I've even written two or three paragraphs for one of the sections around space repetition and around time tables so you might enjoy that next we have a duet tools of titans and a tribe of mentors by Tim Ferris and these are more reference books rather than read cover to cover books i've read some percentage of both of them i tend to just pick it up randomly turn it to a random page and I'll just find some useful insights about life then we have make it stick to the science of successful learning which is the book that i previously used to recommend to all students before jades but came out it's still a very good read it's not just about how you can study more efficiently for exams but it's about how to learn more things more effectively in general and so it's good if you want to be like me you know trying to be a student for life a bit of a lifelong learner that kind of jazz next we have four books that have not yet read the upside of stress mindful self discipline this is marketing by self-golden how to fail almost everything and still win big by Scott Adams again books on my tbr for this year next we have bootstrap your life by Oliver Cookson the founder of my protein who turned 500 pounds into 350 million pounds I actually flew all the way over to monoco to do an interview with him for the deep life podcast so you can check that out linked down below and finally we have think like a monk by jays Jesse who i'm hoping to have on the podcast at some point and you can find out more about the book but watching my book club episode about this because this video is getting very very very long and we're going to do a little quick interruption to tell you about the sponsor of this video who's made this video possible and that is brilliant if you haven't heard by now brilliant is a fantastic online education platform for courses in maths science and computer science I've been using brilliant for the last two years and the courses are genuinely very very good because they're highly engaging and they teach you stuff from first principles rather than in the sort of didactic spoon feeding way that you learn in school my favorite courses are the ones from computer science because when i was initially applying to med school i was actually torn between computer science and medicine and i ended up going with medicine in the end which i don't regret but there's so much stuff in the world of computer science like algorithms and programming and understanding how it all works that i just never really had a solid background in even though i did some coding and some work design so brilliant courses have been really helpful in giving me that foundational understanding and it does it through really interesting problems like the general's problem and these other like thought puzzles that like are really hard to solve unless you know how to code and then they talk you through how you can build the algorithms to help solve some of these things they've got a really good course on crypto currencies which helps build up the concepts of bitcoin and things like that from the ground up about how you would invent a cryptocurrency if you had to invent one which is how personally i got a firm grounding in the theory behind crypto which is what made me comfortable to invest so much money and they've got a great series on neural networks as well if you're interested in for example machine learning an AI and how that all fits into the world that we live in today so if that sums up your street and you want to check brilliant out then head over to brilliant.org forward slash alley and the first 200 people to hit that link will get 20% off the annual premium subscription so thank you so much to brilliant for sponsoring this video and let's get back to the tour alright so that was bookshelf number one we're now going to switch to bookshelf number two so see you in just a second alright we are now in bookshelf number two where we are on the final straight of these 110 or something books and the first one here is the way of kings by a brand and sanderson the stormlight archive is now my favorite fiction series of all time other than Harry Potter but nothing can be Harry Potter because obviously Harry Potter has the nostalgia value but if you're going to start with brand and sanderson you should start with the final empire which is the first book in the Mistborn series because the way of kings is a bit slow to get started stormlight archive is very very very long it's amazing but it's really long and if you're new to sanderson sanderson is now my favorite author of all time even more favorite than Jake and Rolling Loll but yeah final empire and the Mistborn trilogy is just like oh it's so freaking good I've recommended it to so many people I've read it repeatedly listen to it repeatedly on all of all it's just absolutely freaking sick as is the stormlight archive oh my god if you have not yet started reading brand and sanderson you are in for a treat you need to read these books right next we have twilight by Stephanie Mayor genuinely pretty good book I thought twilight and breaking dawn were my favorites I wasn't too much of a fan of new moon and eclipse but yeah it's just here because there's entertaining and also somewhat educational as well next we have Artemis Falle by Owen Colfer I actually have a bunch of fiction books that I read throughout my life this is one of them that I got a lot of inspiration from when I was like 12 years old so yeah would recommend if you're 12 for example and then we have five on a treasure island the first book in the famous five series which was the series that really first got me into reading I think so this book has a big impact on my life it's really good next we have a happy by Darren Brown which is my favorite book about happiness and stoicism which have also highlighted the hell out of it's really long it's really dense it's quite hard to get through but if you can get through it it's really really really good obviously we've got Harry Potter in the Philosopher's Stone favorite series of all time just because nostalgia value and because Harry Potter is incredible we have notes and crosses by Mallory Blackman which is actually a six series we have first real time that I got introduced I first read this when I was like eight first introduced to the ideas behind like racism and prejudice and things like that so very good on that side of things next we have Slate Disensation which is book one of the site changeling series which has got like eighteen books in it now which is paranormal romance I started reading these in like 2017 yeah I started reading it in the 2017 they're really good I read each one each new one as it comes out it's good if you like slightly or rated paranormal romance and that is your jam and then we have the recruit which is book one of the cherub series by Robert much more these had a huge impact on me when I was about like 11 to 15 years old and like I had this big dream of like inventing my own like spy agency and that was like the first business idea that me and my friends in school had we were like going to make like an agency for like kids who wanted to learn how to be spies so we're going to make a forum and a website that teaches them how to do lockpicking and how to do like hacking and stuff and that was the project that first taught me how to do web design so I'm very indebted to Robert much more because this book formed the basis of my business activities for the most for the next like 16 years all right we are nearly done next we have a live well every day by Dr. Alex George who are the interviewing on the podcast at some point this is good it's kind of reference it's all about basically everything you need to note about living well every day next we have a signed copy of Dr.'s kitchen 321 eat well the well love Dr. Rupy who I interviewed on the podcast that episode will be up on the deep dive channel at some points you should subscribe to the channel but this is a book of recipes essentially so I'm going to be incorporating some of these into my own diet next we have do this for you by Chrissy Chelle who we also interviewed on the podcast how to be a strong woman from the inside out not directly targeted at my demographic but still a pretty solid read like good stuff around motivation around consistency around discipline all the things that I sometimes struggle with so nice one Chrissy Chelle on that front next we have a signed copy of the life-changing manager of numbers by Bobby Seagull who also featured on the podcast he's written a nice little message in this I'll be honest I've not read it it's probably not on my TBR for this year but it's a signed book and therefore we're going to keep it around kind of cool next we have what's your story a workbook for the storyteller in all of us by Margaret Margo Lightman which is again on my TBR it's got a bunch of interactive exercises for how to become a very better storyteller so this is a book that you know I on my on my journey to try and become hopefully a better storyteller and then we have a physical copy of storyworthy by Matthew Dix this was the best book that I read in 2020 absolutely sick really good book about how to become a better storyteller but also really like heart-rending and emotional and really nice made me cry in various places and in fact Matthew has a new book coming out which I've got early access to so hopefully we're doing a book like episode about that as it gets launched in the next few months next we have another book by my friend Bobby Seagull the Monkman and Seagull quiz book which again is not a read cover to cover but we are actually using this when we're doing quizzes in the office we have a radical a business book by Riccardo Samler which was recommended to me by Noah Kagan and he says it's absolutely sick I've not yet read it because it's not available at all as well or on Kindle so I have to read it in physical copy version and just haven't gotten around to doing that yet but apparently it's sick because this guy used to run his business in like a very rogue fashion which is more in line with how I want to run mine so it's it's going to be read at some point this year thank you know for the recommendation next we have draft number four by John McPhee on the writing process which is basically a how to guide of how to write well I've started reading a little bit a bit of it but because I'm still in the structural stages of my book it's not entirely relevant to me just yet so it's on the TBR for the year next we have the checklist manifesto by Atal Goanday other Goanday is a doctor and a surgeon and an absolute this is an absolute classic that completely transformed healthcare in terms of like surgical safety and checklists and all that kind of stuff and there's actually a lot of principles that we can apply from the checklist manifesto to our own businesses especially if you're a creator like processifying the various things you're doing in your job as a creator through checklists is like a really useful thing to do and he talks about insights from the world of Formula One from the world of aviation from the world of medicine in this fantastic book of the checklist manifesto. Next we have educated a memoir by Tara Westover I listen to this on audible last year or the year before really really really good it's a story of a kind of survivalist and woman family and hunter's girl Tara wasn't allowed to go to school because a family didn't believe in school wasn't allowed to go to the doctor because it didn't believe in modern medicine and she ends up it's a story of how she ends up getting educated over time it's really good many cry in various places are really harrowing story in a little places as well but 100% would recommend. Next we have the Ashley Vance biography of Elon Musk which is good I think it only goes up to like 2015 so it doesn't talk about the cool stuff he's done since then but it's a really good introduction to the world of Elon Musk and how he became who he is today and finally we have my friend Simon Clark's new book firmament the hidden science of weather climate change and the air that surrounds us a bit of a departure from tradition because of not a personal development book but I actually owe Simon quite a lot because he was the inspiration that first started off my youtube channel way back in 2017 and so this is again on my TBR at some point because I want to understand the whole climate change stuff and understand why he's so like keen on the topic as a climate scientist. Right so that was 110 books on the bookshelf if you got to the end of the video I'd love it if you can leave a clover emoji in the comments because I'm so curious if anyone actually watched the end of it and if you like this then here is a playlist of the other book club episodes I've done where I summarized my favorite books and like insights from them and insights that have had an impact on my life so thank you so much for watching please do hit the subscribe button if you aren't already I'm going to have some lunch and a drink and I'll see you in the next video bye bye
