# Study Tips for First Year Medical Students
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uNQUJ6ezOJ0
🎬 Check out my FREE 36-video online class on how to study for exams - https://skl.sh/2UOx68x 

Hey team, in this video we're talking through 10 study tips for first year medical students. We talk about how to approach your studies, tips for revising efficiency, tips for getting the most out of lectures, and the much-requested topic of the best resources for anatomy, physiology, biochemistry, pharmacology and pathology. Enjoy xx

TIMESTAMPS

01:17 - Use your seniors
03:18 - Keep the exam in mind
05:03 - Understand the big picture
07:43 - Use Active Recall and Spaced Repetition
10:07 - Do a bit of work each day
12:49 - Avoid flashcard overload
14:54 - Pre-read for lectures
16:33 - Textbooks are overrated
19:30 - Recommended resources for each subject - Anatomy, Physiology, Biochemistry, Pathology, Pharmacology
29:12 - Work together
31:50 - Wrap-up 

https://medshamim.com/med/anki-step-one
https://www.themdjourney.com/how-to-use-anki-in-medical-school/
https://www.medschoolanki.com

--------

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
😃  How to be Happier - Stoicism Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/stoicism

TOOLS OF THE TRADE:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk
📚  How I remember what I read - Readwise - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
What I Use For Analytics - https://go.aliabdaal.com/tubebuddy
🌐 My website platform (Ghost) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost

OTHER RECOMMENDED COURSES
📔 Effortless Output with Roam Research - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/roam
📓 Building a Second Brain - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/basb

🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** ali abdaal, medical student, first year medical student, medical student studying, medicine revision, medicine tips, 
**Date:** 2018-09-15

## Transcript
 Hey guys, welcome back to the channel. If you're new here, my name is Ali, I'm a junior doctor working in Cambridge and today we're kicking off a brand new series on this channel called How to Survive Medical School and this is going to end up being a series of at least 20 videos and in each video me and various of my friends who have interviewed for the last few months are going to be giving you guys advice on how to survive various bits of medical school. So we're going to be doing videos on things like learning on the wards, how to do well in oskis, how to write essays, how to get publications, work-life balance, best resources, how to take notes, all of this sort of stuff. But in this video I'm going to be sharing various tips that I wish I knew as a first year medical student and we're going to be focusing more on like the study side of things and like coping with the workload as opposed to the social side. To be honest, the social side kind of takes care of itself and I've done another video with my friend Matikos where we talk about tips for freshers like you know how to make friends easily and all this sort of stuff. But in this video I really want to focus on the specifics of kind of advice that will hopefully help you when it comes to the workload of your first year of medical school. So to that end, I spent today writing down all the various bits of advice I could think of and picked 10 of them to go into like a 10 tips thing. So that's all going to be in the timestamps in the description below. So if you want to skip around you can, if you don't want to watch this whole video all in one go, you don't have to. It might end up being quite long and rambly. But this is a topic that I could literally go on about for hours and hours. So I'm you know splitting these up into these 10 bits just to give some semblance of structure to this video because everyone loves a well structured video. So let's just go start with with point number one and the first thing I wanted to say is that every medical school is different. And as much as we might like to think that medicine is all the same everywhere and it's like a standardized thing. It's really not. Every medical school does their syllabus in their own little way. So I'm probably not the right person to be giving you very specific advice on what the best resources are for example. That's been a really common question on Instagram, you know, what textbook would you recommend for X? And that kind of depends on what your course is like. So at Cambridge for example, we had to write essays in our physiology exam about the structure and function and the discovery of the sodium pump. Whereas you know, if you're at a different medical school, they might not care about, you know, how the sodium pump was first discovered and, you know, making you write a five-page essay about it. Instead, it might be more clinically focused. So, you know, the sorts of textbooks and resources you'd be using to write about the sodium pump are going to be different, you know, depending on what the course is like. As such, probably the single biggest tip I can give you is to make friends with people in years above you. Now, this is not like being back in secondary school. In secondary school, when you go in in year 7, you are literally the bottom of the, you know, the totem pole. I don't know what the phrase is. You know, the year 9 is going to think that too cool for you and they're not going to want to be your friend because you're like a little year 7. But that completely changes when you get to university, specifically when you get to medical school. As a first year, in a way, you have the highest social capital that you ever will. And the second year is going to want to be friends with you. The third year is going to want to be friends with you. The fourth year is going to feel a bit weird about wanting to be friends with you, but they'll still want to be friends with you regardless. So don't think that these guys are older than you and cooler than you and you can't approach them. People will absolutely love it if you go up to them and say, hey, look, you know, you're a second year, you're a third year. I'm, I'm just, I'm just a first year. I'm looking for advice. Can you help me? What are your favorite resources? Can you share some of your notes with me? What advice do you have for XYZ? So that's point number one, make friends with your seniors. They will really, really help you. They've been through the system. They've been through exactly the same course. They can give you all of the resources that they have. And that's one of the things that made my own personal experience of medical school a lot easier because I made friends with people in years above through societies and through my own college and they were all so kind and happy to share notes with me. And that is something I've continued on for people in the year for them. All right, point number two is begin with the exam in mind. Now, this might sound weird to say. I know like when you get into medical school, you sort of think that the objective is to become a good doctor. But when you're in your first year, the objective is really not to become a good doctor. Becoming a good doctor is, you know, five, six, six plus years down the line. When you're in your first year in the vast majority of medical degrees, you're focused on learning the basic sciences. You're focused on understanding it and you're focused on doing as well as you can in the exam ideally without, you know, working yourself into a mental breakdown or equivalent. So we don't want to be thinking, oh, I wonder if this will help my clinical practice six years from now. We want to be thinking, how do I most efficiently revise for the exam that I've got at the end of the year without allowing my life to get completely destroyed? And to that end, we do need to keep the exam in mind. So pretty much the earlier you can start having a look at the past papers that you're going to get, the better it'll be for you. Because especially like, you know, let's take something like anatomy, for example, if you get a big anatomy textbook like Gray's anatomy or clinically oriented anatomy or whatever, you know, there's just so much stuff in there. And there is no way they're going to be testing you on all of it. And I know people love the idea of working from textbooks and I'm going to talk more about that in a later point. But, you know, if you know what sort of questions they're going to ask you in your exam, you can tailor your learning of the subject and your revision of the subject to two words, that sort of thing. And like, you know, everyone is going to get to a reasonable baseline standard anyway. And to be honest, by next year and the year after you're going to forget the vast majority of the anatomy that you memorized for the first year exam anyway. But, you know, the more efficient you can be, the more efficient you can be preparing yourself specifically for the sorts of exams you're going to get, the more kind of the easier you will find it to go through medical school and you won't be bogged down by these like, you know, pages and pages of textbooks where the vast majority of it is not going to be examined. Thirdly, having just said that you should keep the exam in mind, I want to implore you to try and understand the big picture of your subjects and to not focus or obsess too much about the details. There's a, there's a good quote that I came across on, you know, some website, so it's saying that, you know, relying on memorization is a recipe for disaster or what's going to affect. You do not want to be relying on memorizing the facts. You want to be relying on understanding the general concept. And even in something like anatomy and pharmacology where it's, you know, it might seem at first glance like a list of facts that you have to learn. Even in those subjects, there is still a lot of understanding east sort of stuff based around it. For me, the litmus tests that I use to determine whether around a dance something is to ask myself, would I be able to explain this to a five year old? And I think this is something to do with like the Feynman technique rigid Feynman supposedly used to do something like that. Would I be able to explain this to a five year old? You know, do I really understand how kind of the break you'll flex as works? Can I draw a diagram and explain it in very, very simple words in a way that a five year old would understand? There's a few little things that I kind of picked up throughout medical school that I would recommend people might like to try to sort of test, test your understanding of stuff. One of them is asking yourself the question, and why is this bad? Right? So let's say, you've come across, I don't know, something like inflammation in pathology for the first time, or you're learning about HIV within immunology. And then, you know, you find that HIV reduces your CD4 count. And you ask yourself, okay, why is this bad? And then you answer, okay, this is bad because if I have less or rather fewer CD4 plus cells, then I will not be able to mount an immune response. Why is that bad? That is bad because the next time I get an infection, it's going to kill me because I won't be able to mount an immune response to it. So when learning about disease and stuff, that's something I keep in the back of my mind, you know, why is this bad? Because it really helps me focus down on exactly, you know, actually understanding what's going on. Secondly, one thing I'd like to ask myself is, how pissed off would I be if I got this particular disease? Let's say I'm learning about primary scleros in colonjitis. And, you know, I've never seen it in real life because, you know, I'm still a pre-clinical medical student, and I'm learning it because, you know, it's, and that's the anatomy of the bibliotry, sort of relevant, and I know that if I mention primary scleros in colonjitis in my essay, that'll get me a first because that adds clinical, you know, flair to my essay. Let's say I'm, I'm learning about that. But, you know, inside a textbook or inside, you know, any kind of revision guide, you just don't really appreciate whether a disease is, you know, like really, really, really bad, or if it's just, like, oh, it's, it's, it's a little bit annoying to have, but it's not catastrophic, or, you know, it's just like having a bit of a, you know, a bit of a toothache for a day. It's kind of annoying for a day, but then it goes away. So like, asking that question of how pissed off would I be if I got this condition? Is something that I like to do personally? And again, something that I think helps, helps understanding a various disease processes. Okay, point number four, I would highly recommend building an active recall and space repetition into your study routine from day one. Now, if you haven't seen my videos about space repetition and about active recall, please watch those. When I first learned about those in my second year of studying medicine and, like, all of my friends, like, we came across that topic for the first time in a lecture. It completely blew our minds. I mean, we're thinking, why has no one ever told us about how to study efficiently? This active recall thing and the space repetition thing is absolutely incredible. I wish I had known about it 10 years ago, so I wouldn't have had to struggle through GCCs and A levels in first year of medicine. So please, like, if you haven't seen those videos, please watch them. Basically, in those videos, I say that rereading, highlighting and taking notes, controversial, they are quite ineffective in efficient revisions strategies. Not decided by me, decided by, you know, scientists who've studied this and looked at all of the various research papers done on university students, like yourself about, you know, how they memorize and understand and learn stuff. And they found that these two techniques of space repetition and active recall are by far the best. So how do you use active recall? It really doesn't matter. I get this message a lot, you know, what specific tactics do you use for active recall? I talk if you're about a few of them in the active recall video, which I'll link up there and down there in the video description and everywhere. But essentially, active recall just means testing yourself because the more often and the harder you work to retrieve information from your brain, the more that information is going to get encoded and the more you will retain it and, you know, be able to recall it after we should not be thinking of recall, you know, retrieving and testing ourselves as something that we just do in the exam, we should be thinking of testing ourselves as being, you know, probably the most crucial component of learning to begin with. Secondly, space repetition, again, I talk a lot more about that in the actual video about space repetition. But essentially, you know, if you've done a topic right down the date that you've kind of done the topic, and then, you know, make a note to yourself to review it again in three days time. And then you review it again in three days time and then review it again a week later and then two weeks later and suddenly by the end of the term, you'll find that you're actually retaining a lot of this information whereas a lot of your friends, your colleagues who have not been using space repetition are going to get to the end of the term and realize, oh, wow, I've literally forgotten everything about the upper limb that we learned in week one and two in anatomy and I just about remember the stuff we just covered. So that's one of those things that, you know, the more you can use space repetition and the more discipline you can be with yourself about actively, you know, using space repetition, the more efficient your whole life will become. It's just an absolute incredible technique. The research says it and literally everyone I know who uses it, swears by it and says it's the best thing ever in addition to active recall. Okay, point number five, please, you will really be glad if you do just a little bit of work each day. Just a little bit of work. Even just 20 minutes of work each day is better than nothing and actually 20 minutes of work each day is infinitely better than nothing. We can all find 20 minutes in our day to just do a little bit of work to review some of the practice questions that we wrote for ourselves because we're practicing active recall. Even if, you know, you can't be bothered with active recall because it takes a lot of brain power. Even spending 20 minutes just pre-reading for your lectures the next day is really, really going to help. In my experience, like the two biggest categories of people that end up struggling a lot through medical school is firstly people, unfortunately with the history of mental health problems who, you know, find that the atmosphere of medical school exacerbates the issues that they have already and there's not really much I can offer about that, you know, through this video. But what I can offer advice to it is that second category of people, the ones who really struggle when it comes to exam term because they have literally done zero work the whole year. Towards exam season last year, I started, I was getting messages and Instagram from people saying, oh, have you got any tips about how I can use your active recall spreadsheet to cram learning all of anatomy into two weeks because I haven't done any work throughout the year? And then like, yeah, you can, you can try, but if you, you know, it's spent the whole year not doing anything you're completely hamstringing yourself and the way space repetition works, you know, I keep going on about space repetition. Like doing 20 minutes a day consistently is going to be so much better than cramming for the exam because there's so much evidence about it, you know, we all know it in our, you know, in our hearts that cramming is only good for short term, short term retrieval space repetition and, you know, spreading things out over a long period of time is by far the better way of retaining information. So if you can just get yourself into the habit of just doing a little bit of work each day, your life will be so so much easier because of it. I've also had messages on Instagram from people saying, how much work should I do each day? Doing an hour a day is pretty good. But again, it's not really about the time. It's about how efficient it is. And, you know, if you're, if you're the sort of person that busted busts out there, you know, big ass grazing out to me, original first edition text book and starts highlighting and copying out making notes from it, it's going to take you five hours to do what someone else might do in 20 minutes using, you know, a website Wikipedia and Anki flashcards. So like, it's not really about how many hours you put in as much as that narrative is really common, especially amongst our parents, especially if you're from like India and Pakistan and like the subcontinent. There are so many messages I've had from people from India saying that, oh, you know, but, you know, in our in our medical school, our professors tell us we have to be pouring over our textbooks for like eight hours a day and that's just like really not an efficient way of doing it. What was I saying? Yeah, just do it a little bit of work each day. It doesn't really matter how much as long as you can do it consistently and the more efficient you can be with it, using space repetition and active recall, the better your life will be in the long run. Okay, having talked about space repetition and mentioned Anki a lot of you are going to be using Anki flashcards or Quizlet or other sort of flashcard apps, even physical flashcards, people still use those, you know, if you're feeling really old school. One of the biggest mistakes you can make and I've had messages about this already is you're probably making too many flashcards, especially right at the start where you don't yet have this big picture understanding of what anatomy is and what physiology isn't, you know, how the long's work. Especially if that early on and when you haven't looked at your exam papers, the temptation is going to be there to write down every single detail of your lectures from your slides from your books and turn it into flashcards because you're thinking, oh, it's only 30 flashcards on, you know, this respiratory lecture one and I've only got eight respiratory lectures and that's about 240 flashcards and all my respiratory lectures and I've only got eight topics. Oh, hang on, that's about 3000 cards, just for physiology. That's just way too many. In fact, I'd probably recommend avoiding making flashcards at least for the first few weeks until you have a better idea of how everything kind of fits together. Like when I started clinical medicine in my fourth year, I decided that I was going to memorize the Oxford Handbook of Clinical Medicine, which you'll probably find over there somewhere. I decided I was going to memorize this and because I was an idiot and because I didn't take the time to get a big picture understanding of what was going on in clinical medicine, I decided to start by memorizing the details of Henok Shonline Popera and hemolithic uremics syndrome, which are two semi niche things that are just like not that common and absolutely not the first thing that a clinical medical student should be learning when I didn't yet know what a heart attack was or like how to deal with COPD or how to deal with extra fibrillation and like they're really, really common, bog-standard stuff. So this is a trap that so many people fall into. It's by far the biggest complaint on any sort of and key-based discussion forum that I've got too many flashcards, I'm feeling overwhelmed, I don't know what to do. So my advice would be tone down the number of flashcards you make. I'll put a few links in the description below to some websites that have some really good advice about Henok and I'm going to be doing a much more specific video where I talk about exactly how I'd recommend using Henokie for medical school, but yeah, if you're using Henokie or any sort of flashcards and you're feeling overwhelmed, take this step back, try and understand the big picture don't worry about making flashcards about every little detail. Right, point number seven, I think I'll lost count, pre-reading for lectures is incredibly useful and almost, almost never done thing that you can do. Like, you know, let's say you've got three lectures the next day. It's kind of hard if you have like 10 lectures the next day, but let's say you've got three lectures the next day. In Cambridge we were lucky we only ever had like three lectures the day tops, most days we only had two, some days even had one. It's pretty doable to spend, you know, you're 20 minutes of work that, you know, the day before. Just reading over the lecture notes, reading over the slides, or if you don't have the lecture notes or the slides, but you know what topic they're going to be talking about, just kind of have a breeze through the topic on Wikipedia or on Google. There's no need to bust out your big, you know, pathology textbook, just have a look on Wikipedia, see what the general principles, what the kind of chapter headings of that topic would be, write them down somewhere, and, you know, just doing that will give you a lot more out of going to that lecture. I'll be honest when I was in first year, I used to attend lectures for the purposes of sleeping. I found it easier to sleep in lectures than I did in my own bed, so I'd go to the lecture and I just kind of find myself dozing and there was nothing I could do to stop it. I used to get my college friends to like poke me in the sides because I'm like super ticklish. You used to get them to poke me in the sides and wake me up, but then I kind of like do this and everyone would kind of look around me in the smile because like everyone knew what was going on. And like if you look around a lecture whole, you'll see about half of it either sleeping or, you know, watching the football and their MacBook or whatever. But I found that on the few lectures where I did manage to pre-read and I did this a lot more in second year and a lot more in third year and beyond. When I managed to pre-read the lectures, I understood it so much more. I was able to take more and I was able to engage more with the lecture and my notes were even better quality. So yeah, if you can do it, then please pre-read for your lectures, it will change your life if you can do it consistently. Okay, nearly that point number eight, textbooks are massively overrated and I know this is very controversial advice because we as medical students absolutely love the fact that. We absolutely love the fact that we can, you know, get this big, big textbook and it feels really heavy and we love, you know, sticking it in front of us and like flicking through the pages and like highlighting bits and thinking, you know what? I'm a medical student because I've got this big textbook and that is how medical students should be and that, you know, everything in the world is good because I've got my textbook in front of me. Textbooks are massively overrated. Textbooks are sort of good if you are looking through them with the with the intention of finding out specific bits of information or with the intention of understanding a particular topic and then you should close the book and just forget about it and never open it again because the problem with textbooks is that they encourage a very linear way of looking at things. They encourage you to start from chapter one and then go to chapter 84 and you know stuff like your lectures aren't going to be organised in that fashion, medicine isn't really organised in that fashion. Textbooks also encourage you to think that you have to learn all this information especially if you're medical school like teachers or whatever are telling you that, oh, hey, you know, our recommended reading is vote vote and prance principles of biochemistry which is like a thousand page textbook where, you know, to be honest, everything in the exam is going to come from the lecture notes anyway. So textbooks are overrated. I would recommend actually using resources like Wikipedia using Google to find out information. You know, let's say you want to find out the nerve supply to, I don't know, the biceps break here. You can just google it and find it on Wikipedia or let's say you want to try and memorize or, you know, understand the function of all the muscles of the upper limb. Find the YouTube video about it. Find it on Wikipedia. Find it on Google. Find it on a website called Instant Anatomy. It's good website. Don't open up your grazing anatomy or your clinically oriented anatomy unless you're looking for like a specific thing that is going to help you're understanding or help you essays or whatever become a little bit better. And I wish that someone had told me this when I was in my first year because in my first year I really glamorized this idea of textbooks. My mum is a doctor and she's from the generation that also massively glamorized the idea of textbooks. I went out and bought guidance and halls principles of physiology and to be honest it's a good book and it does help for understanding but my mum's theory was that look, you know, every day just read five pages of guidance and if you read five pages of guidance in a day by the end of the year you'll know all physiology but that's just not how it works. Like reading from a textbook is not how we retain information. All the evidence says that how we retain information is space repetition and active recall and I think that, you know, this culture of relying on big, heavy textbooks and even worse, this culture of thinking that we are doing something good by relying on big, heavy textbooks is counterproductive. Sure it works for some people but if you're finding that you're getting overwhelmed with textbooks then I'd suggest put them away, don't open them again, use the internet, use kind of these mini revision guides. Yeah, those will serve you a lot better than medical textbooks will. At least that's what I found and that's what the vast majority of my friends found. But now speaking of resources, loads of you have asked what resources would you recommend or textbooks would you recommend? So the answer is I would not recommend a single textbook. Guy's in a hallway actually to be honest is quite good in terms of understanding physiology but to be honest all of that stuff you can get from osmosis videos on YouTube. They're really good or just random videos on YouTube or just Wikipedia or Google or whatever. You don't need textbooks. You especially don't need to buy any textbooks because of the vast majority of medical schools in the world will have libraries where you have those textbooks and if you are more inventively minded you might want to and I'm not suggesting this but you might type in the name of the textbook and type in free PDF on Google and you'll find a PDF that if you wanted to and if you were so inclined you could just download onto your iPad and you know you've got the textbook if you need it and you can use control F as well and then you can find specific stuff that you're looking for rather than trying to go on the index and whatever. Anyway, what resources would I recommend? So let's start with anatomy. Basically two things I would recommend for an anatomy. Number one is instant anatomy. Now this is a website that's created by Bob Wittaker who's one of the anatomy profs I think is a professor or something at Cambridge. It's actually really good and the reason I think it's good is because it simplifies anatomy. The problem with grazing anatomy and other textbooks is that you get very complicated diagrams whereas in Bob Wittaker's instant anatomy website and the podcast and stuff he draws his own kind of like hand-drawn diagrams which are not overly complicated and done in a sort of way that helps you understand what the anatomy is like because you really can't see it, you know, in a proper textbook with like proper accurate diagrams. So instant anatomy is really good for that. Instant anatomy is also really good for finding the general rules of anatomy and what do I mean by that? I mean that it's a general rule that all the muscles in the posterior compartment of the arm are supplied by the radial nerve and this is not something that you would typically see in a textbook. Instead you would see a big ass table of all the muscles in the arm and some of them in the posterior and you'll see kind of next to them radial nerve or introsius branch of the radial nerve or whatever and like no one would actively tell you that actually you know you don't have to learn any of those. All you have to remember is that all of the muscles here are supplied by the radial nerve. Done. Wonderful. Okay. Next rule. All of the muscles in the flexor compartment of the arm are supplied by the medium nerve. Wonderful. With the exception of flexor copy on our wrists and another one that I can't remember. So you know these rules and exceptions like all of the muscles of all of the intrinsic muscles of the larynx supplied by the recurrent laryngeal nerve. With the exception of cracker pharyngeus which is supplied by the or internal branch of the superior laryngeal nerve or something like that. But you know it's been a long time since I've done this but even then like you know these rules that I repeated over and over in over space repetition has stuck in my head and I find that now that I'm an actual doctor I've forgotten the vast majority of anatomy but the stuff that I remember is the stuff that I used to have these rules about you know all the intrinsic muscles of the hand is supplied by the own a nerve with the exception of L-O-A-F lateral lumbar curls opponent's policies abducted policies brevests and flexor policies brevests which are supplied by the medium nerve. You know nice and easy and then suddenly you've got the nerve supply for all the muscles in the hand and you don't have to memorize that whole table. So that is something that I'd really encourage you to do with anatomy and the website incident anatomy really helps with that and there is loads of other nimonics you know the nimonics for break your plexus nimonics for the branches of the external crottid artery all of this sort of stuff these rules really really good. But having said that you can't just learn anatomy by learning these rules because you know there is a lot of specific stuff and for that I think Anke and just flashcards in general are absolutely incredibly useful for anatomy. A lot of anatomy is kind of seeing flexor copy ready alice and knowing what the blood supply is and what the what the nerve supply is and that's the sort of thing that flashcards just are just completely changed the game if you can use flashcards with active recall well you know by definition the flashcards and space repetition which stuff like Anke have built into them by default. Let's say you know you didn't know that that was the medium nerve you would click it was hard and then it would come up again and a few minutes time and let's say you did know that the medium nerve you would click that was easy and it would come up in a few days time. So that stuff like Anke is just really helpful for anatomy is absolutely incredible. It's a point number one use websites like instant anatomy and just random bits on Google and Wikipedia and stuff to learn the general rules and the exceptions of anatomy and once you've done that then you can start memorizing the sort of nitty-gritty details and a flashcard app like Anke is absolutely perfect for that. I would not recommend any textbooks. The textbook clinically oriented anatomy is all right. I sort of used it a bit in my anatomy essays because we had to write essays but the vast majority of medical students don't have to write essays about you know how bones grow or about you know the structure of the upper limb or how the you know the hip joint makes it ideal for weight bearing. Um you know textbooks are totally pointless if your exam is multiple choice Anke and instant anatomy would be my personal recommendations. As talk about pharmacology uh as medical students and as doctors we have to learn a list of a ton of drugs and by far the best way of doing that is by using Anke. Anke is amazing um in my second year we had pharmacology and me and two of my housemates, Calam and Paul who you might have seen on the vlogs you've been following the channel um we were all living together so I started making an Anke deck uh of all of the drugs that we needed to know and as we would go through the lectures I would just add the drugs that we came across to this Anke deck and then once a week or so we would all get an order from a city kebab I'd get a chicken donor with meat and chips with a barbecue sauce in mayonnaise and and Calam would get his own chicken wrap and Paul would probably just cook his noodles at home because you know he just didn't really he wasn't really a fan of kebabs anyway so we'd sit in my room and we'd just bash through these flashcards and by the time kind of exam term came around we'd already learned all of the drugs and knew them like the back of our hands we would see I don't know edro phonium and instantly know exactly what his mechanism of action was and exactly what it was used for and that was that felt like a super power that you know just by putting in about an hour a week working together it's fine you're having a kebab it's a good time you got some music in the background and just bashing through drugs it's just like a really enjoyable it's like one of the fond memories I've got of medical school doing these drugs without Calam and Paul that sounds weird but yeah it's fun it's efficient you know just takes an hour a week and and key is by far the best way of learning pharmacology don't again don't worry about textbooks oh actually if you if you do want to book the the book medical pharmacology at a glance it's like this thick it's like tiny and it's really really good that was what I used to get first classes in my pharmacology essays and it's just got great diagrams I learnt a lot of the diagrams and just bash them into my essay and diagrams generally in Oxford and Cambridge essays are a big plus so diagrams are good yeah medical pharmacology at a glance if you do want a book it's quite good otherwise and key for pharmacology what about biochemistry again this sort of depends on what your medical school makes you learn so like I said we had to do stuff about sodium pump and we had to learn the crep cycle some people don't have to learn the crep cycle but regardless biochemistry you know just drawing our diagrams over and over again it's like it's sort of like a level chemistry where you had those reaction mechanisms of electrophilic addition and nuclear philic substitution all that stuff just drawing out the diagram over and over again is a like a really good way of getting good at those for physiology like I said guidance and haul is quite a good textbook but to be honest a lot of the explanations for stuff you can find on Wikipedia and I think the the the real key thing about physiology is to be able to explain the concept to a five year old and and often with physiology it's just a case of flowcharts so you know let's say you're talking about how the buffer system in the blood works in an essay about kidneys or just trying to understand how the kidneys work to buffer the blood but you can say that okay let's say you add 10 H plus ions into your blood then you know next step that dissociates you know into H plus H CO3 minus whatever with that and then you get a little bit of a shift in the kidneys and then you get the random angiotensinodlestron system doing this and then you get release of this from the tubules and it's it's like a very sort of stepwise process I forgot in all my kidney physiology but it's fine it doesn't matter because I'm doing cardiology at the moment but yeah so it's it's very kind of flowchart based and the more you can explain it in very simple words to a five year old the better you'll do and finally I think like pathology is the other big topic that you get in first and second year um the key for pathology really is a to understand the general concepts the principles of inflammation the principles of the immune system or the lines of defense all of that sort of stuff but then again using an key for the specifics but also using a mixture of rules so for example with pathology you probably have to learn the classification of loads of different types of bacteria um one way of doing that is by saying that everything is a gram negative rod unless it's not okay fine what are the ones that aren't okay so is it if it's a gram positive caucus it's either a staff or a strap if it's a gram negative caucus it's either nice Syria or more accelerer if it's a gram positive rod it is going to be a b c d or l so actinomy c's bacillus a bacillus and thracis or bacillus areas c4 claustridium d4 coronibacterium diphtheria and elpholisteria and then everything else is a gram negative rod and suddenly you've learnt the classification of every single bacteria you can imagine without having to memorize all of it because you've worked out the system and this sort of or you found it on the internet you know you've just got some kind of system that gives you the rules and gives you the exception the rule being everything is a gram negative rod the exceptions being except these eight things which is a lot easier to learn than you know the list of a hundred bacteria um once you've understood it and once you've got as much as you can out of the rules and the exceptions you then want to just be learning the specifics and again an key is just in a class of its own for learning the specifics of stuff like that learning what iL1 into looking to into looking five into looking seventeen do learning what like all the different inflammatory mediators do learning what type of viruses is you know a toga virus and a flavivirus and a picoina virus and all that stuff all that stuff you know an key is just absolutely wonderful for that so again i want really recommend any textbook for preclinical pathology for clinical pathology robins baby robins the little tiny one is quite good the big one is kind of a bit pointless because it's just too much information um but those would be my recommended resources uh because a lot of you have asked and i'll do a more detailed video about this where i've interviewed a lot of my other friends about what they would recommend uh and a few of them recommend textbooks but for the most part people generally say that you don't really need textbooks and the general vibe i've gotten from a lot of my friends is that we all bought loads of textbooks back in the day because we were you know you know well we like want to be good medical students for these big textbooks but then the vast majority of us just didn't open any of them okay this video has gone on really long and i could just continue going on about this for absolutely hours i hope it's been useful so far but point number 10 the final bit the bit that we're going to use to end this video is please work together medicine is not a competition you might have thought of it as a competition for getting into medical school because it's all like competitive and stuff even then like you should work together um anyway please work together you know find friends find colleagues work together share notes share resources help each other out there is absolutely nothing for you to gain from trying to you know withhold information from you from your from your friends from people in your college from people in your class like yeah sort of if you think about it far enough that if someone else does better than you then that means you're less likely to get a first sort of but i think that's a very that's a very in it like sub-optimal way of whoops that's a very sub-optimal way of approaching this whole medical school thing because it really doesn't matter what sort of grades you get like especially when you're in first and second year like literally no one cares that you've got a first and an atmosphere that you didn't get a first and an out to me like think of how little you care about your year eight history grade right now and that's kind of the position that i'm now in looking back at my first year medical student self and thinking why did i why did i care so much about you know getting that extra mark in an out to me and if you're the sort of person that cared so much about getting those extra marks in an out to me that you try to screw over your friends in the process of doing so then you know i just not a nice that's not a nice place to be to live your life really whereas if you're the sort of person i was like you know what i'm gonna try doing my best i'm gonna work with my friends we're gonna have a great time together you then you're the sort of person who will form happy memories of you and your friends working together you'll be friends for life and you'll think of medical school as a much more fun and engaging and pleasant experience then if you had this very sort of competitive mindset thinking that it's you against everyone else and you're out to beat them because really you know we're all gonna be doctors no one really cares how you do in your exams well together you know make friends be happy have a good time ultimately you know you're in medical school for most people between the ages of like 18 and 24 which are some of you know you the prime years of your life they say that university is supposed to be the best time of your life you know like if you if you just like work together and you're friendly and warm and nice to people and you're not dick and you not mean and you don't try and screw people over and you just like treat it as in a way just sort of treated as a game you're all in this game together you're all you know battling against the exams together you will have an infinitely better time than if you treat medical school as a competitive exercise in getting to the top so yeah well together with your friends ask people in the years above for the notes for the resources share those resources with people you know it's just the best way forward so thank you so much for watching I really hope this has been useful stay tuned for the other 19 plus videos in the series called How To Survive Medical School where me and loads of my friends are going to be giving you advice on how to do various things like how to get publications how to do all the essays how to revise for oskies how to revise for it in exams how to let's say how to write essays work life balance how many hours should you work how to make notes good abs of medical students just got loads of those loads of them already I spent the last six months kind of getting people into my room while I was still the medical student in my final year and asking them all of these various questions so we've got a ton of footage that I just need to get round whoops I keep hitting this I just need to get round to editing into a into a series of so yeah I really hope that was useful if you're a first year medical student or any sort of medical student watching this then I'm kind of jealous because you are at the start of what is an absolutely incredible experience or rather what has the potential to be an absolutely incredible experience provided you know you managed to get through the exams without with that destroying yourself and provided you work together and being nice and don't be a dick and stuff so you're in an incredible position and you know just have a great time like medical student like being a medical student is hard work but it's also a lot of fun and when you're in my position and you're a junior doctor and you're looking back on that time you want to be thinking you know what I'm really glad I spent those six years in medical school I had a wonderful time and I made great friends and I learned a lot and that is a lot of praise the Lord to the position that I'm in at the moment so yeah I really hope this video was useful if you liked it please give it a thumbs up if you haven't subscribed to the channel please consider doing so have a lovely day and I will see you in the next video goodbye
