# 12 cheap purchases to boost your productivity
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Uri24Z3oc74
Thanks to Shopify for sponsoring this video. Get a free trial on the platform with this link - http://shopify.com/aliabdaal

In this video, I share 12 simple things I've bought that help me be more productive, and they all cost less than $20. Enjoy x

Links:
Bullet journal: https://geni.us/bulletjournalunder20
Magic whiteboard: https://geni.us/magicwhiteboardpaper
A3 pad: https://geni.us/a3pad
Sharpies: https://geni.us/sharpieset
Sticky notes: https://geni.us/stickynotesset
Water bottle: https://geni.us/timewaterbottle
Foam roller: https://geni.us/foamrollershort
Make Time: https://geni.us/maketimebook
Candle: https://geni.us/vanillacandle
In-tray: https://geni.us/intray
Waste basket: https://geni.us/wastebasket

🍿WATCH NEXT:
How to Build the Ultimate Productivity System: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T6hmdrsLQj8&t=65s
10 cheap purchases that have improved my life: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x_5poMWS-L4
Productivity myths that are wasting your time: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qc4GU_wHdqw
7 Side Hustle Ideas: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4V2ZwgJw62I&t=343s

00:00 Intro
00:09 Bullet journal
01:00 Magic whiteboard
01:55 A3 pad
02:24 Sharpies
03:21 Sticky notes
06:15 Water bottle
07:07 Foam roller
08:51 Make Time
09:54 Candle
12:19 In-tray
13:33 Waste basket

💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://go.aliabdaal.com/subscribe-sundaysnippets

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - 
 https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
🎬 YouTube for Beginners - Everything You Need To Know To Start  - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/YouTube-for-Beginners

MY CREATOR COURSES
🎬 Check out my free 7 day email course on how to become a part-time YouTuber: https://aliabdaal.com/part-time-youtuber-crash-course/
🏆 Creatorpreneur - My flagship course for scaling up your creative side-hustle → https://creatorpreneur.academy/course
🗣 Camera Confidence - My self-paced course on how to improve your creativity, career, or communication skills → https://cameraconfidence.aliabdaal.com/

MY FAVOURITE GEAR
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) -https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

🎙 Check out my weekly podcast, Deep Dive - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/ - It's also available on all podcast platforms, including Spotify, Apple Podcasts etc.

MY FAVOURITE TOOLS
🚀 VidIQ - How I optimise my YouTube videos - https://go.aliabdaal.com/vidiq
✍️ Shortform - The BEST summaries of books - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
📚  Readwise - How I remember what I read - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise
🎵  Epidemic Sound - Where I get my music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound

MY KEY LINKS
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com/
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I’m Ali, a YouTuber, podcaster, soon-to-be author and ex-Doctor working in London, UK. I make videos that explore the strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. I also have a weekly podcast called Deep Dive (https://www.youtube.com/channel/UChfo46ZNOV-vtehDc25A1Ug), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://go.aliabdaal.com/subscribe-sundaysnippets).

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, 
**Date:** 2022-12-05

## Transcript
 Hey friends welcome back to the channel. In this video we're going to talk about 12 purchases under $20 that have actually boosted my productivity. Oh and thank you to Shopify for sponsoring this video but more and them a little bit later on. And we're going to start off with the trustee bullet journal. Now, bullet journal is not a particularly fancy thing. You can get any random as journal for under $20 and you can convert it into a bullet journal by just following the bullet journal method. You can read writer Carol's book about this, the bullet journal method, which is very good. Or you can watch one of the five million videos there are on YouTube where people are teaching you actually how to do a bullet journal setup. I've been doing the bullet journal thing for the last three or four months and it's sick and I love it and I'm going to be continuing doing it for basically as long as it makes sense for me. And actually it's great because bullet journaling is more like a mindful of the system that's disguised as a productivity system. And I've found that it's really helped me be more intentional with the way I spend my time. I also have a gratitude log so I feel more grateful for the things in my life. And it also encourages me to set my daily priorities every day and so I'm more likely to make progress on the things that matter to me, which is my personal definition of productivity. All right, item number two is something I've been using for the last few months. It's one of these like magic whiteboards. These are absolutely freaking incredible. They're basically it's basically like a long sheet of like cling film like material and what you do is that you can just rip it off. You can get up and you can take this and you can literally just stick it on the wall. I'm just completely mad at me with static electricity. This sticks on. And now this is a whiteboard. You can kind of write whatever you want to them. And this is difficult because for us we are using this for kind of keeping track of various things. And it's like YouTube short that we're making a video filming on the channel. And it's so nice having a whiteboard here because there's something like so nice about like kind of crossing through things and kind of brainstorming and I've been also using it for ideas for my book. So in all ways this is a very cheap product that's actually maybe more productive. All right, next up we have another physical product and that is in fact an A3 writing pad. This is a special one because it's got essentially my stationary brand on it. We don't actually sell these. We just got the printed because it's kind of nice. But you can basically get any A3 pad from Amazon or any other kind of stationary shop. These cost like $5 something like that. And there's something so nice about having like a pad in front of me that I can actually write on. And I use this these sort of pads so much for brainstorming videos and for doing ideas for my book. And item number four that makes writing on the pad a lot easier is in fact sharpies. So again, these are super cheap. I haven't bunch of these. I always have them lying around in my desk. And the great thing about sharpies is that they are very thick. Now the problem with, you know, if you're writing with a very thin pen and you're trying to write anything like this it's like let's say I'm planning a video. Like this is a really thin pen. And like the fact that it's so thin encourages me to sort of be very kind of granular in my thinking. Whereas if I just use a big sharpie then I can't be so granular with my thinking and I have to be able to kind of do things that are sort of big picture. And so this is particularly helpful when it comes for planning videos where I have to worry about the big picture. Or for example if you're a student and you want to write an essay then initially when you're making a spider diagram you want to think in broad brush strokes. Using something like a sharpie or whiteboard pen. And then once you're flashing in the details you can use a proper pen like fine liner or whatever to fill in the details. But this is something so nice about just the analogness and like the sort of physicality of writing and scrolling with sharpies all over a piece of paper. Alright moving on item number five is also a little element of physicality. And in fact item number five is sticky notes. By the way all these desk accessories this is something called gather gather a virtual version 2.0 from Agmunk. You can check out that Kickstarter down below. It's sick. I have that desk accessories on my desk. This is not cheap. I'm talking about the cheap stuff in this video. The stuff that's under $20 that gather stuff is like super expensive. Anyway sticky notes are amazing as well. Dicking notes are also super cheap. And the great thing about sticky notes is that you can just write stuff to remind yourself of the things. By the way, did you know that this is not the right way to take off the sticky note? Because what happens is you stick it down and then it's sort of just kind of like it wants to leave the page or leave the place where you stick it. Whereas if you stick it sideways and then you stick it down. Now it's way more likely to stick and then not be annoying. So I personally use sticky notes for two things. Number one, I use it to remind me of things that I have to do. So I use it as a sort of to do list. And then for example, what I would do that would take the sticky note. I just stick it on my monitor. Like the monitor is like a good place to put stuff. I often have a bunch of sticky notes just sort of hang it out there on the monitor. And the other thing I use sticky notes for is just kind of remind myself of my own productivity mantras and quotes and things that really kind of resonate with me. The one I've been using most often and have stuck to my monitor is this is going to be fun. This one's the fresh one because it kind of ran out of sticky notes and so I had to chuck one earlier. But I basically stick that on my monitor. And that means that as I'm working, especially as I'm working on like bookstuff or other kind of long-term projects, then it just sort of reminds me that this is going to be fun. This is supposed to be fun. And whenever I see that, it really does encourage me to just take a step back, relax a little bit, take a deep breath and be like, you know what, this is actually really fun. And it's very easy for us to think too seriously about the work that we're doing and forget to remind ourselves that like the whole point in doing work is to, you know, so that we can kind of make ourselves happier and lead a more fulfilling life. And so if we can enjoy the journey of doing that, then everything is just great all around. Anyway, seeking notes, great way to put a little reminders to yourself and you can stick them on your laptop or on your computer screen. Next on the list, we have the trusty fake plant. I've had one of these on my desks since like 2014 or something absurd. This is like $7 from IKEA. It's the fetch company plant. Load the tech YouTubers have this on their desks. But the great thing about a fake plant is, it's nice and it adds like greenery and good vibes to a desk. Be, you don't need to take care of it because obviously it's a fake plant and therefore it doesn't need any watering. And there's actually some reasonable evidence that having greenery around you boosts your creativity and makes you feel good. It like, you know, this pot of our brains, evolutionary pot of our brains that really vibes with nature. And in the absence of being surrounded by a jungle, like I wasn't bothered you at the day when I was doing some work. In the absence of being in the middle of a jungle, like you can just use a fake plant and it's just nice. You can have it on your desk, have it in different places and it just sparks joy in a nice way. It doesn't directly improve my productivity but I generally find that if I can tweak my workspace to be just a little bit nicer, a little bit more pleasant that actually does have not gone effects on the work that I can do and on my creativity and on my productivity. All right, next on the list we have a water bottle. This is like a $10 water bottle from Amazon. These are great. I would recommend the transparent ones because then the transparent ones make you realise when you're finished drinking a water and then seeing it over is a reminder that, oh, I should probably drink some water. I've been doing a bunch of research around like hydration and stuff. Apparently, if you look at the color of your wheelie, it's supposed to be basically colorless, just like a little hint of color in it. Whereas definitely for me, most of the time when I look at my wheelie, it's like a lot darker than it probably should be. And there's a bunch of evidence that shows that even when you're a little bit dehydrated, I eat your wheels somewhat concentrated. You probably won't realise it because it doesn't have any kind of really obvious consequences but when they've tested people in like various like mental tests and that kind of stuff, they've found a dip in performance with people who were even a little bit dehydrated. And so having the bottle on my desk was encourages me to take breaks, to fill up the water bottle a little bit more regularly and to sip on water while I'm doing stuff. All right, next on the list we have a foam roller and foam roller ball. These ones are Luna Demons, so these are quite expensive, but you can get way cheaper versions of these. I don't know why I got these. I was just confused if you're feeling a bit fancy. But this is great. Like having a foam roller and a foam roller ball on my desk next to me, A encourages me to take a break from work because, you know, sitting as an epidemic these days, pandemic law, you know, that I always get pain in the hip flexors, I was going to a bit of lower back pain from just sitting at the desk at all times. Basically, everyone has this. If you spend large amounts of time at a desk, especially if you're working on a laptop and you kind of hunched over like this, having a foam roller around just makes it like it's a good incentive for me to get up off my desk. And to grab one of these things, one of these things and just sort of set them up and do a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a rolling. Yeah, that's good. That's good. I also really like my favorite one is in fact one of these little balls. These are so good. It's like I always have hip pain in my hip flexors from just sitting too much. And I can just jam this. Oh, there we go. I can just jam it in that feels so great. And these these are so cheap. These allow our $5 or something, but it's just like a really hard ball. It sounds kind of weird. And it's just great. I use the pulmonary technique. So, 25 minutes of work in five minutes of break. And often in my breaks, I would just like lie on the floor and do a bit of a full of rolling. And this just massively creates my productivity. Because then I feel better. And I also encourage you to take a break. And all this evidence that shows that taking a break from your work is like, again, a really good thing for conserving energy and for productivity and all that fun stuff. So, honestly, if you haven't got one of these, I would recommend it. This is freaking life changing. This is so good. All right, next on the list of purchases under $20 that have boosts my productivity is, in fact, this book is called Make Time. It's by Jake Knapp and John Zarratsky. John Zarratsky is actually an internet friend I might now, had him on my podcast. It's good vibes. And this is a good book. The reason this is particularly good is because it's very non-appinulated in the productivity advice that it gives. And in this book, there's basically like 100 different strategies. And it's like really nicely illustrated and stuff as well. And of these 100 strategies, I use about like five or six of them. But the idea is that you go through the book. And you just figure out like, what are the strategies that work for you? And so the daily highlight, for example, is one of the strategies that I really took away from this, which is basically where every day you just ask yourself, what is the most important thing I need to get done today? And then you just do the thing. It sounds really simple, but that is probably the single biggest productivity tip I've ever gotten in my life. And I got it from this particular book. So I this is you, this is usually the book I recommend. And people are like, how do I be more productive? It's like, just read Make Time and pick and pick a few things in there and it'll probably boost your productivity. And it's a very cheap and effective book as well. All right, next on the list, we have something that's a bit more rogue. And this is a candles. Now, candles are nice for two reasons. Firstly, there is some amount of evidence that having vanilla essence in particular, you know, those are study the day I think it was like vanilla having vanilla scent in your work environment makes you more creative and more productive and less stressed. So there's something nice about that. But the reason I personally like to have a candle on my desk, which I then light. By the way, this is from Morning Brew, who just kind of sent it to me for free, but like you can get cheap on as well. The reason I like having a candle on my desk is because I can just stick it on my desk. I can set it on fire in a non-word way. And now it's like, it's a very easy ritual to get started with stuff. You don't need a ritual to be productive. But it's generally kind of nice that the environment feels good, the fake plant candle. And when I turn the candle on and I put my headphones in and I put my kind of study with me playlist with Lord of the Rings and parts of the Caribbean and Harry Potter music in the background. The fact that the candle is going, it's all just part of the work ritual, you know, grab the coffee and it helps me get into the swing of work. And it's also a very nice way to procrastinate where it's like, oh, where do they like to go? Do you find the light to let me light the candle? It's just super nice. I've had a candle in my desk now for the last six months and I found a genuine, a genuine he does improve my mood. It's a very cheap thing to try out. Less than $20 probably like $5 for like a cheap candle. So you can try it out and see if it works for you as well. Now if you're the sort of person that actually enjoys becoming more productive and being able to get more things done then you might also be the sort of person that likes the idea of building your own online business like I've done and like maybe people that you've seen on YouTube have done. And one of the great ways that you could do that is by using Shopify who are very kindly sponsoring this video. Shopify is an absolutely fantastic all in one commerce platform where anyone without knowing how to code, you can build your own website, you can make it look absolutely sick and you can sell any kind of product, good services, digital downloads over the internet. You can sell to customers at over 175 countries, you can accept almost any payment method imaginable and you can sell things online or even in person or even via your social media accounts. I've been using Shopify for the last year or so to power my online store and it's quite fun, tinkering with the website and making the products look pretty and putting photos on them and it's just like super nice. So we've started bringing all of our stuff into Shopify, physical goods, the essentially product planners and also like my online courses, all of that is via Shopify. So if you like the idea of potentially starting your own business someday you might like to check out a free trial of Shopify but heading over to Shopify.com slash Elliot Dal and you can check it out, you can see what it's like and you can see how easy it is to start your own business or your own site household by using Shopify. So thank you so much Shopify for sponsoring this video. All right two more things to go. The first one is an in-tray. This is a little bit in-tray. This was like on a $3, $3, $4 from IKEA and I just have this on the Chester drawers. This is just next to my desk. This is great. So in David Allen's book getting things done, he basically talk it's it's a very old school productivity book but he basically talks about the importance of having an in-tray. Basically a place where you stick physical papers that you need to action in some kind of way. So for example I've got these two pieces of paper here which are currently in the in-tray. One of them is a letter about my driving license. The other one is an electricity bill and both of these are things I need to action at some point and before I had one of these I've had these for last couple of weeks now. Before I had one of these these bits of paper would just be randomly lying on my desk and it would make the desk a real eyesore and the desk is cluttered with all this random crap on it. But now that I have an in-tray you know I've finally taken David Allen's advice having read this book like 10 years ago. Now anytime physical mail comes in that I need to deal with like for example I've got this card I need to cancel my membership for city sports I just put this in the in-tray and then I just know that okay cool I will get to this at some point and it's like a nice little place for this random crap to go so that it doesn't clog up the desk. So if you get any kind of physical mail with 100% recommend some kind of tray that you just put it in to make your life just feel more pleasant and more productive and then the final thing file cheap purchase is in fact a waste paper basket slash mini recycling then which is very much worth having on your desk. I've always had a little bin by my desk because I always get random crap from letters and stuff and envelopes and things and then I want to get rid of them and then put them in the bin. But actually since moving into this new flat about two months ago I haven't had a bin I only bought this a few days ago and I realized what I was missing. I was like oh my god it's just so nice having a bin just sitting right next to you because when I do my kind of a three pads whenever I get any physical mail whenever I write post-it notes and then the thing becomes not rather than anymore and I want to get rid of the piece of paper without having a bin just like within arms length they get the stuff just piles up on my desk and then my desk becomes a nightmare to work in and it's just so much nicer working in a clean environment and just it's just it's it's it's amazing how much how much of a difference just a simple thing makes it's having a bin by your desk. If you don't currently have a bin by your desk and you suffer too like I do with clutter and papers and random shit being everywhere on your desk then this is like a five dollar thing you can get from my care from Amazon or from any kind of supermarket even just a little plastic bag you can use you don't even spend any money on it but it's a freaking game-changing innovation. So those were twelve relatively affordable like under twenty dollar purchases they have genuinely improved my own productivity. If you enjoyed this video you might like to check out this video over here which is also a listicle of time management tips some of them are from this book make time which you can check out if you like but others are just sort of techniques and tricks and strategies and principles that I've come up with over the last five years of doing this YouTube channel while doing lots of stuff on the side they help me manage my own time so you can check out that video over there thank you so much for watching and I'll see you hopefully in the next video bye.
