# How to prepare for Medicine Interviews
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=uY01uhhIuzI
In this video, we'll be going through 15 tips for preparing for medical school interviews. These tips apply whether you've got a Multiple Mini Interview (MMI), structured interview or Oxbridge interview. 

15 tips for preparing for your medicine interviews:

1. Make a list of talking points - 00:58
2. Don't memorise answers - 02:11
3. Ask your friends to interview you - 03:13
4. Ask for feedback about your mannerisms - 04:36
5. Practice developing a calm, confident mindset - 05:15
6. Try finding doctors to interview you - 06:09
7. Work on identifying your own weaknesses - 07:11
8. Leave your ego at the door - 08:27
9. Research the places you're applying to - 09:06
10. Keep up with the news - 09:25
11. Develop positive thinking habits - 10:41
12. Treat it as a conversation - 11:10
13. Be honest and genuine - 11:42
14. Don't over prepare - 12:11
15. Relax - 12:28

--
If you've got any questions, please comment down below and I'll do my best to get back to you asap.

Chidera's awesome channel - https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCeq4iBads31CT551gDJND5A
--

Who am I:

I'm Ali, a final year medical student at Emmanuel College, Cambridge. This vlogging thing seems quite fun so I'll be vlogging life and other things throughout the year. I'll also be featuring some videos of myself and my friends giving medicine application advice on camera :)

Follow me plssss:
- Snapchat: aliabdaal
- Twitter - https://twitter.com/AliAbdaal
- Instagram - https://instagram.com/AliAbdaal
- Website - www.aliabdaal.com
**Keywords:** medicine interview, medicine interview preparation, how to prepare for medicine interviews, medical school interviews, interview prep, medicine interview prep, med school interview, med school interviews, medical school interview, medical school interview prep, tips for medicine interview, medicine interview tips, interview tips, medicine tips, cambridge medicine, oxford medicine, oxbridge medicine, medschool interview, medschool interviews, medschool interview tips, 
**Date:** 2017-10-05

## Transcript
 Hey guys, welcome back to the channel. If you're new here, my name is Ali, I'm a final year medical student at Cambridge University and this is a series of videos where I've interviewed lots of my medical student friends and asked them for advice about the medicine application. We've done videos already on the personal statement and applying to Oxford. But today's video is about interviews and how you can prepare for them. And we're going to be hearing from 10 different medical students who are giving 15 tips on how to prepare for your medicine interviews and this applies whether you've got a normal interview or an MMI, a multiple or an Oxford interview. So hopefully you'll find something in this video useful. If you look in the description below, you'll find timestamps to all the different tips. So if you've heard something before or if you want to revisit something again, then you can just click on the appropriate timestamp and it'll take you magically to the right place in the video. I'm not sure if this works in mobile but hey, so let's just jump into it. I'll play through the list of 15 tips and I'll see you at the end for the classic, uh, please like, comment, subscribe. At this point, if you'd like to subscribe to see more videos like this, please do subscribe button is down below. But now let's jump into the 15 tips. I hope you find them useful. Um, so before my interviews, I was pretty scared. I did quite a lot of preparation for them. For each one of them, I wrote down all the different things I could think of that they might ask. And I wrote my own answers to each of them, trying to really hone what it was. I was going to take from my personal statement what it was that I was going to try and sell to them in that I first will just start off by telling myself, okay, they're going to ask me about my experience and I just basically shortlisted the work experience that I want to talk about. So I spoke, I knew I watched all my time as a whole period of time for a year because that was just one of the most incredible learning opportunities that I've ever had. It's a job I'm still doing to this, actually. I first always established what I was going to talk about and then I made sure to know what I wanted to say about each example I was going to give but I was very conscious that I didn't want to come across for a herst. So whenever I went through in my head through my experiences, I'd never like really write anything down and I don't really really bullet point. I bullet point would say, being a half-growth assistant helps me communicate and that's all I'd have my mind so that I'd draw on that and then talk around it because you definitely come across a lot more fluid if you you don't script answers. So I remember writing down a list of questions that I thought would probably come up so that's why you want to do medicine, what particular about this medical school, what did you learn on work experience and I just bullet pointed answers. I didn't write out a paragraph so I think that's quite important because if you write out a paragraph it's so tempting to just learn it and recite it. Yeah, tying to that. I think I did similar things in that. I was very much against trying to write paragraphs as answers because the danger of that is you end up memorizing paragraphs and then you stress that because like, oh, what was that line? After that line and that just comes across really badly in it and interview. So bullet points of like the main ideas, not like the specific words you can use but really the core ideas. Think about it, whatever you're in the lecture and someone you can always tell when someone stops reading the slides and goes to add living a bit. There are style changes, the way they talk changes, invariably they're more engaging. Be that second person. Don't be reading something more closely than you're in. Like you can get practice and trying to be spontaneous by getting loads of people to interview you. And get them to give you answers, get your friends to sit down with you and you know what, they usually quite enjoy it as well. Your friends will like throughout questions that you usually questions you're not really expecting. It can be quite a fun thing to do and it's quite a good way because you never know what questions are going to come up so you don't it's not about answering the questions and getting the right answers but practicing that has to be spontaneous for an interview which is always quite good. I'm mostly prepared for my interviews but just asking loads and loads of people to give me interview questions. So I found like a list of interview questions online. I got one of the 100 interview questions books and just kind of gave it to a friend's friend's family, my mom, my brother, my friends, my teachers and just said, right can we have 20 minutes just you know, talk to me as if this were an interview and I actively asked for a lot of critical feedback and I found that that really helpful. So I mean like every every single time people told me that I spoke too fast. So I mean I still do it to this day but just that reminder of close to interview times made me think that okay, I need to kind of slow it down a bit. Me talking too slowly is probably about the right speed. Like I feel I'm talking too slowly right now but for you it's probably the right speed whereas normally when I talk like this it's quite fast and I was talking like this in interviews and this is not the kind of interview answer that you want to give because you're talking too fast and like it just become goes all over the place. Something that's incredibly important is get your friends and family to listen to your interview answers. So just just just like get your sister sit in front of you given the questions you want them to ask you and then just when you're replying with your answers try to get them to comment on maybe your mannerisms and the way you look when you're talking where you're looking when you're talking in your body language and etc because they may not know what interview is looking from for your answers but I think it's definitely important to be able to familiarize yourself with maybe some bad habits you might have when talking. Primarily I think when it comes to preparing for interviews your key thing is to make sure that you're comfortable and confident and you can go over as many questions as you want but particularly when you're applying to Cambridge or Oxford they're going to throw some curve balls and the anyway to really prepare for that to put yourself in a mindset where you can think through what they've said and reply back and I can size and confident manner. So even if you haven't heard of something before even if you don't really sure of the answer if you're confident enough in yourself that you can sit and think things through that's going to be your primary asset. So when it came to preparing I just did as many practice interviews as I could I would let you sit down with as many teachers or they could with my parents and just say sorry questions at me I'd like what you ask I just want to practice being in that calm confident mindset where I can think things through and give you some sort of answer even if it is probably rubbish. So that was my primary way of preparing just practicing and making sure that I was confident. In hindsight one of the most useful interviews I got was from a friend's dad who is a consultant and so he was quite up-to-use to interviewing medical applicants. So depending on the medical school's you're applying for, it's definitely useful to get people to test you on the basic sciences if you're going for Oxford. And if one of your teachers is being there all the better. But for the actual clinical ones if you know any doctors just ask them the basic sort of questions about professionalism ethics questions about the NHS that will be second nature to all of them because we get it drilled into us enough as students, let alone the doctors. So anyone don't be afraid to ask anybody who think might be useful will often be more than happy to help if you just approach them. But practice definitely does help. If nothing else it's to get you used to answering questions under pressure and to get you used to actually speaking and thinking rather than just thinking this is what I would say verbalising it is a really important skill and it will just make you so much more comfortable in the real thing if you've done it before. When it comes to interviews you have to prepare in a way that fits you. So rather than just swatting up on all the common questions that get asked and what some of the answers you could give up which is obviously important you have to do all the other legwork as well. So you need to have a really good think about what your weaknesses are when it comes to interview. Are you too a little bit on the arrogant side a little bit relaxed and you might say something that comes across as too flippant or too arrogant like that GPs only deal with coughs and colds? Or are you the other side of the spectrum and you really get very anxious when you're in an interview situation in which case you need to find a way to tackle that okay? It's not worth avoiding it will make you life harder in a long run as well as for interview. So just find ways of working on it. Get more interviews from parents friends who you don't know very well or parents colleagues even if it's just really basic questions like why do you want to study medicine? They don't need to be a medic. They that can help you replicate the stressful scenario of talking to someone you don't know very well and just forces you to work through that stress and put your mind into gear and just talk about give your answers honestly and enthusiastically. So that was one thing that really helped me this whole getting people to ask me interview questions and then getting them to give me constructive critical feedback and I think that's one thing that people do find quite difficult because it is really hard to take criticism well. You kind of want to defend yourself. You want to be like oh I did I was talking like that because of this I answered this question because of that but I'd say when preparing for interviews and indeed for the rest of life it's it's quite useful to leave your ego at the door. There is no need for you to get defensive if you do get critical feedback. Just you know put it all together and then take the bits of it that you think that you can feasibly work on and you will improve. Find out about where you're applied to. So for example when I applied to Birmingham I just just did a quick Google search of funding to do in Birmingham just so I knew there was something to talk about. So I knew that there was a mini golf place in somewhere called Star City in Birmingham and I think it's really important to just show that you're familiar with the area. I think on a practical point as well I is important to keep up with the news and with current events in health and and science. So I remember I read BBC Health every day just on my train ride to school. So just doing simple things like that that keeps you in the know and can give you stuff to talk about. Yeah as was that's where sort of the preparation thing comes in because spontaneous but there's certain things you can't be spontaneous about like certain facts and current current affairs and stuff. So it's good to have in your head certain things that you know I could talk about this or this thing just happened. So there's an element being prepared which we're definitely not. I made sure to read up on the news like BBC news and look at all the health articles I could look at the most recent student BMJ that I could find and just try and be aware of some of the biggest news health news that was happening at the time and then I also did some so particularly for Cambridge which I knew was going to be more scientific. I read up on my you know all of my subjects just made sure that I was okay with all of those topics and was ready to sort of defend them and talk about them and use them in an interview situation. Before you go into interview or when you're feeling nervous generally you can have things go to thoughts go to positive confident thoughts about things you've done when in the past. Other times when you've been stressed out but it's turned out really well and it's been worth that stress and people who believe in you and positive things they've said about you all of those can be really good fuel for siking yourself up when you're feeling you know worried about working into interview. I think as well so much of this is in the delivery. Remember that you're going to medicine and medicines a lot about communication how you interact with a patient so take care of the conversation of the interviewer like that they're trying to get to know you you really want to interact with them and you want to be honest about you with them you want to let them see who you really are. If you have that kind of idea at the back of your mind you're transmitting through into your tone and people will see that you're genuine about your answers rather than this being a reverse script. Make sure you're always talking into you in as honest and genuine away as you can. Don't talk in a very incredibly meticulous and quite eccentric wordy way because you're trying to give off the impression that you're an incredibly intelligent person it will just come across as stiff and a bit weird so just try and be yourself try and talk genuinely and just say what you think be enthusiastic all of that. But I think it's important as well not to over prepare you know have confidence in yourself, have confidence in your interview abilities and desire to do medicine that you'll be able to spontaneously answer some questions as well because I think it's one to anity adds as low. That's realness. Yeah. Relax genuinely. The more you try and think of answers to the questions and advance the more you'll be thrown by them when they are not what you expect of them to be. You're going for a chat. It'll be an easy chat. That's why I should. So thank you very much for watching. I hope you found that useful. That was 15 tips from 10 different medical students on how you can prepare for your interviews. If you like the video, please hit the thumbs up button down below it really helps. If you'd like to see more videos like this you can hit the subscribe button. We've got loads more videos coming up in the next few weeks about specific aspects of the interviews like how to answer common questions, how to deal with oxygen interviews that sort of thing and I also do vlogs every now and then about life as a medical student. So you might like to subscribe to watch those and finally if you've got any questions at all just leave a comment down below and I will do my best to get back to you. So yeah, thanks very much for watching all the best with your interviews. I really hope you smash it and I will see you in the next one. Good night.
