# How much I spend in a month...
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=V7342SesjCs
Get free access to my Workflow and Deep Dive series on Nebula, along with a load of other exclusive content, bundled with CuriosityStream - https://curiositystream.com/ali and use the code ALI at checkout!

In this video I'll be breaking down every expense that my business incurs on a monthly basis. 

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

PART-TIME YOUTUBER ACADEMY:
🍿 My 6-week live online course - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ptya_aliabdaal
CREATORPRENEUR
💰 My flag-ship course for scaling up your creative side-hustle - https://creatorpreneur.academy/course


YOUTUBE FOR BEGINNERS COURSE
📸 This is for anyone who'd like to start a YouTube channel. You'll learn everything you need to get started as a YouTuber including how to script, shoot, and edit your first video - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/YouTube-for-Beginners



MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
✍️ The best summaries of books (Shortform) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
📚  How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
Deep Dive Podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/
The podcast that delves into the minds of entrepreneurs, creators and other inspiring people to uncover the philosophies, strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. You can find it by searching “Deep Dive with Ali Abdaal” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc).
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali

🎙 Deep Dive podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/
The podcast that delves into the minds of entrepreneurs, creators and other inspiring people to uncover the philosophies, strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. You can find it by searching “Deep Dive” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮  Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I’m Ali, a YouTuber, podcaster, soon-to-be author and ex-Doctor working in London, UK. I make videos that explore the strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, how to make money, how to make money online, make money online 2021, business expenses, my business expenses, what i spend money on, regular business expenses, how much money i make as a youtuber, how much i make from youtube, how much i make from youtube small youtuber, what did i spend my money on, business expenses uk, ali abdaal productivity, business expenses for youtubers, what i spend in a month, monthly spending, 
**Date:** 2021-07-14

## Transcript
 Hey friends, welcome back to the channel. Today we are talking about money once again. Now, I've been pretty open about how much money this YouTube channel and my business overall makes because I'm a fan of transparency and showing that if you put in the work for something and stack up on fair advantages and a healthy dose of luck, you can get to a point where you've got a reasonably high revenue generating business. But one thing I haven't talked about in the past is how much it actually costs to run this business. So now, at this point, we actually have a team of, I think, 11 or 12 people who work for the business as mostly full-time team members, full-time employees. We spend a ton of money every month on all sorts of different things. And this is actually the first time in the last four years that I've actually added up all these numbers to see just where all of the money is going every month. Let's now talk about all the different ways that this business hemorrhages cash. The first expense on the list is actually food. Now, in the last few months, I've been working from a coworking space called WeWork and I often get team members to come to the site or if we're having chats with coaches or contractors or freelancers or whatever, we often meet up in person. Now, at those times when we meet up in person, I feel it's just kind of fair to treat everyone to lunch and if we're working late to to treat everyone to dinner as well. And so, for the last few months, our food bill for the business has actually been around 700 dollars per month in treating people to the lunches and dinners and stuff. So, there's that. Second on the list, of course, we've got office space. Now, like I said for the last few months, we've been working out of WeWork, which is a fantastic co-working space. They've got branches all over the world. We use the branch in Cambridge. And because me and Agnes, one of my team members, we've got dedicated desks that ends up costing us around $1400 a month. It's around about $700 a month for the dedicated desk. I think it's 100% completely worth it and the amount of value we get from having a co-working space and having this really nice office set up is just incredible. And honestly, I can't imagine myself ever going back to just fully working from home and not having a co-working space to be able to meet people in. Third, on the list, we have fees. And these are fees associated with payment processing. So, we process a large number of payments for the business through companies like Stripe and PayPal, especially when we're taking payments for our course at part-time New York Academy. And anytime we take a payment from someone else, we're hit with some kind of credit card fees. PayPal in particular is really annoying because generally companies and people pay us in US dollars. And for that to be converted into British pounds, there was like a really extortionate like foreign exchange, transaction fee kind of thing. And so overall, we spend around $2,000 a month on bank, PayPal, and Stripe fees just to be able to process payments and to receive them in our home currency. Next on the list, we have accounting fees. Now, this is all the stuff related to all the various tax returns that we have to fill in and keeping the books up to date. Recently, we've hit the threshold. Well, a while ago, we hit the threshold for VAT value at a tax in the UK, which means every quarter we have to create a new tax return. It's also a bit of a nightmare because we sell digital products inside Europe, every different country in the European Union, other than the UK, more sort of some of the UK as well. Every single country in Europe has a different rate for VAT, and we have to report that. And therefore, our accounting bill ends up being around $2,200 per month just to keep on top of all the tax-related stuff. Next on the list, we have computer hardware and camera gear. Now, this is always kind of seasonal. Let's say Apple releases some new products and therefore, me being a tech nerd, I have to upgrade my Mac mini and my MacBook and my iPad and my other iPad and my iPhone and all the stuff. Let's say Sony releases new cameras and new lenses, and I think, oh, let's upgrade a production value by adding a new light to a camera or a lens or a microphone or whatever. I've added this up. It kind of varies as quite seasonal, but overall, it ends up being around about $40,000 per year that we're spending on this sort of stuff. Which comes out to, was it, around $3,000 per month spent on hardware, camera gear and tech overall. Again, all of these expenses are very much worth it because even a slight increase in production value in our videos, that then kind of pays dividends for the long term. If I get a new laptop, I spend the 18 hours a day on my MacBook or my iPad and so if I can get a device that helps me be a little bit more efficient, then that will just easily pay for itself. Next on the list, we have subscriptions to software and it actually takes a ton of software to run this business. What is it? Well, how many things we have on the list? We've got Adobe, AHRF's AirTable, Alarm E, Amazon Prime, Canonly, Canvas, Circle, CloudFed, Digital Ocean, E-CAM, Fast Spring, Figma, Frame, I-O, FreePak, GeniusLink, Google, G Suite, Hyper Fury, IFTTT, Intercom, Kindle, Loom, Otter, Paddle, Patreon, Podia, Riverside, Scraped, Short I-O, SimplePull, Subly, Typeform, Vid IQ, Zero, and Zoom. Those are all of the different apps that we pay for that I could see in our accounts. There's probably more that I just haven't realized or haven't reconciled the transactions. And this comes out to be $3,600 a month on software. The biggest offenders here are number one convert kit, which is our email provider. They cost around $1,000 a month by themselves, but it's a very good service. We'd recommend link in the video description if you want to check it out. But the annoying thing about any kind of email provider services is that the more people you have on your email list, the more money it costs per month to run the email list. So we pay $1,000 a month-ish for convert kit. We also pay around $200 per month for AHRFs, which is an SEO search engine optimization tool that we use to just make cool stuff on a website, and then everything else is just like death by a thousand cuts. And so $3,600 spent on software every single month. Next on the list we have freelancers. So we work with two people in particular, Laura and Joe, who help us with the social media side of the business, helping repurpose content for all the different social platforms. And the fees that we pay Laura and Joe each month comes out to around $4,500 a month for all of our social media stuff. And there's a few other freelancers here in there that I'm including in that overall number. So $4,500 a month on freelancers. The next big expense we have is actually coaching. Now I'm a big fan of improving lifelong learning and improving my skills and improving the team skills in all the different things that we work on. And so we have a pretty large number of coaches. I think at the moment we've got around six coaches. I've got like five Angus has got one. And we're also looking to hire more coaches for other team members who are doing important things within the business. But overall a monthly coaching bill at the moment is around $6,000 a month. And that is probably going to increase over the next few months as we train more people up. Again, totally worth it. Like hiring a coach for even if they charge something like $500,000 a hour is actually ROI positive, return on investment positive because if we can improve our own skills, then that benefit the business as a whole. Next we have our penultimate expense, which is all of the various fees and contractor costs and affiliate costs that we pay to run the part-time youtuber academy, which is my six week live online course. This year we've run three cohorts and we're aiming to run four cohorts of it next year. But every time we run one of these live cohorts, it costs us around $80,000 in paying like hiring people to help with the course, hiring people to help with the data, hiring our house masters who are pro youtubers to run like coaching sessions for the students, paying our affiliates who are helping to promote the course. I know the various software products that help the part-time youtuber academy run. So $80,000 a pop, we've done three cohorts this year, which is 240k that are cost to run the part-time youtuber academy for three cohorts divided by 12. And I'd bring this to a monthly cost of $20,000 a month to keep the part-time youtuber academy ticking along for the whole year. So now we have an overall cost of $43,400 a month and let's move on to the final nail in the coffin, the biggest expense by far. And that is the money that we pay our team members. And so currently, excluding me, we've got 11 people who are part of the team in various capacities. Seven of those are full-time, so they work five days a week or 40 hours a week or whatever, but it's all fairly remote and flexible and so they can really work whenever they want. And then we've got two people working around four days a week, we've got one guy working three days a week and we've got one guy working two days a week. So that is like the spread of our team so far. And if you guys are interested, I'll certainly do a video explaining, you know, every time I mention this to people that, oh yeah, we've got 12 people in the team. And as question is, what the hell do these people do? And I was like, that's a good question. Like, you wouldn't think that like, you know, someone making YouTube videos needs to have a team of that big, but you like, you know, this team of 12 people, including me, this is still like nowhere near enough to do the things that we actually want to do. And so we're looking to hire around five more people in the next few months. And so these this number is going to swell up and the salary number is going to increase. Sadly, I'm not going to share with you the salaries of the individual team members, because they would probably feel a bit weird about that, even though I don't mind personally. But I can't tell you that overall we're paying around $483,000 a year in team member salaries, excluding me, which comes out to a monthly total of $41,000 a month for itch that's spent on team member salaries. And so overall it costs an absolutely staggering $84,400 a month to keep this business ticking along and hopefully growing. That is absolutely insane. I have no idea the number was going to be that big. And if you want to apply that by 12, what is that? Damn, that's just over $1 million a year to run this business. But yeah, I need to take a good hard look at our finances and see how we are hemorrhaging so much cash. It's probably a few software subscriptions that we need to cancel. But like, honestly, if I think about that number and I think about all the things that we're doing in the business, then actually doesn't seem so bad. And so I'm hoping that our overall revenue this year will be maybe in the region of around $3 million, and if it costs a million a year to run the business, that's like a pretty solid profit margin. That's like 66% margins. Oh, and then we have to take tax into account and all that kind of stuff. That's actually not too bad. Apparently, a lot of businesses have like 5, 10, 15% margins. And in this business, we've got around 60 to 70% margin, which is still pretty good. But if my mum watches this video, I bet she's going to have a stroke at thinking about that number. Now, this video's gone on long enough, but it's actually supposed to be longer than this. And the extended version of this video is available over at Nebula. If you haven't heard Nebula, is an independent streaming platform that's built by me and a bunch of other creators in my agency called Standard, who are absolutely wonderful. And on Nebula, you get early, add free access to all of our videos, but you also get extended editions of the videos. And so in the extended edition of this video, this Spiel gets replaced, and I'm actually talking about the four different steps for getting started. And I talk through my journey for being a YouTuber and building this business. And like the four actionable concrete steps that it took to spend different money at different levels of the business. The reason stuff like that goes on Nebula is because when we put stuff on YouTube, we do have to be mindful of the algorithm, and a video can't be too long, otherwise people are not going to watch it, and all that kind of fun stuff. But if you're interested in the topic, you should definitely check this out over at Nebula. Now, the easiest way to get access to Nebula is to sign up to curiosity stream, who are very kindly sponsoring this video. If you haven't heard curiosity stream, is the world's leading documentary streaming subscription platform, bounded by John Hendricks, the founder of the Discovery Channel, and on curiosity stream, they've got tons of really high budget, high quality documentaries across all possible topics that you can think of. One series I've been enjoying recently is called Curious Minds Entrepreneurs. And through five episodes, it explores what makes entrepreneurs tick, and what are the traits that make them successful. The really cool thing about curiosity stream is that they love independent creators, and so we've got a bundle deal with curiosity stream. So that if you sign up for an account with curiosity stream, which costs less than $15 a year, you get free access to Nebula bundled with that. So for less than $15 a year, you get these incredible high-quality documentaries in curiosity stream, and you also get extended editions of my videos, along with exclusive series like my workflow series, where I take you behind the scenes of my favorite apps and do a deep dive into exactly how they improve my workflow. If any of that sounds up your street, then head over to curiositystream.com for slash alley, or hit the link in the video description, and then once you sign up for an account, you'll have your Nebula details emailed to you. If you like this video, and you're intrigued about how we can possibly sustain running a business that costs $1 million a year to run, you might like to check out this video over here, which is a breakdown of how much money the business made in 2020, which will give you some ideas about how you could maybe do the same for yourself. So thanks so much for watching, please do hit the subscribe button, and I'll see you in the next video. Bye-bye.
