# Graduate Entry Medicine - A comprehensive guide + Q&A
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vPckn7g-DX8
In this video, Samah and I tackle all aspects of the Graduate Medicine application. Samah is a 3rd year GEM medic at Cambridge University - her advice should hopefully be quite helpful. Enjoy xx

Samah - https://www.instagram.com/samahsiddiqui/ 

💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking 

📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

📝My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://paperlike.com/ali
🎶 Where I get my music from (amazing for YouTubers) - http://share.epidemicsound.com/ali

TIMESTAMPS

01:13 - When do you first start thinking about applying to grad medicine?
01:54 - Grades./ extra-curricular / research - what makes a good application?
03:22 - To what extent do grades matter? 
06:10 - Work Experience
06:46 - Extra-curricular
07:24 - Deciding where to apply
08:27 - Entrance exams - BMAT, UKCAT, GAMSAT
10:27 - Personal Statement
12:05 - Interviews 
13:26 - Grad Medicine Application Strategy
16:22 - Choosing entrance exams strategically
17:07 - Funding

Q&A

20:41 - Do you lose out by being a graduate entry medic rather than an undergrad medic?
21:47 - Do you suffer socially from being a grad?
22:11 - Advice for students without life sciences degrees?
33:36 - Why Cambridge, How Cambridge?
24:03 - Work experience tips for Cambridge GEM
24:48 - Did you target your personal statement at A-levels or only at university subjects?
24:53 - Which degrees are suitable for grad medicine?
26:15 - To what extent is grad medicine more competitive than undergrad medicine? 
26:59 - Do your GCSE grades matter for grad medicine?
27:14 - Preparing for grad medicine interviews
28:24 - The winning mindset for GEM interviews
30:26 - How do you make your application unique?
32:01 - Final advice

LINKS

1. Samah's Personal Statement: https://6med.co.uk/guides/personal-statements/inspiration/graduate-entry-medicine-personal-statement-samah-cambridge-university/ 

2. Medicine Interview videos - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=43swgRhxbmk&list=PL7BImOT2srcHUbjyyTfN7hVL4ZmFc-Irc

🎬 My online course on video editing - https://skl.sh/32TpEvm
🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal


Who am I:

I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

My most popular videos:

- How I take notes on my iPad Pro in medical school - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=waR3xBDHMqw
- Mu 2018 university desk setup - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zdew7At9S2U
- How to study for exams - Evidence based revision tips - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ukLnPbIffxE
- Study with Me + My revision method - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yiRYn97GJhM
- iPad Pro vs iPad (2018) comparison for college / university students - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tIdU4Sw6a5Y
**Keywords:** graduate medicine, GEM, graduate entry medicine, grad medicine, grad med, graduate medicine uk, graduate medicine cambridge, 
**Date:** 2018-09-24

## Transcript
 Hey guys, welcome back to the channel. If you're new here, my name is Ali, I'm a junior doctor working in Cambridge and in this episode of Medical Mondays, we're taking a deep dive into the graduate medicine application. So, I interviewed a friend of mine called Sama. She is a third year graduate at Cambridge and we had a really, really long and very niche conversation where we talked about all the aspects of the graduate medicine application, all the way from what makes the good application to the kind of stuff you should be doing while you're doing your degree, to personal statements, entrance exams, how to prepare for the graduate medicine interview and we also answered a load of questions that you guys sent in via Instagram. So this is quite long. It's quite niche. It's hopefully going to be really useful for people applying to graduate medicine. Also, timestamps to everything we're going to talk about is going to be linked in the video description. So you don't have to watch this whole video, you can just kind of skip along to the appropriate section, whatever you feel like. So yeah, that's it for me. I hope you enjoyed this conversation between me and Sama about the graduate medicine entry applications. All right, Sama. So welcome to the YouTube channel. Thank you for coming on. No worries. So I was hoping we could just kind of take a chronological view of the whole graduate entry medicine thing. And then at the end, once we've talked about that, we'll do a few Q&A's from Instagram and see what sort of questions people are asking about graduate entry medicine. Sounds great. Wonderful. So at the start, so let's say you're in the process of doing your first degree and then you decide you want to go for medicine or you already decided prior to that that you wanted to go for medicine, but you didn't get an offer and you needed to bring by a medal. I imagine people have different ways into it. Definitely. When do you first start thinking about applying to graduate medicine? As you said, loads of people have already decided before they start their undergraduate degree. That eventually I'm going to be doing medicine. And so they sort of go into their undergraduate degree with the mindset of, I need to be during this time doing really well, not just academically, so that I get the grades to go into medicine eventually. And also, I'm building up my portfolio. So then people are doing like loads of societies, loads of extracurriculars and loads of research and things in their spare time to make their application look great. Okay, so grades extracurriculars in research. Are those things that most grad medicine applicants successful applicants will have? I think the main sort of thing that grad medical applicants have in comparison to undergrad's applicants is the research because you know, undergrad's wouldn't as at school. You wouldn't have that much opportunity to do proper research. So a lot of grads when they're applying, they've possibly already got publications and things. Okay, and is that like a requirement? Because what if people do like an English degree or something? Yeah, it's definitely not a requirement, definitely not a requirement. And depending on what university you're applying to, they sometimes are open to apply applicants of all backgrounds. So for example when I was applying to Cambridge, they allowed anyone to apply. So you don't have to be someone with a biosciences degree. But other universities are really prescriptive about what they want. So I've seen some university applications which are like, you need to send us a list of exactly what modules you took because they need to match up to the content they expect you to have covered in your undergrad. Okay, so it sounds like applying to grad entry is a lot more cumbersome than inclined to undergrad where you just rock up and decide where you want to go. Yeah, absolutely. There's a lot more research that needs to go into it and you definitely need to be looking at different aspects such as funding such as you know who takes what sort of degrees to how long they actual degree is because some graduate entry medicine courses are not four years and they're five years and that can affect funding and things. So you've got to really do your research. I see. Okay, so let's say I'm doing, let's say I've applied to medicine undergrad because at the age of 17 or whatever, I didn't get any offers and now I'm doing biomedical sciences that I don't know, UCLA or somewhere random like that. And I know that further down the line, I want to apply to medicine. So am I aiming for first classes and everything like what are the sort of grade requirements and would anyone still care about my A-level chemistry performance, for example? Yes, so A-level chemistry makes a difference in a lot of places so make sure you check whether that is a requirement and sometimes they have a weird sort of time scale on it as well. They want you to have done A-level chemistry within the last seven years or something. So if you took it before the seven years, you're going to have to redo it or more easier if you would probably be to apply some or else. In terms of the first part of your question, which was, like what sort of grades should I be aiming for in my universe? Like to what extent doesn't matter if I come top of the year or get a first class or get a two one. So I think that's similar to A-levels in the sense that the better you do the more chance that you have of getting it and when you're applying for graduate medicine, if you're applying from your final year, so you haven't actually graduated yet therefore you don't actually know what what the degree classification is that you're going to get. You'll be predicted your degree classification by your tutor usually. So that would be what is used in your application for medicine. So ideally you should be predicted a first class because that is the thing that will help you get an interview because as I was going to say later on the numbers are what matter in graduate medical applications because there's such few places in the country for graduate medicine. The number of people applying per place is almost double what are applying for undergraduate medicine. So it's much more competitive and so in that sense being predicted a first for your degree would definitely help you get a place for interview. But eventually it doesn't really matter because most places only require you to have got a two one. But if you're predicted a two one it's less likely that you're getting an interview. So you want to be predicted a first but once you've got that place usually they're offered that they give you is you need to get a two one in your degree. Okay so you need to kind of negotiate with your teachers and be like bro like give me a first. You know at least predict me a first and then if I get a two one it doesn't matter because by that point I've probably got my offer and fantastic and what about kind of aiming for top of the year stuff like that does that sort of stuff matter? I mean if you've got sort of prizes and things that always stands you in good stead but I don't think they particularly are there is not a requirement anywhere. It's just sort of the same with A-level as like if you came top of you yet in you know you're 13 or whatever it's not like a requirement on medical applications but it just makes you look really good. Okay fair enough so grades are important. What about work experience? How does that come into the whole grad medicine thing? Work experience is similar to when you're applying for undergraduate medicine so it would be good for you to have a range so do GP do hospital. A lot of grads actually who haven't just come from a degree so they've been doing other things like work and things. They actually work such do things like health care assistant roles and things for like a whole year which gives them so much experience already and then it really looks good on application as well. So if you have the time to do that and if you're willing to do that for a whole year of your life then yeah things like that are great. Awesome and then what about extra curriculars? Do universities care if you're like you know captain of your school university cricket team? Whatever. Yeah again similar to undergrad applications if you have a contributed well to university like you're sort of like you've got an edge on undergrad as an undergraduate application applicants. I can't even speak. In this sense that you've sort of proven that you're tried and tested at university you can handle university life and you're not only able to handle university level work but you can also contribute in a healthy way to university life and give back to the university and and participate in the community. Okay fantastic so at this point I am a biomedical science applicant my first year I've watched this video and therefore I know I've got a good for the grades. I'm going to absolutely smash it out of the park in terms of my grades. I'm going to do some kind of research project you know if I can try and get a publication or two I'm going to do some extra curricular activities make sure I contribute to the wider corporate life of the university and then I get to my final year when I apply to grad medicine and it sounds like I need to spend absolutely ages going on all the websites of all the different universities. That really paid that long. It took me about an afternoon. I just sort of made a table on a paid on like an A4 page of and I think there are actually already websites that sort of tabulate it for you they've already got all the info so they've got a list of like all the graduate medicine universities that offer the course and then they've got like how many places they've have what entrance exam they require that sort of thing so it's sort of probably quite easy to get information already online. Okay so I go to spend an afternoon just trying to work out which universities is it feasible for me to apply to and then once I've got that short list I can narrow it down and you kind of apply to both Oxford and Cambridge. Yes so that's the the one difference there yeah. Okay interesting right how do entrance exams work? So there's three different entrance exams last time I checked I don't know if things have changed but um when I was applying there was B-Mart UK cat and Gamsat and I think again you should take that as a very strategic decision about whether if so for example if you're applying in your final year you've got to be juggling you know your final year dissertation and all sorts of things like that as well as doing your medical applications which is a lot tougher than doing your A levels to be honest so you got to make that strategic decision about how many exams you're going to be prepping for and how many you're going to put in the effort for so B-Mart and UK cat sometimes if you're one of those people who did apply initially didn't get in and then you did something else and just then decided to still go for medicine you probably already got some kind of experience with either UK cat or B-Mart or both so it sometimes good to just stick with what you know. Gamsat is another kettle of fish because it's a lot more effort it's I think last time I checked it was like a six hour exam or and it takes like a whole day to do as well so it's a lot of effort and I think a lot of prep has to go into it as well so it's just about how much pressure you're willing to take on and how much you want to diversify your choices I guess. All right okay so do you know anything about the Gamsat because I often get messages from people saying oh you run courses for the B-Mart and UK cat six meter code of UK you can check them out but like I literally don't know anything about the Gamsat at all like so you say to six hour exam do you have any other information about it? I know that it's quite heavy on medicine sciences so you've got it I think have a good knowledge of your biology chemistry physics so yeah it's quite heavy on the sort of scientific content. I think there is an essay as well that I can essay component so yeah it's just like a series of exams that you have to take they give you breaks in between but I don't know much more than that because I decided I wasn't going to do the Gamsat and put in the efforts I didn't do any research on it. At this point I'm the final year by Mad applicant at UCL I've got first in all of my exams I've got some sick extra curriculars I started a YouTube channel to become a magician on the side just to kind of boost my grad meds and application and now we're applying and I apply through UK as normally. Yes same thing as before. And then personal statement wise. So personal statement wise you should I mean if we're talking about whether you've got to do it or not yet it's the same. Okay but what makes like a legit personal statement for a grader. For a grad you've got to focus on the fact you're a grad you've done an undergrad you've got more experience than the kids are applying for the undergraduate medicine you've got an edge on them you've got a lot more experience. So the thing that really stands out I think is one if you've done extra research so for example I did three lab internships I think in my undergrad during my summers and Christmas and things so that was a lot of experience that I could talk about that I'm pretty sure that you know 18 year old would have and secondly you want to talk about societies and things that you've done at university because that's sort of your hey I'm a proven university graduate I've contributed to university life I you know I was president of XYZ I was president of what I was white club I think I was president of yeah so it was a women's fitness society at Kings. Okay would you be up for a sharing of personal statement with the world? Yeah sure. So we'll link it in the video description that'll be a bit exciting. Cool so I've got my application my grades absolutely sick I've got a great personal statement that I've you know floured on about why I want to do medicine and why kind of being a grad is like the best thing ever. Now you know let's say I hear back and I get three offers for interview what are the interviews like for grad medicine? They sort of vary just the way that they do for undergrad when I was applying for Cambridge my Cambridge interview I thought would be you know one of those scary college ones where you've got the academic one and the normal one but actually it was an MMI and I think a lot more universities are moving towards MMI just because I think it's fairer and you know you've got the 11 have many stations they decide to do at Cambridge it was 11 stations. Okay so some places use MMI some places you standard interviews and I imagine it fairly similar you know why do you want to be a doctor what makes you legit to be a doctor that's sort of like even split between you know your reasons behind study medicine what your experiences have taught you like or why you know why did your work experience make you want to become a doctor or what did you learn from it and you know talking through ethical scenarios and those kinds of things. Oh so pretty standard medical interview stuff and there's just loads of videos on this YouTube channel that you can check out which will be linked in the video description I shouldn't be looking at the camera absolutely okay so don't mind to be ears and get a few offers are those offers going to say conditional on getting a two one in your degree? Usually yeah yeah and but like let's say I did my degree ten years ago and I've been working in journalism ever since you should get unconditional then. So I think that covers the general chronology is anything we've missed out for grad that would be useful. I think I was going to talk a little bit more about the the strategic sort of applying so just in terms of yeah strategy strategies the important part because this is something you don't really do as an 18 year old applying for undergraduate medicine you kind of go to open days and you have a flurry sort of feeling about the campus that you're at and like oh yeah like the vibe here. Okay so what's what's the strategy for applying to? I sort of the way that I did it I thought I looked at it just as a numbers game so I looked at which universities offer the most places first of all because it's so variable. I think Warwick has the only course in the UK that just does graduate medicine whereas most of the places do undergrad is their main course and then offer a few places for graduate medicine so I think I definitely applied to Warwick because they had a something crazy like nearly 100 places which for graduate medicine is crazy. Most places offer between 20 to 40 places so I applied to Warwick and then I looked at yeah how many of how many places that they offer how many people actually apply to those universities and how many out of those that apply actually get given an interview. Once you've got through that lot of maths then once you get to interview stage how many out of the ones that were given an interview actually get a place. So I worked out that once I got through that whole initial maths bit for Cambridge that if I had managed to get to interview stage I then had to knock out two other people to get a place so I went into their thinking yeah definitely that was that one and that one I'm definitely done better than them and what are the stats of the clock for all the universities? It's very variable so for Cambridge actually there's not as many people applying it as you would think for graduate medicine and I think that's probably to do with a bit of the prestige with applying to Cambridge and it's like a bit scary and people just think oh no that's not for me so the number of people actually applying to Cambridge is quite low in comparison to places like Kings where I went from undergrad so KCL has so many people applying I think it's about 15 or 16 to one applicants to place it's crazy. Okay so you kind of went down to playing the stats sort of route and is that is that what you advocate for people that you know want to apply seriously to graduate? I do because I think that once you've got to a place where you've decided I'm applying for graduate medicine you've obviously given it quite a lot of thought because you're at a certain point in your life where you know what you want with your life you know that you're like I want to be a doctor that's what I want to do with my life so you need to then figure out the the way that is going to get you a surefire way into doing it basically reaching your goals you don't really want to leave it too much up to chance you want to give yourself the best chance possible. Okay awesome so that sounds like a pretty good strategy were there any other tactics that you use to that you can advise people to maybe try out? There was so just going back to their entrance exams thing I sort of looked at the entrance exams and saw what am I going to be spending my time doing because I want to do a balancing act between making sure I'm focused enough on my undergraduate degree to get the grades that I want so not putting too much extra work on myself but also giving myself an even spread of university so not putting all my eggs in one basket of only applying to UK cat universities or only applying to be at universities I sort of did a bit of both so I think I had to UK cat to be met and then I had Cambridge who at the time when I was applying for graduate medicine they need you to do an entrance exam so I had a good even split there. Right so I think that brings us to the end of our strategy discussion. Are there any other kind of general helpful tips before we move on to the Q&A? Yeah so I just wanted to touch a little bit on funding because that's much more important when it comes to grad because if you're you've got several options the first option is you just apply as a grad to an undergraduate course and those you're pretty much certain to get in because you've just got such more of an edge over the undergrads that are applying so you're much more likely to get in on an undergraduate course so you're making your life so much easier if you do that but the problem with that option is you don't get any funding because it's counted as your second degree so if you have the money for it go for it and if you don't mind the extra year of doing the five years. So you're saying if I'm an absolute baller I don't need to bother applying for grad medicine I can just apply for undergrad absolutely destroy those 17 year olds who are applying because I've got sick grades I'm reasonably mature reasonably confident by this point I've started my YouTube channel and I'm a magician on the side as well so as long as I can pay up their nine grand or whatever it costs each year then I'm fine. Oh fantastic but I imagine most people are not in that position where they can just fork out the 50k for a degree. One you don't want to be paying all that money when you could get paid to do it plus do it in last years. If you were I think you mean. Who are you? I'm so sorry Annie. What do you mean get paid to do it? So you get the NHS bursary. Oh so just in your final two years or? No final three years. So it's not even final. It's the second year bed you're fourth year. You get NHS bursary and first year is all funded by student finance. So there's big financial benefits to going for grad. So when you're doing a four year undergrad for your graduate medicine course you get the funding you get student finance you get NHS bursary and if you go to Cambridge you also get the Cambridge bursary which is huge. So and I'm sure like other universities also have their own bursaries and things as well which you should qualify for especially if you're over 25 I think which a lot of grads are when they're applying for medicine. So there's that option. You've got to be careful when you get to a bit of a gray area because some graduate medicine courses have decided to increase the number of years of their course which historically used to be four years to five years. So when I was applying Imperial had decided that they wanted to increase the four year course to five years but that meant that NHS and student finance were looking at that as a second degree. Even though it was still called a graduate medicine degree they decided that that didn't qualify for graduate funding. Okay so that may or may not have changed but I suppose the point is you know keep in mind this whole funding thing because it is a big deal and you don't want to be ending up with a bill for like 15k not realising. Yeah absolutely so I actually ended up not applying for Imperial at all because it was originally one of my first choices and then I thought no I'm not doing that because I don't I don't want to be in that much debt. All right so we talked a little bit about strategy and about kind of as finance stuff any final tips before we move on to Q&A. Yeah just to remind of that make sure that you're looking out whether their universities accepting all that placance so if you're a person who's done an arts degree humanities degree any think other than a biosciences degree make sure that the university actually accepts those degrees and similarly if you're a science grad it's sort of something to hold into your head because obviously they're then possibly gonna have a quota of places that they're filling with you know by arts or non-sciences degree so you're gonna have more competition basically. Okay also there's gonna be more people applying. So we've done this half of the video or I don't know how this so how long this is gonna end up being but let's move on to Q&A so I asked on Instagram this is one of the weird things about like you know having a semi big YouTube channel that people just kind of instantly respond when you ask questions on it was incredible. Anyway I want to ask question um do you think you lose out on anything by being a grad medic rather than an undergrad medic do you think that you have a worse experience than I did as an undergrad being right? Well yeah because it's the first couple of years so particularly at Cambridge where you're doing first year's second year and fourth year in two years it's very intense very very intense so you'll be definitely putting a lot more pressure on yourself to perform and like to um get all of that done in a short of amount of time whereas an undergrad you know undergrad's go off for their five week or six week holidays however long it is at like what is it Christmas Easter and they have these huge summers you don't have all that time as a Cambridge graduate medical student you have to in the time that the undergrad's a you know swarming away for their holidays you're going on like three or four week placements and you have about a week off so. So the grad course is a lot more intense is that true of most universities do you reckon? I think so because most other universities are combining first second year of medicine into the first year so I'm guessing it must be more intense. And then what about and then what about from like the social side of things do suffer because you're like five years older than everyone else? I don't think so I think that's dependent on your personality and your how social you are. I don't think it's much to do with I don't think I let age affect me what do you think? We have the same friendships that I don't think I don't think I'm missing. Okay so let's move on into the Instagram Q&A okay question number one comes from Nira 1-8-9 so what advice could you give for someone wishing to pursue graduate med with a chemical engineering degree or you know replace that with any non-life science degree? First of all do your research so make sure that you're looking at applying to places that allow those sorts of degrees for the applicants. Second of all use your degree to your advantage you're going to be quite a unique applicant compared to all the people who didn't buy medical science you know because there's thousands of those so you've got something different to offer so definitely play to your strengths and use that difference to your advantage. So let in your personal statement being like the fact I did chemical engineering means I'm so suited to medicine because of a blind waffle something around yeah. Okay you've probably got much more interesting things to talk about and you know catalyze on the transferable skills that you've picked up and maybe you've done things like internships and things in your summers that have nothing to do with medicine and all to do with chemical engineering and that's perfectly fine because you'll have learnt life skills and you know things that you can transfer across medicine in those. Okay so in a way it's not necessarily a disadvantage provided you're applying to university that doesn't require a life science degree because I suppose if you're applying to something that does require a life science degree and you've got English lit then you just need it what's the name HX Reson or whatever reasons for post-grad med why Cambridge and how Cambridge that's very very vague. How Cambridge? I suppose how how did you apply to Cambridge that's how did you get in anything funky you did for Cambridge? I'm not gonna lie Cambridge was my fourth choice yeah and I had no expectation back Cambridge whatsoever I didn't do any research for Cambridge I had an open application so I didn't know anything about colleges I didn't research anything about colleges I sort of put it down because I had a spare space on my application because I'd got rid of Imperial and I didn't know what to put and my tutors sort of was pressuring me to apply for Cambridge. Fair enough cool okay this is perfect timing it says Marcus Roy I applied to Cambridge as EM this year do you have any tips for the healthcare slash work experience form? I think that's I think he's referring to the form where you've got to write down like in chronological with sort of like a CV and I traded it like a CV so don't just put down so where it says work experience I sort of put all sorts of other things that I'd done as well I did just put oh I did GP placement from this date to this date and you know hospital placement from this date to this date I also put in I've been you know doing teaching and tutoring and you know work tier and done this and so sort of treat it more like a CV and try and fill that space as much as you can. Okay and is that a Cambridge specific thing would? Yeah so it's to do with the extra form that they give you to fill in after you've already done you cast. Here we go did you target your personal statement at your previous degree slash post qualification experience or did you still include education prior to higher education? Do they mean that did you talk about your A level? I suppose some people in their personal statement well when I was studying A level chemistry I really enjoyed the fact that we do chemical reactions and I sort of don't I don't advocate doing all of that. I really I think it's complete waste of space but but like genuinely it seems like some schools are telling those that are telling their kids that you need to have a paragraph for each and just to find your A level choices. No no no no no. Hard fast don't do that because it's just a waste of space and second you academics you know speak for themselves so on your UCAS you've already written down what you're either what you've already achieved in your A levels or what you've been predicted and that's enough that's all they need to know about your academics so in my personal statements in terms of my degree all I talked about really were the extra research that I did on my own in my spare time not really my degree but obviously I only could do that because I was doing the degree. Excellent all right so thank you Louis Tonner for the question let's move on okay what kind of degrees a suitable for grad medicine I guess we've answered that you know any depends on the uni and actually at Cambridge when you apply and you all sort of on new graduate medics in your first year they sort of say to you historically the people who had non-science backgrounds actually do better at medicine they they always come out better with their grades and results okay so Pagafite says to what extent is grad medicine more competitive than applying for medicine in your 13 just the number of places so they will have much fewer places available in the country and many more people applying and also it's more competitive because you're not usually not usually but like there's a group of people who are applying straight from you know they're undergrad they'll also be people who've been masters and PhD so obviously they do actually have a little bit of a cut above you you know because they've got the extra qualifications and experience and places like Warwick Warwick I think they count they they give you an extra point in your application if you've got a PhD okay so you are in a way more of an advantage the older you are when you apply because presumably you've got more experience to kind of backup your application um our GCSE grades are less important if you're applying to grad med does anyone care about your GCSE grades for that point? No I don't know I don't rather don't remember being asked about GCSEs I remember being asked about my undergrad degree and enable chemistry okay cool so Julie and Daba and Ness or something says how do I prepare for post-grad interview so your prep is not going to be that much different from when you're applying as an undergrad so they still look for the same skills and qualities of doctors that you would if you were applying as an undergrad and what I did is I really just sort of completely absorbed tomorrow's doctors and good medical practice by the BMJ? You mean the GMC? GMC of course absorbed it very well evidently. GMC's good medical practice because the concepts that they talk about in there are really what they're looking for and what you what you're trying to sell to them basically that you've either already got the skills that they want tomorrow's doctors to have or you've been working on developing them and you've got good knowledge about them and you know that they're important so try and work those into your work experience volunteering extra curriculars that kind of thing into your answers and especially also ethical scenarios so when they ask you about you know if patient came in and did this this this what would you as the doctor how would you react or what would you prioritize like you want to be using those concepts in your answers? Cool and then you can watch my videos about medical ethics if you want to find out find out more okay any other tips for preparing for interviews? Yeah so just in terms of mindset so as I said I didn't apply for Cambridge in the sense that I wasn't informed at all I just put it down on my application and I was very very surprised when I was the first interview that I got and I think they give out their interviews really early as well like November or something so I didn't feel prepared and I felt quite scared and worried about it and intimidated as well by back at its Cambridge and it was a two-hour drive from London to Cambridge and I remember that my mum was sort of getting me to practice questions with her and things along the way and as I was answering them she was sort of like wow you sound really scared and you can't even speak properly to me and I'm your mum you know how are you going to be when you go there and then she sort of psyched me up the entire way to the point where I actually when I got out I was sort of bouncing from station to station in the MMI and I had so much energy and she was sort of like you know treat this as a game and treat it as something fun that you're doing because you're not a you're not someone who's making up the fact that they want to do medicine you actually really do want to do medicine this is genuine and that genuineness and your enthusiasm will come across because it's something you genuinely feel and the other thing that she sort of said to me was just feel like you're going in there and you've already got this you've got this if you feel like you've got this that will come across in the way that you speak and act and you know your interactions with people you come across like you're meant to already be there and I found that that mindset has helped me in most interviews that I've done and I find that it helps me like path interviews quite easily because if I go in there thinking I've already got this I think it helps you with your mana straight away yeah that's actually really good really profound advice I was a bit like or because like when you first said mindset I was thinking oh this is going to be some well winning mindset you need to think I got this I've already got this and I was meant to be here I meant to have this yeah I could completely agree I think this is great advice not just for interviews but also for life in general that's kind of you know yeah being confident about this sort of stuff love it okay okay so this person also asks how can I make my application unique in inverted comments um it depends on your background so if you've done a different degree like if you've not done a bias scientist degree or you've worked for a while you know doing some people come from consulting or like you know teaching or anything they've done all sorts of different things your background is often quite unique and I think just within my cohort so there's 23 or something of us at Cambridge in my year where all so different there's there's usually going to be something because you've just got more life experience you've probably done stuff that other people haven't so you're probably already quite unique um to make your application to eat unique I don't really know I mean I guess you could say that to undergrad as well you know I'll eat it magic that made him quite unique why are you talking about me in third person just thinking about that because I'm talking to the person who answered the question oh okay oh I see okay that makes sense I apologize for questioning you on that on that very clever um yeah I think that's that's quite a generic question and I don't think it's very specific to grads so I think you could do anything to make yourself unique awesome so that brings us to the end of the questions uh a few people did ask questions kind of in advance of this like some guys sent on this like 10 questions but I totally forgot to screenshot it and I forgot to save it and because I'm such a popular guy these days I just have hundreds of Instagram messages so so I can't find his list of 10 questions or apologies to that guy whoever it was this is more an exercise of I'm so popular I mean you keep that but I just have to sprinkle that into every single thing I do these days um okay so I think that brings us to the end of the conversation and you find all any final remarks um a couple of things I wanted to say one um it's quite easy to feel intimidated by other grads because if you're someone who's done a BSE like I have and haven't done you know masters in a PhD and you come across these people applying and you feel like oh my gosh like they've got such so much more you know qualifications so many more qualifications so much more experience than I do and it's easy to feel quite intimidated by them and get like a sort of imposter syndrome especially when you're at Cambridge um don't feel that way because you've got to where you are for a reason and if you all get onto the same course then you're sort of starting once you I think get to interview stage you're sort of on an even kill with everyone then it's more your performance at the interview that counts and what happens from there on in in terms of being at university I think you should really relish the fact that you're a student again because a lot of people are age are now you know adulting on the grind like they have responsibilities and bills to pay exactly whereas we're now students again and you know that's a rare opportunity and I think you should definitely enjoy yourself and enjoy this time that you've got yeah I'm kind of jealous I kind of want to do a second degree just a third degree rather just fun okay well thank you very much for coming on the channel on the podcast wherever people are hearing this um cool so we'll leave your contact details or we'll leave links to your Instagram at least in the description and then people can message you and if you want you can reply to them and we'll put a link to your personal statement in there and yeah hopefully people have found this useful thank you very much for coming on the show no worries all right see you later thanks bye
