# How Much Money I Earn as a Doctor + YouTuber
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VTTp5A-rSdc
In this ridiculously long and detailed video, I'll take you behind-the-scenes of my Youtube channel and various businesses to show how much money we've made in 2020. Please do take the trigger warning at the start into account. And please also understand that this is not an overnight success story, and there's no (legit) way to make money online without large amounts of work, luck and unfair advantages, of which I've had plenty. 

If you've got any questions, chuck them in the comments and I'll do my best to answer. 

🧠 The Part-Time YouTuber Academy - https://academy.aliabdaal.com

PS: This is all pre-tax revenue, and it all goes into a company account. Then I pay salaries for 2.5 full time employees, lots of money for various contractors, consultants and coaches, and an obscene amount of money for various software subscriptions. The money then gets corporation taxed. Personally, I don't withdraw very much each year and when I do, I get hit with 37.5% dividend tax and 9% student loan repayments. So this "top line business revenue" has very little association with the numbers on my personal bank account, in case you're trying to estimate my personal net worth from this video. Maybe I'll talk about that some other time, but yeah - please don't rush to any conclusions from this video on that front :) 

00:00 Intro
06:29 Junior Doctor Salary
11:15 Adsense
25:06 Affiliates
28:28 Sponsorships
33:33 Courses
40:20 PTYA

How Skillshare royalty payments work - https://help.skillshare.com/hc/en-us/articles/205222697-Earning-Royalties-

💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://go.aliabdaal.com/subscribe-sundaysnippets

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - 
 https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
🎬 YouTube for Beginners - Everything You Need To Know To Start  - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/YouTube-for-Beginners

MY CREATOR COURSES
🎬 Check out my free 7 day email course on how to become a part-time YouTuber: https://aliabdaal.com/part-time-youtuber-crash-course/
🏆 Creatorpreneur - My flagship course for scaling up your creative side-hustle → https://creatorpreneur.academy/course
🗣 Camera Confidence - My self-paced course on how to improve your creativity, career, or communication skills → https://cameraconfidence.aliabdaal.com/

MY FAVOURITE GEAR
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) -https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

🎙 Check out my weekly podcast, Deep Dive - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/ - It's also available on all podcast platforms, including Spotify, Apple Podcasts etc.

MY FAVOURITE TOOLS
🚀 VidIQ - How I optimise my YouTube videos - https://go.aliabdaal.com/vidiq
✍️ Shortform - The BEST summaries of books - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
📚  Readwise - How I remember what I read - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise
🎵  Epidemic Sound - Where I get my music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound

MY KEY LINKS
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com/
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I’m Ali, a YouTuber, podcaster, soon-to-be author and ex-Doctor working in London, UK. I make videos that explore the strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. I also have a weekly podcast called Deep Dive (https://www.youtube.com/channel/UChfo46ZNOV-vtehDc25A1Ug), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://go.aliabdaal.com/subscribe-sundaysnippets).

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, how much money i make, how much money I made, youtuber money, youtube money, doctor salary uk, how much do youtubers make, how much money youtubers make, how much does ali abdaal make, ali abdaal net worth, how much money 2020, online business, how much money i make on youtube, how to make money on youtube, how much money do youtubers make, ali abdaal vlog, how much money i made on youtube, how much does youtube pay, how much do small youtubers make, 
**Date:** 2020-12-28

## Transcript
 Alright, so in this video, I'm going to break down all of the money that I've made in 2020. Firstly, from what used to be my full-time job, working as a junior doctor in the UK's National Health Service, but then I'll also talk about the various different sources of active and passive income in my life from being a YouTuber and the businesses surrounding that. A few caveats before we get started with this, so I am all about transparency and honesty when it comes to money. I think the fact that we as a society treat money as a completely taboo topic and you're not allowed to say how much money you're making and you're not allowed to talk about money. I think that leads to a lot of problems and actually for me, when I first got started with this whole journey of entrepreneurship and being a creator, it was seeing other people being transparent about how much money they were making and crucially how they were making it that helped me get started on this path. Now, doing a video like this is always going to have its drawbacks. There's kind of two sets of drawbacks. One drawback is for me because if I talk about how much money I make, I run the risk of looking like a track. The other drawback is that 2020 has been a difficult year for a lot of people and so my concern is that if I post a video like this, which some people will interpret as look at me look how much money I'm making, that when we're in the middle of a global pandemic, when tons and people have lost their jobs and have been struggling financially, feels like it would be in poor taste and I really wasn't sure whether to post this video or not. But I did a poll on Twitter and Instagram and YouTube and on all three of those polls, around about 85% of people said that I should post a video and only about 15% said I shouldn't post it. And to be honest, there was one kind of category of comment that really summed it up. It was that, you know, this sort of video helps and inspires and benefits and educates some people in the world. There are going to be some people who watch a video like this and feel bad about it, but no one is forcing you to watch this video. I trust that you have the self-awareness that if you've been struggling through the pandemic, you probably don't want to watch this video. If you know that looking at someone else's salary and seeing how much money they make is likely to cause you to feel bad for whatever reason, please don't watch this video. Please consider this your trigger warning upfront. The example I like to think of is that I personally don't like watching horror films. I think they're boring and I think no one cares and I don't understand why people watch horror films because they're just not fun. But I have a choice about whether I want to watch a horror film or not. I would not complain that why is Netflix still making horror films just because I don't want to watch them. Secondly, it's worth addressing why I'm making a video like this. Now there's two main reasons for it. Number one is because this sort of stuff gets a lot of views. Now being a YouTuber whose YouTube career is built off of essentially getting views, which is the case for every single YouTuber, we all are doing whatever we can to get views. And I'm open and transparent about money and I know that this is the topic that's likely to get views because other people are intrigued by this thing. So having owned up to that upfront hopefully, you as the audience won't hold it against me that I'm making a video like this to get views because that's literally how the game works. Hit the player, don't hit the game. That's not other way around, but whatever. The second reason for making this video is more altruistic. I made a similar video in May of 2020 where I broke down how much money I was making as a doctor and from different sources of passive income in a random week in March. And off the back of that video, here I got a lot of views, which was nice. But more importantly, lots and lots of people message me on Instagram, Twitter, email, YouTube, whatever. Saying that that video inspired them to start their own entrepreneurial or creative journeys. And I personally know at least a dozen people who have started YouTube channels and started making online courses off the back of that video where I showed how much money I was making passively through the stuff that I've been doing over the years. So my hope in making a video like this is that it'll inspire some of you guys to start your own creative slash entrepreneurial journeys. It's actually to take it more seriously because as you can see kind of what is possible if you seriously pursue trying to make a living on the internet. The final caveat that I'll say before diving into this video, it's going to be a long series of caveats, but it's important. The final caveat is that this takes a lot of work and it takes a lot of time to get right. I have been working on making money on the internet since the age of 12. I am now 26. So for the last 14 years, I've been spending a large amount of my free time trying to do various things on the internet to make money online. When I was in school, I taught myself how to code and every year, me and my friends were trying to come up with a new business idea and build a website around it and every single year all of those things failed. And on top of that, I started working as a freelance graphic designer and web designer was making like a few tens of dollars like here and there from hours and hours of my own time helping other people build their websites. Now for about seven years, none of this stuff really made any real money. But when I was 19 and I was in my second year of med school, I built a business and that was the first thing that I've done that ever succeeded and it succeeded really well. But I think a big part of what I succeeded. Firstly was luck. Secondly was a lot of unfair advantage that I had, but thirdly it was the fact that I had been trying to do this business thing for a solid seven years before then. So none of this is an overnight success. This business was successful for several years and then in 2017 in my fifth year of medical school, I started my YouTube channel. And again, that was a long and hard slog. It took me 52 videos to hit my first 1,000 subscribers. I did not make any money in basically the first year of putting out two YouTube videos every single week for a whole year. And on YouTube for the last three and a half years, I've basically been publishing two videos a week on average every single week without taking a break at all. I think it was one week. I think that Christmas of 2018 where I took a break from publishing for a week. So why am I saying all normally I don't like talking about this stuff because there are so many different factors that go into something being successful. Luck plays a big part of it and I've been really lucky. And lots of lots of unfair advantages and privileges have played or are another part of it. But I was talking to friends of mine and they said that sometimes if you're just watching my videos, you don't see the behind the scenes of what is going on. And I might give the impression that actually all of this stuff is really easy. I don't like talking about this because actually it was just fun for me and it was a lot of work. But I considered it fun and when you consider it funny, it doesn't really feel like work. But I do not want anyone to walk away from this video thinking that getting rich on the internet is like an overnight success thing. This has taken me literally 14 years, like this is 14 years of work, kind of getting home from school, getting home from uni, getting home from work and putting in hours and hours into improving things like design, coding, editing, filming, all this stuff that has led to this point. So please don't think this is an overnight success story. There is no such thing as an overnight success. It always takes work and that is going to be a point that I'm going to keep on returning to throughout this video that if you seriously want to get to this level or even more or even less of making money online, you have to put in large amounts of work over a very long period of time. But the good news is that all this is really, really fun so it won't feel like work hopefully. All right, with all of that caveatting and virtually signaling out of the way, let's now break down all the various sources of income in my life, starting with my salary of being a junior doctor. So I graduated from medical school in July of 2018 and I was working full-time as a doctor in the UK's National Health Service from August of 2018 through to August of 2020 and now as of December 2020, I've been unemployed for four months in that I've taken a one year break from full-time medicine so that I could do this internet stuff. I was intending to travel the world but then the pandemic happened and so I'm stuck sitting at home in Cambridge making silly internet videos like this one. Anyway, breaking the numbers down from how much I owned this year, I worked full-time as a doctor from January through to the end of July 2020 and so that was seven months worth of work and in those seven months I owned around about 22,100 pounds. I was working as a senior house officer on obstetrics and gynecology and my average working hours were 46 hours a week on average. Some weeks was more some weeks a bit less but it averaged up to about 46 hours. So if we take that 22,100 pounds and divide it by the 1,288 hours that I spent at work this year, that comes up to an hourly rate of 17 pounds an hour. But if we take commuting into account, I had to drive an hour and back to get to work every single day and so overall 10 hours per week of commuting means that it was 280 hours of commuting over the seven months and so my total hours kind of getting to work and working for 1,568 hours and if we calculate the real hourly rate, it ends up being around about 14 pounds an hour. This is before tax, this is before like the petrol cost of going to work back and forth but around about 14 pounds an hour. This is fine. This is reasonable. It's a very reasonable living to make 14 pounds an hour from working full-time as a junior doctor and as you know in the UK as you get more and more senior, you're paying creases a little bit and to be honest working as a doctor is quite fun. I enjoyed it and I enjoyed the commute because I can listen to audiobooks and podcasts and none of this really felt like any kind of hardship. Now a few reflections on this point in the UK, it is very popular for doctors to complain that they don't earn enough money and yes, if you compare our salaries, if you compare my salary as a doctor to my friends who are the same age who went to the same university who studied things like maths, economics or law who are now working in London doing fancy jobs, working for big law firms or for big investment banks, they're making in the region of I don't know, 150,000 pounds a year, sometimes even 200,000 pounds a year, sometimes 100,000 pounds a year, those are the sorts of salaries that you get to in the UK when you have been a fully qualified consultant for many, many, many years and if you're doing a little bit of private practice, like the standard salary for a consultant, a fully qualified doctor who is about age 35 in the UK is about 100,000 pounds and friends of mine who are like two years out of university studying law or economics are making that basically from day one and so when we compare our salaries to that of our friends it seems like it's very low but objectively doctors are still in the top 20 percent of earners in the UK and so it's nothing really to scoff at. I do not want to give the impression in this video or any other time that working as a doctor was like really, really, really hard and like you know we're making a sacrifice because we actually do get paid very reasonably for working as a doctor. Now the reason I am not personally a huge fan of kind of the full-time medicine thing is usually it leads to reliance on a single source of income and I think in general when you're reliant on one thing for like a big chunk of your life or your lifestyle that is potentially a little bit problematic at least that's how I see it and there's a question that I always like to ask doctors when I would hang out with them being like hey if you won the lottery would you still continue to do medicine? In every time I've asked this question about half of the people say they would leave medicine completely in fact one dude even said he would leave in the middle of the operation and the other half of people say that yeah I would I'd still do medicine because it's fun but I would go part-time and the next question when I ask why don't you go part-time now it's always related to do with money it's always something like I've got a mortgage or I've got bills or I've got a send the kids to private school or whatever and so I've been asking this question to doctors since I was in my first year of medical and that response made me realize that for me personally I'm not saying this is true for everyone but for me personally I don't want to be in a position where I am doing a job full-time and I feel like I have no other options because of the money situation so ever since my first year of medical and actually from the age of 12 before then I've been trying to make money online but when I started asking this question that was when I really started taking it seriously because I knew I wanted to get to this point of financial independence that's not to say that I don't want to be a doctor because I do I just want to work as a doctor part-time rather than full-time I think working three days a week as a doctor would be really fun but working five days or six days or seven days a week as a doctor as fun as the job is doing I feel like doing anything for that long runs the risk of burnout and stress and all these different things and I kind of want to have a bit of a life outside of work so that was how much money I had as being a doctor in the UK in 2020 22,100 pounds which is around about $25,000 something like that and as you'll see this makes up a very tiny slice of the overall pie of the money that I've made this year so now let's move on to the more creator entrepreneurial internet ways of making money the next big source of income in my life and in the life of most youtubers is Google AdSense which is basically those five second ads that you see on YouTube videos before the video and sometimes even those little like auction banner ads that you see underneath the video if you want to get started doing this you need to have a thousand subscribers and four thousand hours of watch time on YouTube which takes a while to get for example for me it took me 52 videos and six months to hit a thousand subscribers so if you're thinking of getting started on YouTube then it takes a lot of videos let's talk about the numbers now so in 2017 I was doing YouTube for six months I made 59 videos and I had 1,600 subscribers by the end of 2017 in total I made a revenue of 1 pound and 76p in 2017 basically made zero money on YouTube then in April of 2018 I turned on the monetization button on my channel because I couldn't because I knew it was gonna make some kind of money and that year I made 88 videos in 2018 so on average one and a half videos week to make a total of 147 published videos and approximately around 120,000 subscribers now this was pretty rapid growth it were it's about I think three times faster than the average person takes to hit 100,000 subscribers and in 2018 the channel made a total absence revenue of 12,329 pounds and 67p so not quite enough to sustain a full-time living but coming pretty close to it and like with all things you know these are on an exponential compounding curve in that the more effort and time you put into it the more likely you're able to succeed of the long term in 2019 I was a bit of a slacker I only made 62 videos which was on average one point something a week bringing us to a total of 209 videos and at the end of 2019 I had around 450,000 subscribers and that year I made an absence revenue of 33,186 pounds and 14p so almost matching what I was earning as a junior doctor working in the UK 33,000 definitely a full-time living if you're a youtuber living in the UK that was in 2019 in 2020 things have been really taking off and things have become particularly insane so so far this year I've published 98 videos giving us giving us a total of 307 videos and I've got just under 1.3 million subscribers as of the time of this recording this is the 15th of December and so far my videos have got 57 million views in 2020 and I've made 100,695 pounds and 12p off of Google Ads since I eat those five second ads on YouTube so far and we've still got about two weeks left to December so that might increase it a little bit this is absolutely insane this is like an absolute ton of money to be making and this is how much kind of to compare it to a doctor a consultant working full-time who is a bit anywhere between the age of like 35 and like 65 would be making working in the national health service let's reflect a little bit on this so like every good thing in life the progress is slow but if you keep at it consistently over a very long period of time then things will hopefully start to compound like I said it took me 52 videos to get my first 1000 subscribers so if you have started YouTube and you have not yet made 52 videos and you're not complaining that you're not yet on 1000 subscribers then you know that's how long it took for me and actually mine was twice as fast as the average number of people who do YouTube in fact let me give it a round of slide let's put this number into context as well so I recently finished my first cohort of a live online course called Pop Time YouTuber Academy and this is a slide a series of slides that we showed people asking the question of how many videos you need to make to succeed on YouTube and this is data that comes from TubeBuddy which is a YouTube Chrome extension thing and they've analyzed data from millions of channels that they've got access to so have a think about this like what do you think is the average number of videos that it takes for a YouTube channel to hit a million subscribers like genuinely have a think about it and just come with a number in your head the answer is 3,873 videos what do you think is the average number of videos it takes to hit 100k to a million subscribers well she body tells us the average number is 1,171 videos the average channel which is 10k to 100k subscribers has 418 videos and the average channel with 1k to 10k subscribers has 152 videos a 152 videos is the average channel that's between 1k and 10k subscribers these are the numbers for my channel so it took me 52 videos to hit 1000 subscribers and then 91 to hit 10,000 it took me 92 videos about 10,000 and then 143 videos did 100k 287 videos to hit a million and now we've got like 310, 315 something like that videos on the channel and things are growing so if you compare these numbers with the average my channel grew twice as fast initially as the average and is now at the point where it's growing 10 times faster than the average because like everything things compound over time so hopefully this gives you an idea you know about what it takes on average to get started on YouTube and to achieve kind of this level of numerical success so if you look at my numbers there are a lot above average but it's still quite a large number of videos to get to this point now another thing that we teach on on the course the part time youtuber academy is the three factors that it takes to get success on YouTube although this applies to everything in life which is that success equals work multiplied by luck multiplied by unfair advantages work in the context of YouTube means consistently putting out tons and tons of content you know I've been doing it on average twice a week for the last three and a half years if I'd done it three times a week we probably would have grown faster if I'd done it once a week we probably would have grown slower but it does take a consistent level of work and it's not just about pumping out content it's about pumping out content and trying to make it as useful as possible so that involves doing lots of research figuring out what the audience wants trying to teach myself lots of different things trying to present it in like a way that makes sense trying to get the production value spending tens of thousands of pounds on camera equipment spending more than tens of thousands of pounds on like growth coaching and analytics and other people to help consult on the channel and figure out how to make a grow it of all spending hours and hours and hours watching tons of tutorials about how to edit videos because I knew absolutely nothing about editing before I got started and later this year it's involved hiring a team so now we have two full timers and me and a pod timer system working to keep this channel running this is quite a lot of work it also involves getting home from work each day you know hard shift working as a doctor hashtag saving lives whatever whatever you want to call it and sitting on this desk in front of the computer for like six hours every evening making more videos writing more videos even doing some editing now filming videos like all of these different things this is quite a lot of work if we're asking is it worth it the answer is absolutely yes for me because I enjoy this stuff it really doesn't feel like work and there's a great quote from Navarrovacant which is that you want to find something that looks like work to others but it feels like play to you and all of this stuff most of the time rather about 80% of the time feels more like play to me than it feels like work and to be honest if I wasn't enjoying myself this wouldn't have been worth it like I just wouldn't have been able to keep up this level of consistency and this level of output if I wasn't already having fun on the along along the way and one thing that I always like to keep in mind is this quote from Brandon Sanderson's book the Stormlight archive which is journey before destination like the journey is more important than the destination and if you can enjoy the journey along then everything in life becomes fantastic because you're having loads of fun doing the thing and then if you're doing it for long enough and consistently enough and just stacking up all the different unfair advantages then you might even succeed on the numerical level if that is what you care about let's talk about luck now so luck is obviously important you know I got lucky I was in the right place at the right time and the way the YouTube algorithm works is sometimes your video is going to take off and sometimes it's not and you can never really control this you just have to put your best into every video and you hope that the algorithm gods will reward you by making a video go viral but the way I think of it is that there are different types of luck there is the sheer dumb luck that comes from buying a single lottery ticket and winning it that you know that is just pure luck no one could control that but then there's another sort of luck which is the sort of luck you get when you put lots of work into something like for example let's say you watching this you were to make it your life's mission that anytime you go on the streets when it's not a pandemic or you're always wondering is anytime you go out on the streets you would make it a point to say hello and have a 30 second conversation with every single person that you meet then maybe after a few weeks a month of doing this maybe you meet someone who happens to be an investor or wants to invest in your company or you meet someone who happens to end up being your spouse or whatever people might look at that and say well you got lucky because you stumbled into the right person at the right time but in a way you did make your own luck by just doing this thing a lot of it out a lot of times and most of those didn't lead to anything but some of them would and it's kind of the same when it comes to creating videos on YouTube or building businesses or making content online or writing or anything like this like the more stuff you put out into the world the more you increase your surface area for lucky events to happen to you and there's a nice quote from Gary Vaynerchuk which is that it just takes one piece of content to change your life you just never know which one that's going to be and so the solution Gary says and I agree is to just keep on popping out the content and not worrying about the numbers just trying to make it as good as it can be while having fun along the way and eventually you'll hit your lucky break basically every YouTube that I know and including me it's like you know most of our videos get like a baseline level of views which is on average 20% of your subscriber count but then very occasionally you will have a video that goes viral somehow for whatever reason and then that will bring in loads more people to your channel so for me earlier this year it was the video or I just said how I type really fast that's got like three and a half million views already that has been a huge boost to the channel but like you know most of the other sort of 100 videos you publish this year haven't done particularly well in terms of the numbers but you just have to put out tons and tons and tons of videos keep making them as good as they can be and eventually you'll get a lucky break thirdly let's talk about unfair advantages and that's the third component of what makes things successful and this is pretty common in like the business and startup world it's like if you have an idea for a startup why why you like what are you why are you the best placed person to do that particular startup or reasonably well placed enough to make that startup succeed and as the same with YouTube to be honest it's like what are your unfair advantages what do you bring to the table that others don't necessarily have you don't really need unfair advantage just to start YouTube and in fact it shouldn't be a barrier but if you want to stack the deck in your favor like I've tried to do for myself and for the people that I help coach in my youtuber academy if you want to stack the deck in your favor you want to work with your unfair advantages and so with me for example my unfair advantages other than the huge amounts of privilege I've had in my life was that I was a medical student and I was a medical student at Cambridge University and I could trade off of the brand name of those two things and so the first videos I started to make were not random videos about productivity they were videos aimed exclusively at people applying to medical school at Cambridge because I knew I could help them I knew I could add value to those people then I started making interview tips for medical students I knew a thing or two about interviews I interviewed like 15 of my friends and we all gave lots of interview tips which people seem to find useful to help them get into med school then I started making vlogs about life as a medical student at Cambridge and again appealing to that very specific tiny subset of people who were looking to apply to study medicine at Cambridge this is a tiny tiny niche audience but I was very well placed because I had the unfair advantage that I was in this position so I could appeal to that particular audience if I tried instead to make getarity tutorials despite being really terrible at guitar that wouldn't be an unfair advantage it would be a little bit pointless I've got friends who've been playing piano for like 15 years that's an unfair advantage it's really hard for someone else to compete with you you've been playing piano for 15 years and you're absolutely sick so if they were to make piano tutorials then that would be there unfair advantage so firstly I had the medical student and the Cambridge medical student thing going for me secondly my unfair advantage was that I'd been doing this graphic and web design stuff since the age of 12 and so when I started my youtube channel at the age of like 23 you know I had 11 years worth of experience making stuff look pretty and so hopefully things looked reasonably aesthetic straight off the bat and I had that eye for design which had developed over the 11 years which was a huge unfair advantage compared to other people who might not have done that and finally at that point I had a successful business that I'd been running for four years at that point and so I could use the money that the business generated to buy fancy camera equipment and lights and microphones and stuff and get the production value right from day one so again another complete unfair advantage and I'm being honest about this because you know I don't want to pretend that oh as long as you just work hard you will succeed because that's a total myth you do have to work hard I hate the phrase work hard because I'm in flight like you know this is not like coal mining it's not like you know something is actually hard you know like working night shifts as a doctor which is actually hard this is sitting in front of a computer and making videos so I don't I really hate the phrase hard work but you know you have to put in the work and it's kind of fun but also there's luck and also there are unfair advantages so those are the three factors that I think have contributed to my YouTube channel growing faster than similar size channels would normally grow and so if you're thinking of getting started on this journey and you want to get started on YouTube my advice would be follow this three step formula make useful videos publish them once a twice a week and do this for two years if you can follow those three things I guarantee 100% that your life will completely change I can't put any numbers on it because there's a dozen different factors that go into the numerical success on YouTube not the least being lucky breaks in the algorithm but I can 100% guarantee that if you're right now you decide you want to study YouTube channel you make useful videos I eat videos that at least one of the person finds useful you publish them once a twice a week and you do this for two years I want 100% guarantee that your life will completely change and two years from now you're going to send me a thank you email saying I saw your video talking about how much money you made and it inspired me to study YouTube channel and I've kept at it consistently every week for the last two years and now my life is completely different thank you so much you're going to send me that email most of you watching this you're not going to do it because well hey maybe you don't want to study YouTube channel which is fine but if you do most people don't stick with it for two years you just got to do it for a long time it's just it's just how it works now I've got a phone call so I'm going to see you back in just a moment alright we're back I've had dinner I've done a live stream and here we are again at uh 1020pm anyway let's now talk about the other different sources of monetization for the channel and the business and to be honest all of these ones that we're now going to talk about are related directly to the fact that I've been pumping out two videos a week on YouTube for the last three and a half years and the more you kind of do that the more you and then unlock these other different avenues for monetization and the more those to compound over time so one of the perks of putting out content regularly that's hopefully useful is that over time you build an audience of people who know like and trust you now that means that if I am promoting a product like I don't know the paper like screen protector for the iPad Pro or the IQ Unix F96 keyboard or like the analog to do list from augment or like a speaker or a pen or whatever anytime I'm promoting something people the audience theoretically are more likely to listen to that recommendation because hopefully I've built up this bank of good will and this bank of people who like know like and trust me and therefore a recommendation from me seems and is more sincere than a random recommendation from a random website and so for my channel in my business affiliate income makes up a reasonably hefty chunk of it now affiliate income is when for example if you want to buy the paper like screen protector you go to paperlike.com forward slash alley and if you buy it using that particular link then I will get a certain percentage kickback on the sale of that product if you check out my affiliate link for this keyboard I will get a certain kickback and this all starts off very small like at the start when you don't have much of an audience and you use an Amazon affiliate link you'll make maybe one penny or two pennies but when you have a large audience and you start kind of getting affiliate links for products that cost more than just a few pounds and you know it costs a few hundred there's cost like 30 euros this stuff really starts to add up over time so for me I've got affiliate partnerships with lots of different companies and there are five in particular that are particularly successful number one is paperlike number two is IQ Unix number three is epidemic sound the guys who are used to get my music for these YouTube videos number four is Amazon because Amazon has the world's largest affiliate program and number five is actually an online course called Building The Second Brain that's run by my friend Tiago Foto for today which I promoted through an affiliate link earlier this year when I was in alumni mentor for the course now I'm not gonna break down how much of this comes from each of these different sources because that would probably be a bit unfair on these companies but between these five different affiliate partnerships in total in 2020 I've made 132,471 pounds this is not bad at all this is a hell of a lot of money that's over 10,000 pounds a month so over 13,000 dollars a month just from occasionally plugging like this thing or this keyboard I mean like I've made one video about this keyboard I have not even made a video about the screen protector this year I have never made a video about epidemic sound I made two videos about being the second brain and I've never once made a video specifically plugging an Amazon product but because I use these things on a daily basis and people see that I use these things and I have links in my video description that have links to these things it just means that over time as you have a very big audience then these this affiliate income really starts to add up bear in mind that this does take ages to get started so for example in my first year on YouTube I made absolutely nothing from affiliates in my second year of YouTube I made a few thousand pounds from affiliates and it's only in my third year and beyond on YouTube that this affiliate income is actually started to get to be an interesting large number how do you get started if you want to build a affiliate income well it's the same thing the same three step process as I discussed before create useful content put it out once a twice a week do this for two years if you do those three steps I guarantee you will have an audience of people that know like and trust you and then you can start plugging your affiliate wares and you'll start making reasonable amounts of money from those hopefully if you want to get started with affiliate programs the easiest one to sign up for is Amazon associates basically anyone can sign up for this and then you get like two or three percent commission on every sale that someone makes on Amazon using your link which is quite nice let's now talk sponsorships now I got my very first sponsorship or brand deal which is like it feels like the holy grail for youtubers I got my very first one in July 2018 which was a whole one year after I've started producing videos on YouTube and at that point I had 120 videos and 50,000 subscribers again this is a very long game occasionally I get emails from you know youtubers starting out saying hey you know how do I get my first brand deal and my answer is always like look first make 120 videos and then worry about getting your first brand deal because this is this is all a long game this is a marathon it's not a sprint so for me in 2017 I made absolutely nothing from sponsors in fact overall in 2017 I lost a few thousand pounds because I was buying camera gear and stuff in 2018 I made 5,700 pounds from sponsors it was meant to be an extra 3,000 pounds but I did three brand deals for a thousand pounds each and the influence of marketing middleman company that gave me those three brand deals actually went out of business and I got a letter in the post saying they were in liquidation and so I never got any of so 5,700 in 2018 2019 was pretty good in 2019 I made 31,000 pounds from sponsorships 31,000 pounds is a reasonable full-time salary but as I'm going to keep coming back to it took two and a half years of making two videos every week to get to the point where I was making a full-time salary off of brand deals on YouTube how do you get started with doing the same thing well again as usual just create valuable content or useful content put it out once twice a week and do it for two years and then you'll get the sponsorship deals rolling in you won't even have to worry about it 2020 has been a particularly interesting year because I joined an agency called standard towards the end of 2019 now this agency standard is amazing it represents about 100 different educational ish creators and Thomas Frank actually introduced me to the agency when we first had a chat and other people part of the agency on my friends Simon Clark and Rohin med life crisis and legal eagle and windover productions and all these you know a lot of cool people in this agency and it's all it's been really nice to be part of but the cool thing about being part of an agency when you're starting out on YouTube you really don't have to worry about this but like three and a half years in now when you part of an agency standard is amazing because they just source sponsorships and brand deals and we work with basically the same brands but they've got enough of a budget and the videos and the advertising spots perform well enough that at least for my channel they keep on coming back and want to sponsor more and more videos which is fantastic and so now I work with like a very small number of brands but fairly regularly like notion and Skillshare brilliant and curiosity stream and there's probably a few more that I'm forgetting but yeah there's like very few brands and it's just kind of week after week that we get the sponsorship deals from them now I can't tell you how much money I've made specifically from sponsorships because I'm still working with them and it's against the terms of my contract or something like that it probably is I haven't really really that carefully but I can give you some rough numbers based on public domain information so if we look at the website grapevine logic they have a blog post where they explain that if you're a YouTuber if you're deciding how much to charge for a brand deal usually you go between $20 and $30 CPM CPM means cost per meal or cost per thousand views and so at the lower end a youtuber with theoretically charge $20 per thousand views and at the higher end you theoretically charge around $30 for a thousand views how many views does the average youtuber get well you know if you look at a lot of different sources online they would say that the average youtube channel can expect to get about 20% of their subscriber count in views for each video on average and so if you have 100,000 subscribers you can expect it to get 20,000 views per video 500,000 subscribers and you get 100,000 views per video my average subscriber count this year has been around about 800,000 subscribers so if we use this 20% calculation that means theoretically on average my videos are getting 160,000 views and if we apply the 20 to 30 dollar CPM range that means for each sponsored video I would make $3,200 to $4,800 again if we're using this broad general data if you look back in my channel I've been doing sponsored videos most weeks this year and so let's say 90% of the 52 weeks in 2020 I was doing a sponsored video that means I have 46 sponsored videos this year and overall based on these numbers that means my channel revenue from sponsored videos is somewhere between $147,200 and $220,800 so somewhere in that bull park range let's call it $180,000 as like a bang in the middle bull park figure my actual numbers are different to that in certain ways but again I'm not going to disclose those I'm just giving you this rough bull park figure so we can use that moving forward based on this public domain data what does this mean if you're a beginner youtuber well what this means is that because this is a 10 to sort of 20 to 30 dollar CPM but that's an views basically don't worry about brand deals until you've been making content once a twice a week for two years because once you've done that then you'll have enough of using your stuff and you'll hopefully have built an audience of people who know like and trust you so that when you plug square space or skill share or developer or curiosity stream or nebula or brilliant or whatever those recommendations will be taken seriously by your audience so if we use $180,000 as a bull park estimate convert that into pounds which is 136,000 pounds that means the cumulative total is now 22k plus a hundred k plus a hundred k plus a hundred and 32k from affiliates plus a hundred and 36k from sponsors which leads us to 390,000 pounds in overall revenue so far in 2020 let's now talk about the two biggest sources of revenue on the channel and yes again these are both associated with just the fact that I've been pumping out two videos a week for the last three and a half years and like I'd like all these things they compound exponentially over time and so if you're a beginner then maybe this is a place you can get to at some point but you can't get here unless you put in the work of just pumping out a video after video after video relentlessly for a solid three and a half years and let's start with Skillshare which is a fantastic way of making money when you have a big audience because what a Skillshare Skillshare if you haven't heard is an online platform that it's sort of like Netflix for online courses and they sponsor some my videos they sponsored one like last week I think so US the user you sign up for to pay $10 a month or something and then depending on how many videos you watch and how much watch time you clock in on Skillshare classes the people who created those classes the teachers they get paid kind of like with Spotify streaming royalties so for example on Skillshare it kind of varies depending on kind of what the different economics are but each month you can expect to get a few cents per minute of premium watch time so if every minute that someone watches your thing you'll make a few cents sometimes it's varies like sometimes it's like one cent who sends sometimes like five six cents it kind of changes depending on various factors I'll put a link today block post on the Skillshare teacher handbook which fully explains this so that's one way of making money from Skillshare in terms of watch time but the other way of making money from Skillshare is to use the Skillshare affiliate program which is that anytime someone signs up for Skillshare using your special affiliate link then you make $7 or $10 depending on how early you signed up to this particular affiliate program so these are my numbers for 2020 in January 2020 I had one class on Skillshare my video editing class that month I made $2,800 from royalties I you watched time and $300 from affiliate links which was a total of $3,105 and $189 in February it was pretty similar $2,643 in total of which 2,280 came from affiliate sales now right at the end of March was when I released my first what my second Skillshare class about how to study for exams and that was unlike the final day of March and so in March I made $5,680 in 57 cents but then because that class was active through throughout all of April at the end of April my earnings through Skifram Skillshare were 29,746 and 84 cents of which 9,340 was from the affiliate kind of people signing up to Skifram using my link mostly to watch my class right at the end of May I released my class on how to use anti flashcards again on Skillshare that was active for the final two days of May and so in May I made $40,926 in 99 cents off of Skillshare this class was active through all of June and then at the end of June I released a productivity Skillshare class and so in June we climbed even further to 56,547 dollars in 21 cents and since then in July September October and December I've released like a productivity class at Stosism class and a cooking class and so this is what the numbers have looked like up until October July was 62,541 August was 60,522 September was 67,363 October was 66,194 and I would estimate November and December because numbers haven't quite been added up yet I would estimate that that's going to be about 60,000 each for November and December this is absolutely insane if we add these numbers up that means that from Skillshare watch time and affiliate I just by virtue of the fact that I've got seven classes now on Skillshare in 2020 so far I've made $515,000 now if you had told me this even a year ago that I'd be making $500,500 like half a million dollars from Skillshare by just releasing courses and teaching what I know online I would have definitely had a stroke and I would have accused you of trying to kill me or something because this is just absolutely mental let's look at the numbers a little bit more so if we look I've got a hundred so far I've got a hundred thousand one hundred twenty four students in my class and those have watched about eight million minutes of watch time and by the end of 2020 this will be about 9.5 million minutes of watch time that means so it's a hundred thousand students each watching on average 90 minutes worth of content and if we run the numbers in this that is only about five dollars per student in overall revenue so I've got a hundred thousand students have taken my courses overall this year I've made 550,000 therefore run about five dollars 15 cents for every student who has taken a course on Skillshare that's mine again this is not actually how it works you know how it actually works is as I've explained with the watch time and with the affiliate revenue but like I'm kind of averaging these numbers overall and it kind of shows that a platform like Skillshare you can make a lot of money on Skillshare but only if you have a very large audience because you don't make that much money for every individual student why do I put my courses in Skillshare well because basically they're free for people to watch anyone can sign up to a free trial of Skillshare and can watch my courses and because a lot of my classes in Skillshare are aimed at students I like the fact that I don't need to chart like charge any real money to students because like my studying class on my productivity class on my stoicism class you can all basically take those for free so Skillshare is a very interesting model which seems to be profitable for them even though a lot of people can take the classes for free using the free trial and if you continue beyond the free trial and it's just like 10 dollars a month it's actually completely worth it now the takeaway from these numbers should not be hey Skillshare is really profitable let me go and make a class on Skillshare because as I've shown you like yes you can make money on Skillshare and as they say on the teacher handbook some of their top teachers are making over a hundred thousand dollars a year off of Skillshare but you do need to have large numbers for this to work properly and I got an email from someone you know I talked about the power of Skillshare in my video in May or I talked about that in that month I earned like five thousand dollars of Skillshare in the end of March and someone emailed me saying hey I put you know you said Skillshare was great and I made a piano class but only two people have watched it it's like okay there is a video of a miracle how to make money online the three levels and yes you can make money online by selling courses but it's just so much easier when you have an audience of people who know like and trust you who will buy your stuff or will watch your Skillshare classes when you put something out if you don't have an audience it's so much harder to get your work out there in front of people because why would anyone want to buy from you if they don't already know like and trust you which is why again coming back to this if you actually care about making money online if you care about replicating this success or whatever you want to call it the only way to do it really in my make useful videos do it once twice a week for free on YouTube and do it for two years and then after two years you can start making Skillshare classes I made my first Skillshare class in September of 2019 which was two and a bit years like nearly two and a half years after I started posting videos on YouTube if I had started Skillshare classes from day one they would not have been particularly profitable I probably would have not made very much money on them even if the classes were really good because so much of my success on Skillshare and like all of these different platforms comes from the fact that I have this pre-existing audience on YouTube that again I've spent the last three and a half years two two videos every single week just like banging out and hopefully these videos are semi-useful so converting that $515,000 into pounds it's 350,000 pounds and if we add all of the things up that means the total so far is 740,000 pounds for 2020 the final thing I want to talk about the final source of revenue in this coffin is my new live online course called the part-time YouTuber Academy now I had the idea for this roundabout August September time and it was very kind of loosely in my head and initially I was going to do this as like a you know I was I was I was thinking up to doing as a Skillshare class and I was the or alternatively I was thinking about just selling it for like $100 or $200 on my own website and then I spoke to my mates Tiago Forte and David Perrell who run their own courses called Building a Second Brain and write a passage now both of these courses are very expensive building a second brain starts at $1,500 right a passage starts at $4,000 and I've taken both of these courses and they're both really, really good and one of the things that makes them really, really good is the fact that their life online courses where you're like learning on lives in calls secondly there's like a really engaged community of people who are serious about it and thirdly these courses are really good because they charge so much money for them like we're no longer in the age where content is the thing that's holding people back there's like limitless content on the internet now the thing that stops people from learning on the internet or learning anything is in fact the accountability and the community aspect of things and so when I spoke to Tiago and David what they said to me was like look you're making this youtuber academy thing hypothetically if you were to charge a thousand dollars for it how would that change your approach to it I was like oh gosh charging a thousand dollars for a course I've never done that before and I said okay if I were to charge a thousand dollars I would do it live I would do it over four or six weeks I would make sure I'm very very actively involved in it and I would do whatever I can to get success for our students and so thanks to Tiago and David's advice about how to actually make a good online course these days I decided you know what let's try this out as a live cohort and initially I thought maybe five or ten people would sign up to this course but in the end we had three hundred and sixty paying customers and the overall revenue from cohort one of the course was two hundred and ninety four thousand dollars which is two hundred and twenty thousand pounds that is a lot of money I had no idea it would be the successful in cohort one and actually we've just wrapped up last week and we had our after party like yesterday and we've got so many glowing testimonials people saying that this course has changed the life and really helped them either improve their YouTube channels or kickstart that YouTube channels and it's just become a really lovely wholesome community and this would not and could not have happened how do we not done it as a live course and I think how do we not charge the high prices that we did we go to have had a lot less serious people taking this course so we're going to run the second cohort in February registration for it so now open if you want to check it out link in the video description but really the strategy here for this sort of stuff is that this course is the first thing that I've truly charged money for in my entire like online YouTube career thing classes on Skillshare in my book don't really count as charging real money because you know anyone can basically sign up to the free trial and it's like if you have a documentary on Netflix and you say to people hey watch my Netflix documentary like Matt DiVellis doing you're not really charging the audience for it they've already got a Netflix subscription and they just happen to be watching your documentary equally for affiliate deals I don't feel like it's it's me charging the user for the thing whereas this is the first time I've actually charged real money for something and I was really really really really scared about it initially because it was like oh my god this is actually going to be good people actually going to bear you they're going to have a good time and for the most part like 99% of people who've gone through a course have had a fantastic time of it we've given out like three refunds thanks to our kind of no questions asked money back guarantee out of the 400 students in total have taken this course which I think is a pretty reasonable a reasonable rate of doing things now again obviously the lesson here shouldn't be that hey why don't you as a you know watching this video go and do your own live online course because if you're if you've got the audacity to charge several hundred to several thousand dollars for a course people won't just sign up to that for no reason like this is again just a case of if you build an audience over a long period of time an audience of people who know like and trust you then when you start charging real money for a product which is actually good people will be happy to pay for that money and will be happy to pay for access to you and another reason why I was really scared of charging real money for this course is because I didn't quite realize how diverse my audience was yes I saw on the YouTube analytics that actually my videos are popular between like the 24 25 to 34 age demographic and mostly in the US and in the UK but you know a 35 year old in the US is not the sort of person you know who has money to spend on this sort of thing and wants to take YouTube seriously and wants to use it as a business that's what a person is not the same person who's commenting on my videos the people who comment on my videos are a very very different demographic to the people who I'm aiming this course at if you're watching at the end of this and you are for example under the age of 18 this course is not aimed at you it's not for you like you might be annoyed oh my god how can you possibly charge a thousand dollars for a course but it's it's actually not for you it's for people who want to treat YouTube as a business and who want to invest in it and take it seriously and actually like how have the people on the course had preexisting profitable businesses on the side and they want to use YouTube to grow their business that is a very different market to a 16 year old student from Pakistan watching this channel and thinking oh my god I can't believe Ali has the audacity to charge real money for something and it took this experience of running this course to help me really appreciate this and now I'm totally okay with charging large amounts money because I know that the more money people pay for something the more likely they are to actually take action and actually do it like if a course is free basically no one is going to go through it because it's like oh it's just free content it's a commodity at that point whereas if it's a premium experience people are paying a hell of a lot of money for it and they have intimate access to me my team and the community that is what really gets people results so overall revenue from the course so far has been £220,000 and so overall that brings us to a total revenue of £960,000 for 2020 and I thought this was going to be where it ends and I was like oh we're not going to hit that million mark but in the final week of the course we had tons and tons and tons of students who were part of the course saying that they just loved it so much and they loved the community and the accountability and they wanted a way to keep it going and so after doing lots of discussions with the team we decided to make like an alumni in a circle membership program where we charge students $50 a month to sign up to this membership program and that is like a community it's like monthly coaching calls with me and it's like guest workshops with the team and it's like loaded content and like weekly events and in fact we've got daily daily zoom calls, co-working sessions and homework club and we've got like a whole load of stuff and we're charging people $50 a month for it which is like a complete no-brainer it's like so so so worth it in terms of the value that people are getting from this and actually in the last few days we have launched this in a circle membership program and actually we have 124 members and overall we've made $71,400 from the first cohort of people who've signed up to the annual membership for this in a circle thing as a way of continuing their YouTube in journey which means that adding up all of these numbers my overall revenue for 2020 for the business has been £22,100 from my full-time salary as a doctor for seven months, £100,000 from Google AdSense, £132,000 from affiliates, £136,000 all thereabouts from sponsors, £350,000 from Skillshare, £220,000 from the first cohort of the Ponta in YouTube Academy and £53,000 from the first cohort of the inner circle signing up to annual memberships which brings us to an overall grand total of 1,13,000 pounds which for the Americans among us is 1.362,000 US dollars, the Alacad, this is just absolutely absurd it's just absolutely mental never in a million years did I think a YouTube channel and like you know the stuff of course is around it would make a million pounds a year or a million dollars a year it's just seemed completely insane but over the last year as the channel has has grown as the team has expanded and as I've made lots of friends over the internet who were also making this level if not more than this in terms of money online it's just really it's just yeah I don't really know what to say partly thank you to the audience for doing the stuff thank you to all the students who've signed up for our stuff and hopefully you've learned something from this video like I don't really know what else to say it's just this thing this thing of like if you care about making money on the internet then it's just absolutely next level when you can build an audience of people who know like and trust you and if you can just keep on doing this plugging out useful content for free wants to try it once or twice a week on YouTube for a period of several several years YouTube will have an audience of people who know like and trust you I can't promise you you'll get these same numbers these numbers are insane but I know people who've been doing the same thing who have numbers even higher than this I've got a friend with 500,000 subscribers who makes two and a half million pounds a year off of its coaching program that's pretty insane you know there's this whole world of like online entrepreneurship out there for creators and the really cool thing about this is that there is no real way of selling snake oil like the way to make large amounts of money on the internet is to provide value at scale because ultimately money is just an exchange of value and if we think of making money as being an evil thing then whenever gonna make money but if we think of me it's sort of making money as a fair exchange of value or perceived value which is actually just value then actually making a million pounds a year off of educating people online I think there's that's actually pretty reasonable because it shows value creation at scale anyway if you enjoyed this video it's really really really long video I'd love if you can leave a comment with like a Clover emoji just because I want to see how many people got to the end if you like this video and you're still here you should definitely check out this video which talks about the three different levels of making money online which is kind of a more how to guide or how to get started doing the stuff thank you so much for watching I'll see you in the next video bye bye
