# How I take notes on my iPad Pro in medical school - Cambridge University medical student
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=waR3xBDHMqw
📝My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://paperlike.com/ali
🎬 My FREE 4.5-hour 36-video online class on how to study for exams - https://skl.sh/2UOx68x 

In this video, we talk about my strategy for taking notes with the iPad and Apple Pencil. I use an iPad Pro but would probably recommend the new 2018 iPad with Apple Pencil if you're buying a new one. We talk about the benefits of taking notes with an iPad vs traditional methods, we talk about Notability vs OneNote (I prefer Notability), and I share various techniques of note-taking that I use in lectures, seminars and hospital placements. Enjoy xx

🍿WATCH NEXT
How I Ranked 1st at Cambridge University: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-46Vyiwat_Y&t=644s
How to Study for Exams: Evidence-based Revision Tips: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ukLnPbIffxE&t=602s
How I Manage My Time (10 Tips): https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iONDebHX9qk&t=1s
My Favourite Note-Taking App for Students: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ONG26-2mIHU&t=35s

TIMESTAMPS:

00:48 - iPad vs hand-writing vs typed up notes.
03:19 - iPad Pro vs normal iPad with Apple pencil
04:18 - Notability vs OneNote - Which one I use
06:54 - How I take notes with Notability in lectures
08:31 - How I take notes in seminars with handouts
09:27 - How I take notes in clinical settings + split screen mode
11:07 - Annotating PDFs with Notability and iPad
11:41 - Sheet music annotation
12:16 - How I use the iPad to take notes in day-to-day life
13:03 - Wrap up

💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://go.aliabdaal.com/subscribe-sundaysnippets

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - 
 https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
🎬 YouTube for Beginners - Everything You Need To Know To Start  - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/YouTube-for-Beginners

MY CREATOR COURSES
🎬 Part-Time YouTuber Academy - My 6-week live online course on becoming a part-time YouTuber → https://go.aliabdaal.com/parttimeyoutuberacademy
🏆 Creatorpreneur - My flagship course for scaling up your creative side-hustle → https://creatorpreneur.academy/course
🗣 Camera Confidence - My self-paced course on how to improve your creativity, career, or communication skills → https://cameraconfidence.aliabdaal.com/

MY FAVOURITE GEAR
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) -https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

🎙 Check out my weekly podcast, Deep Dive - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/ - It's also available on all podcast platforms, including Spotify, Apple Podcasts etc.

MY FAVOURITE TOOLS
🚀 VidIQ - How I optimise my YouTube videos - https://go.aliabdaal.com/vidiq

✍️ Shortform - The BEST summaries of books - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform

📚  Readwise - How I remember what I read - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise

🎵  Epidemic Sound - Where I get my music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound

MY KEY LINKS
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com/
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I’m Ali, a YouTuber, podcaster, soon-to-be author and ex-Doctor working in London, UK. I make videos that explore the strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. I also have a weekly podcast called Deep Dive (https://www.youtube.com/channel/UChfo46ZNOV-vtehDc25A1Ug), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://go.aliabdaal.com/subscribe-sundaysnippets).

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** ipad pro, apple pencil, how to take notes, how i take notes, ipad for college, ipad pro for students, ipad pro for college, ipad pro 10.5, ipad pro 2018, apple pencil review, notability, ipad for college students pros and cons, ipad for college 2018, ipad for college students, ipad for college notes, ipad for college note taking, using ipad for college, best ipad for college, apple ipad pro for students, ipad pro for students 2018, medical school, study tips, 
**Date:** 2018-06-02

## Transcript
 Hey guys, welcome back to the channel. If you're new here, my name is Ali. I'm a finally medical student at Cambridge University and today we're going to be talking about how I take notes using the iPad and the Apple Pencil. In terms of structure, this video is going to be split up into three parts. In the first part, I'm going to talk about why I use the iPad at all as like a hybrid method of note-taking versus handwriting or typing up notes. In the second part, we'll talk about exactly which iPad I use, which when I'd recommend and then I'll talk a bit about the app, noteability that I use and why I use it. And in the final bit of the video, we'll talk about exactly how I take notes in lectures and if I have a handout and various different use cases and I'll show you how I use noteability. As usual, everything's going to be timestamped in the description below. So, if there's bits of the video that you'd like to skip, you can just skip to the appropriate section in the timestamps. But now let's jump into it and let me explain why I use the iPad at all for taking notes. So, the way I see it, there are broadly two ways of making notes. You can either handwrite your notes using pen and paper and nice colors and highlight and stuff. Or you can type the notes up using an app like one note or ever note and type the notes up on your laptop as a lecture as happening. The reason I use the iPad in the Apple Pencil is because I think both these methods have the disadvantages and the iPad and Apple Pencil method combined the advantages of both and eliminates the disadvantages. So handwriting is quite good because there's a lot of evidence that if you handwrite your notes, that increases retention versus typing them up. When you handwrite your notes, you can kind of categorize the topic into spider diagrams. You can use different colors, you can draw arrows, you can draw boxes. You can do all these things that mean that you're processing more of the lecture and distilling it into the important bits in your handwritten notes. The fact that handwriting is quite slow also means you have to be selective in what you put down, which means you're more inclined to distill and actually use your brain to make the notes. Obviously, the disadvantage of handwriting is that you end up with dreams and dreams of paper and I've got a lot of friends of handwrite their notes and they admit that actually they don't really look at the handwritten notes very often because you know, the quite hard to find. You've got to go through and grab your ring bind of file from your bookshelf. You've got to open it up. You've got to find the right page. It's just very cumbersome to deal with handwritten notes kind of in the long term. Typing your notes up solves this problem of accessibility. Everything's all in one place. Everything is synced across all your different devices. The problem with typing that I find is that especially if you've got quite a fast typing speed and I imagine most of you watching watching this video will because we've all grown up with computers. If you have a fast typing speed, you can just like transcribe what the lecturer is saying and you tend up not really taking much in. So I used to do this in first year and I'd find that I'd make a perfect copy of what the lecturer said, including all the kind of idiosyncrasies, the umms and hours, but not really of taking anything in and I have to read through like a 10-page document of like you know an annoying transcription of the lecture to actually get what I wanted to say. Even when I wasn't transcribing the lecture and a word for word, I found that the notes that I would take while typing would just be kind of a little bit of prose if you bullet points a bit prose for a few bullet points. And it was just quite a not very appetizing thing to do like to look through the lecture notes and to add stuff to it if just a bit bland. So that's why I didn't write like typing up stuff. Now the reason I use the iPad and the Apple Pencil is because I think it combines these to you get the best of both worlds with handwriting like you handwrite your notes on the app that I use no to ability. And you also have all the search and sync functionalities that make typing notes really effective. Obviously the main disadvantage of the iPad is that it's quite expensive. This is an iPad Pro. The new budget 2018 iPad does have Apple Pencil support and it does solve some of the problems because it's about half the price of the iPad Pro. But if you're a student and you've got a very tight budget then this is probably going to be the most limiting factor that's the price. But if you think you're getting an iPad if you've got an iPad if you're getting one for graduation or anything like that then I think you might want to watch the rest of this video because hopefully I'll be giving you some tips on how I use no to ability to take notes in various different scenarios. So let's talk about now about which iPad I'd recommend. As I said this is the iPad Pro. I'll put the prices over here as of kind of today. This is the iPad Pro. It has Apple Pencil support I bought it last year. But Apple recently released a 2018 iPad as well which has Apple Pencil support and is about half the price of the iPad Pro. So the only difference between the iPad Pro and the iPad is that the Pro is slightly more powerful and the Pro has a slightly decreased distance between the pencil and screen or like the screen and the thing. So that it feels a little bit more like you're writing on paper whereas with the 2018 iPad you have a little bit of a gap. Our most videos that I've seen on YouTube say that you don't really notice this gap with the 2018 iPad unless you're like a digital artist. So if you're just buying an iPad to take notes in school or at university I'd probably recommend the 2018 iPad rather than the 2017 iPad Pro. The 2018 iPad is about half the price of the iPad Pro. But at some point I'm going to borrow one of my friends 2018 iPads and we're going to do like a full-on comparison. So if you'd like to see that let me know the comments and I'll expedite the process of that happening. So by this point we've got an iPad now what Apple do I use? The app I used as I said is called Notability and I think Notability is the best note taking up for the iPad. Provided you have a Mac OS device that you use as your laptop or desktop. The problem with Notability is that it's not available on Windows which means if you're using Windows you should probably use something like OneNote. I've heard very good things about OneNote and OneNote for Windows is very powerful. OneNote for Mac is less good. But for the rest of this video we're going to be talking about Notability and why I like it. So one of the reasons why I like it is that it gives you a good structure to structure your notes and so you get in dividers and you get within dividers you get subjects. So depending on the layout of your course, depending on how you want to organize things that's quite an intuitive way of doing it because it's how we naturally split things up when we're doing hundreds of notes into dividers like folders and then subjects within that. Secondly Notability is nice because you have lots of different colors that you can highlight stuff in and you can write in like a nice shade of blue you can highlight in like a nice shade of pink. So like I quite enjoy writing and this kind of little dog blue. Hello and then if you want to highlight you can use green which is quite fun. I also like the fact that Notability integrates nicely with Google Drive and Dropbox so because all of my life is on Google Drive and I want to import a PDF it's very easy to import straight into Notability from Google Drive. You just click the import button and you can import directly from Google Drive as a PDF. Also if I'm scanning something like a document on my iPhone using Scannibal the app I can convert that to a PDF and add up it to my iPad. Open straight up in Notability. It's quite a seamless process from getting notes in real life or in PDF format into Notability itself. And also another reason I like Notability over one note is because Notability restricts you to writing on pages. The problem I found with OneNote is that it gives you like an infinite horizontal and vertical canvas which means your notes can span like a huge amount of space and that does have its uses but I think because we're all used to writing on paper I think the fact that Notability limits you to writing in different pages is really helpful. It's helpful because it kind of forces you to stick to this A4 size page of writing stuff but it's more helpful if you want to share your notes and sharing is really important sharing is caring especially in medical school we should all be collaborating and sharing on notes. If a friend of mine asks for my notes all I have to do is export it as a PDF and I can send it to them. Whereas when I used to try and share OneNote drives you have to share the link to the OneDrive thing and it would never work and if you try to export it to a PDF you'd end up with this really weird shaped PDF then no one would be able to read. I'll be honest I've not really tried many of the other apps the ones I've tried a OneNote no-to-ability and evernote and of those three I love no-to-ability the most. There are a few others like good notes and stuff like that but there's loads of other YouTube videos where people compare good notes with OneNote and a few of the other ones that if you really want to kind of shop for more you can find them but the one that works for me and this worked for me for the last like four years is no-to-ability and I've not really looked back. Now I want to talk you through some of the use cases that I find and how I use no-to-ability to take notes in those use cases. So let's start with lectures. Lectures are a staple of all university courses. How do we take notes ideally we want to be pre-reading the lecture notes or the slides to get an idea of what the broad subheadings are and then we can kind of write those subheadings down right at the top of one note but more often than not most students including myself we tend not to pre-read the lecture even though we should. So most of one note taking tends to be in the format of like while the lecture is happening we're taking notes. So a couple of weeks ago we had a revision lecture for radiology that I am going to show you and I think that illustrates some of these principles nicely. Radiology revision for finals let's go all the way to the top. So as the lecturer was saying important things I was writing stuff down this is what writing stuff looks like and you know you can draw dot you can draw arrows you can like color things in you can use the highlight to highlight things of that helps. So I was doing all of that as the lecture was happening and that actually just generally helps me be more engaged with lectures otherwise I tend to find that I fall to sleep in lectures it's very easy to fall to sleep but if I'm taking notes and I'm focused on a understanding what the lecture is talking about and be distilling it into decent note format that also looks pretty that engages my brain enough to keep me away. Another really good feature of noteability is that you can take pictures as you're going along and include them into your notes. So radiology is quite an image-based subject so as the lecturer was putting up chest x-rays and stuff on the PowerPoint I was kind of getting my iPad up taking a photo of it and then putting it into into noteability and then like highlighting them. So as you can see we've got quite a few chest x-rays here we've got some annotations we've got some some highlighting that I've done and if I wanted to I could draw more boxes and you can basically do anything after you've done with an image you can like move it around you can crop it and yeah you just end up with like a good set of notes for the lecture that can look quite pretty as well. So that's what happens in lectures that have PowerPoints. We had a class yesterday actually where we had a handout instead and it was like a small group session that wasn't really a PowerPoint it was just a handout we were working through the handout. Now I don't like handouts at all because I lose them and they get crumpled up in my bag and I don't like paper I've got completely paperless. So what I did is I used my phone and used a scanable app which you can get for free on a phone to scan in the little bits of paper the handout that we got it was like a seven page handout. I scanned it all in using scanable converted it to PDF, air dropped it across to my iPad, opened it up in noteability and this is what it looked like. We're talking about prescribing fluids. So I started off by just making a standard standard page in noteability and kind of writing some stuff down some stuff about what's good fluid replacement is and how to deal with hypone atremia that's a reduced sodium and then I added the PDF that I'd scanned in. So as you can see this is the handout there are some questions here and I was able to annotate and kind of fill in the work sheet as we were going along in our session and now I will have this on my iPad on my Mac on my phone like forever. Thirdly I find that the iPad is really good for making notes in real life especially in clinical scenarios. So let's say I'm observing a GP consultation and the patient has mentioned something I would like make a new note and let's say they're talking about their like chest pain or something and at some point they mentioned the phrase that they've got Ebstein's anomaly. So I would write this down in my notes and I would think I don't really know what Ebstein's anomaly is. So this is a very easy day to get easier way to get around that. I can just open up Safari and split screen mode. I can go on Google. I can type in Ebstein's anomaly and then I get the results straight there. Ebstein's anomalies are congenital heart defect in which the septal and posterior leaflets of the tricuspid valve are displaced towards the apex of the right ventricle of the heart. So if that means anything to me I can just kind of select it on the iPad and the really cool thing is you can just like drag and drop. You can drag and drop text. Let's say I want this image. I can just grab it. Drop it straight into noteability. Water time to be alive. This is absolutely incredible and if I want I can just draw a box around it I can like highlight stuff. I can like change the color and draw on a picture and I'm doing this all while the patient is there kind of in this room. Obviously you want to be paying attention to the patient but indie circumstances when you do have to look stuff up that is quite critical for you to understand. Having an iPad there is so much better than getting your phone out because getting your phone out means that everyone thinks you're like texting on your phone. It just looks really rude having a phone out. Whereas if you have your little iPad and your pencil out and you're like writing stuff down and actually actively paying attention and looking at things out making it. That looks a lot more professional. It looks a lot more legit rather than getting your phone out. So that's another reason why I really like using tablets in the workplace environment. So what else is notable to be good for? It's really good for annotating PDFs of books and just kind of having there is a store of various PDFs. So hypothetically if I were to download PDFs of medical textbooks rather than buy the 50 pound versions of them or perhaps an addition to buying the 50 pounds version of them. Hypothetically I'd be able to import those PDFs into no-tability and let's say it's a multiple choice questions book. It's got some questions on it. I can just kind of answer them on the iPad and I'm not kind of ruining it. I can always kind of rob them out if I have to but it's just a very easy way of getting a lot of textbooks onto your system reading through them a highlighting annotating thing whatever you want. On the note of annotating PDFs I've also recently started to learn how to read music on the piano. So I downloaded loads of sheet music and I have it like in a sheet music folder organized by you know classical pop Disney, Yeruma music from musicals and to get some of you in a sound of music climb every mountain or this stuff. Apparently the opera will ask if you so you see I've managed to download the sheet sheet music online and put it in as PDF and actually one of the songs that I'm learning is Jarrod Radnitz version of Pirates of the Caribbean and because I'm not really good at reading music I've been able to annotate stuff using no-tability so I can write down the names of the notes right on the names of the chords and that helps me kind of learn a bit better. And finally I use it as a general note taking up just for life in general. So if I ever have an idea for a YouTube video I would just kind of make a new document about it. This is the one that I made about this very video. I had the idea on the 24th of February 2018 apparently and I had this idea of what I would make what I would say in the video and kind of extended it over time. And the reason I like handwriting notes is that it encourages me to make more notes. Normally I just type stuff out but typing stuff out is quite boring. Whereas you know putting up a plan for a YouTube video together by like you know writing stuff down and doing arrows and doing boxes and making it look pretty encourages me to actually do it. And I think that alone is worth having the iPad for if it encourages you to improve your note taking into taking more notes about you know general ideas, general day-to-day life. That's a really useful thing. So yeah those were some of the ways that I use noteability. I hope you found that useful. I think that brings us to the end of the video now. We've talked about why I use the iPad at all for note taking rather than handwriting or rather than typing notes up which are the other tools. And in terms of we've talked about which iPad recommend probably the budget 2018 one that does have Apple Pencil support. But I've got a more detailed video comparing the iPad Pro and the 2018 iPad coming up at some point. Soon hopefully we talked about which Apple use noteability all the way unless you have a Windows computer in which case you probably want to use one note it has broadly similar features. And we talked about a couple of use cases like you know lectures, handouts, in-clinical scenarios, sheet music, general ideas, annotating PDFs of books, all that stuff. So I really hope you found this video useful. A lot of you have been asking how I use the iPad for note taking because I you know use it all the time in my study with me videos. So I hope this is giving you some insight into that. If you liked the video please give it a thumbs up. If you haven't subscribed to the channel please consider doing so. Have a lovely day and I'll see you in the next video. Bye-bye.
