# Tailored suits in Hoi An (Vietnam) - Cambridge Medical Elective #11
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wiuEDpZGAw8
Hoi An was probably our favourite location in the whole elective. Such a beautiful little town with a lot of character and charm. 

Who am I:

I'm Ali, a final year medical student at Emmanuel College, Cambridge. This vlogging thing seems quite fun so I'll be vlogging life and other things throughout the year. I'm pretty into music and coding as well, so maybe there'll be some of that on this channel.

Follow me plssss:
- Snapchat: aliabdaal
- Twitter - https://twitter.com/AliAbdaal
- Instagram - https://instagram.com/AliAbdaal
- Website - www.aliabdaal.com
**Keywords:** Cambridge medicine, Cambridge medical student, Cambridge medicine vlog, Cambridge medical student vlog, medical student, medicine vlog, medicine, medical student vlog, Oxbridge, Oxford, Cambridge, cambridge medicine, oxford medicine, bmat, 6med, bmat crash course, bmat tips, ukcat, medicine interviews, 
**Date:** 2017-08-19

## Transcript
 Good morning friends, today we are in the beautiful city of Hoyan or it might be a town which is about halfway up at the Vietnamese coast. We spent all day here yesterday and it's really really nice and pretty and yesterday it was quite exciting because me and Ben ordered tailored suits to be made and also some tailored shoes. So today is our first trying on session for those. Hoyan is famous for its custom tailoring, so we thought while we're here we might as well splash a bit of money and get something that allows us forever. That's a plan anyway. So I think now we're going to cycle down to Old Town and see you there. So here we are in the Old Town component of Hoyan. We found a coffee shop that has air conditioning for where we're going to tide the time until we need to go to the tailors. Oh, just spend an hour editing a female maths video. Which you should watch if you are taking a female and see it up with maths. And we're on our way to the tailors. This place is really going to come to life at night time where the lanterns are on and it looks all pretty. So if you stick around for that, you'll see it. I just thought you... Well, the very crafty fruit seller tried to charge us a hundred thousand Vietnamese don for like two mangoes and for photo-taking privileges. Hundred thousand Vietnamese don gives us that fruit grid, which is quite excessive for two tiny mangoes. That's why you've got over your own price beforehand. Here we are. I'm so happy. I'm so happy. I'm so happy. I'm so happy. I think you can get there if you sit there. We have a fitting at 12.30. Okay, please still have a kiss. Okay, we're going upstairs to the fitting rooms. It's a friendly suit from the first time. So that was fitting number one, with my back tomorrow at noon, 15 number two, and then tomorrow evening, for the final fitting. So, mine was pretty nice. Needed to be in front of me. I'm so happy. So, that was fitting number one. With my back tomorrow at noon, 15 number two. And then tomorrow evening, for the final fitting. So, mine was pretty nice. Needed to be in more SIM fitted a lot. Although a few of our friends came here last year. And they got quite a lot of weight over the electric. So when they got their suits, that's what it brought you on them. And then put some weight back on when they got like the England. The suits didn't fit anymore. So, we need to avoid that at all cost. That would not be ideal. So, this is the Hoyan Riverfront. And again, it really comes to life at the night time. It's in boat over there. We might go for a boat trip. I think Ben and I are going to find a haircut place. I don't really need a haircut because I don't have hair, but he does. And I'm going to try and get some kind of head and neck massage. It should be nice. Oh, my days. The heat here is absolutely ridiculous. Taking shelter in this fan condition. Or that has a sneaker table. A quick game of sneaker. And then we're going to go try on the shoes and see if they're ready to. All right. That was pretty great. Children with coffee shop. Most of the afternoon. More than ever jacket. Another shop. Her shoes. More than two pairs of shoes. Now we're going to roam around. Grab dinner. And then we'll just game in front. And one of those people that has like a set of months cream. How to play. This place is absolutely glorious. And it's so great that we get like three days here. All the shops and restaurants were open to us, partner. Pretty buzzing for this one. And we're going down an alley to get our bikes. And I'm going to cycle to the Game of Thrones place. Oh, that episode was amazing. Today we've been in wonderful day. It has to go home now. Getting early night. And come back again to your tomorrow. Thank you very much for sticking around. Please give it a thumbs up if you like the video. Please subscribe to me how I'm already. And I'll see you in the next one. Bye-bye.
