# Students' Wilderness Medicine UK Conference - Cambridge University medical student VLOG #14
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wq4b928Q32g
This episode focuses on our 3-day adventure at SWMUK (Students Wilderness Medicine UK), a conference for medical students and paramedics interested in expedition/wilderness/mountain medicine. We camped out in some random field in Nottingham for 2 nights, attended some inspiring talks and workshops, and had a generally great time. 

This whole wilderness medicine thing is something I'd never imagined myself wanting to do, until I got involved with CUWMS (Cambridge University Wilderness Medicine Society) in 4th year. Now I think I'd really like to explore this avenue of medicine further, and as such, this conference was a really eye-opening experience. 

Previous vlogs of wilderness medicine trips:

1. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-6YiD77uWD8 
2. https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=QxXwfMrWYPE

Who am I:

I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking 

📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal 

🎬 My online course on video editing - https://skl.sh/32TpEvm
🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
**Keywords:** wilderness medicine, SWMUK, students wilderness medicine, wilderness medicine conference, expedition medicine, mountain medicine, expedition medicine conference, CUWMS, cambridge medicine, cambridge medical student, cambridge medic, cambridge student vlog, cambridge medic vlog, cambridge medical student vlog, oxbridge medicine, oxford medicine, medical school, medical student, 
**Date:** 2017-11-25

## Transcript
 Hey guys, welcome back to the channel. We are in some random field in Nottingham, and we're here for a three day wilderness medicine conference thing So we're gonna be camping tonight in tents and then tomorrow We've got like workshops and lectures and like scenarios and things like that That's gonna be really really fun first thing first we need to set up the tent We need to find the campsite need to sort our lives out and it's just our draining which is a little bit unfortunate Lay out the tent Alright guys, we're in a tent We're gonna take a night. This place is pretty awesome so far everyone's been pretty friendly And we've got the workshops tomorrow morning and Brad breakfast and like tea and hot chocolate And it's gonna be it's gonna be wonderful. We'll see you in the morning. Good night Morning guys. That was quite an inventful night of sleeping in a tent that got more and more wet That's the night progressed. I was not very comfortable at all, but hey, we're here now now. We've got breakfast and then I think the workshops are gonna start Okay, so first of all, welcome to the conference. Yeah, right really excited to see all really excited So have you guys meet the speakers through the workshops the talks and we've got a few good things Line up as well. I don't know if it's getting pale Yeah, and I've got this done and we're trying to get out on that mindset. That's what you might've seen Chesterings, you have Backthalf Mass, intravenous canulars in this equipment, you'll find them in there. You've got to work together to save this cash to his life You see a shell coming out of here a shell coming in first thing you're thinking is shit There could be gas in that. So your immediate thing is you take take and then Grab your breath right right with your bag Take your children That's so cool I feel great. I've learnt a lot gain new skills I don't think I'll put B in a military environment to practice my skills, but hopefully I'll remember them It was really good. I like your realistic dummy. I didn't expect to be stabbing needles into it, but that was fun All right, we just done our first workshop with the army guys and that was so so fun like they got us in the tent using all the equipment Really kind of high energy pretty intense Really got the adrenaline going but it was really really good learned to have a lot and we'll had a really good time Alright guys, we just finished our day of lots of talks We had a really nice workshop in the morning and then the talk throughout the day was really inspiring really good There was this lady who was talking about like humanitarian medicine There was just guy talking about aerospace medicine So it's all kind of people doing interesting things with medicine But combining them with other The suits to carve out cool careers from themselves. That was quite inspiring and now we're just waiting for pizza And we're going to play some cards chill with the people in the in this big tent. It's going to be great You Guys, we're going to call it a day now the cali is still going on behind us But we're going to head back to the tent. We're going to have to be our place and follow the man Not really knowing I reckon See you tomorrow morning One of you guys it's the final day of the conference We're going to pack up the tent grab some breakfast and then attend some more talks and workshops before heading back home heading back to Cambridge Well, we warm and dry last night camping other tent was awesome We made friends with this girl who had this massive tent so he slept in that and we were dry throughout the night, which was was amazing It really makes you appreciate how good a dry night sleep is when you've been wet for a night, but yeah, it's really good time All right, so we just had some talks from more people who are into this whole expedition medicine thing The first was from a doctor who's done loads of product abroad and he was talking about our students and junior doctors can get involved with this sort of stuff Kind of giving practical tips then we had a lady who's done some like humanitarian projects abroad as a junior doctor Talking about her experiences and then we just ended with some guy who's done research on astronauts Talking about how to cope under extreme environments maintain a message from from these talks seems to be that if you want to Be a good expedition medic you need to be a good mountaineer generally So talk about developing those skills The conference has been great. It's been a bit cold. It has been a bit cold But wet but worth it we want to learn a lot of the new skills. I'm heard from your focus I think we've left inspired to take on careers in Expedition and wilderness medicine We've met people from loads of different Unies and forgotten all of their lives Who was possibly my favourite new friends of the conference Despite the fact that she was totally fickle She was only ever interested in my friendship when I had pizza in my house She had this amazing high-five trick But she learned a new trick associated with that when people are sitting with plates of food She'd go for a high-five and sneaky knocking down of their food Because once it's on the floor it's hurt Poppy was wonderful but at the same time she was a heartless bitch All right, we're in the car again with the conference the last two talks we had were really really good There was one from this doctor who had a head injury after a snowboarding accident and he was A giving us some good relation about head injuries and B was kind of talking about the philosophy of recovery So like quotes from the Dalai Lama and from like French philosophers and stuff about kind of taking things as they are Not over-wearing about stuff, so that was really good and then we had the same guy from yesterday The the badass police inspector guy who does Bodyguarding collag the royal family and investigated the Manchester bombing He was talking about models for decision making and Took this through like an example of a kidnapping case that he investigated which was really quite riveting to follow So all in all a great series of talks some fun workshops. We've had a wonderful weekend Yeah, hey All right guys, thank you very much for watching if you've enjoyed this video give us a thumbs up below If you haven't subscribed yet, please consider doing so. I would love you today and see you next time. Bye
