# 20 Lessons that Improved My Life
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WQWiLZ1M6xw
Get free access to my Workflow and Deep Dive series on Nebula, along with a load of other exclusive content, bundled with CuriosityStream - https://curiositystream.com/ali and use the code ALI at checkout!

In this video I'll be going over 20 life lessons and tips that stuck with me after 2020. 

00:00 Intro
00:06 The top of my to-do list
01:11 Lean into the fear
02:25 Have to vs. get to
03:57 You're allowed to go back to bed once you've had a shower
04:38 My information diet sucks
06:16 The four components of an ideal life
08:09 The power of accountability
09:51 Do what you're doing
11:12 Improvisational productivity
12:46 Homework for life
15:50 Speed listening audiobooks
17:57 The odyssey plan
20:01 The power of clarity
21:34 Thinking of time in 15 minute chunks
22:47 Goals

The Part-Time YouTuber Academy: https://academy.aliabdaal.com/

Resources mentioned in the video:
http://www.paulgraham.com/todo.html
https://seths.blog/2019/04/the-gap-between-have-to-and-get-to
https://podcastnotes.org/save-planet-get-rich/naval-ravikant-achieving-happiness/
https://www.raptitude.com/2019/11/do-what-youre-doing/
https://play.acast.com/s/myfirstmillion/milliondollarbrainstorm-truthaboutadagencieswithbrendangahan-rapidfireideaswithdanielgross
https://dcgross.com/improvising-for-productivity


MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
📚  How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali
What I Use For Analytics - https://go.aliabdaal.com/tubebuddy
🌐  My website platform (Ghost) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost
🎤  My podcast hosting platform (Transistor) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/transistor

OTHER RECOMMENDED COURSES
📔 Effortless Output with Roam Research - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/roam
📓 Building a Second Brain - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/basb

🎙 MY WEEKLY PODCAST - https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCdXpN-Z7LyTgc3OLo_Zw2Pg
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app. And we post clips + full episodes on the YouTube channel, so please subscribe to that!  

BE MY FRIEND:
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮  Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, 2020 life lessons, top 10 life lessons, life lessons stories, life lessons for success, top life lessons i've learned, life lessons i've learned, life lessons from youtubers, life lessons from a doctor, productivity tips, productivity life lessons, life lessons, time management, motivational video, day in the life, time management tips, be more productive, how to be happier, life lessons for happiness, how to be happier and more positive, be happier, 
**Date:** 2020-12-20

## Transcript
 Hey friends, welcome back to the channel. In this video, I'm going to go over 20 life lessons that I learned in 2020. Let's get started. The first one is from a blog post by Paul Graham called the top of my to-do list. And it comes from a book called The Top 5 Regrets of the Dying. And The List of Top 5 Regrets is in a particular order. Number 1, I wish I hadn't worked so hard. Number 2, I wish I'd had the courage to live a life true to myself, not the life others expected of me. Number 3, I wish I'd let myself be happier. Number 4, I wish I'd had the courage to express my feelings. And number 5, I wish I'd kept in touch with my friends. So given that we know that these are the top 5 regrets that people have when they're on the deathbed, these are all mistakes that it's very easy for us to fall into by default. And as Paul Graham says in the blog post, the ideal way for us to avoid those would be to change our defaults. But in the absence of completely changing our lives around, there isn't easy way that we can remind ourselves of those. And so what Paul does, which I've now started to do, is write these five commandments at the top of my to-do list. Don't ignore your dreams. Don't work too much. Say what you think. Cultivate friendships and be happy. So that is now at the top of my to-do list and whether I'm doing a to-do list in Notion or in Rome or in real life, I always try and remind myself to have those five things at the top. Secondly, I've really learnt this year that for me, if I want to grow as a person, I need to lean into doing the things I'm scared of or lean into the fear. So for example, earlier this year, a publisher approached me and said, would you be interested in writing a book? And we had a few chats. And this seemed like a very, very scary thing. And I was on the verge of saying, no, I don't feel qualified or no, I'm not, you know, I'm not good enough to write a book about about whatever. And then I had this feeling of fear and I, I really analysed it. And, you know, I had all these excuses in my head of, you know, various imposter syndrome. And I'm not qualified to write a book and who wants to hear from me anyway and all of these things. And what I summed it down to was, I was just really scared. I did not, like, if I were to write a book, I didn't want to be bad. I didn't want it to get negative reviews. I was scared. And as soon as I named that feeling of fear, I knew that I had to say yes and do this thing because leaning into the fear is how we grow as people. And usually, for me, I found that if I'm scared of doing something, provided that something is not physically putting my life in danger. If I'm scared of doing something, that is a very strong indicator that I should be doing the thing. So moving forward, I maybe writing a book and I will tell you more about that later. If you want to find out more about that then sign up to my email list, link in the video description and you will get lots more details about that as and when they are ready. Thirdly, I was reminded of a lesson that I first learned in 2019, which is the difference between how to and get to. And this is just a mental mindset shift that completely changes the game for me, at least, when it comes to thinking about how I have to do stuff. And I remember there was one real moment when I was, I was at work and I was an evening shift and it was just approaching the end of my shift and one of the nurses came up to me and said, this patient needs a cannula. So, you know, intravenous access to put drugs in. And I had the sense of, oh, why do I have to do this? And I was like, okay, so I kind of drag myself up and I go all the stuff together. And then I realised that I was feeling a bit disgruntled about doing this cannula because I was thinking about it that I have to do this. And I remembered a blog post that said a good in wrote that I read in 2019, which talked about reframing things from have to to get to. So, it's not, I have to do this cannula. It's, I get to do this cannula. And just that mindset shift, just changing the framing of it in my head made me realise like, you know, how appreciative and grateful I was to be in that position where I had the privilege and the honour of putting a needle in someone and probably doing it in a nice way and talking to them and easing them through this process. And instead of thinking, oh, I have to do this just before my shift ends. I thought of it as, oh, I get to do this and this is awesome. And it was just that thing. Just that little change that completely changed the way I approach that situation. And I hope let for let to a better experience for the patient overall. And now when I find myself being like procrastinating from something or thinking, oh, you know, that feeling of, oh, I don't want to do this. I switch from, I have to do this to, I get to do this and that always helps me. Number four is a very simple one, which is that I really struggle with waking up in the mornings. I have my phone across the bedroom from me, so I have to switch off the alarm. I've recently realised that I could just ask Siri to switch the alarm off, so I don't even have to get out of bed. And so one like mental hack that I found to help myself actually get out of bed is to tell myself that it's okay to get back into bed and I'm allowed to sleep, but I have to have a shower first. And inevitably, when I have a shower and sing a few songs in the shower and stuff, I feel like fully awake and energised and revitalised and I don't actually want to go back into bed. But telling myself that I'm allowed to go back into bed only once I've had a shower, helps me kind of trick my brain into letting me get out of bed. So I thought that was an idea worth sharing. Less than number five is that I realised this year, particularly that my information diet is not very good. So by information diet, I mean the books I read and the podcasts I listened to and the audiobooks I listened to. Because, you know, I was, I was looking through my list of podcasts that I'm subscribed to. And of the 69 of them, like 65 of them was something to do with business or tech or entrepreneurship or like create a type stuff. Only one of them was related to health and only one of them out of the list of 69 was related to relationships. And given that, the most important things in life are health and relationships. Above things like business entrepreneurship, tech, creativity, like all of the sort of stuff, that really made me realise that, wow, I'm really not putting the focus and effort into improving my health and improving my relationships. That I really should be doing because what is the point of listening to 65 business podcasts when I still eat like unhealthy takeaways every day and actually we've just ordered some fried chicken for the evening. What's the point of listening to 65 business podcasts about how to make my business grow? If I'm not putting even a modicum of effort into my personal relationships, which are really the thing that is going to lead to long lasting happiness. And so now what I'm trying to do is reshape my information diet so that it reflects more of what my priorities in life actually are or what my priorities in life. I would like to be like, I would like to focus more on health and relationships rather than business and so I'm trying to shape the diet around that. And actually there's a great quote that I wrote about in my email newsletter where I share these things on a weekly basis, link in the video description, check it out. The quote was, the healthy person has a thousand wishes. The sick person has only one. Number six, I've started thinking a lot about the components of an ideal life. And I hadn't really come across this sort of framing before until I listened to a podcast. I think it was the Samantha Ryan show where Navarrova Kant was being interviewed. And she asked him, what are the components of an ideal life? And he said that well, most people would say that it there's four things in an ideal life. Number one, physical health. Number two, mental health slash happiness slash mental well-being, that sort of stuff. Number three, relationships. And number four, money slash works slash, you know, putting a roof above your head did that sort of stuff. And so I reflected on these a little bit. And again, I realized that I was so just like always so focused on the kind of money career financial independence freedom, that side of things. And kind of neglecting the physical health, the mental health well-being, happiness, type stuff, and also the relationship type stuff. So hearing it, framing that way has kind of made me appreciate that, okay, these are the four important things in life. And at the moment, I rescue way too much towards one of them and I need to be giving more effort to the other three. So that's what I'm going to be doing hopefully from the new year onwards. And actually there's a second quote from this episode, which is the ideal life would be one where you had a hobby that as a by-product made you money. You had a hobby that as a by-product kept you healthy. And you had a hobby that as a by-product made you smarter and more creative. And that's like another way of thinking about, oh, you know, what would a good life be? So what does it for me? So I've got a hobby that as a by-product makes me money. So that would be this YouTube channel. To an extent, I think it also makes me smarter and more creative. And a hobby that as a by-product keeps you healthy. So for me, sort of that's going to the gym, but actually a lot more for me, it's playing racketsports like tennis and badminton and squash. And actually, now I'm starting to take those more seriously, playing tennis and badminton more regularly with friends. And I'm going to be starting tennis lessons as well. And I think if you can have those hobbies that fulfill these different criteria, that is another way to an ideal life as an evolve would say. Next, I want to talk about the idea of accountability. Now, this is something that I really hadn't appreciated before this year. And what really sealed the deal for me was in the first lockdown in March of 2020. I decided, hey, you know, it's my dream to become a gym shark athlete and now I can't go to the gym. So why don't I do some homework out? And I kind of did it once or twice and then I just kind of fell by the wayside. And then I was doing a podcast interview with a guy called Usuf who runs a podcast called Propane Fitness. And we were talking about like physical health goals. And he clearly knew a lot about physical health. So I said, hey, can you be my trainer? And he said, yeah, sure, I'll happily do some online sessions with you. And it turned out that all this thing was was just a little bit of accountability. He just created a Google sheet for me and later put it into notion that was a workout plan. And he told me what macros I needed to hit and that I was just meant to track them on my fitness pal and send him a screenshot every week. And just that little thing, just, you know, having someone to hold me accountable, even though this person wasn't anywhere near me, he was living in like Manchester up north or something. Having someone to hold me accountable made me really make progress on the home workout front and also on the healthy eating front at the time. And since realizing the huge power of this accountability stuff, I've now been looking to higher coaches to work with me on all sorts of different domains. Because I realized that in the past, I used to think of it like, hey, I want to learn this thing, or I want to get better at this thing. Therefore, I need to figure it out by myself. And that was totally okay when I had tons and tons of time on my hand and no money. But now that I have, you know, that I feel I have less time on my hands and more money. Thanks to this YouTube channel amongst other things. It's now a total no-brainer to, for example, take tennis lessons or piano lessons or guitar lessons or singing lessons that I started doing all of these things recently. And most of that to be honest is related to the power of accountability. Next, we have the lifeless and do what you're doing. Now, this comes from a very good blog called a Ratitude, where the author David references a book from the 1990s about spring cleaning, you know, spring cleaning is in cleaning your house very thoroughly. And this book from the 90s about spring cleaning says, pay attention. Almost everything else will fall into place if you do. Don't think about revisions in the tax code or anything else. In Latin, R. G. Quad Agues do what you're doing. And, you know, this is fantastic life advice from this book about spring cleaning a house because in this book about spring cleaning, they say that, like, when you are cleaning the sink, you are fully focused on this thing of cleaning the sink when you're scrubbing the doors. You're fully focused on scrubbing the doors. And that makes the art of spring cleaning a joy rather than a chore. And I think we can really applaud this to everything that we're doing. And for me, I often find that if I'm, for example, eating food, I actually won't pay attention to the thing that I'm eating because I'll be, I don't know, listening to an audiobook or watching TV or just thinking about something completely random. And then, before I know it, the meals over and I'm like, well, I didn't really taste any of that. And so now, whenever I'm doing something and I find my mind wondering, I try and remind myself that no, do what you're doing, keep your attention focused and being present in this moment where you're actually doing the thing rather than multitasking and thinking about it doesn't different things while watching dishes or doing the ironing, for example. Next, we have the idea of improvisational productivity. Now, I heard about this on an episode of the my first million podcast where they were discussing such interviewing an investor called Daniel Gross. So, what is improvisational productivity? So, if I quote from Daniel's blog post, he says, the longer you think about a task without doing it, the less novel it becomes to do. Writing things in your to-do list and coming back to them later helps you focus, but it comes at a cost. You've now converted an interesting idea into work. Since you've thought about it a little bit, it's less interesting to work on. And I've definitely found this as well for projects that I've been working on. Like, I think that sometime last year, I started a second YouTube channel called Appendix, which was going to house lots of medical education-related things. And I've been toying with that idea for a whole year and I'd been making all these plans, but, you know, after getting excited about it and making all the plans, I then didn't bother working on it because I'd already done the fun bit of thinking about it and planning and that was kind of cool. And then just executing on it just felt like work and so I didn't do it. Equally, anytime I make a new Skillshare class, the longer I think about it and the longer we spend planning it, the less likely it is to get done because now all the fun stuff is done and it's only the work that's remaining. And so what I tried to do now is when I have an idea for something, I will do what I can to try and actually start executing on it straight away. And I think there's a real value in minimizing the time between thinking of something and then executing on it. Like, obviously planning is useful to an extent, but as Daniel says in his blog post, you know, it's all about improvisational productivity. We actually become less productive when we spend a lot of time planning because the stuff just seems a lot less interesting to us. Next, we have an idea called Homework for Life. And I came across this in a book called Storyworthy by a child called Matthew Dix. And this guy is like an expert storyteller and is really good at telling stories and storytelling is something that I really want to improve about myself, so I read this book in a attempt to hopefully improve my own storytelling and to make my YouTube videos a little bit better. And the idea behind Homework for Life is that it's an exercise that we do every single night before we go to bed and it's our homework for life so we do it for the rest of our life. And the exercise is simple. We just want to ask ourselves the question of what is the most storyworthy moment of my day? Like, if I had to tell a story about something that happened today, what would I tell a story about? And the idea is that we make a table or a spreadsheet or I do this in Notion, obviously, where we write down the date and then write down our storyworthy moment. Now this has a few different benefits. Firstly, it just helps us remember more of life. Like, you know, I did this homework for life thing for a period of a few months and then I completely forgot about it. And now when I look back at my list, I can quite vividly remember each day where I've written a storyworthy entry. I'm like, oh, that was the day where that thing happened at work or that was the day where this person came over for dinner. Whereas if I imagine the rest of the time, you know, the few months where I wasn't doing this religiously every night, those days of sort of blended into each other and especially with the whole lockdown thing, especially with sort of every day feeling very similar to the last, I have found that I remember a lot less of the things in my life and therefore, in a way, time has been moving faster for me. Whereas when I do my homework for life, time moves slower because my perception of time slows down, because now I'm remembering more things about my day. So that's one benefit from homework for life that it just helps you remember your days a little bit better. But the second benefit is that when it comes to storytelling, we all, and I'm definitely guilty of this, we all feel that our lives are boring and we have nothing to tell and oh, I haven't been on holiday any way interesting today or I haven't done anything particularly wild. But there's a really nice thing that Matthew says in the book. He says that no one wants to hear your drinking stories and no one wants to hear about your travel stories. Those are two categories of stories that just like throw away completely. That made me feel really good because I'm like, I don't have any drinking stories and I don't have many travel stories and yet when I think of tell a story that those two or the first things I come to, that whatever I hear people tell a story, it's always either about drinking or about travel. And so if we do this homework for life thing, we, and we have to pick out a story worthy moment of our day. If we had to, we could tell the story out of it forces us to think of our lives as being more interesting than they actually are. But also to find the actual story moments within our lives because most storyworthy moments actually come from failure and transformation rather than oh my god, I had a great time on holiday. You wouldn't believe all the different places we've been to. So this is something I'm trying to get myself to do more of. I have an iPad error on my bedside table where I write down my homework for life in notion every evening. Sometimes I remember to do this sometimes I forget I'm trying to build more ways into my routine where I can systemize this thing so that I will always remember to do homework for life every single day. Next is something that I only discovered earlier this year and that is the incredible power of listening to audiobooks at like speed multiples so like two X or 1.5 X or two and a half X speed. Now I've been listening to audiobooks on audible since like 2017 when I first discovered the mystical series by Brandon Sanderson and at the time I tried to listen at two X speed and I thought okay no this is way too fast I can't be dealing with this. I actually want to save it and I want to listen to it at one X speed and then I kept on listening to these look really long fantasy audiobooks series. For example this year I finished the Wheel of Time series which is 14 books and I've been listening to it since March of 2019. So took me a whole like 12 months plus to finish the Wheel of Time series but this year I realized that actually especially for the slower bits of these books. If I just speed it up to 1.5 or even 2 X speed or even sometimes higher than that. I personally don't lose any extra enjoyment from it going fast. In fact in a way I gain more enjoyment because it's faster and therefore there's like more exciting stuff happening. So now you know at the moment I'm listening to rhythm of war by Brandon Sanderson which just came out like two X go and I'm listening to that at 1.5 X speed because I want to save it and maybe when it gets to like the really really epic bits I'll slow it down to 1 X speed but it's just something that I hadn't really appreciated before this year and thanks to listening to stuff at 2 X speed or 3 X speed or whatever. I've now got on through a lot more books and this is useful because it helps me read more which I always like but it's also useful because it reduces the time cost for any book that someone recommends to me. Like a few months ago I remember someone recommended Bob Eiger's autobiography the right of a lifetime. He was this CEO of the Walt Disney Company for 15 years and I saw it was an audible and I saw it was like an 8 hour audio book and so if I what if I listened at 2 X speed it would become a 4 hour audio book and so over the course of two days driving to and from work I listened to the whole audiobook in just 4 hours and it was a really good book and I wouldn't I would not have read it or listen to it had I not had that speed multiple because it would have just felt like too much of a ah do I really have 8 hours to listen to this whereas 4 hours is like of course I have 4 hours to listen to this so two main benefits of listening to audiobooks at speed multiples. Next we have an exercise called the Odyssey plan and I came across this in an unjaded Jade video I think in December of 2019 and I did the exercise round about this time last year. Now the Odyssey plan is an exercise that apparently they get Stanford business school students to go through and it's in three parts. The first part is right out in detail what your life will look like five years from now if you go down your current path so you write that out in lots of detail like what what is life look like if you continue doing what you're doing. Number two what does life look like in five years time if you take a completely different path and number three what does life look like five years from now if you take a path where money and societal obligations are not a factor that you have to consider and so when I did the Odyssey plan in sort of this time last year it made me realize that the path that I was taking which was you know doing medical training in the UK and living in Cambridge all my life and maybe becoming a supervisor at a college and doing medical education that was the path that I was kind of on and I sort of realized that actually this is maybe not where I actually want to be five years from now because it felt too easy it felt like okay there's no real challenge along here I know that I can make this happen and it just kind of lost all the excitement for me and when I thought about all the other things I could be doing this Odyssey plan exercise was partly what prompted me to take a year out of medicine to theoretically travel the world before the world ended and now I'm going to take a further year out of full-time medical training so that I can travel more hopefully when the coronavirus situation gets less bad because I just think that in five years from now I would have much rather than I spent two years maybe doing this YouTube thing or traveling the world or like maybe working in Australia for a bit or doing stuff like that rather than you know five years from now I'm doing I'm going to work every day I'm doing the same thing I've always done and I'm just climbing up the essentially the the medicine corporate lander of while staying in my comfort zone so really useful exercise I will be forever grateful to Jade for showing me this in her video where she talks about how to figure out what to do with your life but it's something I think about a lot like well what is my life going to look like in five years down this current path and is this something that I want to change this year I really appreciate the power of clarity what does clarity mean um clarity is like is one of the five steps of David Allen's approach called getting things done which is like the Bible about productivity and the five steps of that are capture, clarify, organize, reflect and engage like the the clarify bit is the really important thing because when it comes to for example a to do list a big part of why we procrastinate from doing things is because the thing we have to do is just not clear enough in our heads if I were to write life lessons video it's a very nebulous thing if however I had on my to do this that film 15 life lessons video or write to the script for the 20 life lessons video that's more specific I've got more clarity in what the thing actually is if I wrote on my to do list chemistry revision it's never going to get done because like what does what the hell does chemistry revision mean where I say if I wrote on my to do list revise chapter one module four within physiology about heart and membranes and stuff then I'll be okay cool that's a more specific thing I've got clarity on it and it feels like less of a mental uh when it comes to actually doing the thing so now whenever I go through my to do list I always think okay how like do I like have a really clarified every single item on here and is it really obvious to me what I actually have to do for this and I've seen this pattern with basically all of my friends who struggle with procrastination is that okay what are you supposed to be doing oh like some prep for my exam okay I mean what is what does that look like like what's specifically are you gonna be doing and the most specific you can get about the items on your to do list the less likely you are to procrastinate at least that's what I found for me next I found it really helpful to move away from thinking of time in one hour and instead to think of time in 15 minute chunks so just like by default in my head I think of time in one hour it sort of one hour in sort of increments and so if it's like 1037 or something and then I think oh well you know what 11 o'clock is a reasonable time I'm just gonna start working at 11 o'clock and then I will procrastinate for those 23 minutes and start working at 11 or if I'm arranging a phone call with someone as you just by default the way calendars operate like google calendar it just kind of default does it for an hour and so I'll have phone call from like with like my friend from like 12 to 1 and if it finishes at like 12 23 and like oh okay it finishes at one and then then I'll start the next thing at one o'clock and I realise that if I get if I just think of time in 15 minute chunks instead it means I end up wasting a lot less time because now if it's 1037 then I only have 8 minutes to wait until 1045 and then I can do the thing I actually wanted to do at 1045 rather than procrastinating an extra 15 minutes and waiting to do it at 11 and so now when I'm scheduling meetings and stuff I do try and think of it in terms of 15 minute increments rather than in one hour increments and I found that this is actually given me a lot more time in my life this year. Next let's talk about the idea of goals now before this year I used to be very anti goal setting because I used to think that okay what's the point of setting a goal like the only point of setting a goal is like it feels a bit pointless like if I have a a I want to hit 2 million subscribers by the end of year or whatever that feels like a very pointless goal because if I hit it then you know I'll get a nice feeling for two seconds and then the goal post will shift and if I don't hit it then I'll be disappointed because I didn't hit my goal and the other reason that I was anti goals is because I felt that's the thing that we should be trying to cultivate is self-acceptance in our lives at least for me that you know it's it feels like a more worthwhile aim to try to be satisfied with what I have rather than to continuously strive for more but this year especially through all the deep lives that I've been doing where I interview people and we have an extended conversation I've asked almost everyone about how they think about goals and one thing I've learned is that it's actually completely okay to have this tension between self-acceptance and self-improvement and it's like yes on the one hand we can learn to accept ourselves for who we are but on the other hand we can also strive to improve who we are and do more interesting things and I don't know strive to do challenging things and have these stretch goals and stuff and I used to try and find like oh there's gotta be a way to reconcile these two things there's gotta be a way to reconcile self-acceptance versus self-improvement but then I don't know who it was I feel like it was maybe a guy called Ben Hardy who I did a deep dive with who said that you know you actually don't need to reconcile it you can accept that yes part of me is focusing on self-acceptance but another part of me is focusing on self-improvement that is how I think about goals like I'm okay with now setting goals and but I'm not making my own personal like personal fulfillment to be reliant on that goal being fulfilled at this point we've gone over 15 life lessons the other five life lessons are actually in the extended version of this video which you'll find on Nebula if you haven't heard Nebula is an independent streaming platform that's run by me and a bunch of other creators and on Nebula we post extended versions of YouTube videos at free versions of YouTube videos and a lot of other exclusive content that you won't find on YouTube it's not supposed to be a competitor to YouTube because who can compete with YouTube it's just supposed to be like an extra place we can put stuff without having to worry about the YouTube algorithm and so on Nebula I've got lots of other exclusive things so for example I've got my workflow series which does a deep dive into my productivity workflows for using different apps I have my deep dive snippet series where which takes kind of bite-sized snippets from all of the interviews that I do with people across the internet and turns them into bite-sized chunks that you can consume and there are also ad-free versions of all my videos which you get early access to and also extended versions of videos like this one which has five more life lessons so if you've got a subscription to Nebula you can watch this video over there if you haven't the best way to sign up for Nebula is to actually sign up to curiosity stream who are very kindly sponsoring this video now curiosity stream is the world's leading documentary streaming subscription platform founded by John Hendrix the founder of the Discovery channel and on curiosity stream they've got hundreds of amazing high quality documentaries across science technology animals, health and nature all sorts of interesting things and one that I've been enjoying particularly is called re-design my brain where the documentary maker guy goes around exploring all of the different ways that we can supercharge our own attention and creativity and like processing power of our brains now because curiosity stream love independent educational creators they've actually partnered up with us on Nebula and so if you sign up to an annual curiosity stream subscription which at the moment is 41% off for the holidays and therefore is under $13 a year for less than $13 a year you get curiosity stream and you also get free access to Nebula bundled with that and that makes this the single best deal in the streaming world in my opinion so if you want to see the extended version of this video on top of lots of exclusive content from me and a bunch of other creator friends like Thomas Frank and legal eagle and Tom Scott and Lindsay Alice head over to curiositystream.com forward slash alley and then your Nebula details will be email to you so thank you curiosity stream for sponsoring this video if you like this video then click over here to get my life lessons video that I made this time last year and that is a lot of 15 life lessons other life lessons that I learned in 2019 thank you so much for watching and I'll see you in the next video. Bye bye.
