# How to overcome the fear of getting started.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WrlkSH87u3I
If you want to start and grow a YouTube channel, you might want to join the last ever cohort of my course the Part Time YouTuber Academy, check it out here: https://go.aliabdaal.com/cohort8youtube

I get asked a lot about overcoming the fear of getting started with something new, so in this video, which I recorded during a livestream, I share my favourite pieces of advice. Enjoy x

🎙 Check out my weekly podcast, Deep Dive where I interview entrepreneurs, creators and other inspiring people - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/

🍿WATCH NEXT:
How to Build a Life You Love: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EwSD4uCSX_M
12 Productivity Myths Wasting Your Time: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qc4GU_wHdqw
7 Side Hustles You Can Start in 2023: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=I-dlPuqFguo
How to Become Luckier - An Evidence-based Guide: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WizT_VdtOYM

⌚️Timestamps:
0:00 Intro
0:17 Social Anxiety
5:40 Self Perception
8:19 Tips to Make It Stick

💌  Sign up to my free weekly email newsletter - https://go.aliabdaal.com/subscribe-sundaysnippets

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - 
 https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
🎬 YouTube for Beginners - Everything You Need To Know To Start  - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/YouTube-for-Beginners

MY CREATOR COURSES
🎬 Check out my free 7 day email course on how to become a part-time YouTuber: https://aliabdaal.com/part-time-youtuber-crash-course/
🏆 Creatorpreneur - My flagship course for scaling up your creative side-hustle → https://creatorpreneur.academy/course
🗣 Camera Confidence - My self-paced course on how to improve your creativity, career, or communication skills → https://cameraconfidence.aliabdaal.com/

MY FAVOURITE GEAR
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) -https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE TOOLS
🚀 VidIQ - How I optimise my YouTube videos - https://go.aliabdaal.com/vidiq
✍️ Shortform - The BEST summaries of books - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
📚  Readwise - How I remember what I read - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise
🎵  Epidemic Sound - Where I get my music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound

MY KEY LINKS
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com/
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I’m Ali, a YouTuber, podcaster, soon-to-be author and ex-Doctor working in London, UK. I make videos that explore the strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. I also have a weekly podcast called Deep Dive (https://www.youtube.com/channel/UChfo46ZNOV-vtehDc25A1Ug), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://go.aliabdaal.com/subscribe-sundaysnippets).

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, 
**Date:** 2023-02-04

## Transcript
 How do you overcome the fear of getting started with something? And we've broadly established that the fear of getting started with something is like number one, there's the social anxiety type fears, and then there's the self-perceptionity type fears of getting started with something. And I'm going to share my thoughts on like each of these and how I personally overcome generally the fear of getting started. So let's start with the social anxiety fear. Like, and there's generally no advice here that's actually going to make a difference, but I can tell you what has worked for me. So over the years I have done many things, and I've not done many things because of a fear of social disapproval social type fear. Fear of rejection when asking a girl out or something like that, there's always a fear of like, oh, what if this affects my social standing in some way? I actually found that for me, understanding where the fear of social anxiety and stuff kind of came from was a really helpful way in a really helpful thing and overcoming that fear. And it was basically recognizing that the fear of social disapproval, I'm worried what someone else will think of me, essentially is a big hit to our social status and our standing in the tribe. And if we think back to kind of evolutionary psychology times, it's like, yes, there's the sort of fear you get when you're being chased by a lion or a tiger. But we were also very a highly attuned to the judgment of the other people in our tribe. And if you ever got ostracized from your tribe, that would be the end of you because now you don't have any friends and your caveman and you have to go out in the wilderness on your own and then you're going to get eaten by a lion. And so we became very like Aramikda, the bit of the brain that like experiences fear and process is fear. It came very attuned to social threats. It's like, if there is a risk that I will be ostracized from the group, that is potentially a risk to my life. And that is why we evolved the fear of being thought foolish by other people, the fear of judgment, the fear of rejection, all of these fears that we have when it comes a lot, when it comes to kind of putting ourselves out there in some capacity. So step one is to understand that this is totally normal. We literally evolved to feel, to not do stuff if there was a fear of social, social reprisal, or social disapproval. So for me, understanding that was really important because then I could say to myself, okay, like my brain is just naturally evolved to stop me from putting myself out there because I'm worried about what other people will think. Is that evolutionarily designed to behave you're still actually useful? Is it still useful for me to continue to live that way? Obviously, it's still useful for me to run away when I see a lion. That's like a no-brainer. But like, is it still useful for me to not make a YouTube video because I'm worried what my friends will think? Is that actually going to affect my survival? Will it actually kill me if I ask a girl out and she says no? Probably not. Back in my caveman days 300,000 years ago when homo sapiens first started, depending on who you ask. Yes, it would have killed me because now I'm ostracized from the group. But nowadays, what's the worst that's going to happen? Probably not pretty much. People will laugh at me. I'll feel the pain internally, but it's not actually going to cause a survival hit to myself. And for me, I found that understanding just appreciating that went some way towards helping me overcome kind of the social anxiety fear that's tops us from getting started with things. My brother in fact was a true visionary in this regard. He started a YouTube channel years ago. Like 2009 of something like that. And he would just make random ass videos and shove him on YouTube. You can still find those to this day. And he just didn't seem to care well that he will thought of him. Whereas I feel like for me, I had a lot more of that. And it really took understanding the stuff to kind of get over that fear over time. The second step that really helped me overcome sort of fear of getting started out as a result of social anxiety was essentially recognizing that I really overindex on this stuff. Most of us really overindex on this and we really don't need to. Like, imagine this thought experiment. Your best friend decides to start a podcast and they're trying to go around interviewing your friends or something like that, interviewing people that they know. How much would you actually judge them for that? You probably wouldn't. You're probably one care. You're probably like, I'll say, nice. You're starting a podcast. That sounds cool. Let me know when I can listen. Maybe you might be like, hot, low, what a weirdo. He's starting a podcast. What a decade. You might, you might think that for like a millisecond. And if you do, then you're not a version of a very nice person. But chances are you wouldn't even be thinking them in those ways. And so it's like, everyone is worried that other people are judging them. And yet, if we ask, if we ask ourselves, would we actually judge someone else? Then we wouldn't actually judge other people. And so it goes to the Eleanor Roosevelt Code Code that we spend so much time worrying about what other people will think when we fail to realize that they seldom do. People are not really thinking of us. You and me, we're all going about our own life. I'm not thinking of you. You're not thinking of me. I might go about my day thinking, oh my god, my audience is going to know that like I stumbled on this live stream and like I didn't really know what I was saying and I was making shit up as I went along and I was sort of got this wrong. I got a few facts wrong. No one cares. You've got your own problems to deal with. You were not spending any amount of brain power thinking about what I'm doing. You're not spending any amount of brain power thinking about what your friends and colleagues and family and friends are doing. All you're doing is getting on with your own life. And so that was really the second I guess level up for me. In this case, it was it was recognizing that number one, no one cares. I call it the NOC mindset that sort of and O.C. no one cares. And whenever I find that I am I guess struggling to get started with something and I know that the reason is fear, fear of social approval, fear of judgment, fear of rejection, some kind of social anxiety based reason. I try and remind myself, no one cares. It's all good. No one is thinking about me. I can just do the thing. And this was one of the really liberating things about starting a YouTube channel. I thought loads people would care. No one cares. People might might invest in medical. We're just like cool. A few people laughed about it. And then later on when it got successful, they were the same people were like, oh, can I be the thumbnail? But like broadly, no one cares. They don't think about me. They're just doing their own thing. So you don't need to worry about it. Those were the two things that really helped me overcome this social anxiety type stuff. And I guess the second big fear that we have is the self-perception stuff. It's like, I don't want to start this thing because what if I'm not very good? You we have self-doubt, we have this fear of failure. And you know, there's just another easy strategy that I found for this, which is, too, and write this down, lower the bar, or sort of embrace the crap. I kind of told myself different things depending on how I'm feeling, kind of each day of the week. Generally, if we're scared of starting something and we're afraid of starting it because we think we're not good enough, that's usually because our bar is way too high. Again, this is, I see, I see this all the time in my YouTuber Academy. By the way, our new cohort of the YouTuber Academy is launching in a few weeks, link in the video description if you want to check it out, what else? But if we've had about 2,000 students go through a YouTuber Academy of which like 90% will complete beginners, and our course was the push to start the YouTube channels. And a big part of what made people not start YouTube channels, are you not put themselves out there, was because they, you know, some combination of perfectionism of self-doubt, or like, you know, fear of failure. And that's because their bar was so high. It's like, if you look at this setup, this looks freaking sick, doesn't it? Like, you have no idea how much effort went into making this look good, but like the light, the camera, all of this kind of stuff. But if you're a brand new YouTuber, if you've been sitting thinking of starting a YouTube channel, you look at my channel, maybe, anything, damn. I can't compete with that. Like, this is a quality bar that I can't reach, and therefore, I'm not even going to get started. But that would be, you know, excuse the grandioseness of this analogy, the grandioseity of this analogy. That would be like me being like, you know what, I want to learn to drive, but like, you know, I'm going to compare myself to Lewis Hamilton or some other like F1 driver, someone who's like a professional driver, and I can't possibly drive like them. Therefore, there's no point in me learning how to drive. There's a complete dump, right? Like, I need to lower the bar. I need to recognize that, you know, if I'm getting started with something, I'm going to suck. I'm just going to be really crap at it. And if I can embrace that attitude, that beginner's mindset, that beginner's mind, like, growth mindset of, it's okay to suck. It's okay to suck at the start to lower the bar. And find that whenever I procrastinate from something, it's usually because the bar is too high. And the way I think of it, that if I'm struggling to get started, the solution is to lower the bar. Once I'm good at getting started, and once I can do the thing consistently, at that point, I can raise the bar and try and go for mastery. Like, right now, I suck at going to the gym. I don't go to the gym regularly, you know? And so, for me, a win, it's a win if I just show up and do one exercise. That's all I have to do. I've just lowered the bar. I thought, sometimes do a token gym session where I just rock up, do some bench press to failure or one bench press machine or whatever, and then I'm done, I'm out of there, I'm listening to my book on audible, etc. Life is good. But if I was actually competing to be a pro bodybuilder or whatever, pro athlete, at that point, that wouldn't be enough. I'd have to keep on raising the bar. But if the thing you're struggling with is getting started, just keep on lowering the bar. So, most of the far asks, how do you get improving when you lower the bar? It's actually a very good question. I like, I like this question. This is good stuff. Level one is get going, and then level two is get good, and then level three is get smart. Now, the person who asked the question was like, I struggle with getting started. If you're at level one, you need to lower the bar. You need to embrace the crap, you need to just, just, your aim is just to get going. One, like, you know, when it comes to YouTube, one video per week, is the threshold. Once you're already at the point where you're making a video every single week, at that point, you can raise the bar, and now you can try to get good, and getting good involves raising the bar. But you have to recognize like, where are you on the journey of improvement at this particular thing? And for me right now, gym is a place where I need to lower the bar. But this YouTube channel is a place where I increase the bar because I already know how to make a YouTube video. It's not that hard, and so the way I improve at the craft is by trying to make my videos better. Although, you know, more than you want them there. So yeah, just recognize where you are in that pit of the journey. The way I think of, I have another phrase, which is kind of like what I like to do. Which is sort of comes down to this idea of overthinking. And that is basically the idea that I am allowed to overthink as long as I'm taking action. As long as I'm taking consistent action, I can overthink as much as I like. But it's when overthinking stops me from taking action, that it becomes a problem. And, you know, there's a formula that you can use to think about this. There's sort of analysis over action, shout out to one of our team members, Tommy, for coming up with this. And basically, the ratio of analysis to action just needs to be greater than zero. You need to have at least something on this action, or rather, that needs to be not undefined. Basically, action is not allowed to be zero. However, the formula works. Who cares? But you can, you can overthink the hell out of things, or you like. I overthink the hell out of this YouTube channel, but what I say to myself is as long as I'm consistent publishing videos, then overthinking is fine. What else? But if I stop publishing videos, then overthinking is not good. So overthinking happens on a foundation of consistency, because I like diagrams. It's like, this is a foundation, consistency. And then all of this stuff over here is overthinking. And as long as this happens, you're still living forward. You're still building towards a life that you love, you're still living, you know, living the dream, etc. etc. But if it becomes the other way around, if analysis and overthinking becomes the foundation, an action becomes the cherry on top, you're never going to get anywhere in life. At least that's what I tell myself. That's what I find to be helpful.
