# How To Spend Money to Buy Happiness
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wsT2bBo4XT8
To get 10% off your first month with my sponsor BetterHelp, sign up using this link  - https://betterhelp.com/aliabdaal 😃

Watch an ad-free version of this video on Nebula - https://nebula.tv/videos/aliabdaal-how-to-spend-money-to-buy-happiness

"If money doesn't make you happy, you're probably not spending it right." 

In this episode of Journal Club, we explore nine principles pulled from scientific research papers that'll help us to get more from our money.

Why I Donate 10% of my Income to Charity Each Year - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PHgdXWZLs9g 

Giving What We Can Pledge - https://givingwhatwecan.com 

00:00 Intro
00:19 Spend money on experiences rather than on things
01:43 Spend money on friends
02:21 Spend money on health
04:24 Spend money on small things rather than big ones
05:20 Delay consumption whenever possible
06:56 Spend money to buy back your time
08:30 Spend money to remove salient negatives
09:53 Spend money on things that enable interesting activities
11:07 Spend money on charity

MENTIONED IN THE VIDEO: 
👓 Read the research paper for yourself: https://scholar.harvard.edu/files/danielgilbert/files/if-money-doesnt-make-you-happy.nov-12-20101.pdf
🎙 Michael Norton's talk at TedX Cambridge: https://www.ted.com/talks/michael_norton_how_to_buy_happiness
"Giving Without Sacrifice?" from Andrea Mogensen: https://go.aliabdaal.com/givingwithoutsacrifice

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

PART-TIME YOUTUBER ACADEMY:
🍿 My 6-week live online course - https://academy.aliabdaal.com

CREATORPRENEUR
💰 My flag-ship course for scaling up your creative side-hustle - https://go.aliabdaal.com/creatorpreneur

YOUTUBE FOR BEGINNERS COURSE
📸 This is for anyone who'd like to start a YouTube channel. You'll learn everything you need to get started as a YouTuber including how to script, shoot, and edit your first video - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/YouTube-for-Beginners

MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
✍️ The best summaries of books (Shortform) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
📚  How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound

🎙 Deep Dive podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/
The podcast that delves into the minds of entrepreneurs, creators and other inspiring people to uncover the philosophies, strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. You can find it by searching “Deep Dive” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/friendzone/
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
💙  The Friendzone Discord - https://discord.gg/Dh2kGavffd
🎮  Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, 
**Date:** 2022-07-29

## Transcript
 If money doesn't make you happy, you're probably not spending it right. That's a title of this research paper by Psychology Professors at some pretty big name university. So, in this episode of Journal Club, the ongoing series where we discuss insights from scientific research papers and how we can apply them to live our best lives, we're going to go over nine principles that you can follow to get more happiness out of the money that you spend. Let's go for it. Tip number one, spend money on experiences rather than on things. Now, this is probably something you've heard a bunch of times, but the interesting thing in this paper is that they explore the reasons why spending money on experiences tends to be way better for our happiness than spending money on things. And there's really four main reasons for it, and the first one is that it compats adaptation. There's this thing in Psychology called Hedonic Adaptation, which is basically the idea that we get used to things as we have more and more of them. So, buying a fancy card gives you happiness originally, but then you get used to it very quickly, and now that same fancy card does not provide anyone near the same amount of happiness as it once did. Now, generally, when we spend money on experiences, the adaptation we have to those experiences is generally a lot less. Secondly, there's the idea of anticipation. Generally, we anticipate experiences more than we anticipate buying particular things. I remember back in the day when I used to buy PlayStation Games, for example, I would really anticipate to the buying of the game, but I really lost that sort of material anticipation over time, and most people I know that's happened to as well. Thirdly, we tend not to fall into the comparison trap when it comes to experiences rather than things. With things, it's very easy to say, oh, Tesla Model 3 is not quite as good as Tesla Model S, but with experiences, we tend not to compare a surfing trip in Morocco to the holiday in Bali with our friends, whatever else we might have spent on money on, so we're less prone to that. And, hopefully, when it comes to experiences, we tend to share them with other people, and if there's any kind of profound finding from the scientific research is that we are profoundly social creatures, and so anytime we get other people involved in whatever we're doing, that tends to increase our own happiness. And that brings us on to point number two, which is to spend money on friends. And there's this cool study from Harvard Business School Professor Michael Norton, where they gave students a bunch of money and asked them to spend it on various things. And the research found that the only thing that students spend that money on that actually increased our happiness significantly was what they called pro social spending, are expanding money on buying a gift for someone else. Across all of these different contexts, your personal life, your work life, even silly things like intermural sports. We see spending on other people has a bigger return for you than spending on yourself. All of this to say that if you do actually want to increase your own happiness by spending your money, then buy a gift or a coffee or a dinner or a holiday or anything else for someone else will probably make you way more happier than trying to do the same thing for yourself. All right, tip number three is to spend money on health. Now, health is one of those goods where, generally, if we have good health, that enables us to enjoy everything else in life. But if we have bad health or if we have chronic back pain or anything, any hit to our health will massively reduce our enjoyment of life. And spending money on health is one of the things that we really should be doing more of, especially as we younger, but really at any age of life. For example, a couple of years ago, I spent the first amount of money I did on a personal trainer, and I found that I'd been going to the gym sort of on and off for years up until that point. But it was only when I got a personal trainer that I suddenly started to see results, and I started getting comments from people being like, whoa, the biceps and the shoulders are looking good and stuff like that, which felt really good. So that was another example of money who probably might be personal happiness. So that was the physical health side of things. But the other area in which you can spend money to improve your health is in the mental health department. And that brings us to a better help who are very kindly sponsoring this video. Now, for me personally, I've been very lucky not to have any major mental health crises throughout the course of my life. But I've actually found speaking to a therapist quite helpful for dealing with things like YouTuber-related burnout and also some like relationship issues. And whether or not you're particularly struggling with your mental health, if you do want to find a therapist and it's generally a good thing to do, it can be really hard to know where to start. If you're in that boat, you should absolutely check out better help. It's a customized online therapy that offers time with a qualified therapist through video, or phone, or even live chat if for whatever reason you don't want to turn your camera on. And they've got a huge range of expertise across that 20,000 plus registered therapists. Once you sign up, all you have to do is fill out a questionnaire, and then within 48 hours, they will match you to a qualified therapist who can help you out with that specific problem. Then you can schedule a video in phone sessions, and obviously everything that you share is completely confidential, and you can change therapists whenever you want. And to be honest, even if you don't have any significant mental health issues, I really vibe with Alanda Baton from School of Life's View of this, which is that therapy is like one of those things that we should sort of treat as, like going to a gym or like getting a personal trainer, it's something that's going to help with our mental health, even if we don't have any major diseases or mental illnesses that we're suffering from. Anyway, if you would like to get matched with a therapist who's going to listen and help, then you can head over to betterhelp.com forward slash Aliabdal, and that URL will give you 10% off your first month. So, thank you so much to better help for sponsoring this video, and for letting us invest money into improving our mental health. Alright, tip number four is another thing they talk about in this paper, which is to buy many small pleasures instead of few big ones. And basically the idea here is that if we want to spend money to buy happiness, we need to combat that hedonic adaptation that we talked about earlier. And the way to think about that is imagine taking a sip of Coke. Usually, that first sip is really, really, really powerful and really strong, it's like, oh my god, this is incredible. But the second sip is a bit worse, and we get this diminishing marginal utility for every subsequent sip of Coke that we have. And so, hypothetically, if you imagine, instead of having that whole kind of Coke in one sitting, if you had like a couple of sip and then left it a bit, and then in theory it would not lose its phase, and then had a few more sip, and then if you're more, maybe over the course of a few days, and you'd get more happiness through that than you would if you just had it in one sitting. And this concept can apply to anything else that we spend money on as well. Like it's very tempting, you know, to blow money on like a super, all expenses paid, big fancy aspiration. But what a lot of the studies show is that if, for example, you took shorter, more frequent vacations instead, that would probably be more happiness gains, than just having a massive blowout once a year, for example. All right, tip number five is to delay your consumption wherever possible. And they're talking the paper about how we kind of have this attitude towards consume now, and pay later, and that's the sort of thing that's facilitated by things like credit cards, which are generally super bad, because A, they encourage us to go into debt, to have needs instantly kind of gratified in the moment. But also, when we have that instant gratificationy, short-termist approach to the stuff that we buy, we tend to make unhealthy choices than if we took our time with it a little bit more. So, for example, there's a study that they cite, where if, for example, you give people the option of having a snack right now versus a snack in the future, they'll far more likely to pick the unhealthy option of like a chocolate or packet of crisps or whatever right now, whereas if you made the choice right now, but you consumed it at some point in the future, we're way more likely to make healthier decisions, and healthy decisions over the long-term make us way more happy than that individual burst of dopamine from getting that chocolate bar, for I find this quite useful in the sense that I've signed up to this sort of meal delivery service, where I have to pay in advance for meals for the following week, and so I'm way more likely to make healthy choices in the cold light of day when I'm kind of making choices for my future self, whereas if I'm hungry in the moment and I'm ordering something of takeaway right now, I'm way more likely to like do something that's really unhealthy, and one thing the also mention in the paper is that when we delay our consumption, whether it's an experience or if it's a thing, that builds anticipation, and anticipation is just completely free happiness. Like, they cite a bunch of studies that show that for example, anticipating a holiday, is sometimes even better in terms of a happiness than experiencing the holiday itself. And generally, anticipating stuff that's going to happen in the future is a stronger, emotional feeling, than reminiscing or looking back on something that happened in the past. Alright, tip number six is something that they only lead to in the paper, but it's something I've got a lot of personal experience with, and that is spending money to buy back your time. Now, one of the main things that we know from research and from personal experience is that when we have autonomy or control or ownership over how we're spending our time, that's far more likely for us to feel happier and feel like we're living our best life. That's this thing in psychology, called self-determination theory, which you can look up if you like. And the way this applies to money is that we can spend money to free up our own personal time. This is honestly one of the main reasons why I built this YouTube channel, why I tried to build a business, why I tried to build streams of passive income, so that I can make money essentially while I sleep, and I can use that money to then be free of obligations that I don't necessarily want to do. So, for example, about three years into this YouTube channel, I was able to quit my day job of being a medical doctor for the sake of making silly internet videos. And even though there were some aspects as medicine that were super fun, I have way, way, way more control over my time right now. And so overall, I feel like I'm way happier right now than I was when I was working full time. Now, if you want to benefit from this, you don't have to quit your job. What you can do is what a bunch of entrepreneurs recommend, which is to figure out what is your ideal hourly rate. What is the amount of money that you feel an hour of your time is worth? And then if you are asked to do something or you have to do something, that's worth less than that hourly amount, you just choose to not do it. For example, let's say your hourly rate is $15 an hour because you're like, this is how much I value my time at. And you bought a $5 item from Amazon, but you know it's going to take you an hour to get to the post office and return the thing if you don't want the thing. You can just choose to not return the thing and take the hit. So, in a way, you have spent money to buy back an hour of your time. And the way I see it, like, time is the only non-renewable resource that we have. It is by far the most valuable thing that we have. And so, where possible, I try and spend money to save time. Alright, next we have spending money to remove salient negatives. Now, it's not in this paper, but there's a bunch of other studies that I've seen that show that when we remove major negatives from our life, that's generally way better in terms of our happiness than if we are adding extra positives. So, for example, in my case, and again, this is the first word problem. So, I apologise if I come across as a trap for saying this, but I really don't like cleaning the bathroom. Cleaning the bathroom is not a fun thing that I would want to do with my time, but cleaning the bathroom is something that has to be done. And so, I have just outsourced it. So, every two or three weeks, a cleaner comes to the flat and they do a whole spring cleaning of the whole house, including the bathrooms, which means I don't have to spend an hour or two a week or every other week cleaning, which means that I'm able to spend that time on something I'd enjoy more, like hanging out with friends, or reading a good book, or relaxing, or whatever the thing might be. And I think there's always like a bit of a resistance in people's minds to this, because they're like, oh, you know, there's some kind of moralisation here, like, oh, you know, cleaning is something you should do, because you're a good, moral person and a good, moral person cleans their own house. But again, it just comes back to this idea that time is our single most valuable non-renewable resource. I've got a bunch of friends who now have kids who say that, getting a cleaner has been a freaking game changer, because now they can spend more time with their kids rather than spending that time cleaning the house. And so generally, if you find that you're having to do something that you really don't like doing, and you have the ability in the means, and just know how to outsource the thing to someone else. Especially if outsourcing the thing costs less than your personal hourly rate, like how much you personally value your time at, then it's just a complete no-brainer to outsource the thing, and you generally find that that increases your happiness as well. All right, tip number eight is that if we're going to spend money on things rather than experiences, we should spend money on things that enable other interesting activities. So they talk in this paper about the idea of buying a new car. Now, there's a mental shift that we can make, where instead of thinking like, I now have a car, we just try our best to think of the car as being a thing that facilitates our ability to do stuff. So rather than to have the car, it's like, what can the car allow us to do? For example, I can take road trips with friends, or I can visit friends, or I can drop a friend off in the evening if it's late, and the trains are not running. And the fact that we're thinking of this car, I eat a thing as an enabler of an experience, means that we're far more likely to appreciate it, and we're also far less likely to fall into the comparison trap. So, for example, I won't be thinking, oh my god, a Tesla Model S is just way better than a Tesla Model 3. Because fundamentally, it just allows me to do the same things. It just, you know, is a 0.3 seconds faster or whatever the thing might be. Whereas, when we think of the item, it's just way easier to fall into the comparison trap, which loads of studies have shown, and personal experience has as well, that comparison is the thief of joy. There's a bunch of other things you can buy as happiness enables. So, for example, I found that buying a Kindle was one of the biggest happiness enables of my life, because it has enabled me to read books a lot more easily, and I get a lot of pleasure out of reading books, and therefore I get a lot of pleasure out of the Kindle way more than it was if it was just a thing that didn't really enable anything else. And finally, tip number nine for spending money to buy happiness is actually to spend money on charity. And there's a bunch of studies that show that people who give more money to charity or household who donate more money to charity tend to be happier overall. And there's a great paper called Giving Without Sacrifice, in which the author looks at a bunch of empirical data and shows that for most people, if you donate 10% of your annual income to charity, it's actually not going to be a decrease in your own personal happiness, but might actually increase your happiness because of the extra value and joy that you personally get from donating to charity. And of course, there's obviously it's got the potential to help people as well. That's one of the reasons amongst others, why I've personally taken the giving what we can pledge, which is a pledge to donate 10% of my annual income to effective charities every year. I take the pledge back in 2019, and there's a bunch of people I've interviewed on my podcast and friends and family and stuff who've taken the pledge as well. And if you're interested in why I did that, then you can check out this video over here, which shows me a couple of years ago taking this pledge live and talking through my reasons for donating 10% of my salary every year. And just anecdotally, I do find that giving that money to charity, actually improves my personal happiness, probably way more than if I'd spend that money on myself. So check out this video if you want to learn more. Thank you so much for watching. Have a great time, and I'll see you in the next video. Bye-bye.
