# PRODUCTIVE Day in the Life of an Aspiring Gymshark Athlete
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x-hGIYZj2Rw
To improve your thinking and learning skills, visit https://brilliant.org/ali and sign up for free. The first 200 people will get 20% off the annual Premium subscription :)

In this video I'll be taking you through an average day on my quest to become an elite Gymshark athlete. 

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
📚  How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali
What I Use For Analytics - https://go.aliabdaal.com/tubebuddy
🌐  My website platform (Ghost) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost
🎤  My podcast hosting platform (Transistor) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/transistor

OTHER RECOMMENDED COURSES
📔 Effortless Output with Roam Research - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/roam
📓 Building a Second Brain - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/basb

🎙 MY WEEKLY PODCAST - https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCdXpN-Z7LyTgc3OLo_Zw2Pg
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app. And we post clips + full episodes on the YouTube channel, so please subscribe to that!  

BE MY FRIEND:
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮  Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, day in the life vlog, productivity, day in the life, junior doctor, ali abdaal leaving medicine, ali abdaal youtube, ali abdaal kindle, ali abdaal roommate, ali abdaal book, ali abdaal vlog, ali abdaal books, ali abdaal ipad, day in the life of a doctor, productivity tips, doctor day in the life, productivity 2020, junior doctor vlog, productivity apps, increase productivity, how to be productive, gymshark, athlete, 
**Date:** 2020-12-22

## Transcript
 Hey friends, welcome back to the vlog. Today is the continuation of my journey to become a gym shark athlete. I wake up at 830, but end up lying in bed for another 40 minutes, battling the resistance to get out of bed, and to film myself getting out of bed at 905, I bust out the iPad to do some morning journaling in my sleepy stupor, and then watch some David laid workout videos at double speed, of course, to ramp up my motivation. Once I'm sufficiently mentally and emotionally hyped, I spring out of bed to start the day. I head to the bathroom and take off my invisiline braces courtesy of anglia orthodontics, hashtag gifted, and brush my teeth while checking myself out, and mentally comparing myself with the people featured on the gym shark Instagram page to motivate myself to do a hardcore workout today. Normally, I have a shower in the mornings, but because I've got my hardcore workout at 11, I thought I'd allow the shower in the interest of productivity. I type on my iPad a bit more to write out this voice of a script as I'm going along, and then I change into my gym shark workout gear ready to crush the sash. Sadly, this clothing is neither hashtag sponsored nor hashtag gifted, but who knows one day maybe. I swagger out of my bedroom in my workout kit and make a healthy breakfast of just so simple oats with golden syrup. Just add milk, stick it in the microwave for two minutes, and you've got a tasty, nutritious breakfast. While that's cooking, I brew myself with cup of coffee using this clever dripper, the most productive way to make coffee. These days, my daily coffee is from four sigmatic. Again, not hashtag gifted or hashtag sponsored, but four sigmatic if you're watching this. Hit me up. Apparently, it's coffee infused with some mushroom things that Tim Ferriss says is good for concentration and stuff, so that's what I've been using as my daily coffee for the past few weeks, and I really should rename this video to the Truman Show. From 9.50, I sit in the living room eating my oats and mindfully sipping my coffee while listening to book 4 of the Stormlight Archive by Brandon Sanderson on audible. When I'm done eating, I head over to my natural habitat, the computer, to make a start on some work. For 20 minutes, I chat to my team on Slack, sorting out logistics and planning for my live cohort course, the part-time YouTuber Academy. We're just about to finish the first cohort which had 360 students, and we've actually just opened up registration for cohort too, which is starting in February 2021. There'll be a link in the video description if you want to check that out. At 10.30, I have a catchup call with my friends Liam and Ross, who are both experts in fitness and nutrition. Ross is a professional golf instructor, and he's revamping his YouTube channel to be more generally focused on fitness and mobility, so we plan out some ideas for collapse that we can do in the new year. My own plan for 2021 is to really focus on my health and fitness, and doing things like fixing my terrible computer nerd neck posture and my total lack of flexibility both physically and emotionally. Overall, I want to maximize my healthy lifespan as much as possible and to be physically healthy throughout my life, and so I know that I need to start making changes from today so that they can compound over time. Having preached all of that at 11 a.m. I have a moment of weakness and much on some popcorn that we've got lying around the house. It's vegan and gluten-free though, and it's only 84 calories per quarter pack, so hopefully you won't be too bad for me. Next, I unbox a funky package from Amazon, which turns out to be a cookbook that my editor Christian recommended if I want to take cooking seriously. At this point, I've got 10 minutes until my hardcore workout session with my personal trainer, so I decided to clean the living room a bit and put away the laundry so that he doesn't think I'm a total wasteman. The workout session starts at noon, and he makes me do side lunges, gluten bridges, and a load of stuff to warm up. Then we do a kettlebell workout with kettlebell squats, overhead press, single arm deadlift, chin-ups, and bicycles. Thankfully, during the second set of exercises, my pull-up bar falls off the door frame and I land on my knees, jarring my lower back at the base of my spine in the process. My trainer Dan kindly suggests that we stock the workout for today, as it focuses a lot on core and back strength, which relieves me to no end, especially because I've already got a decent amount of footage from it. We finish off with some floor-based kettlebell exercises, and then some split squats, and then that's today's workout ended 20 minutes before it was meant to, yes, winning at life. All right, workout done. Now, time to be really healthy and make some pancakes using my new cook-free skills. We've got flour, eggs, strawberries, milk, and bananas, and we'll see how it goes. From 145pm, my house-made chain and I eat the pancakes, fruit, and Nutella mix, while watching an episode of Shets Creek. While we're watching another parcel arrived from Amazon, which turns out to be a white-to-wicker basket that I can put my meal in, then after spending 20 minutes singing in the shower, I decide to make myself some heal for lunch, because I'm still hungry after those pancakes. These days, I'm using the hot and savory mix thing that you can just add water to, and yet again, this is neither gifted nor sponsored, so heal if you're watching this, hit me up. At this point, it's 230pm, and so I have a Zoom call with Angus, one of my team members to plan out the final two live sessions of the part-time YouTuber Academy. One is about productivity for creatives, like how to use your time in efficient ways to pamph out high-quality content like this on the regular, and the other is all about monetization, where we go through the eight different sources of monetization for my channel, and where I share the process of how to get there if you're starting YouTube, and you want to treat it like a business. We wrap up our call at 4pm, having planned the final two sessions of the course, and so I spend some time stretching on my yoga mat, and foam rolling my hip flexors with one of these physio balls. While doing that, I'm continuing to listen to book four of the stormlight archive on audible. After a very pleasant chill, 50 minutes of doing this, I make myself a cheeky cup of decaffinated English breakfast tea, and get back to my natural habitat. From 5 to 7pm, I continue to sit at the computer, first going through a guest workshop, all about building an email newsletter as part of the part-time YouTuber Academy, and then continuing to sort out course logistics stuff, and chatting briefly to my housemate. At 7pm, I decide to make some dinner. I plan on making a healthy meal of oven roasted salmon with sweet potato and Brussels sprouts. But then, I think about it for a few minutes, and decide to screw it, and order pizza take away instead, because it's been a tough day, and I've done a workout, and I deserve to treat myself food arrives half an hour later, and so I start by eating a few. Only a few slices of pizza, and then half a chicken to get that protein intake to continue my journey to becoming a gym shark athlete. From 8pm, it's time for homework club, a two hour co-working session with students of the part-time YouTuber Academy, where we all get together on a Zoom call, and we spend 30 minutes writing, 30 minutes filming, an hour editing a video, as a way to help build the habits of consistency that we need to be effective part-time YouTubers. During homework club, I film a video answering some more assumptions, which came out on the channel last week, and then I continue writing a video called How Much Money Do You Need To Be Happy. I finished this off around 11pm, and then spent 20 minutes finishing off my half chicken takeaway to load up on some more protein, watching some dishes, loading the dishwasher, and cleaning the kitchen. I spend the final 20 minutes of the day back at my desk, doing a quick, relaxing, mental workout on Brilliant, who are very kindly sponsoring this video. If you haven't heard, Brilliant is a fantastic platform for online courses in maths, science, and computer science. Today, I'm working through one of their courses in their applied computer science series about crypto currency. I actually lost around $40,000 on Bitcoin way back in 2017, and I suspect that if I had a better understanding of how crypto currencies actually worked, this might not have happened. Anyway, the excellent course on Brilliant guides me through a brief history of currency itself, which is a great foundation to understanding what's so great about crypto. We then go through the concepts of cryptographic signatures, decentralization, and vulnerabilities, and even though I only get through a few lessons in the course, I already understand so much more about crypto and currency as a whole than I ever did before. If you'd like to join me on this journey of improving our mental faculties and understanding important concepts in maths, science, and computer science, head over to Brilliant.org forward slash early, and the first 200 people will get 20% off the annual premium subscription. After my quick session of Brilliantting, I reflect on my day of waking up super early, doing a hardcore workout and eating incredibly healthily. I go to bed feeling optimistic about my journey towards becoming a gym shark athlete. If you enjoyed this video, you might like to check out my productive apartment tour, where I showcase how I've meticulously designed every detail of my apartment to maximize my productivity. Thank you so much for watching.
