# Ask Doctor Ali - 100k subscribers Q&A
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=x40pERU0YaY
In this video, I tackle 24 questions that were sent in by subscribers of my weekly email newsletter (http://aliabdaal.com/friendzone). We cover a lot of ground from motivation and productivity to tips for studying and starting a YouTube channel. Enjoy xx

💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking 

📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

LINKS

1. Magic of thinking big - http://geni.us/themagicofthinkingbig
2. Atomic habits - http://geni.us/atomichabitsbook
3. Ego is the enemy - http://geni.us/0ueEl1j
4. Screw motivation - http://www.wisdomination.com/screw-motivation-what-you-need-is-discipline/
5. Study with me playlist - http://bit.ly/AliStudyWithMe
6. Taming the mammoth - https://waitbutwhy.com/2014/06/taming-mammoth-let-peoples-opinions-run-life.html
7. Wait but why - https://waitbutwhy.com
8. Barking up the wrong tree - https://www.bakadesuyo.com
9. Mark Manson - https://markmanson.net
10. Mr money moustache - https://www.mrmoneymustache.com
11. The parable of the pottery class - https://aliabdaal.com/pottery/

TIMESTAMPS

Q1 - 01:21 - How did you learn to code and what resources did you use to learn?
Q2 - 02:!4 - How do you fight procrastination and stay productive?
Q3 - 04:14 - How do you balance revision of old content with learning new content?
Q4 - 05:33 - How do you motivate yourself to do so much outside of medicine while having a busy job?
Q5 - 08:50 - How did you learn new skills like video editing? Any recommended resources?
Q6 - 10:20 - What’s your life motto?
Q7 - 12:59 - What’s the best book you’ve read this year?
Q8 - 13:24 - How did you stay motivated to study during medical school?
Q9 - 14:11 - Are you dating anyone?
Q10 - 14:30 - Was there any part of medical school that you really didn’t enjoy?
Q11 - Any advice on how to make a YouTube channel and how to edit videos?
Q12 - 16:10 - How do you think your content will change over time as you get older?
Q13 - 18:10 - How do you balance meaningful friendships / relationships at medical school with the constant need to be studying?
Q14 - 19:44 - Do you know of any scientific ways to beat procrastination?
Q15 - What is the most useless activity that has a hidden value?
Q16 -22:06 - How do I keep up with the content and get good grades in medical school?
Q17 - 23:00 - How do I stop my perfectionist sensibilities from interfering with my confidence?
Q18 - 25:03 - Have you ever harmed a patient due to your inexperience? How did you get over it?
Q19 - 28:14 - How do you deal with imposter syndrome or feeling like you’re inadequate?
Q20 - 30:18 - How do you make the time to write and maintain your blog so consistently?
Q21 - 31:27 - What are your favourite blogs and YouTube channels?
Q22 - 32:33 - How do you practically grow everyday? 
Q23 - 33:50 - How did you manage to code, teach, do research, run a company etc while in medical school?
Q24 - 35:13 - How do you stay on top of school work while also having time for yourself?
37:03 - Wrap-up

🎬 My online course on video editing - https://skl.sh/32TpEvm
🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal


Who am I:

I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

My most popular videos:

- How I take notes on my iPad Pro in medical school - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=waR3xBDHMqw
- Mu 2018 university desk setup - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zdew7At9S2U
- How to study for exams - Evidence based revision tips - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ukLnPbIffxE
- Study with Me + My revision method - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yiRYn97GJhM
- iPad Pro vs iPad (2018) comparison for college / university students - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tIdU4Sw6a5Y
**Keywords:** ali abdaal, ask doctor ali, junior doctor, medical student vlog, cambridge medical student, 
**Date:** 2018-12-08

## Transcript
 Hey guys, welcome back to the channel. If you're new here, my name is Ali. I'm a junior doctor working in Cambridge and in this video I'm going to be answering a load of questions that you guys have sent in for the 100,000 subscribers Q&A Firstly, thank you very much. Subscribe to the channel. I'm okay. It's pretty cool. If you haven't subscribed yet You can still do so there's a number of the number. There's a button down below But yeah, thank you so much to everyone who has subscribed to the channel has watched the videos over time We sent messages. It's really really cool to have you know such nice people who follow the channel and watch the video So thank you very much for that But yeah, so a few weeks ago I sent as part of my weekly email newsletter I sent a little post script asking for people to send in their questions If you don't know I have a week email newsletter where every Sunday I send out an email with a few paragraphs of thoughts for the week and Like a link or two that I discovered that week. It's usually quite short quite readable and I send it on Sunday mornings most of the time But as part of that I sent out this call for questions and 50 people replied So thanks very much to you guys for replying to that and send sent in some questions that I'm going to answer in this video Or probably get through about 25 or 30 of them. This is going to be a really really long video So please don't feel like you have to watch all of it. I'll put timestamps in the video description and in a pinned comment You'll be able to just click on a timestamp that has a video that has a question that you're interested in and you can just skip to that appropriate section of the video But yeah, otherwise this is going to be a fairly long chatty Q&A chatty Q&A Let's just jump into it. So first up. We have cathol who says how did you learn to code and what did you So I taught myself to code when I was around in year eight. So that's around the age of 13 and At the time the resources available were very very different to what they are now. I taught myself pretty much by doing and By having the little project every single year where I was trying to you know trying to build an online business to make money back in the day So back then it was W3 schools and I also got these like you know macromedia dream leave a book And they did like decay multimedia books about flash and HTML So that was like the old school way of learning you'd use these books. You'd use a simple website And you try and do stuff yourself now a day if I were learning how to code from scratch I would just sign up to a course of code academy or code school or you do me Well, if for anything the so many like different resources out there for learning how to code that you don't really need to do what People who learn to code in like you know the 2000s used to do next up. We've got parrots who says what do you do to fight procrastination slash to keep productive So this is kind of a tricky one because honestly, I don't really fight procrastination that well like today I got home at six o'clock. It's now quarter to ten and I've procrastinated for the last three hours before Sitting down and making this video I was lying on the couch. I was reading a bit of my book on Kindle. There's listening to some side country music Thanks to the Amazon echo in the back my house made Molly made some food. We just kind of chatted a bit and Pretty much like everything I could do to procrastinate before making this video. I did But you know ultimately I decided you know what I'm just gonna sit down and make the video So I don't really have any tips as such to fight procrastination and to or to keep productive I suppose one of my One of my things is that once you set Like an aim for yourself that you know what I like or rather like once you set a system like my system is that every week I want to make one or two videos that's quite it's quite easy to hit that target and therefore you know every week If I've not yet made one or two videos, I'm that I think that you know that is that's my task for the Evening that I have to do so I think that having that set up up front that this is what I'm going to do and it not being a matter of debate It's kind of like my weekly email newsletter, which you can subscribe to with a link down below Like from around April 2018 onwards I decided that every single Every single Sunday I was gonna write this weekly email newsletter and since that time I've not missed a single one because once I set that System for myself it became not an optional thing and actually I think this is This is probably probably the main thing that I use to stay productive to fight procrastination It's having these systems. I think if I get home and I have so many options of things that I could be doing that is when I start procrastinating Because you know the idea of doing any single one is just too big But if I know you know what it's a it's a Thursday today I've got to make a video because I haven't been able on this week or you know what it's a Sunday This is my day for making for making my email newsletters or it's a Monday morning I go to the gym every Monday morning like when you have that system in place then I think that's one way of fighting procrastination and And it's staying productive. Okay, so Alexandra asks how do you balance revision with learning new content? I've just started medical school and I'm struggling to review my order material while also learning new topics This is a classic problem that everyone has that you know you've got lectures You're being inundated with new material But you also kind of want to keep on top of the old stuff because you know that with space repetition hopefully You know that the more you kind of repeat it that you know Just taking five minutes to review some of your questions or to test yourself a little a little bit on previous topics Is going to have a disproportionate effect further down the line and I think that's really the key thing to understand that Any five or 10 or 15 or 20 minutes of revision work that you do testing yourself on previous content is going to be worth about three hours worth You know actual you're sitting there and reading a book Which is why for me personally I've never really found it an issue to revise older material ever since I found out that this space repetition was a thing Because it just makes your life so much like ten times more efficient When you just take that five minutes to test yourself on the previous topics Even though you've got new stuff to learn it doesn't matter I've got new stuff to learn I'm always gonna have new stuff to learn but I know that just taking it's more than a time to test myself in previous topics It's gonna work absolutely wonders So yeah, I think it's just a case of prioritizing it making it part of your routine and perhaps even thinking that before I sit down to learn the new content I'm gonna revise my active recall questions that I wrote for myself for the previous topic right next We've got Margarita who says how are you able to motivate yourself to do so much outside of medicine So piano guitar or YouTube etc while having sit while still having such a busy job I'm in the final year of school right now and have applied to medicine very nice and find it really difficult to sustain new good habits that will help me grow as a person But not then start slacking that school stuff So again, this is a question about motivation This is a classic question how do you motivate yourself to do a bcd and e while also having a full-time job or what also being at school full-time? Again, it's not really a matter of motivation. I'll link in article down below that it's called screw motivation What you need is discipline and I think that really changed the game for me when I discovered it a few years ago It introduces the idea that motivation is just this temporary I just temporary feeling of I feel like doing something whereas discipline is a permanent thing of I don't care how I feel I'm gonna do it because I've decided to do it and it's the right thing to do and kind of the way I think about it is I've got these two These two parts of me one is like the cerebral part of me the one that has my long-term interest at heart That tells me that you know what it's a good thing to practice guitar and piano and YouTube and you know Right my email newsletter and you know this this sort of long-termy sort of stuff and then I've got the three-year-old inside of me That's like oh, I just want to sit on the couch and listen to the music or I just want to you know Brow the YouTube for eight hours of scroll through Instagram. There's these two conflicting sides of at least myself I don't know if it's applied for the people, but I've got these like two conflicting sides of myself and What was the question again the question was how do you motivate yourself to do stuff? So number one is recognizing that you've got these two conflicting things and A just like you know just simply recognizing that means that you can decide to that actually you know what? I've got in home at six p.m. I need to sleep at 11 p.m. so I've got five hours of time My three-year-old self wants me to just slack off and scroll into ground in Facebook for five hours But instead I'm gonna override my three-year-old self and I'm gonna do what my higher self is telling me to do and do a bit of music theory practice or you know Learn some video editing skills. So that's point number one just recognizing that and point number two is that I feel like I don't really need to motivate myself to do other things outside of medicine because pretty much everything I do I enjoy doing and if I don't enjoy it then either I won't do it or I'm find a way to make it enjoyable Even though I procrastinated from making this video I really enjoy making these videos. I love the sound of my own voice when I'm talking to a camera And just overall it's quite a fun thing. Also if I'm learning piano or guitar or music theory I just enjoy that stuff so much that I don't need to motivate myself to do it I think motivation only really comes into it when you're trying to motivate yourself to do something that's inherently unpleasant And I found that back when I had to motivate myself to go to the gym It was a lot harder whereas when I Developed a system that made me enjoy the gym a lot more I e having a workout that was just decided for me in advance Where I didn't have to do any thinking and then listening to my audiobook these days Oh, bring up by Brandon Sonderson the third book of the storm like archive listening to my audiobook at the gym Just those two things having a workout and having an audiobook made it an inherently enjoyable experience and therefore I don't have to motivate myself to go to the gym as such although in fairness I have been struggling with that recently, but in fairness I haven't got a shoulder injury from falling off my skateboard the other day Anyway two main points number one Recognize that you are conflicting you are like competing with this three-year-old self of yours to decide what to do And you can absolutely override that three-year-old if you really want to had point number two Is do you think that you enjoy and if you don't enjoy them find a way to make them fun? That is how I motivate myself to do extra things outside of medicine. Okay next to Kumi says I have a question for your Q&A How have you started to learn new skills such as video editing any recommendations or specific services or websites? Now the thing with video editing and a lot of these new skills is that it's really more about quantity than it is about quality of the start And I've written a blog post about this on my website which I link here and also This was one of the app one of the topics of my weekly new letter. I'm going to keep plugging that You should all definitely subscribe to it if you're email anyway, oh the question was yeah learning learning new skills like video editing So it's yeah, it's really just about quantity it's about churning out videos and When I decided you know in 2017 July or whatever it was to vlog the experiences being on my medical elective That meant that I had I just had to churn out content and I made like 12 videos there I made some B-mat videos and made some interview videos and because I have the system of I'm going to make one or two videos Every week that then for a year means you make between 50 and 100 videos sometimes even more and Therefore when you when you've made a hundred videos you just like automatically get better at video editing You pick up the shortcuts you pick up the skills That is point number one and point number two is I actively tried to improve my skills by watching YouTube That I admire so photographers videographers people like Peter McKinnon people like Casey Neistar and Analyzing their style of editing so then working that into my own videos And also of course watching editing tutorials on YouTube there's so many of them and they're all really So you should check those out and I think this is a formula that pretty much applies to everything every new skill that you want to learn Number one, there's no substitute for just doing it and number two You can find stuff on the internet that helps you do it better if that makes sense all right next question So Olivia asks what's your life motto? I I thought about this when I got when I got the email from Olivia and one thing that I came up with which is gonna sound like I'm an absolute fat, but I'm gonna share my thoughts about this anyway I think one life motto that I like to follow is the phrase how hard can it be And there's a phrase from like Steve Jobs or someone that goes along the lines of everything in the world around you is made by people who are No smarter than you are and I think that's a very liberating thought it means that You know what if I want to do something then You know I'll do it. I can teach myself. I can use initiative. I can apply my existing skills to this How hard can it really be telling a YouTube channel how hard can it be becoming a doctor how are going to be you know doing various things within medicine how hard can it be Doing anything else on the side how hard can it be other people have done it and if people have done it then it's it's doable and the beautiful thing about the internet these days is that you can pretty much learn Literally anything you want and I think that is a motto that has really helped me to the point where I like I can't remember the last time I had anything like a moment of self doubt because Self doubt comes from thinking that I can't do it or you know what if I can't do it whereas if your motto is how hard can it be Of course, I can do it. I've got the internet to teach me. I've got people that I can just you know message If it's something with a medicine and I see people who are better at it than I am then I will actively seek them out and try to kind of learn from them even for even for weird things like weird things like There's a few doctors that I work with who are like really funny and You know I actively ask them how they make their jokes and normally they don't like you know respond in that very kind of algorithmic Wayway like I want to but I like to kind of analyze their styles of humor and then you know I've read books on about how to be funny or because I wanted to improve my own sense of humor So it's I think it's just having an attitude of Being willing to learn even for things that we would normally considered weird like humor or social skills or charisma These are all things that are absolutely learnable and that you can learn through resources like the internet and books and By putting them into practice But yeah, the overall motto how how hard can it be and I think I think it's a good way to Be able to do anything or to second mind that you are able to do anything and actually on that note There's a really good book called the magic of thinking big which I'll think of there Which a lot of like tech entrepreneurs and stuff including Tim Ferriss have said that Really changed their lives. I came across this quite late when I was just like over the last two years or so But I think had I discovered this book when I was in secondary school or in my early stages of university It would have really helped so yeah, the magic of thinking big that explores this idea of you know Thinking big and dreaming big and all this like wishy-washy stuff in a bit more detail But it's quite an engaging read that I'd highly recommend all right Daniel says what's the best book? You've read this year Okay, so Oh, this is really hard to say because this year I discovered books like the Mistborn series but Brad and Sanderson The King Killer Chronicles but path bad Patrick Rothfuss It's from my archive by Brad and Sanderson and I really can't say which one is the best I enjoy them all equally so Mistborn King Killer Chronicles and stormlight archive I've just got to put those in the top three things that I've read this year All right next we've got a riso who says I'd love to know how did you keep yourself motivated to study in medical school I'm going into clinical year soon but I find myself lacking motivation a lot these days Already sort of answered that point number one realizing that you are in control and you've got this you know Your cerebral self is fighting against this three-year-old version of you and you can absolutely override it if you really want to and Point number two try and make it fun so I was a big fan of studying with friends I enjoy studying with like epic instrumental music in the background. I link my Spotify study with me play this below So you can check out the sort of tunes that I like listen to while I'm working this doing everything I can to make work more enjoyable Means that I don't really need to motivate myself to do it because it's fun and we don't need to motivate ourselves to do things that are fun So yeah next stepy from Germany says number one how do you do so much stuff which I already answered I think and Point number two is I think all your female and maybe some of your male audience would like to know something about your private life Especially things like if you're dating someone or something like that wink face So thank you for asking that question Stephanie from Germany. I am currently single so yeah And we'll leave it at that for now. All right next Joard says what's there any part of med school you really didn't enjoy I don't know I think Obviously with anything we do there's gonna be parts of it that we don't enjoy like in med school I didn't really enjoy some of the lectures that were quite boring. I used to fall asleep in lectures I didn't really used to attend many lectures in first and second year I sort of wish that I had attended a bit more, but then I also think that I wouldn't have taken anything in because I was absolutely knackered from rowing that morning or from chilling with my friends until 5 a.m. the night before and those are Experiences that I would not have given up in return for attending a few extra lectures So yeah some of the lectures boring, you know some parts of med school are a bit tedious, but like everything in life You know some of it There's gonna be some bits that you don't enjoy but overall the experience is absolutely incredible and I can handle I'd say that I absolutely love my medical school years despite not enjoying every hundred percent moment of of it All right, no question Chloe says any advice on creating a YouTube channel and how to edit videos? Yeah, just do it Create the channel upload a video upload another one and another one and accept that your first hundred videos are gonna be absolutely terrible And that's okay because at that point no one really cares no one's watching your channel using that as an opportunity to learn And I think it's just distancing yourself from your ego and thinking you know We will have this idea of that. Oh crap. I'm gonna put myself I'm gonna put my face online and it's what if it's bad? What if people are gonna laugh at me? No one's gonna laugh at you. May I like no one really cares when you have like four subscribers? Literally no one cares what videos you're putting out when you have a hundred subscribers no one really cares What videos you're putting out if anybody doesn't matter and I think as having that attitude of I'm okay if my first few videos are gonna be crap my first hundred videos are gonna be absolutely terrible But I'm gonna learn having that and growth mindset is really the way forward and just turning out content the more content you can Show them out the better you'll get in the long run. All right next question. So IR's asks What are your future plans for YouTube and how do you think your content will change as you continue further on your journey to becoming a consultant and once you're there Presuming you're still doing YouTube So long-term plans for YouTube and things. This is a very good question. This is something I think about all the time I imagine my whole hey study with me guys. This is what I'm doing to prepare for my exams probably has a cell by date in that you know when I'm 35 you know and still you know hopefully doing some kind of Contemplation on the internet people are probably not really gonna care about the study with me videos Maybe that maybe like the single be different and people are not really gonna care about watching someone Timelapse and self-studying stuff like that I don't know. I think overall I want to go down the avenue of medical education for once for one rather so I want to do a lot more education stuff aimed at medical students and adjunior doctors when I'm older Less medical applicant stuff more kind of actual students teaching the medicine in like a fun and interesting and engaging way hopefully so that's a big part of it Secondly, I really like you know doing this weekly blogging thing where I write this weekly email newsletter, which you should subscribe to Where I write this like mini weekly article and I definitely want to keep that going for as long as I can In fact, you know what I'm just gonna keep doing it forever because why not if Seth Goldon can produce a blog post every single day How hard is it really to produce something every single week and that whole idea that you know self-improvement life advice motivation Productivity hacks. I didn't really like that sort of stuff and I don't really see that changing in the future So I'd like to continue creating content around that and thirdly music as a hobby at the moment I want to incorporate that a lot more into my videos and tech as well You know, you've got fancy tech all around me and it's nice being a sort of semi tech youtuber that I can make videos about it I expect that I'd still like to continue that on because I don't imagine you know tech is gonna just continue to improve and It's always fun to you know have an excuse to buy new tech and to review it So yeah, that's how I think my content will change some of it will stay the same you know tech music stuff Maybe but I also want to go a lot more into this medical education thing so hopefully that answers the question next Ashley asks one question. I'd love to hear your answer to is how to balance and form meaningful relationships in medical school Given the hectic schedules and constant need to be studying How have you learned to balance both school and friends or even had the time or mental capacity for people for deeper relationships during med school now actually thank you for asking the question I think Ashley might not actually be a medical student. It's kind of strange and because the whole medical student medical school is so hard You have to work all the time that whole mantra I've not really heard very much from actual medical students I've only really heard it from medical applicants who have been sold this vision that med student Like med school is the hardest thing ever and you never gonna have time to do anything else You not be able to any you won't be able to sleep you'll be able to do sports and not gonna have time for friends It's just not true medical school is fairly chill as a whole especially at Cambridge We had very few contact hours. Yeah, we had essays and special but like especially if you can use efficient study techniques You know things other than just pouring over textbook and highlighting and summarizing which a terror Which a terribly bad study techniques if instead you can use things like space repetition and active recall Which I've made videos about in which you can read a book called make it stick if you really care about this sort of stuff When you when you can do stuff like that then you a study becomes so much more efficient and therefore you never have to do this whole thing I have to spend all my time studying. You've just got so much spare time And in fact you struggle to find things to do in that spare time So that sense is very easy to form quite you know meaningful relationships with people in med school and Tip number two is work together with friends I think working together brings people together Grants that work together stay together in my book So I would highly recommend that if you haven't started doing it already. Okay, Kishan says I have just one question Do you know of any scientific ways to beat procrastination? Can't say I do I haven't really checked but those two things that I mentioned What was it number one enjoying what you do and number two recognizing that you are in control of it and that discipline is worth more than motivation Is how I would recommend beating procrastination although you know I'm not a productivity guru. I still procrastinate ahead of a lot But I think in spite of that I still manage to show that content and do other things So you don't need to eliminate procrastination from your life completely, but you know if you want to then make it fun Make it easy in fact, you know what read James Clear's book called atomic habits It introduces a really good four-part framework on how to you know motivate yourself to build good habits And I suppose you can apply a lot of those to fighting procrastination so I link that down below as well James Clear atomic habits really good Okay next question Louise says in your opinion what is the apparently most useless activity that has a hidden value? Okay, so I'm gonna answer this question having thought about it quite long and hard I'm gonna answer this question by avoiding it in that I don't really think there are any ostensibly useful activities that have a hidden purpose because Like a lot of these things are intuitive like something that and and especially given the amount of advice that's around there in the world and all the cliches They get thrown around you know something like meditation I suppose sitting there and just letting your thoughts flow through your head Might seem apparently useless, but surely by this by this point in 2018 2019 when we're watching this Surely by this point everyone knows that meditation is a good thing so it's no longer an ostensibly useless activity We've all heard about the benefits of meditation and yet so if you so if you people do it so I can't really think of anything that is Apparently useless, but that does have a hidden benefit At this point I want to mention a quote from Shay Carl, I think he was on Tim Ferriss's podcast He said something like the secrets of life are hidden behind the word cliches and every time you feel like dismissing Anything as being too cliche you should stop and think for a moment because stuff is cliché for a reason and a lot of the best advice is Please shade Almost by definition because it's good advice in there for as broadly applicable and therefore in a way has to be cliched So there was sort of sort of referencing your question in the sense that if you hear a cliché It's gonna be something that isn't intuitively useful and they will benefit your life I can't I really can't think of anything that's useless. That also benefits your life So sorry, I can't really answer that question. I'm just gonna hold my hand up I tried to give you that quote which hopefully helped min from Germany says I'm now first Yeah medical student in Germany and it seems to me that all the stuff I have to learn is too much for me I would love to get good grades and I do really like to learn new interesting stuff But I struggle to keep up with everything. Do you have any advice? Yes read the book make it stick watch my videos about effective study techniques Watch you know like the content that there is a lot of content in medical school But the content is not conceptually difficult. It's just a case of effect yet efficiently Remembering and understanding all the stuff so if you have to if you have a problem with understanding things Then speak to your lecturers after the lecture or stick your hand up and ask a question or ask people in the years above you If they can explain something to you and once you've understood something then it's just a case of remembering it And that involves using space repetition and active recall You know the most efficient study techniques. So that's all the advice I can give really read the book make it stick and watch my videos about effective study techniques And you will hopefully do better in medical Zoo from Myanmar which is quite exciting. He says how do you avoid being seen as a perfectionist for example I'm the type of person who likes to be seen as perfect at all times I know it's impossible but I stop speaking out much in case I might say something irrational out of the blue I think this idea of how do we how do we put ourselves out there without being too light without being too worried? I think it's really good insight that he's got into his into his condition Because this really comes down to a matter of ego and a matter of being afraid to be thought foolish That we all have to some degree of fear that other people are going to think that we're fools For putting our hand up in a lecture and saying something and asking a city question or for speaking out in class or You know literally anything we all have this fear that oh crap other people are going to judge me as being an idiot Therefore, I'm not going to do it And actually I think first he was recognizing that that's a fear and then Working on a way to be okay with that like it's okay if people think you foolish because What's it's not going to harm you we're no longer in the sort of world where that thing matters And in fact Tim open on a way, but why has a really good article called Taming the monkey mind or the mammoth mind or something I'll link at down below and over here It's a really really really good article that explains with a really nice metaphor about how human society evolved To avoid Putting ourselves out there to avoid being seen as the weird one in the group because if you were seen as the weird one in your caveman group Then no one will want to make with you and your genes would be passed on But we're no longer in a society where that's a useful thing to worry about It's very it becomes very maladaptive when we have this constant fear Oh, I have to look perfect all at all times. I can't run the risk of looking like a fool Because it you know comes back to the caveman thing, but it's something you actually have to fight against so a link Tim opens off to call about that which is really good to read and other than that. Yeah, just kind of not being Actually, you know what Ryan holiday has another good has a good book called the ego ego is the enemy Which is again a sort of about this concept of how this are you know, we're we're too attached to our own egos and that is a bad thing So I'll link those to here and below and stop so you can check those out that might hopefully help is a bell from Brazil Says I have a question for you. I'm a med student in Brazil I'm working in the intensive care unit for newborns and we have a very proactive Memmentor that enjoys teaching us by giving us the experience He's taught me how to collect blood of tiny babies But before but literally one hour ago He told me to collect the blood sampled by myself without him to talk me through the process Result I try and failed the arteries were too tiny and I lost the Venus access five times when I finally collected the blood sample This made me feel completely miserable for calling the baby pain especially because it was caused by my inexperience and my malpractice I elack of skills. I'm still feeling this way and I remember how it felt to introduce the needle into that thin skin and tiny hand And look at for the artery. I just lost my question is have you ever been through something like that when you hurt or called pain to a patient Because of your inexperience or lack of skills. How do you deal with it? Yes, I have been in the position where I have caused damage to a patient probably caused damage to a patient I've been in this example of a cannulation where I've tried many times to put you know an IV line into a patient But also situations that have been a lot more serious than just putting a cannula in some of the Where my own inexperience and not really knowing what to do My even have contributed to significant damage and all death to a patient and this is kind of hard to Like on those occasions what that's happened. I've ended up kind of mulling it over in my head for like the next Like three weeks even though I'm not normally the sort of person who would mull this sort of stuff over But then the way I made peace with it was by recognizing that It wasn't intentional like I did the best I could under the circumstances It's not my fault as such that I am inexperienced in these circumstances Experience is something that you know comes by definition with experience and with time And when you're early on in the process when you're a medical student like Isabelle is or when you're an F1 junior doctor like I am where you've been on the woods for like three months in total You can't be expected to save everyone's life You can't be expected to operate on the level that a consultant would or that someone would much more experience would So I think even in situations where it is life or death It is important to retain this growth mindset and recognize that yeah, you know what I made a mistake on this occasion that cost someone that potentially cost them on their life And in a way that's okay because I've learned from the experience and I did the best I could under the circumstances and I operated the best of my ability my ability just wasn't good enough And you know that's fine. I can't do anything about that. I'm going to use this as a learning opportunity to try and grow and improve my skills So I can totally see where you're coming from Isabelle It is like you know, I've never tried to put a cannula into a baby's hand before but I kind of imagine it's quite distressing if you don't manage it after a while Yeah, you're young you need to learn somewhere and I think this kind of reminding yourself that Any pain you caused to this baby Is ultimately pain that will help you develop as a better doctor and therefore will help save more lives for the underlying So in a way you do kind of have to develop with this utilitarian approach of You know, yeah a short-term pain for one patient means long-term gain for other, you know people that you treat And I think that's the way maybe to look at it, but I don't know. I'm still quite new to this whole thing But interesting question Kiko from Canada says my question for you is how do you deal with imposter syndrome along the same lines How do you deal with feeling like you're never at a quit for me? I've won large scholarships have a pretty decent GPA and I've had a wonderful fulfilling job But I still feel like an amateur like I'll never get into medical school. It's really tough I know a lot of other people deal with this, but it can be sold crushing. Do you have any tips? Okay, so tips for dealing with imposter syndrome tips for feeling For dealing with feelings of inadequacy. I think number one is recognizing that everyone every single person is just Winging it as well as well as you are. I think we can have this idea in our hands that other people know what they're doing But really no one has any idea what they're doing. They're all just making it up as we as they go along and And therefore if we're making it up as we go along that's absolutely fine as well and again I'd refer you to ego with the enemy by Ryan holiday, which again I think ultimately this idea of imposter syndrome does come down to and to a thing about ego I personally don't really get feelings of imposter syndrome because like I said I've been the life motto question You know it's how hard can it be? I fully recognize that other people are winging it and I think I'm you know I I've developed a very much a growth mindset over time that I've really don't care if I'm if I'm bad at something Because I know that it's just a learning process and I think that's really the key to avoid Then not having these feelings of being feeling like an imposter Because you know you're just learning and it's fine and yeah everyone everyone is just winging it It's absolutely fine and I honestly I think if I were if I were just starting you to something like YouTube And I saw someone like me with hundred and something thousand subscribers thinking oh my god Your video is a high quality you've seen degrees in content how you have so many subscribers, but really you know I'm just winging you know I'm just making it up as I go along and every single youtuber that You think is successful is just making it up as they go along equally as the same as any field imaginable There's a famous Graduation speech know what's it called commencement speech that someone gave a current remember who Where he or she posed the question that How many people in this room in the faculty have felt at some point in the last week that they're just making it up and every single person for the hands-up Everyone is making it up even the most esteemed professor in the most extreme Exit esteemed faculty of any university So yeah, don't worry about it if you're just winging it because everyone is fine. It's all good Here you go from Canada second question. Uh, how do you find time to write? I love writing poetry short story than blog posts, but with school and work I feel so swamped How do you maintain your blog so consistently? The only way I maintain it consistently is because I send out an email every single Sunday without fail And it's not an option. I have to do it if it gets to midnight on Sunday I will stay up until one or two a.m. just to get out this email because when something becomes a not optional you just do it like going to work for me is not optional Whereas going to the hospital as a medical student was optional therefore I didn't do it that much But now I have to go to work it's not even an option Therefore if you want to develop a writing habit and write more just make it not an option Me, you know make yourself write 200 worth a day or like write 500 worth a week or write a blog post every week Or write an email every few days as long as you have a system and it's not an option then you'll make yourself do it Actually, there's some other quotes from writers I go along the lines that to be a writer means that you just force yourself to write every day And it's nothing special. It's not about how many books you publish or whether you're a bestseller It's just about you sit down and you do the writing So if you want to you know maintain maintain that kind of habit you just got to just go to make it a priority You just got to make it not optional. I think that's really the key Next question. Cal says what are your favorite blogs or YouTube channels and what are the top books that have influenced you the most? Okay, favorite YouTube channels kind of hard to say because it varies depending on what I'm looking for I really like Peter McKinnon's of course his photography tutorials and videography tutorials are incredible I quite like he's a nice start even though I don't really watch many of his videos these days Like I go through phases where some days like some weeks I'll watch him every day and then some weeks and watch him at all And I think that's fine like everyone has You know if even even if you have a favorite YouTube or you may not necessarily watch them every single day I really like that the developer recently is actually exploded in popularity recently. He's incredible Um, favorite blogs. I have absolutely love weight, but why? Tim opens blog. I really like barking up with the wrong tree Which is sort of like a self improvement blog run by a guy called Eric Barker. I think I really like Mark Manson.net That's a really good blog. He also written a book called the subtle art of not giving a fuck Which is a quite a good book, but it's kind of based a lot around his blog posts So yeah, there's probably my favorite. Oh Mr. Money Moustache dot comment incredible blog all about personal finance and fruit living and all this sort of stuff I love driving through that as well. Okay, next question We're gonna come to the end of this soon because I think this has been going on for ages My question or rather problem would be how do you practically grow every day? I see you doing so many amazing things But with me every passing year. I feel like I'm not growing and just forming more bad habits Okay, how do you grow every day by having good habits by setting up good systems that mean that you are Improving incrementally every single day If you want more on this read James clears atomic habits. I've mentioned it before in this video and I'll link it down in the video description There's good quote from that that goes along the lines of Habits are the compound interest of life because compound interest is often regarded as the 8th wonder of the world And if you don't I can trust because you know interested bad then you know don't think of it Compound interest think of it as compound gains the idea that you know if you improve by 1% every single day Then by the end of the year you live improved by you know exponentially more than you thought because 1% seems like a small amount And if you have it if you have good habits then they compound in a nice way over time Whereas if you have bad habits they compound in a bad way over time So the key is to do to develop good habits and developing good habits You know there's a system in place and if you really care you can read James clear the atomic habits where he talks more about the four Four step Framework to developing good habits so check that out if you like what has says? I know you have done side activities coding research your company teaching while in med school. How did you manage to do so? Because there's so much time in med school anyone leaves so much time Especially at camera. I don't know I don't know about other med schools Maybe maybe other med schools have lectures from nine o'clock in the morning to five o'clock every day But even then you know you got lectures from nine to five they're probably not that intense if you've got like eight hours of lectures every single day For like your whole med school career So chances are you probably don't need to work with that much outside of med school But let's say you do two hours of work a day that's on the excessive side I think half an hour of work a day in medical school is a reasonable amount of work to do That's a you doing two hours a day then you go to seven p.m. You have like four five hours left until eleven p.m. midnight Let's say you spend two of them with friends or you know once it twice a week you use that five hours to do other things on the side This is so much time and Especially you know, I always go back to this especially if you used Efficient study techniques like space repetition and active recall you just find yourself with more time When you have more time you can do other stuff with it I think it's also about making other things a priority so for me when I was in med school Work was the lowest priority thing like unless I had a deadline coming up often I didn't like if if if if I had a deadline or an essay in for the next day then yeah, that would get done But if I didn't have a deadline work would be bottom priority like I'll do work when I'm literally not doing anything better But hanging out with friends doing sports during a society doing going to an event or took priority overwork And I think that's how I would do it again if I was doing med school again As a narrow says how do you manage your time while during the first year of a level since I want to do well and make sure I'm doing my school work in homework on time From the get go however, I find that I barely have any time for myself Again efficient study techniques if you get home and you do your homework homework shouldn't take that long because hopefully your teachers aren't sending you that much if they are Doesn't matter if you do it anyway, and then you still have like four or five hours left in the day like at school You have more time than you will ever have again in your life more spare time to do other things if you find that you're in a levels and you're Not getting enough time for yourself You're definitely doing something wrong in terms of studying efficiently You're probably spending a lot of time, you know, carrying around big lever arch bound binders of chemistry notes and going for a Highlighting and making your own notes No reason even though you've got a vision guide You're probably using very inefficient study techniques if you're not finding yourself with enough time in a levels So yeah, read the book make it stick watch my videos about effect effective study techniques and just try and actively apply them and Yeah, you will have enough time to do other things I just kind of making my priority like say it doesn't matter about schoolwork Who cares about keeping on top of schoolwork all that really matters is that you ace the exam in the end of the day It doesn't really matter that you've pre-read for every class That's kind of pointless whereas you know if you set yourself that every every single day for two hours I'm gonna work on my own personal projects I think that's a better way to approach it rather than thinking that oh only after I've done all my schoolwork Am I allowed to give myself time for myself? There's a concept in investing and like saving money generally personal finance that is Pay yourself first like as soon as you get a paycheck you pay yourself first I eat you take aside 10% 20% 50% of that paycheck and put it into a savings or investments account You pay yourself first and then bills and groceries and everything else can be bought with the rest of the money I think it's kind of the same with time you pay yourself first You set aside these two hours for yourself because that's the most important thing and everything else keeping on top of schoolwork Who cares that can that can be priority number two all right? So we've actually got a ton more questions, but it's now getting to half past ten and I told myself I'd sleep at half past ten So I can get a solid eight hours of sleep wake up at half past six in the morning and go to the gym tomorrow I'm gonna start my habit of going to the gym before work again from tomorrow So yeah, I'm just gonna end this over here. If you guys would like to see a part two where I answer the remaining 15 or so questions Then let me know in the comments and I'll do another one of these because I quite enjoy doing this just chatty Q&A kind of videos But yeah, thank you very much for watching if you like the video, please give it a thumbs up If you haven't subscribed channel and please consider doing so, but please also consider subscribing to my email newsletter Where I write stuff every Sunday Thank you very much for watching the video and I'll see you in the next one. Good night
