# My Last Day as a Doctor - Reflections
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X52jSWjnvC0
Hey friends, in this video I'm going to be explaining to the best of my ability why I'm leaving medicine and addressing some of your questions and concerns about it. 

00:00 Intro
02:56 Why I'm leaving medicine
10:30 What it's been like so far
15:41 The bad parts of medicine
20:02 Expectations vs reality
21:12 Regrets
23:29 Most rewarding moment
26:24 What I've learned since starting the channel
28:19 Worries/concerns about the next year

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
😃  How to be Happier - Stoicism Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/stoicism

MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️ My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝 My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
📚 How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵 Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
🌐 My website platform (Ghost) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost
🎤 My podcast hosting platform (Transistor) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/transistor

OTHER RECOMMENDED COURSES
📔 Effortless Output with Roam Research - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/roam
📓 Building a Second Brain - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/basb

🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, leaving medicine, why i'm leaving medicine, leaving medicine for another career, doctor quits, ali abdaal leaving medicine, leaving clinical medicine, doctors leaving medicine, why doctors leave medicine, ali abdaal vlog, ali abdaal youtube, 
**Date:** 2020-08-06

## Transcript
 Hey friends, welcome back to the channel. If you're new here at my name is Ali, I'm a doctor working in Cambridge in the UK and I have just finished my last day of work for quite a while. So this is going to be a long, rambly, very chatty video. Generally, giving my thoughts and reflections on the last two years of being a junior doctor in the UK's national health service, it's going to be quite long, but I'll try and split it up into different sections which will be in timestamps over here and in the video description and then pinned comment and hopefully the new YouTube chapters feature will work so do feel free to skip around the video if you like, but yeah, you know, people set in questions via Instagram and I'm just going to generally be fairly openly sharing my thoughts on what it's like and how things are at the moment. So let's start with what I'm feeling right now and I'm not usually wanted to talk about my feelings, so, you know, a skill to improve on like everything else. But I'm feeling a little bit sad because I've been at this hospital in this small town for the last 12 months. I was at quite a big hospital in Cambridge at 12 months before that and I've just, I've just come back from work having said good bye to all the other doctors and nurses and the consultants and stuff on the ward. And it just feels a little bit bittersweet because I've been kind of looking forward to this moment for a long time and thinking, oh, you know, just one month to go just two weeks to go that final moment of freedom. But I think it's sort of like, it's kind of like with exams, right? Like, at least when I, when I've always taken exams in the past, I've always hyped up what it would finally be like to be done with exams. Oh, you know, once that last exam gets out of the way, then they'll be free for the summer. And then you kind of get there and it's a bit anti-comactic. You're like, oh, well, I guess this is it. Now it's time for the summer holidays. So it's, it sort of feels like that. Like, it feels good in a way like now being fully unencumbered and not having to go to work each morning. But at the same time, yeah, like, for the last two years, it's kind of going there, the ritual of going to work each day pretty much and kind of building the rest of my life around the day job has basically been just just kind of what I do. And it's something I don't have to think too hard about. And now the thought of tomorrow morning waking up and not having a job a job to go to just feels kind of weird. Like, I'm really worried that I'm going to wake up tomorrow and or, you know, it's at some point and think I don't really have a good reason to get out of bed right now. Just because work is such a huge chunk of of our lives. And so that's the part of leaving the job that, yeah, just feels kind of weird. So it'll be interesting to see in a few weeks time. Like, I'm kind of make trying to make plans already for all the ways I'm going to fill up my time or the different skills I want to learn in all the different videos and courses and all the stuff that I want to make and all of that stuff. Yeah, I think I think from tomorrow I'm going to have this sort of whole that previously work filled with like something to do, something that was kind of fun, something that gave me social interaction with people that helped me use my brain some of the time. And I'm going to have to replace that with a few different things. I don't really have any any single thing that will completely fill that hole, which I think is very enough. Let's not talk about a few people asked why I'm leaving medicine. So I don't know what the title of this video is going to be, but maybe we'll do something suitably clickbait. But essentially, so after these two years of being a junior doctor of doing my foundation years in medicine, I've decided to take a break for at least a year. A lot of people do this. It's quite common. You take a year out. Usually people do something medical with that time like they'll go to Australia for a bit to do some work there or they'll just research or they'll go to London and do a kind of one year job like a temporary thing. Or some people just travel the world and stuff. And so my plan before this whole coronavirus thing happened was that I was going to travel the world. But now that the whole coronavirus thing is here, I'm not sure that's really going to be possible anymore. And so I need to find something to do with my time. At the moment, lots of Europe is open. You know, I can go up and down the UK to visit friends. I think that'll tide me over for a little bit of time. But it feels kind of weird not having a specific medical kind of goal to be working towards. In terms of specialty, I made a video a few weeks ago talking about how I'm considering I'm going to move to America. That is the sort of thing that would take at least two or three years to actually sort out just because it's such a long drawn out application process. You have to jump through a hundred different hoops. And I still haven't fully decided if that's a direction I want to go. So, you know, at least in the short term for the next few months, slash for the next year, I'm going to be preparing for the U.S. Emily, the U.S. medical exam. I'm still think I'm going to do that. I think that'll give me some at least something to do each day. And then beyond that, I'm thinking that it would be cool to go to Australia for a bit to get some emergency medicine experience. And so I'm in the process of applying to jobs. And I've got to call it an agency tomorrow. If anyone is an Australia right now and you listen to this and you want to give me a job at your hospital. I mean, because I think working in Australia and getting something experience and an emergency department there would be kind of fun, it would be interesting, it would be cool. So that's kind of what I'm doing. In terms of why I'm doing this, I've been thinking long and hard about this. And some of it I mentioned in my why I'm moving to America video. But essentially, when you're in medicine, at least in the U.K., we go straight into medical school usually from high school. And so I applied to medicine when I was 16, 17, I got in 18 and from 18 to 24, age 18 to 24. I was a full-time medical student at Cambridge and now from 24 to 26, I've been working full-time as a doctor. So it's a very sort of you come in and then sort of almost before you know it, you're sort of on this conveyor belt that just kind of keeps moving forward. And having spoken to a lot of senior doctors and consultants and stuff over the last couple of years and also while I was in medical, there's sort of two schools of thought. There's one school of thought which is you want to get all of your training out of the way as soon as possible. You want to become a consultant. You want to become a fully qualified specialist as soon as possible. You know, the earliest you can get that and the U.K. is about age 33, 34. Once you're there, then you can start to enjoy life. I, you know, generally people say that the training is quite difficult. You have long hours. You don't really have much control over your rotor. But once you're a consultant at that point, you have a lot more cloud. You know what you're doing, you're actually being useful. And you can do things like drop your hours down or work part time or you know, do only the sorts of operations that you want to do. You know, it just generally gives you a bit more freedom. That's kind of one school of thought. The other school of thought, which is the camp that I'm in, is that there's no rush to be a consultant. Whether you're consultant at 33 or 34 or 35 or 36 or even 46, like no one actually cares once you're there, how long it took you to get there. And so it becomes a case for thinking that this whole medicine thing is not a race. It's a marathon. This is a career that we're going to be doing for the rest of our lives. What does it matter if I take a year out here and there to explore other interests, like making videos on the internet or traveling the world or doing whatever you want to do, because my view of this is by the time I'm fully qualified as a consultant in whatever specialty I want to be in. You know, hopefully by that time, I'll, you know, maybe be married, maybe have some kids because I anticipate that will be in my sort of late 30s, if not early 40s, that would be kind of nice. And at that point, once you're married, you've got a house, you got some kids. It's a lot harder to just randomly travel the world because you feel like it or just randomly stop working because you feel like it. And like, I get the view that you want to finish your training as soon as possible. But I think, especially given the position I'm in, I don't think that's necessarily the way forward. And I think it's much kind of better for me, at least this is my current view, to kind of take my time with it because it's really not race. Like, I'm not in any rush to be a consultant. I'm not in any rush to be fully qualified as a kind of more want to take it a bit easier. I quite like the idea of doing less than full-time training, which is a thing that a lot of UK hospitals and UK specialties are now trying to promote, just to combat the general burnout and attrition within medicine. Now, specialties like emergency medicine, like obstetrics and gynecology are quite famous for having high burnout rates, where the rotors are so tough, and people will drop out midway through a training program, because they, you know, their priorities change or whatever. So these specialties are kind of leading the way in, I think, pediatrics as well, in terms of allowing people to work less than full-time. So maybe 80% rather than 100%. And if you work 80%, then it takes you 20% longer to finish your training, but you also have a day off every week, which is a kind of nice and a lot of people that I've spoken to who are less than full-time trainees, say that it's great because they can spend that time at home with their kids or doing the thing that they love. And yeah, it takes them a little bit longer to become a fully qualified consultant, but, you know, who cares, like, you know, when you're a consultant, no one is going to be like, oh, well, you took 10 years to become a consultant, you only took five years, you're better. And the thing that I think about is that when I'm on my death bed, I'm very, very unlikely to be thinking down. You know, I wish I'd been a consultant for three more years. You know, I regret traveling the world for that time, I regret exploring my other interest, and I really wish I'd just kind of gone into the world of work and put my head down and, and, and in the work. I don't think that is what I'd be thinking one of my death and so those are the two kind of camps, the complete you're training as soon as possible camp, and then the take your time completing a training because actually no one cares. Obviously, there's a spectrum and I'm very much towards the take your time completing training, enjoy life in the process, no one really cares. It's not a race. It's not a competition with other people. Yeah, it's all good. So that is why I've decided to take this time out. The position that I'm in right now, after two years of being medicine in the UK, there's kind of a natural break whereby you then have to actively apply for a specialty and decide what you want to do. So firstly, I don't really know what I want to do yet, which is fine, people say. I'm strongly leaning towards emergency medicine, but having said that, I've never worked in emergency medicine before. All I know about it is what I've seen from being in the hospital generally, and what I've seen from a spoken to friends and colleagues who work in emergency medicine. And so one of my priorities for this year and moving forward is to try and get some experience in that, hence the idea of moving to Australia. But I don't really know. I don't really know what I want to do, and my mum kind of talks to me about this at some of the time. She says, you know, do you realise that? You don't really have a direction in life. And I'm like, yeah, tell me about it. I don't have a direction in life. I don't know what I'm doing. But hey, it's fine, you know, just my view of the moment is that it's better for me to just generally try and keep my options open to just pursue the things that seem interesting in the moment, but that also have some kind of long-term benefit. So right now, I'm thinking that this YouTube thing, you know, by the grace of God, is going pretty well. While I'm here, I might as well take some time out to try and pour fuel on the fire, to try and diversify the streams of revenue, to try and get most of my eggs out of the YouTube basket to focus on my blog, to make some more courses, to do these other things that will hopefully be fun and enjoyable, because it is fun and just kind of cool. Be I can travel the world while doing it, which is just kind of nice and see hopefully that will be assets that compound over time that will set me up better for the future, rather than going straight into a training program without necessarily knowing what I want to do with my life. So that's kind of where we are right now. I just want to talk a little bit about what it's been like these last few years, working these last two years, working as a doctor and going to answer some questions from Instagram along the way. Reflections on your time studying and working medicine. So we have lots of questions asking, what are the good and bad parts about being a doctor? The good parts are that it's just generally quite fun, especially when there is stuff going on. I've had lots of days in my current placement of Tetrics and Gynecology where I've had my patient list and there is just enough stuff going on that I don't kind of get bored that there's always something to do but there's not so much that it feels kind of frazzling to try and sort of handle everything and juggle everything. And actually for me I think I'm the sort of person that I kind of quite like it when there are days where we've just got like, you know, ten people that turn up at once and then at that point it becomes a case of okay. Let's really prioritize, let's focus on triaging them and figuring out who needs scans first and figuring out what order I should do my stuff into sort of minimise the amount of waiting time and all this, it's quite fun. So that's one of the nice aspects of it like when it's busy I quite enjoy it. Another nice aspect is the teamwork that's probably my favorite component. It's just really fun hanging out on the walls with other junior doctor colleagues and nurses and you know, making friends with some of the senior doctors and kind of going for a coffee here and there and chatting over lunch to the other colleagues and it's just a generally very nice, happy chill teamwork he kind of vibe. On obstetrics we've got the midwives who, you know, chat to here and there, on gynecology we've got lots of the nurses who again we chat to here and there when, when there's time for the team working aspect is really nice part of it. I also like the talking to patient side of things, one of the main reasons I did medicine is because I didn't want to be in a job that, that may be either computer screen at all times and there is a lot of sitting behind a computer screen as a junior doctor because there's a lot of typing up you have to do and stuff like that but then there is the aspect of actually talking to patients and it's just kind of cool, especially on, you know, being on obstetrics and gynecology for the last eight months the patients who are coming in are coming in with things like, you know, early pregnancy, bleeding and potentially having a miscarriage, potentially having an ectopic pregnancy which is like a big deal. A lot of gynecological conditions as well like pelvic infections or Volvo cysts and absences and things like that, these are really difficult problems for patients to be dealing with obviously and it's a real privilege and joy in a way to be the person who's kind of helping them through that difficult time and obviously you kind of this this whole it's, it's not an individual that is making any of the difference, it's the whole system, it's the whole but being part of that team feels quite nice and especially on days where I feel like I have gone above and beyond, as a sort of junior doctor, as a as a foundation you doctor, it's not like a heroic going above and beyond, it's not like someone is bleeding to death in front of me and I've resuscitated them by myself, it's not really like that, it's more like you know, we're approaching 5pm, the scanning department is already closed but I know that there's two people in there who are still kind of wrapping up and I have good relations with the and I know this lady is going to feel a lot better if we can get a scan to reassure her about whether her babies are right or not and therefore I will run to the scan department and be like please this lady, you know she really needs a scan, I know it's out of hours but please can you do it and then the bit like her, all right then and then that is the sort of stuff that makes me feel good because I feel like in that circumstance I as an individual could actually make a difference but like not in a way that I would have expected, I would expect to you know, sweeping and like Derek Shepherd grazing out to me whatever I save the day but it's it's more about figuring out how the system works and then kind of twiddling the rules of the system such that you can occasionally bend bend rules for patients if you have that chance so that's the kind of stuff that I feel a sense of fulfillment when I've had a day where I can do something like that or for example if I've had a day where lots of women have come in with like early pregnancy bleeding or whatever and I've got enough experience that I kind of know what's going on and I've kind of seen them examine them made a plan arranged their scan, looked at the scan and sort of put a good picture together which I can then present to the registrar or the consultant the senior doctors and say hey look this is what's going on, this is the deal with the patient, these are blood results, this is the scan, this is what I think is going on and this is what I think we should do you know in the in the early days I was always very hesitant about suggesting some kind of plan because I didn't really know what I was doing but now especially having done it for the last eight months I'm now relatively comfortable with suggesting plans and most of the time the senior doctors like yeah sounds good go for it and they appreciate the fact that I've suggested a plan and it's a reasonable plan occasionally like happened last week and actually earlier today as well I made a plan which is I think we should bring this lady back for a serum HCG level next week and the senior doctor was like I don't think it's a good idea I think instead we should not do that because the serum HCG's not kind of tell us anything I think we should bring her bring her back for a scan in two weeks time okay cool why's that and then say okay because of this and there's some like oh okay that makes sense thank you for letting me know and so I get a lot of fulfillment out of kind of packaging and figuring out and proposing a plan but I also have to take basically none of the risk on myself because it's always the senior doctor who is kind of approving all the most of the decisions that I make it's nice when you get into that into that flow state almost and this is what everyone says about what brings fulfillment in anything that we do and part of the reason why I love making YouTube videos and editing and kind of doing website stuff is it really gets me into this flow state where it's just me and the task at hand and I kind of lose track of the time and so sometimes when I'm getting into the flow state with conditions that I'm familiar enough with that I know what's going on that feels that feels kind of nice so this is a good aspect of medicine people are asking about all of the bad things so I mean there's the bad things that associate are associated with having any kind of full-time job which is that you become a slave to your rotor almost and if I want to take time off I have to negotiate it with a rotor coordinator I have to figure out no one else's off sick that day or no one else has got any leave because obviously we always have to have a certain number of doctors on at any given time and so in a way it becomes our responsibility to manage the rotor and figure out on the 21st of August there are there are three people on the wards and we only need to so I can take any leave that day and stuff like that and especially with the whole coronavirus thing when we switch to an emergency rotor that became quite tricky because suddenly we needed three doctors on in any given day and there are only four of us in the whole but essentially on the placement in terms of the senior house offices and so we all had a real issue with getting any leave and kind of getting time off when we wanted it so that's just kind of a general aspect of having any kind of full-time job the other things that I don't like about it I mean there's a lot more admin and logistical paperwork than I would have guessed a lot of the time I'd say maybe kind of 10% of my time is spent actually seeing a patient and 90% of the time is spent typing notes upon the computer arranging a scan labelling the bluds handwriting some blood labels because they have to be handwritten sending that down to the lab trying to find my senior doctors who are in theatre because they're busy with an emergency and being like okay you know I've got this list of eight things to ask them what order should I do it and a huge chunk of it is logistical rather than patient sort of sending in front of a patient and patient focused and obviously all those logistics are really important because it's the system that cures the patient it's not the individual but still it's a somewhat frustrating part of it where I'm like yeah I've just taken some blood and this is fun and like well now I have to spend 10 minutes printing the blood labels and oh the printer's not working okay cool gonna go around find another printer or they're not registered on the system yet they're for after going to another computer and logging in it's those inefficiencies within the system that are one of the annoying things about it but hey just something that you got to do the other bad thing that I well somewhat bad thing is like when I make a mistake and I know I know that I've made a mistake this has happened a few times like in the last few months and you know on on each of my placements I've made certain kind of classes of mistake thankfully very few times sort of actual harm psych something really bad has happened to a patient on obstetrics and kind of college you it's one of the things where often a lady will come in with early pregnancy bleeding and a little bit of pain one of the things that that could be is an ectopic pregnancy and an ectopic pregnancy is a pregnancy that's not growing in the womb it's growing in one of the photopen tubes or usually the problem with an ectopic pregnancy is that if it grows to a certain size it can burst and then the lady bleeds into her abdomen pelvis and that can be life-threatening but the problem is that most of these ladies are young fit and healthy and so if they do have an ectopic pregnancy and they are bleeding into the pelvis you might not know it from just looking at them because all of their vitals are stable their heart rate is fine the blood pressure is fine they don't look particularly unwell because they're young and fit and healthy so they can compensate for that problem because their body does a good job of compensating for it and they will sort of drop off the cliff very quickly and so especially seeing someone at night time where we don't have a scan available until the next morning and they look completely fine and their observations are their vital signs are completely fine and the blood tests are completely it could still have an ectopic pregnancy and so it's always scary sending these people home for the scan the following day because most of the time the scan shows it's either an octopopopopsychology or most likely it isn't but very occasionally they will rupture that octopic pregnancy overnight and they'll be rushed into theatre in the morning via ambulance and then you find out in the morning oh we've gotten an ectopic pregnancy in theatre it was a rupture to topic and at least for me I have that sinking feeling was like oh god is this lady that I saw yesterday is this lady that I sent home because I thought it was fine is running out good at different later it prevent you know this life-threatening emergency the risk taking aspect of it is I won't I won't say it's a bad part but it's obviously not nice feeling when you have that kind of sinking in the stomach you're like oh crap you know is this someone that has sent home that I shouldn't have sent home is there anything could it differently and you find your mind worrying through the possibilities and thinking no like even knowing that it's a rupture the topic the the picture that I got last night would not have made me act any differently which is fine or it's a case of discussing it with the senior in thinking okay is there another sign I should be on the lookout for so the nice thing again about medicine is that it's a very kind of learning experience and especially when you're a young and junior doctor and stuff and even as you as you get older and progress through the training there isn't really a culture of the blame game that oh it's your fault that the patient something bad happened to the patient it's more like thinking okay why did that happen what can we learn from it and how what can we do to avoid doing it next time people asked expectations versus reality honestly I think the main expectation versus reality issue was the the fact of just they're being just a large amount of logistical admin having to deal with and that's the stuff that medical school does absolutely not prepare you for the other thing as well is that I kind of thought it would be more a case of having to think and having to do like doctor house and diagnosing people magically and stuff this is the idea that I had before going into med school but actually so much of it is based on guidelines and sound principles and by the time you've seen early pregnancy bleeding a few times for 95% of the cases they fall neatly into one of the guidelines and so you don't really have to think when certainly the 5% of edge cases that you need to think a little bit harder or ask a senior and be like hey you know this is a bit weird this is not what we're expecting but the whole research and stuff within medicine has gone to a point where like me and a lot of my colleagues feel that we're not really doing a lot of thinking on the job we're just plugging numbers into a guideline plugging numbers into a scoring system and then it's telling us what to do which is exactly how evidence based medicine should be like it should not like a well-designed system should absolutely not be based on the competence of individuals it should be based on the kind of tightness of the system as a whole but that's just an aspect of it that I didn't really appreciate before I started doing it. I've got a question here about regrets when you're regrets in the last few years regret I don't think I have any real regrets there have been a few cases where I've done something which I shouldn't have done for not knowing any better or because I was blindsided by a detail or you know various reasons where harm in in certain ways you know harm came to a patient like obviously I'd rather those things wouldn't have happened but also they were part of the learning experience and essentially it's it's impossible for all the patients to be seen by the most senior consultant every time right and the system is designed for training like it's a training system inevitably when you have any kind of training system you are going to get mistakes happening because that's just what happens when you're training people and when juniors are seeing patients and it's it's a necessary part of building a health care system because you need some way of training up the juniors but it does inevitably mean that some people are going to get short-changing that's something that's hard to come to terms with I think in poor caliphany whatever his name is his book when breath becomes air he talks about this idea of kind of whether the operation is being done by a junior or being done by a senior because we all kind of know that sometimes less experienced people have to do the operation because if they don't then they'll never get the experience needed to actually become competent but we also know that if a less experienced person is doing the operation there is a slightly increased risk that harm is going to come to the patient because it's a less experienced person doing it and we can mitigate against that by supervision and sort of making sure a senior is with them a lot at all times and stuff but inevitably when you have less experienced people doing stuff you're going to get mistakes happening and that's tricky right because let's say you know I'm a doctor in the in the system I understand what's going on if my mom needed surgery I would appreciate that the registrar that the junior doctor needs training in the operation but I would still want that operation to be done by consultant because this is my mom we're talking about but that only works on the individual level like that is not the sort of thing that is really feasible with it at the entire system because it's not feasible for every single operation to be done by the most experienced consultant so that's a tricky part of it and so like when it comes to regrets yeah I've made a few mistakes that I wish I hadn't made but I know that making those mistakes as part of the learning process I know that mistakes across the system are inevitable and so it's hard for me to say that it's a regret as such just because that is kind of how the system works we learn from making mistakes and unfortunately in the field of healthcare sometimes when people make mistakes you know harm is going to come to a patient in one way or another and I don't really think there's any real way of avoiding that other than doing what we can to mitigate against against the risks. Most rewarding moments we have a question what are the most rewarding moments? I think it's those times when a patient says thank you and I feel like I've had some kind of personal input into into their care in a way that I haven't with other patients because again this comes back to how it's the system that saves the patient rather than the individual like most of the time the patients who are on my ward and are leaving and saying thank everyone it's been a pleasure you know take care of the bloodler I don't really feel anything specific for those patients because I don't know them that well or maybe saw them once a twice I probably wasn't the person who saw them when they first came in I probably wasn't the person who assisted during the operation just because it's you know the other people in the system that are doing those bits and so when they say goodbye thank you you've really helped me or give a thank you card and stuff it doesn't feel that personally rewarding but when it comes to patients who for example if I was the first one to see them when they came into the emergency department and I was the one who said that they should be admitted into hospital and you know arranged the logistics of their operation and then potentially even assisted in their and then they go to a recovery then that feels a lot nicer because it feels like oh you know I feel like I know the patient I know this lady I know what the story is and I feel like yeah you know this is a good day's work so that's probably kind of the rewarding aspect of it it's also like annoyingly rewarding to get praise from seniors and I never thought I'd be that guy because but like you know a few a few weeks ago I got a compliment from one of the consultants and then a couple of weeks ago I got a compliment from one of the registrars from the other seniors and it just it just feels really nice when like a senior doctor or one of the nurses like acknowledge that you're good at your job and that you did something right and that you did something well it'd be like you know even on our our medic bleep essentially kind of secure WhatsApp type system occasionally I'll kind of love write a long thing and so just to plan and the response will be oh that's a great idea thanks feel free to send me a sort of feedback request or something and that's the doctor saying that oh wow you've done a good job I'm happy to write up something for your portfolio it's just kind of comments like that they just feel like this proportion that be good it's kind of annoying right because I certainly don't want my own self-esteem and my own self-worth to be tied to what other people think of me because that's not a good way to live life and yet when a senior compliments you they're just something nice about it so that's another kind of really rewarding part of it that I wouldn't have expected and that kind of makes me think that like when I'm a senior doctor I want to be the sort of person who compliments people and doing a good job because I know how much of a difference it can make and like you know there were a few doctors on my team who are sort of a less like you you like present a case to them and they would give you the answer and you might have done the right things but they wouldn't even give you a well done that's the right answer they would just be like cool yeah go for it and it just feels less nice working for those people even though they're just as good and you know they help you learn and stuff but just a little compliment goes a long way and that's something that I will definitely keep in mind and I remember when I was a medical student as well like any time a doctor were to a girl out of their way to help me learn something I feel like oh wow this is amazing and it it takes so little effort for like a doctor like me to take an interest in the medical students me that I hate what's going on do you want to help with this it's so the left on my part but it makes such a big difference to their day and so it's a sort of thing that I really want to keep up as I go through training and become more senior and I don't want to forget what it feels like to be complimented if that makes it we've got a few questions as well and kind of what you've learned since starting the channel and your side businesses and I'm going to sort of try and relate that to medicine in a way but this is stuff that I've I've talked about a length before you know this idea that I think like for me personally I don't want to live a life where my full-time job the thing that I do for a living is kind of making a living like I don't want my job to be the thing that I need to actively do to make money I want to have the option to do what I want and obviously money is a part of that because we all mean we all need some some amount of money to live and for most of us that amount of money is directly coupled to the thing that we spend our time doing and I've long thought that I don't want that to be the case for me I want to have a job like you know I want to stay medicine because medicine is fun but I don't want to have to stay in medicine because I need to pay the bills and so over the last couple of years as the YouTube channel is really taken off thank you everyone who watched this video especially if you're watching this far after YouTube channels taken off as I started making more courses and classes on Skillshare and affiliate products and these different streams have been come I feel I've got onto a point where I really don't need to rely on medicine to make money and that feels like a really good position because it means that now when I'm doing medicine I'm doing it for fun rather than because I have to and again you know this isn't like a dichotomy thing it's obviously like a spectrum there are some people who absolutely love it and do it for fun and it also happens to make money which is absolutely fantastic but for me like I think if given the choice the way that I spent the last two years is not how I would choose to spend the rest of my life like I would not actively choose that on average five days a week and four or forty eight hours a week I'm going to drive an hour to work and drive an hour back and spend time in a hospital I don't think that's through the way like if I could design my lifestyle in my life from scratch that's not what I would actively choose to do with it I think what I would choose is that two or three days a week I want to do medicine because it's fun but I want to do it much more than that at least that's what I'm currently thinking you know obviously there's subject to change we all change our mind various different times I've changed my mind and what sort of specialty I want to do a hundred different times is fine we don't have the little all the answers and have a good question kind of what are your worries concerns about the next year slash future yeah all right let's uh I mean shed shed my worries to the camera so what am I worried about worries a strong word right because I tend to worry about things in general but I have some level of concern about about following so firstly I'm you know as I mentioned I'm kind of worried that I'll wake up in the mornings and not really know what to do with myself I'm kind of worried that what I do decide to go into specialty I actually won't like it and I'd want to leave the specialty and I'm worried about you know if that happens in the future to what extent that is just a function of the specialty maybe you just didn't jail with me the specific specialty but I think more likely if it comes to that position it's more a case of I'm not doing enough to enjoy this thing because I think that a lot of the time we are the ones who can choose to enjoy the things that we're doing like I could study from it for my exams absolutely hating every minute of it or I could choose to study for my exams enjoying the subject and enjoying learning new stuff and it's just that mindset shift that really makes a big difference between hating your life and loving your life and I'm worried that if I end up not enjoying medicine it won't be because of the medicine itself it'll be because I am choosing not to enjoy it and I'm kind of worried that because in a way because I've got the option to not do it that I will choose to exercise that option and that I'll end up quitting medicine completely I can't see it happening but I you know in the back of my mind it's that question of well I kind of decided I wanted to be a doctor when I was 16 what do I know about it absolutely nothing you know is this really the right thing for me if I had my time again want to do medicine absolutely in a heartbeat but I think that is building towards this idea of working part time as a doctor rather than working full-time as doctor so that's another thing that I worry about the other thing I worry about is that well you know people are only following me on YouTube because I'm a doctor and I went to Cambridge and stuff and you know what value of my productivity tips or study tips if I'm not walking the talk I think is the phrase and so I'm and some animals are kind of worried that if I choose to make the decision to not do medicine at all because I found something else to do then to what extent am I hamstringing my other streams of income because in a way I feel like I have the security blanket of multiple streams of income why does YouTube channel and other things to not have to do medicine but if I wasn't a doctor would my YouTube channel be as successful probably not if I didn't have the Cambridge thing behind me would it have got momentum initially possibly not you know if I'm not a doctor working full-time and I'm making videos about productivity do they have as much value possibly not it's all these kind of things and so what I what I worry about is that if I do decide to leave medicine suddenly everything else unravels as well because all of it was somehow tied to this fact that I'm a doctor and that was the thing that ties everything together and again like I can't see myself leaving I can see myself going very part time but that's something I think I worry about the other thing I worry about now is even now kind of with the size of this YouTube channel and the streams have been come well it still feels like a house of cards that could come crumbling down at any moment and I still feel kind of feel a sense of every time we put out a video and it does bad beyond the analytics I think of you know it's the beginning of the end now people have realized that I'm a fraud and my YouTube channel is not worth anything and it's going to unravel and it's a it's a nice problem to have but it's still a it's sort of an existential sort of thing of is this business really going to survive and kind of from reading stuff that people have written online about what it's like to run a startup to have your own business the stresses of running your own business are the existential stresses that the worries of okay is our business going to be alive two years from now the stresses of having a normal job is like what does my boss say think of me and I'm going to get that promotion so it's it's a different sort of stress kind of doing the sort of entrepreneur self-employed business lifestyle type thing that I'm doubling with that's kind of what it feels like on the inside and so every time we do get a video it doesn't perform well maybe this is going to be one of those but it's just like a case of having to do a lot of mental shenanigans to think no early you know myself worth is not tied to the analytics and just because of video performed did didn't perform very well it doesn't mean it didn't resonate with people and you know 50,000 people watch that video that's still quite a lot of people maybe it's not 500,000 but 50,000 is still ahead of a lot of people and they've written comments saying this video helped them and you know all of these mental shenanigans that I have to do to not feel bad about the fact that the videos are performing this well so those are the sort of worries that go through my mind about this year and the future yeah I just kind of wanted to end by thanking everyone who has followed the journey over the last three years I think it was a June 2017 but I first started this YouTube channel and obviously when I started it had absolutely no idea what level it would get to and you know every day when I kind of look at the stats and see the comments from people and get the DMs and Instagram and stuff I almost can't believe that it's real and I think that's partly where the fear comes from that all of this could come crumbling down at any moment but I want to extend a huge heartfelt for whatever that's worth thank you to everyone who's watching this especially if you've watched this far watched my ramble those were just some general reflections and thank you so much for watching if you like the video smash that like button for the YouTube algorithm as they say although apparently these days the YouTube algorithm doesn't even take likes into account but hey smash that like button anyway do please leave a comment down below I'd love to have a chat with people to see what you think about the journey you know where are you on your journey what is what is it like what kind of decisions kind of crossroads are you at I'd be curious to hear your guys views on the topics so thank you very much watching I'm going to get drink of water because I can't speak anymore and I'll see you in the next video bye
