# Interviewing a Writer // Day in the Life VLOG
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X9Th_OBKyQ8
In this episode of Day in the Life I'm showing off my paper to-do list, unboxing a new GoPro, hitting the gym and filming two super interesting interviews. Hope you enjoy! :)

To see the full interviews with Hasan and Osaid about success, productivity and studying on Nebula, grab a 30-day free trial of CuriosityStream - https://curiositystream.com/ali and use the code ALI at checkout to get access to Nebula for free.

Keyboard from iqUnix - here’s an affiliate link with 5% discount lol - https://iqunix.store/ali 

💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking 
📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

My Spotify profile - https://open.spotify.com/user/1111404728?si=7QYptBTLREWbU1OCHHxrBw

🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal

Who am I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭
**Keywords:** study with me, ali abdaal, study, study motivation, how to study, how to study for exams, study tips, study with me 2019, studying, college, university, how to revise, motivational video, study vlog, student, ways to study, exam revision, med student, studytube, medical school, study hacks, junior doctor, doctor on call, doctor's day off, doctor day off, day off vlog, doctor free time, gopro, brilliant, day off for a doctor, the unfair advantage, hasan kubba, 
**Date:** 2020-03-22

## Transcript
 Hey friends, welcome back to the vlog, it's a day off work today and so I wake up super late at 8.45am having been up to 1am the previous night watching clips of the incredible comedy show would I like to you on YouTube? At 9am I get out of bed, shower and change into my gym kit ready for my first session with a personal trainer. For some reason I then lie in bed doing absolutely nothing for a solid 45 minutes. At 9.45 I decide to stop being a complete wasteman and sit down to actually do something productive. I bust out my Lost Term 1917 notebook and new Unable Air Pen and continue a new daily practice that I've started which is to write down one thing to focus on, one thing to be grateful for and one thing to let go of. Today I'll focus on getting an interview done later that day with the author of a new business book. I'm grateful for the level of financial freedom with this YouTube channel and my other businesses have given me which I tried to never take for granted and I'll try to let go of worrying about the number of views that my new videos get. Next I write out a paper to do list of things I need to get done that day and even though I'm big on using apps for everything in my life there's something very satisfying about doing a whole brain dump on to paper of everything I might need to get done in a given day. On today's list we've got filming a video about whether coffee is good for you. Filming a video about whether reading fiction is good for you. Sending video files to stand in George 230 a medical student to a record of a podcast with earlier in the week. Calling my grandma, marking some physiology essays for my students. I'm boxing my new GoPro and figuring out with settings and paying various people for various things related to six med my medical admissions company. If it's a particularly busy day I also like to write out a quick calendar of things that I've got on. So today at 11 a.m. I've got my personal trainer session at 3 p.m. I've got this guy coming over for the interview. And from 5 to 9 p.m. I'm running a physiology supervision for some first-year medical students. By the way, this vlog is from 5th of March 2020 before the whole coronavirus thing started to get serious in the UK. So please don't hate on me for not doing social isolation. It really wasn't even on the cards in the UK a few weeks ago. Anyway, having dumped out my brain onto paper and achieved a level of relief that I really experienced otherwise. At 10 a.m. I get started on unboxing the new GoPro and figuring out its settings so that I can maybe use it to film footage for the rest of the day. At 10 a.m. I watch a load of YouTube videos to figure out the optimal settings for the GoPro and buy a load of accessories and mounts for it off Amazon Prime. Next day delivery is truly magnificent. At 10 35 I get my gym bag out and realise that my work shoes have been in there for a solid week and are therefore deformed to a significant degree. After lamenting this lapse in organisation on my part, I drive over to the gym for my first ever personal trainer session. From 11 a.m. I have my session with Dad who turns out to be a posture specialist and teaches me about the various imbalances I've got going on with my posture. Thanks to 25 years of sitting in front of a computer basically 24.7. I get home at 12.30 when I spend half an hour chatting to my grandma in Pakistan over what's that video. As usual, she asks me why I haven't yet found a wife. I tell her that I'm working on it, hence the new personal trainer. She feels that given I'm so busy already doing one or two sessions per week with a personal trainer, wouldn't really leave any time to actually find a wife and I think she might have a point. Anyway, from 1 p.m. I spend half an hour reviewing an edit for a video coming out later that week and have a chat to my editor Christian over Slack. Then at 140, I decide to order a healthy takeaway for lunch and once that's done, I spend half an hour setting up the interview filming gear. I'm using the aperture 120D with the space light extension with two microphones and two cameras. I also unbox a new plant pot and stick it next to where I'll be sitting for a bit of extra thing I'll sway. And empty the bins so that the guy coming over doesn't think I'm a total slob. From 2.30 p.m. now that the studio is set up, I spend half an hour marking physiology essays. They're generally themed around the physiology of the kidneys and the various mechanisms the body has for tightly controlling variables like your bloods potassium and calcium concentration. It's acidity, osmanality, and your overall extra cellular fluid volume. Around this time, my takeaway arrives, but because it's raining outside and the delivery driver couldn't find my house, it's cold and wet, which is a little bit disappointing. At 3 p.m., my new friend Hassan arrives. We end up chatting on camera for over two hours. He's just released a new book called The Unfair Advantage. And so we chat about the lessons from that and go off-peast to a general discussion about success, money, fulfillment and productivity. I'll be including some clips from this discussion in future YouTube videos, but as usual you can find the full interview on Nebula, the video streaming platform that me and a bunch of other creators are helping to build. This is not a sponsored video, but I'm just letting you know anyway, that if you want access to Nebula, the best way is to sign up to CuriosityStream at curiositystream.com forward slash alley for $3 a month or $20 a year. And with a CuriosityStream membership, you also get free access to Nebula, making this the single best to deal in the streaming world, and I'm not just saying that because I'm biased. We finish up chatting at around 10 past five, grab a quick selfie for the gram, say goodbye, and then I drive over to Goat and College, where I teach physiology to first your magical students for a few hours each week. This week, it's the last session before the Easter holidays, and in fact before the students were sent home because of the coronavirus. And so we order some pizza as an end of term treat, and five pairs of students deliver presentations to the rest of the class about different aspects of kidney physiology. This session ends at 9pm, so I drive home, and as I'm getting in, I get a call from my friend Asset, a finally a medical student at Cambridge University. It's been a while since we caught up, so I invite him over for some more takeaway. Taking his sweet times cycling over, I feel in a bit of a slump, so I hop onto Brilliant, and continue working through the introduction to neural networks online course. Normally at this point, I talk about how amazing Brilliant is for learning stuff online, bloody bloody blah. But they're not actually sponsoring this video. I just genuinely enjoy doing that online course as this part of my day sometimes. Isn't it great when you work with a sponsor who's product you actually enjoy? Anyway, Asset arrives around half an hour later, and given that, we've already got this whole studio interview set up. I bulldoze him into having an on-camera discussion with me about study tips. Asset has done very well in his medical school exams so far, and his active recall framework was the subject of a video I made recently called How My Friend ranked First at Medical School. We discuss some more nuances of the method, and how students can use it effectively to cram for exams. We discuss strategies and tactics for sustaining motivation and focus while studying, and we chat a lot about how to optimize Ankey, a flashcut app that he and I have been using for years. Again, I'll be converting this discussion into a series of YouTube videos, but as usual, you can find the full interview over at Nebula, which, again, you can get access to with a CuriosityScream subscription at curiositystream.com forward slash alley. We wrap up the chat set 20 minutes past midnight, where upon I drive a sad home with this bike, so he doesn't have to cycle the cold. I get back home at 12.45am, brush my teeth, and spend some time offloading all of the footage I filmed to my external hard drive, ready to upload to Google Drive. Finally, at 14am, I head into bed, ready to wake up at 7 to following day for work. When I wasted an hour this morning, lying in bed, doing absolutely nothing, I thought it was going to be a really unproductive day. But actually, I managed to record these two fantastic interviews, ran up pretty fun, three hour physiology session, if I say so myself. Started a personal training program to help sort my life out. This was, back before coronavirus made, going to the gym probably in advisable, and I made a new friend as well. So, all in all, a pretty good day. Thanks for watching, stay safe, and hopefully see you in the next video. Goodbye.
