# Which iPad should you buy - Analysis of iPad Pro vs iPad Air vs iPad Mini vs iPad
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xFX-lyLU2X8
Check out which iPad you should buy in 2021 here - https://youtu.be/Wg3VWhu_M6Q

The first 500 people to click my link will get two months of Skillshare Premium for FREE! https://skl.sh/ali2

In today's Tech Tuesdays, we discuss recommendations for which iPad is best for which people. I conclude that the iPad Mini is best for those who use an iPad for purely consumption purposes, but if you're a student, or if you use it for any creative purposes, you'd probably be best served with the iPad Air (2019). 

If you're on a tight budget, the iPad ($319) is a pretty solid shout, and if you have a tonne of spare cash to burn, you can't get much better than the iPad Pro.

Follow me on Skillshare to get updates about my upcoming classes - https://www.skillshare.com/profile/Ali-Abdaal/3785132

My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://paperlike.com/ali
 Where I get my music from (amazing for YouTubers) - http://share.epidemicsound.com/ali

TIMESTAMPS

00:54 - Overall conclusion
01:45 - What do you use an iPad for?
03:58 - Diminishing returns
06:02 - iPad Air vs iPad 
09:38 - The value of delight 
12:22 - The case for the iPad Pro
14:24 - Supporting sponsor - Skillshare
15:25 - Wrapping up

--------

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
😃  How to be Happier - Stoicism Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/stoicism

TOOLS OF THE TRADE:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk
📚  How I remember what I read - Readwise - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali
What I Use For Analytics - https://go.aliabdaal.com/tubebuddy
🌐 My website platform (Ghost) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost

OTHER RECOMMENDED COURSES
📔 Effortless Output with Roam Research - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/roam
📓 Building a Second Brain - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/basb

🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** which ipad should you buy, which ipad should i buy, which ipad to buy, ipad comparison, ipad pro, best ipad, ipad pro vs ipad, which ipad is right for you, which should i buy 2019, which ipad 2019, which ipad pro 2018, ipad air, ipad mini, ipad mini 5, ipad air 2019, 2019 ipad air, 2019 ipad mini, 2019 ipad, ipad mini 2019, new ipad, ipad 2019, new ipad mini, ipad air vs ipad pro, 2019 ipad air vs ipad pro, 2019 ipad air vs, ali abdaal, ali abdaal ipad, 
**Date:** 2019-04-23

## Transcript
 This video is kindly sponsored by Skillshare. Check out the link in the video description to get your two monthly trials. Hey guys, welcome back to the channel. If you're new here, my name is Ali. I'm a junior doctor working in Cambridge and in this video, we're taking a look at Apple's line-up of iPads, so I'll be comparing the budget iPads, iPad Mini, iPad Air and the 11-inch iPad Pro and I'll be sharing my thoughts about which iPad I would recommend for which sorts of people. As usual, I'm going to start off with the conclusion so if you want to save a bit of time and that's all you hear for, that's fine. But then for the rest of the video, I'm going to be explaining the reasons the rationale behind that conclusion and I'll be doing that in four parts. Firstly, I'll be talking about why people use an iPad at all at what the point of an iPad is. Secondly, I'll be talking about diminishing returns and I'll be valuing each of the four iPads at different price points. Thirdly, I'll be talking about the value of delight and how that feeds into the purchase of an iPad. Finally, I'll be talking about the rationale behind purchasing an iPad Pro. As usual, timestamps are going to be linked in the video description and in the pinned comments, so feel free to skip around the video if you feel like it. But now, let's just jump into it. So in summary, the iPad that I would recommend depends on what you're going to be using it for. So if you're going to be using the iPad as exclusively a consumption device to consume content like Netflix, YouTube, web browsing and stuff, I personally recommend the iPad mini, although if you want a bigger screen, the budget iPad is pretty solid as well. If, however, you want to do some kind of creation work on an iPad, maybe you're a student, a one-use-the-apple pencil, I personally recommend the $489 iPad Air. And finally, if you have professional powerful needs, like maybe video editing or drench photo editing or your desperate for USB-C, or you just have a ton of spare cash to burn, then the iPad Pro is the one for you. So that was the upfront conclusion. If that's all you're here for, then that's absolutely fine. Please do drop a like on the video and consider subscribing on your way out. But for the rest of this video, I'm going to be expanding on those conclusions and a lot more detail. I'm going to be explaining why I think those three iPads belong with those three different sorts of people. So the way I see it, everyone uses an iPad in a slightly different way, but it can essentially be plotted on a spectrum from consumption on the one hand to creation on the other hand. So if you're in the consumption camp, that's things like YouTube, Netflix, web browsing, maybe reading books using the Kindle Apple iBooks, things like that. That is the consumption category. And all the way on the other side, we've got the creation spectrum. And right on the extreme end of that spectrum is things like video editing, photo editing, music production, you know, the pro applications of an iPad. And then kind of further towards the middle is things like writing, using a keyboard, taking notes using an Apple pencil, maybe replying to emails. And the way I see it is that the closer to the creation pro end of the spectrum, you personally are, the more money I would recommend spending on an iPad. So in the conclusion, I said that if you're purely in the consumption camp for your iPad used, then I would personally recommend the iPad mini. And the reason I recommend the iPad mini over, for example, the budget iPad or the iPad air, is that the mini you can hold in one hand. And the one handed used to the mini is an absolutely incredible thing. Because let's say you are commuting, it's very feasible to hold the iPad in one hand. It's small enough that you can pretty much take it wherever you want without having to worry about it. So that's why I would go for the iPad mini personally. And I've got a more detailed review of the iPad mini coming a little bit later on. Now let's say you're further along that spectrum of consumption and creation. Let's say you're a student and you're using the iPad to take handwritten notes or you're typing up stuff. I would personally go for the iPad Air in those circumstances. The $489 iPad Air. Although you can get by with an iPad mini, the screen is just too small to really do anything meaningful on it. And if you're in the creation camp and you want to, for example, take notes with your iPad, chances are you're going to be taking those on a surface. So there's not really much of a difference between writing on an iPad mini in terms of space and writing on an iPad Air. But it is a massive difference in terms of the size of the paper and how it feels like to take notes. Like, I tried using the iPad mini to plan some of these videos and it is doable, but I wouldn't want to do it all the time, whereas the iPad Air is an absolute joy to use when using it for handwritten notes. So then this becomes a toss-up that do we go for the iPad Air with this possibly weird keyboard attachment? Or do we go for the iPad budget? And there is a 180 pound difference between these two devices. And what I'm going to argue is that I would recommend you go for the iPad Air. And that takes us to part two of the video where we talk about diminishing returns. Okay, so whenever we're buying anything in life, I think we definitely want to keep diminishing returns in the back of our minds. And that's the idea of that spending more money on this thing. There's not necessarily lead to an equal gain in benefit and equal gain in output. So when it applies to iPad purchasing decisions, I think the graph looks something like this. And let's assume that the iPad Pro is the gold standard. So at a cost of let's say about 770 pounds, because that's the most basic version you can get. Let's put that at 100%. Where do the other iPads stack on this graph? So we have the 319 pound budget iPad and I would personally put that at about 91%. Now let's talk about the iPad mini. The iPad mini is 399. I don't really think it fits on this graph personally, but if I had to, I'd probably put its value at let's say 92%. The iPad Air is about 479 pounds of $479 and I would set that at around about 95% or theirabouts. And so the graph of cost versus benefit we get looks something like this. And this is the perfect illustration of diminishing returns. You get to a point where the more money you spend on iPad, it gives you very marginal improvements in value improvements in quality of life. Now the reason I'm showing this graph is not just to be pretentious, although that is admittedly quite a big part of it, but it's because I think it's really important to understand that the budget iPad is very marginally less good than the iPad Air and the iPad Air is only very marginally less good than the iPad Pro. So if you are going to be spending the extra 180 pound difference between the iPad budget and the iPad Air or theirabouts or the extra 450 pounds difference between the iPad budget and the iPad Pro, you really want to understand exactly why you're spending that money. So at the start you might remember that I said the iPad Air is the one that I would recommend for most people. And the reason I said that is because I think this 180 pounds price jump between the iPad budget and the iPad Air is worth it, whereas I don't think the 450 pound jump between the budget and the Pro is worth it. So what are those differences between the iPad budget and the iPad Air that make the iPad Air worth the 180 pound upgrade? The three things basically firstly is the screen quality. Secondly is the keyboard attachment possibilities and thirdly the amount of power that you get. And let's talk about these in turn. So firstly the screen this has a very nice glass screen whereas the iPad budget has a not very nice plastic screen. Like the iPad budget is an absolutely incredible device and it's amazing that you can get something as good as this for 319 pounds but the display does genuinely feel like a piece of plastic. And so if budget is really an issue for you then this is absolutely fine like it's not a big deal but I think the difference between glass and plastic is sort of significant in my opinion. There is a very slight difference in Apple Pencil writing capabilities. This iPad budget has a little bit more of a gap between the screen and the internal bit of the iPad. So there is a very slight lag with the Apple Pencil but it's something that you don't really notice unless you put them side by side. The iPad air is absolutely incredible it's an identical writing experience to the iPad Pro and it genuinely does feel like you're writing directly onto the screen. But again the the experience is kind of similar it's just if you had the side by side the budget iPad is very slightly worse. By the way if you're a student and you're going to be using the iPad for anything that involves the Apple Pencil I'd highly recommend you get the paper like screen protector for it. This is something I've been using for the last year plus and I'm so used to writing on it like it does feel like paper when I'm writing on it. That one I bought these new iPads to review and I have to test the Apple Pencil out on them. It just felt so weird writing on glass like to the point that I think there's only a bit of difference between the budget iPad and the iPad air in terms of the screen but there is a world of difference between writing with the paper like screen protector and writing on a glass screen. So if you're interested in getting the paper like I put a affiliate link in the description below so if you buy it using that link then I make about enough money for a cup of coffee so you can help support the channel along with my caffeine addiction if you want to get it. It's a paper like screen protector. Paper like.com. Check it out. Secondly the iPad air allows you to use things like Apple's smart keyboard connector which lets you attach this origami keyboard to your iPad air which means you can then semi easily turn it into almost a laptop replacement where you've got a keyboard. It's quite a nice keyboard. A quite nice experience of typing on it. You can turn it into this a lot more easier. Whereas with the iPad budget you don't have that option. If you want to attach a keyboard to this you have to go for a third party Bluetooth option. So for example this is the Logitech Slim Pro case or something like that and the iPad goes in and like sticks here and then you can like attach it. I think like this. So then it unfolds into this sort of package. It's kind of heavy. It's not that nice but I mean it does the job and this thing I think was about £70 whereas the official Apple one is about £150. So if you really are on a budget and you need an iPad and you want to be able to type on the iPad and this does work. It's just it's just a bit less nice than using the official Apple kind of first party product. And finally in terms of power the iPad air has the newest processors. It's got a higher geek bench benchmark scores. Essentially what that means is that if you get the iPad air it'll probably last you longer than the budget iPad. So those are the three main differences. Screen, keyboard and power and in my opinion those differences are worth £180. But to explore this in a bit more detail I'm going to go on to part three of the video where we talk about the value of the delight. So by this point in the video I've been arguing that the iPad air is the one that I'd recommend for most people including most students. The iPad budget pretty much does the same thing and you probably won't notice much of a difference but it's enough of a difference that it justifies the 180 pound price tag. And the reason behind that is because of the delight factor that comes with the iPad air and with the iPad Pro. And what I mean by that is that although you can do the same stuff the iPad air is just a little bit nicer to use. It's a little bit more delightful. It makes me want to use this. And I think the very fact that it makes me want to use it is what justifies the 180 pound investment. Now there's two main reasons behind this. The first one is that it's a generally pedaled piece of financial advice that you want to be spending your money where you spend your time. So people often say that you should invest in a good bed and you should invest in good pairs of shoes because you're spending literally eight hours of your life every single day in your bed and with your shoes. Therefore any extra money and extra value that you get out of those things is going to be exacerbated over the long term. And this is a concept that my brother likes to refer to his measure and we talk about that in one of our podcast episodes at Not Over Thinking. That's on your podcast. I'll put a link below if you want to hear us talk about this concept for about 50 minutes on end. But there's a second part of it and that is something that I've heard less often on the internet. And that's the idea that I think we want to be spending our money where we want to be spending our time. So what do I mean by this? I mean that let's say I would to buy a new sofa. That would encourage me to spend more time on the sofa because then my sofa is more comfortable. That sofa in the background is not very comfortable. Therefore I don't spend a lot of time there. But do I really want to be spending more time on the sofa? Probably not. Let's say I wanted to buy myself a Tesla. I wanted to cut together all my YouTube earnings for the last like three years and whatever and decide to buy a Tesla for myself. That would encourage me to spend more time in the car more time driving. Is that really what I want to be doing with my life? Do I want to be spending more time driving? No, I don't. Let's say I would buy a TV for the house. We don't have a TV at the moment. If we do Game of Thrones nights we have to watch it on the monitor. But all that's going to do is it's going to encourage me and my house mate and our friends to spend more time watching TV, which is again not something we want to be doing. And I mentioned all this because spending 180 pounds to upgrade from the budget I pad to the iPad air now. I think that is something you do want to be doing. So for me when I was a student and even now when I'm a doctor any time I spend on my iPad is time that is inherently productive because of the things that I do on the iPad. I used to use the iPad for taking notes and lectures. I used to have all my textbooks on it. I used to have my past paper questions. I used to have medical books on it. So if I was spending time on the iPad it would be productive. I'd be learning stuff. And I think if you're the sort of person who you does use the iPad for productive for creative purposes then the fact that this extra investment in the iPad air is a bit more of a delight to use will encourage you to use it more and therefore it becomes an investment in your life that adds more value over time rather than just a liability. So I've done a whole video on the iPad Pro so I don't really want to spend too much time talking about it but if you follow the logic about the value of delight and stuff you might think that okay well I've rated the iPad Pro as a 100% I've rated the iPad air as only 95%. Surely that 5% increase in value is worth the 300 pound extra investment between the iPad Pro and the iPad Air and I would argue that that really depends on your budget. I think this 180 pound difference on a $80 difference. Again it does depend on your budget but clubbing together an extra 180 dollars is probably more doable for a lot of people than clubbing together an extra 3,400 pounds for the iPad Pro. Yes the iPad Pro is a slight increase in quality of life compared to the iPad Air but unless you have a lot of money to spare I don't think that difference justifies 300 pounds. The experience of writing with the iPad with the Apple Pencil is identical the screen is pretty much identical the only real difference is the fact that you can magnetically stick this on which is nice it's really nice to have but probably not worth 300 pounds. This keyboard thing cost another like 200 pounds this is slightly nice than the old one because you don't have to fold it around in the origami fashion but again probably not worth the extra money you spend on the iPad Pro. Thirdly in terms of power this has the X chip this has a normal chip I can't even remember what the cord because the power doesn't really matter to me. In terms of power yeah if you're a pro user and you need the iPad Pro for graphic editing or video editing or music production stuff like that then yeah of course you want the extra power you want the best thing out there but you probably already know that you don't need me to tell you this of a video. If you have some kind of budget I think the iPad Air is the sweet spot between price and value whereas the iPad Pro is amazing I absolutely love the iPad Pro I use it every single day but for me it's slightly different like I'm I work full time as a doctor I've got a side income on YouTube I've got my side business that generates money on the on the side I pretty much exclusively uses for business purposes so it's a tax deductible expense there are a lot of factors for me that mean that I would go for the iPad Pro but that's not a recommendation that I can with any good conscious for any good conscience pass along to other students please get the iPad Air it's absolutely incredible absolutely love this thing but if you have a ton of cash to burn then sure go for the iPad Pro. Before we wrap up I just want to say a massive thank you to Skillshare for sponsoring this video. Skillshare is the biggest platform for online courses and I've particularly enjoyed classes about how to edit videos I've gotten some tips on how to use Final Cut Pro so for example this class by Benjamin Halsall was pretty solid I also recently started to teach myself how to cook so I watched this think like a chef series which was rather good and ended up making quite a nice roast dinner from it. Essentially Skillshare is a fantastic way to learn any skill online and if you enjoy the way that this video was edited and produced I'm actually going to be working on my own Skillshare classes where I take a deep dive into exactly how I make these sorts of videos and how I go about filming editing post-producing all this stuff so if you like you can sign up for a free trial of Skillshare by following the link below the first 500 people to click the link will get two months of Skillshare completely free and after those two months if you decide that it's worth it you can continue with a paid subscription I've personally got a paid subscription I think it's worth it you learn a lot of stuff that's produced really well so thanks again Skillshare for sponsoring this video so let's wrap up this very long and very ramily video I hope you found it useful I hopefully argue that if you're a purely consumer if you are purely a consumer then the iPad mini is the one for you I think the one hand didn'tness of the iPad mini beats all of the benefits that a slightly bigger screen would have and this is only 399 pounds you don't even need extra accessories for it you don't really need an Apple pencil for it because all you're doing is watching stuff that's absolutely fine if you're a student then I'd probably recommend the iPad Air in fact if you're most people I'd probably recommend the iPad Air it's 489 pounds it's really really really really nice and if you want it to become more of a laptop replacement then you can go for the official Apple keyboard thing it's an it's a nice keyboard it does turn it into more of a laptop replacement and I probably recommend that for students as well if you can afford the extra 150 pounds for the keyboard if you're a student or if you're most people and you're on a budget then the 399 iPad is absolutely incredible it's astonishing that you can get an iPad this good for only 319 pounds but it's a very slight you know it's got a slightly plastic screen it's a bit less powerful it's a bit harder to attach a keyboard to it it's probably gonna last a bit less long if you can afford to club out the extra 180 pounds for the iPad Air then I would recommend that and finally if you're a pro user or you just have a ton of spare cash to burn or you can just justify this as a business expense then the iPad Pro is absolutely incredible it's the one that I use for literally 10 plus hours every single day but to be honest if I don't have the iPad Pro I'd be using the iPad Air just as often and I probably won't really notice much of a difference so that was a wrap-up of which iPad you should buy in 2019 I hope you found this video useful if you liked the video please do give it a thumbs up if you haven't subscribed to the channel then please consider doing so you might like to check out a new podcast that me and my brother have started it's called Not Over Thinking and I think episode 3 of that podcast or maybe episode 4 we talk more about purchasing decisions and why we recommend for example investing in a kitchen bin versus investing in a Tesla for example so you I'll link that below you might like to listen to that thanks very much for watching and I'll see you in the next video goodbye
