# My Favourite Mac Apps (2021) - What's on my Macbook Pro
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xHFebdaObWo
Get free access to my Workflow and Deep Dive series on Nebula, along with a load of other exclusive content, bundled with CuriosityStream - https://curiositystream.com/ali and use the code ALI at checkout!

In this video I'll be going over all my Mac apps for 2021. 

Follow along my book journey - https://book.aliabdaal.com
Check out TubeBuddy: https://go.aliabdaal.com/tubebuddy
My Spotify profile: https://open.spotify.com/user/1111404728

00:00 Intro
00:41 Roam Research
02:24 Gmail
03:04 Google Docs
03:16 Google Slides
03:55 Chrome Addons
04:35 Notion
05:49 Loom
06:18 Figma
07:46 Day One
08:21 MS Word
08:49 Sublime Text
09:13 Kindle
09:38 Instapaper
09:47 Spotify
10:13 Zoom
10:19 Grain
11:16 Slack
11:37 WhatsApp
12:06 Alfred
12:27 Moom
13:06 F.lux
13:27 Dashlane
13:36 Drafts
15:37 Lightroom CC
16:27 Google Drive

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

PART-TIME YOUTUBER ACADEMY:
🍿 My 6-week live online course - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ptya_aliabdaal
CREATORPRENEUR
💰 My flag-ship course for scaling up your creative side-hustle - https://creatorpreneur.academy/course


YOUTUBE FOR BEGINNERS COURSE
📸 This is for anyone who'd like to start a YouTube channel. You'll learn everything you need to get started as a YouTuber including how to script, shoot, and edit your first video - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/YouTube-for-Beginners


Get free access to my Workflow and Deep Dive series on Nebula, along with a load of other exclusive content, bundled with CuriosityStream - https://curiositystream.com/ali and use the code ALI at checkout!


MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
✍️ The best summaries of books (Shortform) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
📚  How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
Deep Dive Podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/
The podcast that delves into the minds of entrepreneurs, creators and other inspiring people to uncover the philosophies, strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. You can find it by searching “Deep Dive with Ali Abdaal” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc).
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali
What I Use For Analytics - https://go.aliabdaal.com/tubebuddy

🎙 My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮  Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, what's on my mac, mac apps 2021, best apps for mac 2021, productivity apps for mac 2021, best mac apps 2021, what's on my macbook, productivity apps, productivity, what's on my macbook air, productivity 2020, mac apps, top 10 mac apps, top mac apps, best mac apps, top 5 mac apps, best free mac apps, must have mac apps, best productivity apps, macos apps for productivity, mac apps for productivity, productivity apps for mac, new mac apps, 
**Date:** 2021-03-04

## Transcript
 In this video, we're going to go over my favorite Mac apps in 4 categories of create, consume, connect, and coordinate. Hey friends, welcome back to the channel. If you're new here at my name is Ali, I'm a doctor based in the UK and on this channel, we explore the different ways we can get more done while having more fun. I feel like that should be a new tagline. Anyway, big part of getting more done while having fun is the apps that we're using on a MacBook at all times. And so in this video, I'm going to break down all of the different apps that I use with timestamps and links to everything in the video description so feel free to skip around the video if you feel like it. All right, let's kick things off with the create category. And there are 7 apps in this, the first one being Google Chrome. And now, like these days, I seem to spend most of my life in Chrome around a few central web apps. Now, the main one that I use for most of my personal note taking and general life management type stuff is called Rome Research. This is a sort of niche subscription-based kind of note-taking app, but it's not really a note-taking app. It's sort of like a generalized second-brain personal knowledge management type app. There's a lot to go into about Rome. I have a dedicated video about it up there and I've got loads more info on my workflow series on Nebula, which I'll tell you more about in a little bit. But essentially, things I use Rome for is firsting in the morning. I do morning pages. Morning pages is the thing where you're just sort of right out a morning journal. These days I like to write three things that I'm grateful for. I like to write three things that I'm going to do to make today great. And I've recently started experimenting with this kind of affirmation type stuff after speaking to Justin Khan on a YouTube live stream where he recommended all of these things as being nice ways to add a little bit more wellness and mindfulness and happiness to one's life. Once I've done that, I like to write the phrase today. It's going to be the best day ever, which then kind of prompts me to write more and more stuff. And usually, by the time I get one or two paragraphs saying, I realize, oh, I could do this and listen to that. And I sort of get de-railed from my morning journaling practice. But hey, it's all good. It's a work in progress. Then, once I've done my morning pages, I always said a daily highlight. This is the one thing that I want to accomplish today. And if I get done, then today will have been a win. And that is filming this video. And so while earlier today, I was sitting on the sofa on my on my Macbook just browsing this out, I actually kind of typed out a lot of notes for this very video in Rome itself. I also use Rome for a lot of other things including anywhere to do lists and personal knowledge management and second brain note taking and the lazy Zettel Castan Method and like using my weekly reviews. All of that are going to be coming in a video at some point. But if you want to learn more about them now, the role on the workflow series that I've got on Nebula, more details in the video description, and I'll tell you about it at the end. Secondly, I spend a lot of time inside the Gmail app on Chrome. Now back in the day, I used to use superhuman to manage my email. Superhuman recently has been a little bit buggy on the M1 Mac mini and the M1 Macbook Pro. And so I've ended up just using Gmail.com for most of my email management. And the thing that I like about using Gmail.com rather than having a dedicated app is that there is friction. It takes a few seconds for Gmail.com to load. And because for me, my major productivity is not in replying to emails. It means that if I make it less likely that I'll reply to emails, yes, some people might get annoyed that I'm slowing replying to emails. But overall, I get a lot more done. Whereas, if you're the sort of person who's job literally relies on you replying to emails, then it makes sense to have a dedicated app that lets you do it super, super fast. Thirdly, I spend a large amount of time in Google Docs. This is predominantly where me and my team write blog posts for my website and where I'm spending most of my time in writing my book proposal and compiling research and notes for my book. And I also spend a large amount of time in Google's slides making presentations. I don't bother with PowerPoint on keynote because Google's slides are just super easy and it's all within Chrome and it's nice. And actually, yesterday and the day before over the weekend, I was running this crash course for how to use Rome research where all the proceeds were donated to the against malaria foundation. And we raised, I think, $8,000 for charity through this like life course. And that was nice. Like, it's nice using Google's slides for this sort of thing. And these days, we're in the middle of cohort 2 of my part-time YouTuber Academy. So I spend a huge amount of time in Google's slides, sorting out our presentations and this is one that we've been doing around gear and finding a niche and like different types of gear and audio and video and all this cool kind of stuff. So lots and lots and lots and lots of time spent in Google's slides. In terms of extensions, there are three that I use on a daily basis. Firstly, is video speed controller, which lets me speed up YouTube videos and anything else that I'm watching to like 3x or 4x. Secondly, the InstaPaper save extension, InstaPaper is nice because if I want to read an article, I save it to InstaPaper, then I can read it on InstaPaper across any of my devices. And the best thing is, when I highlight anything on InstaPaper, it sinks automatically to Rome, thanks to Readwise, more on that in a detail up there called the magical insight logging framework. And finally, because I'm a YouTuber, I end up using TubeBuddy quite a lot. TubeBuddy's a fantastic Chrome extension for YouTubers. It lets you see search traffic and do A-B testing and do all a load of stuff. Link to a 60-day free trial if you want to check it out in the video description. So that was Chrome. That's where I spend the bulk of my time. I probably spend the second most of my time on Notion, which is another one of my favorite productivity apps. And in terms of using Rome versus Notion, Rome is what I use for most of my personal stuff. Any kind of personal note taking that I need to do, books that I've read, note taking that sort of thing. But then Notion is where stuff goes if it involves a production process with my team. So anything for a part-time YouTuber Academy, anything for the YouTube channel, anything for a podcast, usually goes into Notion, so that I can work on it with my team. Here's our page, for example, for the part-time YouTuber Academy, our next cohort is going to start in June 2021. Link in the video description if you want to join the waiting list for that. But we've got tons and tons of information that our team that helps our team kind of manage this along with calendars and checklists and logistics and all this fun stuff. We also use it to manage our video production schedule for YouTube videos, so you can have a little sneak peek of what's going on on the channel for the next month or so. And we're also using Notion to manage a lot of the research for the book that I'm writing. So we've got research banks for every chapter and some worries of books and stuff that me and my team are reading to try and create this book that I'm ultimately trying to make in the next two years. There's a link in the video description. Again, to my book email list for my book journey, if you want to keep abreast of developments in my book journey and get like sneak previews of chapters and all of that kind of fun stuff. So that was Chrome and that was Notion, which is where I spend most of my time. Next we have a very fun app called Loom. Now Loom is a very easy way of recording videos while recording of screen. And this is what I use for a lot of screen costs to give to my team. But also within our part-time YouTuber Academy, for the people on the executive tier plan, plan, I give them personalized feedback on their YouTube videos. And so I just open up Loom, watch their YouTube video and as I'm watching it, I can comment along and share my thoughts on the video, which is quite nice. Yeah, mate, this is so intriguing. I'm like hooked right now and I wish this for them at the start of the video rather than at the end of it. At number four that I use for creation is called Figma. Figma is what I use to help design websites and to design like thumbnail designs and branding guidelines and all this sort of general graphicy designing stuff that doesn't need something dedicated like Photoshop. So, for example, recently I did a whole redesign of my personal website. You can check it out, link in the video description. Hey friends, I'm Aliyama Doctor, YouTube Reprocaster, this sort of stuff. And so I was making all of this stuff on Figma and Figma makes it like super easy to move things around and like, you know, do cool stuff like that. And we've got designs for different types of blog posts. So, for example, the ultimate guides are studying for exams, bit of emojis, we've got a bit of a table of contents going on, we've got a nice little sidebar over here. All of this was stuff that I designed in Figma and then handed off to a developer called a dad who coded it into our theme, which was running on Ghost, the website platform. We also have a nice little book summary section, which I think looks kind of pretty and we're working on building that up on the website as well. And we're also using Figma to design all of the materials for mine and my brothers weekly podcast, which now has a YouTube channel. Again, you can check it out, linked in the video description. And so, on Figma, we were kind of figuring out what's the YouTube cover banner going to look like, what are the thumbnails going to look like. And so me and my brother are still going back and forth about this, but we think we might try and design the thumbnails like something like this around emotional rollercoasters or whatever the title of the video might be. And the nice thing about Figma is that it's free and you can use it with a team and it's usually all in the browser, but they do have a Mac app as well, which I have on my Mac but pro and on my Mac mini. So, if you're interested in any kind of web design, e-grafting design, stuff, 100% recommend Figma to double with. Next on the list, we have an app called Day 1, which is what I use for journaling. Now, I have a private journal, which I'm not going to show you, because I always accidentally show screenshots of it. I also have a journal called Nice Comments, which is where I post screenshots and automatically forward emails that contain nice comments straight into that journal. So, if I'm feeling sad, I can look through my 467 journal entries for nice comments and kind of feel a little bit of an emotional and spiritual boost. And I've got this memorabilia journal, so for example, if a friend gives me a birthday card and I consider myself a bit of a minimalist and so I want to throw the birthday card in the bin. I take a photo of the birthday card, put it in today one, and then I will have it forever, and then I can throw the piece of paper in the bin. Next on the list, we have Microsoft Word. Yes, I still use Microsoft Word, because my editor at the publishing house likes using Microsoft Word, and even though I like using Google Docs with my team for everything, when it comes to the book, we often go back and forth between Microsoft Word files, which is just kind of funny, but it's actually pretty good, because if you want, you can turn off your internet and do something in Microsoft Word, and it's tracked changes features are very easy to use, which means you can see what changes and editor has suggested to the stuff that you're writing, and you can collaborate on written documents that way. And finally, I use the apps sublime text to make changes to my website, so I fancy myself a little bit of a coder, because I used a code quite a lot when I was younger. I don't do it that much anymore, but I still know enough about coding to be able to tweak bits of my website and add stuff here and there when I want to, and sublime text is just the code editor of choice that I've been using for the last decade, and so I've got no reason to switch to something like Visual Studio Code, which I think a lot of people are using these days. Next, let's move on to my consumption apps, and there are three broad things in this list. Firstly, we have the Kindle app. Kindle app is absolutely fantastic. I use Kindle across all my devices, phone, iPad, and an actual Kindle, and the nice thing about having it on the Mac as well is that I can very easily flick through my highlights of the books that I'm reading, and I can highlight things, and because I highlight things, they get synchronized with the room and notion automatically more in that video over there about the magical insight, logging framework. Next, we have the app InstaPaper. I use InstaPaper on Mac to read articles, and then again, when I highlight them, they synchronize automatically with the room and notion, thanks to readwise. And thirdly, on the consumption front, I use Spotify for all of my music of choice. I would dearly love to switch to Apple Music, so then I can be 100% in the Apple ecosystem, but every time I've tried, it's just been so, so, so bad compared to Spotify, so I just absolutely love Spotify. By the way, check out my Spotify profile, link in the video description if you want to see what sort of music I like. Next, on the list, we have Connect. Now, these are apps for connecting and communicating and making friends and maintaining relationships and all that fun stuff. Firstly, let's start with Zoom, we're all familiar with Zoom. You know what Zoom is? I seem to spend most of my life on various Zoom calls these days. But what you might not know is that there is another amazing app called a grain. And grain is really interesting because grain automatically can record your Zoom calls, and it can transcribe them. And so, if I'm having a Zoom call with someone, I know that there's always a transcript of it that's available. And even while I'm doing the Zoom call, I can take notes within the grain app, and then it flags up the points where I was taking notes in the transcript. And so, for example, I'm having loads of interviews and phone calls with people around my book these days. And so, if they say something particularly interesting, I can just do a little star emoji on grain. And then I can find that point if I ever need to go back to it again. So, grain plus a Zoom is absolutely amazing. I've also been spending tons and tons of time on Zoom because we're running my part-time YouTuber Academy and we're using Zoom. I think we're paying like 400 pounds a month for Zoom for all the various features that we use. We're using Zoom for that. And I've also been running Zoom co-working sessions with people from all around the world where every morning we get together on a Zoom call. I share my Spotify instrumental playlist. We all do work together using the Pomodoro Technique. So, yeah, a lot I owe to Zoom these days. Next, we have the app Slack. Now, I use Slack for most of my team communication. We also have a Slack team for a part-time YouTuber in a circle, which is a membership community. I also use Slack for like a ton of other things. For example, for a podcast note of a thinking we have a private members-only Slack group. And I think Slack is where I spend the fourth largest amount of time. So, Rome, Notion, Zoom, and Slack are like my top four in terms of like actual usage. Then we have two fairly quick things we have WhatsApp web, which is a very easy way of applying to WhatsApp messages, because I absolutely suck at applying to WhatsApp messages on my phone, because typing on it is just so, so painfully slow. They're for a use WhatsApp web, which has a native Mac app for it, which is nice. And finally, we have the apps for code nation. Now, there's actually quite a lot to talk about here. This is a topic that I'm extremely passionate about. Let's start with a few utilities that I can't live without. This is the stuff that I always install on my Mac anytime I get a new Mac or anytime I do a refresh. The first one is Alfred. Alfred is amazing. Alfred is a spotlight replacement tool, which means you can hit command and space bar, and you can type in anything. And it opens up apps. It does web searches for you. It gives you snippets. It's got loads and loads and loads of features that are too numerous to elucidate. And this is it. Is that the right word? In one video, I also talk about Alfred more in my workflow series, and maybe learn more in that in a second. Next, we have the app, Moom. Now, Moom is what I use for window management. Now, the nice thing about Moom is that you can create keyboard shortcuts that let you snap windows to certain parts of the screen. Moom is mostly what I use when I'm on my huge as 49 inch ultra wide monitor. Because when you've got that much screen real estate, it's really important to figure out like, you know, have a way of snapping windows to the middle, off to the side, off to the other side. Usually when I'm on my MacBook Pro, it's quite a tiny screen. It's a 13 inch MacBook Pro. And therefore, I only really use one app at a time. Very occasionally, if I'm on my Kindle on one half of the screen and taking notes and room on the other half, then I'll use Moom to sort out the window management. But normally, it's reserved for my Mac Mini. Next, we have the app flux, which basically helps tone your screen yellow when it's nighttime. I know that iOS has a Mac OS, has a built-in one, whatever it's called nighttime, night display, true tone, something like that. But I find flux to be more yellow. And because I've been working late into the night, I like my screen to be very, very, very yellow. So I'm limiting the blue light exposure to my eyes, which is apparently good for you. In terms of passwords, I use Dashlane as my password manager of choice. Therefore, I can't live without it, because I don't remember any passwords. They're all stored nicely and securely in Dashlane. And the app that I used to take notes when I'm on the go is actually draft. Now, draft is basically like Apple notes in that you've got it across all your devices, Apple Watch, phone, iPad, my book, etc, etc. But it's just I just find it to be a little bit faster. And so, if I need to type anything on the go, draft is the first app that'll open on any device. Or if I'm driving or walking and I want to dictate and note into my Apple Watch, I have the draft widget on my Apple Watch that lets me dictate into it and that sinks across all my devices as well. And so drafts for me really act as a quick capture in box, which means like, you know, if I'm if I'm taking notes and something, they'll start off in drafts, but then usually it'll end up either in room or in notion, depending on what it's being used for. Let's talk a little bit about photo management now. And there's two apps that I use for photo management. Firstly, I just use the box standard Apple Photos. The nice thing about this is all of the zillions of photos that I take on my phone, or from my camera, I can just drag and drop straight into Apple Photos, in fact, on phone, it sinks automatically. And I trust that they'll be there whenever I need them. And the people feature is cool because it helps pick out people from your photos. So let's see, this is my brother who I do the podcast with. Check out our YouTube channel linked in the video description. That's not him. That's me. That's not him. That's him. That's not him. That's not him. That's not him. That's him and that's him. And I can tag these photos of my brother. And then the cool thing is that it like let's you see all of the photos that you've got with these people. It creates custom albums to them. And the cool thing is that it even generates these automatically generated videos for people in your people album. And this is nice because if it's someone other than my brother who's kind of less tech savvy and it's their birthday has come up. Then I can send them the video that Apple Photos automatically generates with a nice like musical track in the background. And then that person will hopefully think, oh my god, I'll put the time and effort to create a custom video for me for my birthday isn't he such a thoughtful boy. Whereas obviously this is just like purely automatically generated to thanks to Apple Photos. And in genuinely it's just quite nice. Like this is a pretty pretty solid nice wholesome video. I can watch it and it's going to be like, oh, hello. I can watch it. It can remind me of memories anytime that I've spent with my brother. It's just generally good all around. And the other app that I use for my photo management is Lightroom CC. And this is the mobile kind of web cloud sing to Lightroom. I don't really use Lightroom Classic because I'm not a photographer. I just take tons and tons and tons of photos of myself for various thumbnails. And so I've got these like shared albums that I can share with my team with like hundreds and hundreds of photos of me in varying like various degrees of compromising positions and poses. So that I can do them for thumbnails. And the cool thing about Lightroom is that it has nice kind of photo editing features as well. So famously when you do thumbnails on YouTube, you want to make them pop because they get compressed so much and shrunk so much that kind of this is the before photo, which looks like a reasonable photo. This is after I've done all my edits. Which looks a bit like ridiculous. You wouldn't edit a photo like that normally. But because YouTube shrinks it down, it makes sense to make the photo pop a little bit more so it stands out more and feels a little bit more clickbaity so people like you guys can actually click on it. And finally, in terms of file organization, I actually just use Google Drive usually on the web. I don't do any kind of local syncing because these days, I don't work with a lot of local files. The only local files I work with are video files from YouTube videos and stuff and zoom I put those into a folder called the holding zone and then I immediately upload them to my Teams Google Drive, which has unlimited storage on it. So far, we've used 12.3 terabytes. Thank you Google for the unlimited storage, which I think is going away sometime soon. Now the last thing I want to talk about is more about Rome. So I mentioned Rome right at the start. And I said that I've got this workflow series on Nebula. Now, if you haven't heard Nebula, is an independent streaming platform that's built by me and a bunch of other creators. And on Nebula, we can put all of the content that wouldn't necessarily work on YouTube. So it's not like a YouTube competitor, but if we've got like going super, super in-depth about certain apps, which is what I do in my workflow series, that's a sort of stuff that's probably a little bit niche for YouTube. And so it's nice having Nebula as a store for that. On Nebula, you'll also find early access to my videos and add free access to those videos. So there's no ads on Nebula. These sorts of ads are taken out for Nebula videos. And it's not just me, it's a bunch of other creators that you might have heard of as well. Like Thomas Frank and Window of Productions and Legal Eagle and Lindsay Ellis and Tom Scott. Now, if you want to get access to my workflow series where I basically teach you the ins and outs of all of the different productivity apps that I use, including Rome and Notion, the best way is to sign up to CuriosityStream who are very kindly sponsoring this video. If you haven't heard CuriosityStream is the world's leading documentary streaming subscription platform. And on CuriosityStream, there are thousands of really high quality, high budget documentaries that you can watch if you like. One documentary that I've enjoyed these days is called the blockchain revolution, which is like a very short 20 minute documentary about the history of the blockchain and how it's going to change the world. And the coolest thing is that because CuriosityStream supports independent creators, we've got a special bundle with Nebula. And that means that if you sign up to CuriosityStream for a year, you get free access to Nebula. So this is less than $15 a year for tons of high budget high quality documentaries, plus all of our bonus content on Nebula, including my workflow series, where you can learn about how I use all of my fancy productivity apps. So for less than $15 a year, this makes this the single best deal in the streaming world. And so if you want to take advantage of that, then head over to CuriosityStream.com forward slash L.A. and then you'll get your Nebula details emailed to you and then you can watch all of my tutorials about Rome and Notion. If you've gotten this far in the video, thank you so much for watching. You might like to check out this video over here, which is my favorite productivity apps for the iPad, which I do use occasionally, even though most of my time has spent on the MacBook. Thanks for watching, and I'll see you in the next video. Bye bye.
