# How to ‘Read’ 1000 Books a Year
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XiGaXVJHwhc
In this video I'll be going over a few methods that allow me to read up to 1000 books every year. 

✍️ The best summaries of books (Shortform) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
📚 My Goodreads profile: https://www.goodreads.com/user/show/45329045-ali-abdaal
🎧 Sign up to Audible here: https://audible.com/aliabdaal
🎞 Naval excerpt courtesy of Joe Rogan: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3qHkcs3kG44
📖 How to Read a Book: https://geni.us/HkStXXO

00:00 Intro
00:58 Fill the funnel
03:08 Make it effortless
05:13 The blog post mindset
07:29 Go deep

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

PART-TIME YOUTUBER ACADEMY:
🍿 My 6-week live online course - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ptya_aliabdaal
CREATORPRENEUR
💰 My flag-ship course for scaling up your creative side-hustle - https://creatorpreneur.academy/course


YOUTUBE FOR BEGINNERS COURSE
📸 This is for anyone who'd like to start a YouTube channel. You'll learn everything you need to get started as a YouTuber including how to script, shoot, and edit your first video - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/YouTube-for-Beginners



MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
📚  How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali

🎙 Deep Dive podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/
The podcast that delves into the minds of entrepreneurs, creators and other inspiring people to uncover the philosophies, strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. You can find it by searching “Deep Dive” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮  Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I’m Ali, a YouTuber, podcaster, soon-to-be author and ex-Doctor working in London, UK. I make videos that explore the strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, best books, read books, how to read more, how to read more books, read more books, how to read a book a week, life changing books, how to read more books in less time, read more books motivational, tips to read more books, how to read more books in a day, how to read more books in 2021, speed reading, book summaries, shortform review, how to read more books summaries, how to read books faster, how to read books fast, ali abdaal shortform, 
**Date:** 2021-10-03

## Transcript
 Right, so I've got a confession to make. I do read around about a thousand books a year, but I don't finish a thousand books a year. I only finished somewhere between 70 and 100s. Now at this point, if you haven't clicked away from the video, you're probably thinking that is cheating. Oh my god, that's so unfair. It does not count as reading a book if you don't finish a book. This is super, super clickbait. I'm going to unsubscribe. And if you're thinking that and you're still here, then you're probably falling into the trap that society has programmed us over basically a whole lives, which is that a books are the sacred halo objects and b, there is some like stator, some social stator, some prestige associated with like finishing a book, like reading it, cover to cover. If we're saying to be reading more than other people, especially difficult books that we probably don't even enjoy, we have this feeling that we somehow better than those people who've been reading the same 50 shades book for the past three months. In other words, the number of books we read is purely a vanity metric that we used to impress other people. In this video, I'd like to propose a new way of approaching reading. This is the four-step method that I used to read a thousand books a year and it's genuinely changed my life. Step one, fill over funnel. If we want to read more books, then we need to have loads and loads of books coming into the top of our funnel. This means that we want to have a ton of books that we're checking out and only later are we deciding if it's a book that we actually want to read properly. My favorite way of doing this is to use book summaries. And my personal recommendation for this is short form. On short form, they've got summaries of thousands of popular non-fiction books, including New York Times bestsellers and books that universities recommend. Each summary condenses all of the key ideas into this really clear structure so that you can quickly find the main insights from the book. So if I'm deciding whether or not to actually properly read a book, I will go on short form and if they have the book available on short form, which they normally do, then I'll read the one page summary, which is unsurprisingly a one page summary of the whole book. And if I like what I read, then that book goes further down the funnel and I'll decide if I want to read the book properly. And if not, then it just gets scrapped immediately. And hey, I've taken away the key ideas from it already having read the summary. If you want to sign up for short form, free trial link in the video description. They're not sponsoring this video. They're not paying me to say this, but it isn't affiliate links if you sign up and get a little bit of kickback. But if a book's not on short form, you can just google the title of the book and type summary and someone somewhere on the internet will ever in a summary of the book and then you can use that to decide whether you actually want to read the book properly. So that's all well and good, but how do you actually find book recommendations in the first place? I recommend three resources, number one, good reads, number two Twitter, and number three podcasts. Although good reads is a bit more than a book recommendation site. It's a great way to get book recommendations based on what you've already read, what your friends are reading, and what the general good reads community thinks about a particular book. And the benefit of good reads as well is that it turns reading into sort of a game and you can like the log which books you're reading and which books you've read and just makes it kind of fun and it's really cool tracking all of the books that you've ever read in your life. If that sounds fun, then I'll put a link to my good reads profile in the video description. Fun fact, I'm actually one of the top 10 most followed people in the UK on good reads. I would like to ascend the rankings, so please follow me on good reads to see all the book recommendations and all my highlights and stuff from books that I'm reading. Anyway, whenever I get a book recommendation, I generally just buy there and then on Amazon, either on Kindle or on Audible or if I'm not in a place to buy it there and then I will add it to my to-do-est books to read thing and then I'll buy it on Audible or on Kindle some of my further down the line. At this point, there's no obligation to actually read any of these books. We're just kind of deciding to fill our funnel with as many books as we possibly can and then I'll decide if I actually want to read it and that brings on to Step 2. Step 2, make it effortless. The idea here is that we don't want reading to be a chore. If we can seamlessly integrate reading into our daily routine, we're going to improve our chances of actually reading the books. Now, if there's only one piece of advice I can give here, it would be to get into audiobooks and Audible. I've said so many times, is genuinely the single app. I would subscribe to if I could only subscribe to one thing. They're not even sponsoring this video. That is how much I freaking love Audible. I am plugging it in a video that they're not even sponsoring. I'll stick a link in the video description if you want to check it out. But like genuinely, Audible just makes it so so so easy to listen to books and it, like ever since I started using Audible, I think in 2017, I basically doubled the amount of books I've been actually actually able to read. So Audible is my go to it. If I'm driving or walking around or if I'm at the gym, but if I'm at home and I'm on the toilet and I don't really want to get my air pods out because it's a little bit gross in there, then what I normally do is either I will scroll through Twitter aimlessly and get book recommendations that way occasionally. Or if I'm feeling really productive, then I'll actually go on this short form app on my phone and read some of these on short form because they have a nice mobile app as well. By reading the more detailed chapter summaries on short form, you're basically reading the book at 10x speed, there's zero fluff, so practically every sentence is insightful and applicable to our life. So Audible and short form make it super easy to, again, make it effortless to read as effortless to read as possible, but if I want to actually read a book properly, then I would just buy it on Kindle. I really need to become like a pal ambassador for Audible and Kindle because, again, the last one's being the video, but like genuinely, I think the Kindle is probably one of the most life-changing pieces of tech that I own. I've been reading everything on Kindle since like 2008, 2009. I have my Kindle on my bedside table and that means I always get about half an hour to read before bed. I'll always pick it up. I'll have it the light on the dimmest setting while the bedroom lights are closed and then it's great because I don't waste any time before sleeping because I'm always reading and then when I start to feel my eyes dying to close, I'll just drop the Kindle and I'll fall asleep and this is absolutely game-changing and also the nice thing about Kindle is every book that you buy on Kindle itself. You can also read on the Kindle app on my iPhone and so if I'm out in about or if I'm in a waiting room or on a train or something, then if I don't have my physical Kindle on me, then I'll just use the Kindle app on my iPhone to read books that way and that just makes it super super easy to read. Step three, the blog post mindset. Now when we're at school, the general vibe is that A, we need to power through every book that we start reading even if we're not enjoying it and that B, it is a crime. It is a crime against humanity to quit reading a book because then then because then you're a quitter and you're a failure in life. But obviously this is terrible and the way that I approach it is the blog post mindset, which is really that I treat books like I treat blog posts. If they're not sacred, they're not hallowed. There's nothing special about a book just because it happens to be in book format. I will treat it like a blog post, I, I will feel completely okay with stopping reading the book even if I'm halfway through or 10% of the way through. There's a lot of nonsense and books out there too. So I don't read any more to complete books. I read to satisfy my general intellectual curiosity. And I really like this point that Naval makes whereby the point of reading is not to signal or anything like that. The point is literally to just satisfy our own intellectual curiosity. And so if, for example, I find that chapter three of a book is more interesting or chapter eight is more interesting or if, for example, I find that I've got on the bulk of the value from the book from the first three chapters. And actually totally okay for me to stop reading the book. I'm only reading for myself and for my goodreads profile. I'm not reading to try and impress other people or to try and seem smarter because I've just happened to have read more books. And even within the sections of the book, even when there is like really valuable information, I find that I don't need to read all of it and I have a more kind of skin-based approach to reading. Like often when we're reading, the book will bash us overhead with examples to explain just one idea. So if you've already got the main idea, you can just blitz through that section and you can slow down again when you come across an new idea. An interesting thought or just some other piece of gold does that you don't want to miss. There's a bunch of techniques around speed reading. I've done a video that will be linked somewhere over there where we talk about things like reducing sub vocalization and using the finger technique and using the ruler technique, all these ways of making it faster, getting through books. But the point is again, we want to, it's more of a mindset shift that it's actually totally okay to skim and to skip paragraphs and to skip chunks. There is no like added value. There's no like social status or prestige associated with reading every single word cover to cover. And in the same way, like if I read a book summary, whether it's on short form or a blink-hist or just a random blog post that some dudes write them on medium on that I found through Google, I don't see that as being any different to reading the actual book because they've summarized the main idea. If I enjoy the summary enough to think, oh, this is a book I'd want to read, then I will actually get the book on order below Kindle and read it properly. Step four, go deep. At some point, eventually once we've done all this, once we've got this like big like tons and tons of books into our filter and we do things like summaries and skimming and stuff, we will come across books that actually really resonate with us and that we really want to read more of. And so I come across these maybe one or two books every week. And the taper at that point is that it's not really about then thinking, okay, I want to blitz through this book as quickly as possible and I want to try and move on to the next one so I can make a clickbait title. The taper at that point is to really go deep on the stuff that we actually care about. The first way to do this and kind of the gold standard, the one that I try and aspire to when I'm reading a book that particularly resonates with me is to take notes on the stuff that I'm reading. Good note taking can take many different forms and it's going to differ from person to person, but it's a really important skill. Especially if we're looking for a better way to organize our ideas or to keep a record of the most important lessons we've learned or to think critically about how we can apply the information to our own lives. As Mortimer Adler writes in How to Read a Book, in the case of good books, the point is not to see how many of them you can get through, but rather how many can get through to you. My process for taking notes is evolved over the years. The most low friction way I do this is I literally have a folder on my apple notes called a book notes and I will just jot down a few bullet points as I'm reading or as I'm listening to a book and then for some of the books the ones that really resonate with me where I make the time to write a proper summary, I have a nice notion template that asks me to summarize the book in a few sentences to share my top three highlights and that pulls in all of the other kind of highlights and stuff I've made on Kindle through Readwise again more information in that video over there because I'm more going to talk about it in this one. The other way I found recently is that if for example I'm reading a book but I'm only reading the summary on short form then again they've got these like interactive exercise bits and on the times where I actually engage with the exercise and type stuff out I find I often get a lot more value from the book because now I'm actually answering the thoughtful questions that they've put together and seeing how I can actually apply the principles I've learned in the book to my own life. Finally, if there's a book that I genuinely really enjoy that really resonates with me that I feel would be interesting to learn more about and to share with you guys and then I'll turn it into a video for my book club series on this channel and again the playlist for that will be linked somewhere over here or over here. If you like this video and if you're interested in my process for how I remember everything I read, check out this video over here which is my magical insight logging framework which teaches you everything you need to know to remember absolutely everything you read. Thank you so much for watching, do hit the subscribe button if you want already and I'll see you in the next video. Bye.
