# How to Make Difficult Decisions (without overthinking)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XILu7hxDr2w
To help you get started with braincare, go to https://www.yourheights.com/pages/ali-abdaal/?discount_code=ALI15 at checkout to get your exclusive discount, and start taking care of your brain and body today.

Every day we make choices that have the potential to change the course of our lives. But, we almost never stop and think about how to get better at making these choices. Luckily, that’s what we’re talking about in this video, enjoy x

🍿WATCH NEXT (all great choices lol)
10 Rules I Follow Every Day: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eGdn6FTIF5I&t=145s
Why I Chose to Quit Medicine: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mZOVLrLXKCE
21 Life Lessons from 2021: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6Dvkq5yAvcA&t=2s
I Asked 15 Experts for Life Advice. Here's What I Learned: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=pNMBZHoNBWg&t=65s
How I Manage My Time (10 Tips): https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iONDebHX9qk&t=9s

00:00 Intro
01:00 I in one year's time, what would I regret not having started today?
02:26 What would my mental board of advisors say?
04:09 What is the risk of doing nothing?
04:50 What core value am I optimising for?
05:19 When I'm on my deathbed, what will I regret having or not having done?
06:55 How certain am I about decision and how certain do I need to be?
07:46 How might I treat this like an experiment?
09:55 Do I want to be the sort of person who does X?
11:19 Will this energise me or will it drain me?
12:36 The Quitting Framework
13:40 Tim Ferriss' Fear Setting Exercise

💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://go.aliabdaal.com/subscribe-sundaysnippets

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - 
 https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
🎬 YouTube for Beginners - Everything You Need To Know To Start  - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/YouTube-for-Beginners

MY CREATOR COURSES
🎬 Check out my free 7 day email course on how to become a part-time YouTuber: https://aliabdaal.com/part-time-youtuber-crash-course/
🏆 Creatorpreneur - My flagship course for scaling up your creative side-hustle → https://creatorpreneur.academy/course
🗣 Camera Confidence - My self-paced course on how to improve your creativity, career, or communication skills → https://cameraconfidence.aliabdaal.com/

MY FAVOURITE GEAR
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) -https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

🎙 Check out my weekly podcast, Deep Dive - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/ - It's also available on all podcast platforms, including Spotify, Apple Podcasts etc.

MY FAVOURITE TOOLS
🚀 VidIQ - How I optimise my YouTube videos - https://go.aliabdaal.com/vidiq
✍️ Shortform - The BEST summaries of books - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
📚  Readwise - How I remember what I read - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise
🎵  Epidemic Sound - Where I get my music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound

MY KEY LINKS
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com/
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I’m Ali, a YouTuber, podcaster, soon-to-be author and ex-Doctor working in London, UK. I make videos that explore the strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. I also have a weekly podcast called Deep Dive (https://www.youtube.com/channel/UChfo46ZNOV-vtehDc25A1Ug), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://go.aliabdaal.com/subscribe-sundaysnippets).

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, ali abdaal, how to be productive, choices, better choices, how to make better choices in life, decision making in life, decision making process, how to make decisions, how to make difficult decisions, decisions in life, life lessons, life decisions, how to get better at decisions, how to get better at decision making, 10 powerful questions, 10 questions, questions to change your life, change your life, productivity, productive, better choices in life, 
**Date:** 2022-11-30

## Transcript
 Every day we make choices that have the potential to change the course of our lives, whether it's choosing what subjects to study in school, or starting a YouTube channel, or asking that girl out on a date, the choices we make each day can massively affect our happiness and how our lives play out. But we almost never stop in the think about how to actually get better at making these choices. So firstly what does it mean to make better choices in life? Like there's no objective criteria of what is a good decision broadly, and so I want to find better as essentially more intentional or more conscious or more in-line with my core values. And so the way I say it is that the key to making better life choices is to find different ways to look within and figure out how can we tease out what we actually want from a given situation. Over the last few years of making various life choices, I found a series of questions that I found really helpful to ask myself so that whenever I'm struggling with a life choice or struggling with a difficult decision, I run myself through some of these questions and generally I get at an interesting answer and that helps me nudge my decision towards something that's a bit more intentional and a little bit more conscious. So question number 10 is, in one year's time, what would I regret not having started today? There's that classic quote that, you know, the best time to plant a tree was 20 years ago, the second best time is now, and I think that often some of the most difficult choices in life are the decision to start something new. For example, should I start working out? I could just always do it later, but in one year's time, while I regret not having started it today, and this was actually the core decision that made me start my YouTube channel five years ago when I started it. A bit of a backstory, initially, before starting this YouTube channel, I was actually thinking I was going to start it a whole year later. I was imagining, I was in Met School at the time, and I was imagining, I should start a YouTube channel once I become a doctor because then I can vlog life as a doctor. But then I asked myself, hang on, in a year's time when I'm a doctor, will I regret not having started this earlier? And the answer was hell yes, and I realized that I should start the YouTube channel right now, this was 2017, while I was doing Met School, because in one year's time, I would have just gotten better at making videos. Your first 50 videos are going to be terrible, so I'm kind of hoping that over the next year I'll make my 50 terrible videos, and then when we hit August the first 2018, when life is a junior doctor starts, and then I'd be able to hit the ground running, and then be able to actually film decent vlogs. And so it wasn't really expecting any growth or any kind of attraction or anything on the channel, it was literally just, I'm going to be glad I've had a year of practice before I actually do this properly. And so if you're struggling with any kind of decision right now that involves starting something new, or maybe even quitting something, ask yourself, will you a year from now wish that you've had started a year ago? All right, coming in at point number nine, it's what would my mental board of advisors say? Now this is a really good strategy. Essentially the idea is that you want to formulate a mental board of advisors. What this is is a hand for the people that can be living or dead, whose work or who's thinking you admire and appreciate, and you have them as your mental board of advisors. In my mental board of advisors, I have a handful of people, I have directsivers, and Tim Ferriss, and Ryan Holiday, and Kelley Port. They don't even know they're in my mental board of advisors, but I'm familiar with all four of their work enough, and I appreciate their philosophy and the way that think about life. So that if I'm ever struggling with a decision, I'll just run that through myself, okay, what would Cal State, what would Derek say? And that results in interesting things. I'm not saying your mental board of advisors has to be these for white American dudes, it can be whoever you want it to be, but usually it's like, it's like this thing, it's really hard to kind of take advice for ourselves, but it's very easy for us to give advice to other people, and so zooming out a little bit and thinking, what would these like fictional or real or whatever characters in my mind say in response to the situation actually helps you figure out what you personally want to do in response to that situation. For example, one dilemma I was struggling with a few months ago was trying to figure out to what extent I actually want to grow this business. Like, you know, we're going to do like a couple million dollars in profit this year. Do we want to do more than that next year? We're like, we're more than that. What's the point? Is it worth putting in loads of extra work to make loads of extra money? And so I ran it through the mental board of advisors, and basically all four of them, the answer was, nope, optimized for lifestyle, optimized for the things that you're interested in and energized by, don't worry about making more money because making more money does not actually correlate to more happiness beyond a certain point. So that was useful. That was useful. Like, clearly the fact that that was the conclusion that I've reached from my MBA, my mental board of advisors meant that I knew deep down that that was the right decision, but just that framing allowed me to get there a little bit quicker. But in a question number eight, we have the question, what is the risk of doing nothing? Now again, this comes into play when we're making choices in life about generally like trying something new or taking a bit of a risk. It might be quitting your job or it might be asking that. Go aloud or it might be starting a new venture or a new business or whatever. And in action, are you doing nothing often feels like the safe path? But actually it's worth asking yourself, like, what are the risks of doing nothing? Like, what is actually going to happen? Usually, in action does not actually have zero consequences doing nothing is also a decision, just like doing something is a decision. By the way, if you're enjoying this video so far, I would love it if you could hit the like button for the YouTube algorithm. I was at the set YouTube conference a few weeks ago. And apparently the like button still actually makes a difference. So if you can hit the like button, that'd be lovely. All right, in at number seven, we have the question of what core value am I optimizing for? Now, this involves a whole thing of actually figuring out what are your own personal values, what do you personally value? And generally, one of the ways you configure this out is think about a difficult decision you've had to make in the past where the choice wasn't entirely clear. And think about, okay, the choice that I made in that context, assuming I'm happy with that choice. Like, if I had to pick like the thing that I valued above all else to make that choice, what would that thing be? Okay, coming in at number seven, we have the deathbed question, which is that when I'm on my deathbed, what will I regret having done or not having done? Now, this is obviously really helpful because it generally nudges us towards doing the thing that feels a little bit more interesting. Generally, the sorts of things that people regret are the things that they didn't do rather than the things that they did do. And so, if you've got a choice, for example, to take a gap here from university and travel around the world for a year, that's probably something you're not going to regret having done, but you're probably regret not having done it, if that makes sense. Interestingly, there's a book about the top five regrets of the dying. Here is what they are. Number one, I wish I'd had the courage to live a life true to myself, not the life others expected of me. Number two, I wish I hadn't worked so hard. Brackets on stuff I didn't care about. Number three, I wish I'd had the courage to express my feelings. Number four, I wish I'd stayed in touch with my friends. And number five, I wish I'd let myself be happier. This is interesting. I have a thing about this list. At one point, I even had this list of things that literally the top of my daily notes page when I was doing journaling. I had a stop doing that, but it was like a really helpful reminder. And honestly, I find that this list really helps guide my own decision-making because, again, if, for example, I'm doing a thing where it's like, I could work really extra hard to do this thing and then I look at the regrets of the dying where it's like, I wish I hadn't worked so hard. I wish I'd stayed in touch with friends. And I think, you know what, will I actually regret not having done this work-related thing? Probably not. But instead could I use that time to maybe reach out to a friend that I haven't spoken to in a while. And so hopefully, you know, a little bit trying to make better choices than life, trying to mitigate against the risk that I might regret these things when I'm on my deathbed. But generally, the deathbed test is also a good way to see, are you just scared or are you doing something that you actually are unlikely to regret and you'll be glad that you did further down the line. All right, in at number 6, we have the question of how certain am I about this decision, and how certain do I need to be to make this decision? A lot of us, like, even when it comes to these sorts of questions, we can end up over analyzing everything and overthinking things. For example, the decision to start a YouTube channel or not. A lot of people get hung up on, will I, will I be able to make a full time living from this? I was like, the answer is, who knows? There's no, there's no certainty in life. But how certain do you need to be to try it out? Probably not that certain. Maybe you have 30% certainty that, or 30% likelihood that maybe you'd be able to make something of this. Provided you put in the work. Is it worth trying with 30% kind of certainty? I would say it probably because it also gives you skills along the way and is fun and also helps you meet people in a long way. So you don't need to have 100% certainty, because if you wait for 100% certainty, you're just going to end up wasting your life away. It won't be, not making any decisions because you're never going to have 100% certainty. The timing is never going to be quite right. All right, question number 5 is, how might I treat this like an experiment? This is another great thing. Like, generally, you'll find a lot of these questions, like, at least the way that I think about decisions, is that they nudge me towards doing the thing that is a little bit scarier, a little bit riskier, because we as humans, and I think meet definitely, we have a bias towards risk of version, we have a bias towards trying to avoid a sense of loss. And so the question of, like, how can I treat this as an experiment? I find really nice, because when something is an experiment, you're not trying for it to be successful. You're not putting so much pressure on it. It's just an experiment. The decision to launch that business is just an experiment. If you're having to sink $300,000 into installing that business, it's not an experiment anymore, it's like a big deal. But is there something small you can do to run the test to treat it a little bit more like an experiment? Could you maybe run a school card or run an event or try doing it for free or do a minimum viable product? Could you do something a little bit experimental to test the idea and see whether it even is the right decision to make? For example, last year, I was still thinking that I wanted to work in medicine part time. And there was a part of me that was thinking, you know what, I'm just going to apply for a medical training specialty, but I'll then have a chat with them once I get in, once I've done the interviews and the exams and stuff and I'll be like, hey, I want to go part time two days a week. But I thought, no, I hang on, hang on. This is a very big decision. Like, to apply for a whole residency, like specialty pathway and then like, all the work that's gone into it, could I treat this as an experiment? How could I treat this like an experiment? And so I ran this hypothesis. I said, I reckon I'm going to enjoy life where I work one or two days a week as a doctor and spend the rest of the time doing my YouTube and internet and businessy type stuff. How do I run this as an experiment? Well, I just picked up a few extra shifts in the emergency department and tried to recreate that life for myself where I was working one day a week as a doctor. And I realized, oh, within a few weeks, I actually don't really enjoy this. I'd rather work zero days a week as a doctor rather than one or two days a week as a doctor. And I'm glad I figured that out because I just ran the experiment in a fairly easy fashion rather than applying for a whole program and kind of hoping that at the point where I'd got an end to the program, then I was going to go part time and then I was going to enjoy it. And so it's kind of the same with a lot of decisions people make around subjects to study at university or careers to go into or jobs to apply for. Like there are often ways of running smaller experiments to reduce the uncertainty in your calculation, bearing in mind the previous point that you can never fully reduce the uncertainty to zero percent. All right, question number four is, do I want to be the sort of person who does X? Now, this speaks to an idea that's coming throughout the research around like habit formation and goal setting, which is broadly that if you have a particular identity that you're trying to go for, like having identity-based goals and habits and decisions generally leads you to better outcomes than having like specific task-based, based habits or goals or decisions. And so if it comes to let's say a trivial decision of how often do I want to work out? It's like, do I want to be the sort of person that does exercise every day? Actually, yeah, I do. I would like to be that sort of person. And so that's a decision about identity. It's a decision about what sort of person I want to be, which nudges me more towards kind of doing some exercise every day. Do I want to be the sort of person that makes healthy choices about what they eat? Yeah, I do. Because that's important to me. And I realize that's important to me because I've asked myself that particular question. And so it becomes less about, you know, right now, do I want to go for that McDonald's drive-through, even though I often do? And more about, like in general, who's the sort of person I want to be? And that generally, I find at least helped nudge me towards a more kind of intentional and conscious way of making life choices. Oh, and by the way, I'd love to hear from you if you have any kind of frameworks for decision-making or making better choices in life or questions or journaling prompts that you ask yourself, I'd love for you to leave a comment down below. I read all the comments. I can't respond to all them. I've been a heart than one another to it. But like, I would love to see if there's any other questions that I can start applying to my life. And it would just be generally nice for us to see kind of what other people are coming up with in terms of making better decisions in life. All right, and at number three, we have the question of will this energize me or will this drain me? I think it was great. This is one of one of the core kind of questions that I use to decide whether or not to say yes to an event or something that I get invited to. I asked myself, if this was happening like right now, would it energize me or would it drain me? Things that energize me are broadly doing work related stuff and hanging up with the team and having dinner with friends, things that drain me are normally having meetings about stuff that are not particularly interested in, or even doing like work related stuff where it's not particularly interesting or energizing to me, but I'm doing it for the money. That generally is going to be like a draining situation. And actually these days, a lot of the decisions that we make as a business around like what direction we're going to go is by running the choice through the filter of will this energize or drain me. I'm in a very privileged position because I run the business, and so I can actually just do the things that energize me. We were thinking at one point of running like a service for businesses where we would go into these like big companies and help them out with the YouTube channels and stuff. And then I asked myself, would this energize me or would it drain me? It would make a lot of money because people kept saying to us, hey these big corporations have so much money you could make, you can make millions by doing this. That's pretty draining. I don't really like the idea of going to a big corporation and being like, hey guys, I'm going to teach you how to do YouTube. I much prefer the idea of like reading cool stuff, learning cool stuff, and making videos about it for the audience on the internet. Then I do going to like, I don't know, KPMG HQ and teaching them how to do video. All right, in at number two, we have a quitting framework that Stephen Butler's book Happy Sexy Millionaire, which is actually a really good read, talks about. And so the framework is basically this, like firstly, you ask yourself the question of why am I thinking about quitting? And generally the two options there is it sucks or it's hard. If the thing is hard, you ask yourself, is the challenge worth the potential reward? And if the answer is yes, then you keep going, but if the answer is no, then you quit. If the thing sucks, then you ask yourself, do I believe I could make it not suck? If the answer to that is no, or I've tried my best, and I haven't been able to make this thing not suck, then right, you can quit. But if the answer is yes, then you ask yourself the final question, which is, is it worth the effort to try and make it not suck? And if the answer is yes, then don't quit, but if the answer is no, then you can quit. Honestly, this is pretty good. Like, I came across this when I read this book like last year, and I found that this was how I defaulted to making decisions about things to quit. But now that I've got this framework, I literally just run stuff through the thing I was like, oh, do I want to do this? Do I want to do this? Do I want to look like that? Probably now. And this usually leads to me quitting things that I actually realise that I fundamentally don't want to do, which again, this, you know, speaking to the society of making better life choices, a better life choice is the one that feels more intentional and more conscious based on what we actually want to. And then the final question that I find really helpful to reflect on is Tim Ferris' fear setting exercise, where kind of question, it's, it's a series of questions, but question one is essentially, what am I not doing because I'm scared? And then there's a few follow-ups to that. So what am I missing out on by not doing the thing that I'm scared of? Number two, why am I not doing this thing? It's like, what are the other reasons why I could be not doing the thing? Number three, what's the absolute worst case scenario if I did the thing? Number four, what can I do to mitigate against the risk of that worst case scenario happening, or to deal with the worst case scenario when it does happen? And number five, if I had to reverse this decision, how would I go about it? And I find that generally if I'm struggling with something or struggling with the decision, generally when it comes to work or even my personal life, running it through this filter of, what am I scared of? What's the worst case scenario? And how do I mitigate against risk of that? Generally makes me realise that I have overblown the fears of all of the stuff in my mind. And I see this a lot with students in my part-time YouTuber Academy, where people are scared to put themselves out there on camera because they're scared of what their friends and family and colleagues and coworkers and bosses going to think. And then if you ask them, they're like, hey, what's the actual worst case scenario? How do you mitigate against this? If the worst case scenario happened, would you be able to survive? What do you think is the actual probability of the worst case scenario? Just like laying the things out, help with people realise that, oh, I was actually scared and I was like, because fear is like a powerful emotion, it's easy to kind of overblow fears of particular things in our own minds. Now, earlier on in the video, we talked about the question of, what's something that I would regret not having started today? And actually one of my answers to that question was, heights who are very kindly sponsoring this video. If you haven't heard by now, heights is a brain care smart supplement. I've literally been taking it since November 2021. And it's two capsules that I take every single day, that have over 20 different micronutrients, vitamins, minerals, blueberry extract, omega-3, like these micronutrients that have a strong evidence base, why they're useful for the brain. Now, obviously, in an ideal world, we would all be getting all the nutrients that we need from our diet. But looking at the stats, especially here in the UK, 99% of people are not on the gold standard of Mediterranean diet. And so we're all deficient in various different things. And so the thing I like about heights is that it's just two capsules every morning. I take it with water just after brushing my teeth. And it means that I've got my basis covered in terms of micronutrients. If for whatever reason I did manage to eat perfectly healthy that day, which is unfortunately most days. If you want to check it out, it's super easy to sign up. You just go to yourheids.com, which is also linked in the video description. And you just put in your address. And you can sign up to a monthly or quarterly subscription. I have the quarterly subscription because it's cheaper and there's fewer deliveries. And just every three months, it'll just send you like three boxes. And you just get three one box a month. And it's great. 100% would recommend it. And if you use the coupon code Ali15 and check out that that will give you an extra 15% off the already discounted price of the quarterly subscription. So thank you so much for sponsoring this video and helping me improve my own brain care, which ultimately allows me to make better choices in life. And thank you so much for watching. If you enjoy this video, you might like to check out this video over here, which is a book summary that I've done about atomic habits, which is a fantastic book where James Clear, which is all about building better habits and breaking bad ones, which kind of relates to this stuff around making better decisions in life. Because to be honest, a lot of our life choices are associated with the habits that we have. So you can check out my video about atomic habits right here. Thank you so much for watching and I'll see you in the next video. Bye bye.
