# I'm Moving to America 🇺🇸 - Life Update
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xmKjDEvp4HY
Hey friends, today I'm bringing you a life update video where I'm discussing potential future plans and addressing some of the questions and concerns you guys had. 

Check out some free Liberty Medics videos: https://course.libertymedics.com/how-to-make-it-in-america-the-ultimate-guide-for-international-medical-graduates
Liberty Medics instagram: https://www.instagram.com/libertymedics/

Is the US private healthcare system immoral? https://course.libertymedics.com/courses/how-to-make-it-in-america-the-ultimate-guide-for-international-medical-graduates/312961-pros-and-cons/868555-cons-private-healthcare-system

Moving abroad to experience something new - https://course.libertymedics.com/courses/how-to-make-it-in-america-the-ultimate-guide-for-international-medical-graduates/312961-pros-and-cons/868460-pros-experiencing-something-new-usama

Becki and Chris: https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCIXKkzlHjD1rUPOLRfJZvrg

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🎬 My free video-editing Masterclass - https://skl.sh/32TpEvm
🎓 My free 36-video online masterclass on how to study for exams - https://skl.sh/2UOx68x
⚙️ My Productivity Masterclass - https://skl.sh/2VmCEbm

MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️ My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝 My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
📚 How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵 Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
🌐 My website platform (Ghost) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost
🎤 My podcast hosting platform (Transistor) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/transistor

OTHER RECOMMENDED COURSES
📔 Effortless Output with Roam Research - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/roam
📓 Building a Second Brain - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/basb

🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, moving to america, doctor in america, practicing medicine in america, life plans america, moving to the usa, moving to the us, life as a doctor in the us, life as a doctor in the usa, how to move to america, moving to the us from europe, cambridge university, ali abdaal vlog, moving to america vlog, life update, what it takes to move to the usa, moving to the usa as a doctor, moving to america as a doctor, 
**Date:** 2020-07-03

## Transcript
 Hey friends, welcome back to the channel. This is going to be a bit of a long, rambly, life updates sort of video. It's not really going to add any kind of kind of value to anyone's life, so feel free to not watch it, especially if you haven't been following my medical journey and stuff and you don't care about this stuff. Please leave the video now, watch something more useful, watch anything by Thomas Franco Matty of L.O. or anyway. This is a life update video, basically. So for the last few months, I have been sort of talking about taking an exam called the U.S. Emily, the United States Medical Licensing Exam, basically an exam that everyone in the U.S. and outside the U.S. has to take if you want to be a doctor in America. And I've been kind of toying with the idea of doing this exam because I've been toying with the idea of moving to America and leaving the UK by definition. Any time I do that, I always get sort of like dozens of Instagram DMs being like, oh my god, you're moving to the U.S. like what's going on? So I ask people to send in some questions and in this video, I'm just going to kind of generally talk about what my current plans are for life and like where the UK versus medicine versus the U.S. kind of fits into all of that kind of stuff. The first thing to say is that my plans change on a fairly frequent basis. I'm not really one for believing in kind of a long-term plan. I think given that the future is so uncertain, like personally, three years ago, two years ago, I would have never had no idea about the effect of this YouTube channel that would happen in my life. And now it's literally shaping the direction that my life is going. That's a completely uncertainty. A few months ago, no one had any idea what was going to go with coronavirus and all this stuff. The world is so uncertain. And so having any sort of firm plan, like five of your planned tenure plan, all of that, is all a complete myth because at best is just a guess and at worst it's kind of holds you to a future that you might potentially not want when you get there. So everything I'm going to say here is going to be with that caveat that my plans always change, but I'm just literally making this video to tell you what the current state of my plans are right now, bearing in mind all of this uncertainty and the fact that you can never really predict the future or plan the future or whatever. So what I'm saying is that I deserve the right to change my mind on this. And I, this video is in no way me making a sort of legally blind binding pledge to do the things that I'm intending to do because I tend to mind all the time about various things. Anyway, the US. Yeah, so a bit of context, I am approaching the end of my first two years of being a doctor in the UK. Those are the foundation years, FY1 and FY2. FY1, I was working at Adam Brooks Hospital, like ten minutes from where I live in Cambridge, sort of outskirts of town, but in Cambridge, this year I'm working at a hospital called West Suffolk Hospital in the west of Suffolk, which is about an hours drive in a town called Barryson Edmonds. So that's kind of how it works. Usually you work in a different hospital for one year and then a different hospital for the second year. But then after this two years in the UK, the way it works is that at that point you can apply for a training pathway. And I suppose the equivalent would be a residency pathway in America. In America, it's kind of weird because you go straight into residency straight from medical school. So you decide you want to be a plastic surgeon and you apply to a plastic surgery residency program. Whereas in the UK, you decide you want to be a plastic surgeon, so you graduate med school. You work for two years as a foundation doctor where you're doing rotations in everything, so six rotations in different subjects. And then you do another two or three years as a core surgical training, where you do sort of surgery and also to different types of surgery. And then at that point you go into plastic surgery. So you have this sort of four or five year period before you actually specialize in any one thing in the UK. And the US does not like that. You specialize immediately after med school. So it's kind of a different system. I'm approaching the end of these two years and my last day of work is August 4th, 2020. So at that point I'm going to be unemployed. And the reason I'm going to be unemployed is that I haven't applied for any training program. The applications were around about November time. I kind of made a joke in a podcast in a video that I forgot about the applications. I was never really intending to apply for a training program. I was thinking of maybe applying just to see what the interviews are like. But then I kind of forgot. So it was like I wasn't going to apply you. It's what I'm telling myself. This is very common. More than half of the people and some figures say 70 to 80 percent of people in my position don't apply directly to a training pathway. Instead, a lot of people, once you've done your two years of being a doctor in the UK's foundation doctor, you take some time out, you take a year out, maybe more, to do other things. Most people will do something related to medicine. For example, you might do an extra year working in emerging department in London just to get some experience. You might do six months of research and then six months of traveling. You might go to Australia for a year and local, you know, do extra shifts in an emergency department there. People do all sorts of stuff with this. In fact, the whole going to Australia thing is very common for on that insect. And so you basically have this kind of gap year or sabbatical where you shouldn't do what you want. And then most people will apply to a training program within a year or two. And most people will say that they don't regret not going all the way through. Because you know, you go through school, you leave school at 18 straight into medical school, six years of medical school, two years of foundation program. That's eight years. I've basically been even full time educational working full time my whole life. And this is the first time that I've got from August the 4th, where I actually have a break where I can kind of do what I want without being kind of tied down to formal employment or formal education. So the next question is what am I going to do in that break? The answer is, I don't really know. I was thinking of hashtag traveling the world, but then the whole coronavirus thing happened and who knows whether I'm going to actually be able to travel the world. I had this long plan right. I was going to, a friend of mine was getting married in Singapore in September, so I was going to go to Singapore then I was going to kind of roam around Southeast Asia just for the bands. And then I wanted to learn snowboarding in Japan for like December and January and February. And then I was going to go to Australia and New Zealand for a bit and then I was going to go to South America for a bit. Like that was my vague plan. But then the whole virus thing happened and I don't know if that's going to happen anymore. My vague plan while doing all this traveling stuff was that I prepared for the U.S. Emily with this U.S. medical exam, partly because I kind of like exams, partly because you know, more knowledge is never a bad thing. And I've forgotten the bulk of what I knew in medical school and although you don't really need it as a doctor, as such, it's a kind of nice. It's nice to know stuff and I would like to know no stuff again. But the main reason is because I want to keep the option of moving to the U.S. open. And that brings us on to why I don't want to move to the U.S. So we have loads of questions from Instagram being like, why leave? What is wrong with the U.K.? What is wrong with the NHS? Why the U.S. specifically when are you going and is earning money? One of your main motivations. Why do I want to leave the U.K.? I think that's the first question to answer. And I think I'm not fully 100% on this. This is just sort of a very tentative plan. But my thinking on this is that. Firstly, the feature is uncertain. No one knows what's going to happen. But in general, you know, what we want to be doing, whatever field we're in is that we want to be trying to keep our options open. We're going to maximize randomness and optionality, which is a phrase that I like to like to come back to. And there are so many good things in life that happen because of pure serendipity. Like if you ask people how they met their significant others or how they landed their biggest deal or how they got their book published or like all sorts of big events in life. A lot of times, it's just down to being in the right place at the right time. Like, oh, this opportunity randomly serendipitously came about and I took advantage of it. And then here we are. And you know, the more of these sort of like business type books you read, the more you see this luck factor. Like, you know, people get these different kind of luck events. And they can capitalise on luck events and then good things happen in life. One of the philosophies that I buy into is this idea that we can't control the luck events that hit us. But we can increase our surface area for luck events to hit us. By increasing like, if we have a greater surface area for luck events, it means that, you know, we're exposing ourselves to more interesting kind of things. Like, let's say extreme example, you were in a little village in the countryside in the UK, and you never ever left that village. Chances are, you've got a small surface area for serendipity to strike. You're not really going to meet many new people. You're not really going to stumble across new opportunities. Like, no one is really going to know you exist. It's difficult for a serendipity event to really change the course of your life. It's still can do. Maybe, you know, some person is rubbing through town on the carriage. And it just so happens that you meet eyes and you fall in love and you get married. It can. But it's unlikely, right? That's a very, very extreme example. Now, let's say instead that you're the sort of person who moves around and every two years you live in a new country. And you're also create, like, you've got a personal blog and you're putting yourself out there online. And there are hundreds of thousands of people, hypothetically, who read your personal blog, who know who you are. And so anytime you go to a new country, you can sort of post and Twitter and be like, hey, who wants to hang out and you're meeting all these kind of cool people, that sort of person is increasing their surface area for serendipity. Like, there are so many, like, infinitely more possibilities for interesting things to happen. If you're that sort of person, then if you're the person who's staying in this little village or their life, what I want to be is more of that second person. And the way that you become that second person is that you keep your options open and you meet loved and you people and you expose yourself to sort of situations that you're unfamiliar with. I've been in Cambridge for the last eight years. I'm very much becoming this village person just like sitting here in Cambridge doing absolutely nothing else. I mean apart from the fact that I put myself out on the internet, which is it's own serendipity vehicle and more on that in a video at some point. But I'm kind of becoming the sort of person who just kind of sits in Cambridge. And partly of this whole kind of moving to the US thing came about because I was actually watching an unjaded Jade video. Some of you might if you're still watching this far. You might be familiar with Unjaded Jade, which is a very good study tuber. And she had a video called, like, how to decide what to do with your life. And I was like, oh, sick. I'm going to click on this. And she described this idea of the Odyssey plan, which is apparently an exercise that stands for business students get taught. And the Odyssey plan is that you write down in painstaking detail what your life will look like five years from now if you continue down your current path. That's number one. Then you write in painstaking detail what your life will look like five years from now if you took a completely different path. And then you write what your life would look like five years from now if you if money and societal expectations was no object. And you kind of write that down. Then you see, like, how do you feel about that? And so I, I voiced this video and I was like, okay, I'm actually going to do this exercise. So I spent a while, like half an hour just kind of typing out what my life would look like five years from now if I stayed in the UK, if I stayed in Cambridge, as I was previously planning to do. And I actually shared that on my email newsletter at the time a few months ago. So you should subscribe to my email newsletter if you aren't already. If you're watching this far, then hopefully you've subscribed because you care about what I have to say. Anyway, I did this Odyssey plan thing. And what I found was that the life that I could see in front of me in five years time when I'm 30 at the time of 25 and 26 now. But, you know, I'm 30 years old. I'm doing part time training and aesthetics. Maybe doing some emergency medicine stuff. In Cambridge, I'm physiology, supervisor on the side for some colleges. I'm continuing to continue to make YouTube videos, maybe I'm in a relationship with this point probably not realistically. And I go to the gym and stuff and hang out with my friends. And I was like, okay, that's, that's fine. That's a very good kind of existence. But I just find myself thinking that is, is that it? Like, is that really what I want from my life? And then I kind of started having this little, like, sort of, like, many crisis, or I was like, oh, well, it just seems a bit too easy. Like, I know that, you know, if that was what I wanted, I could, I'm basically there. Like, I just need to follow the yellow brick road that's laid out in front of me. And I'm, I'm just there. Like, there's no challenge to it. There's no discomfort. There's no growth. It's just a case of following this path that's been neatly laid out in front of me. And be like, yeah, this is pretty, pretty easy, easy life. And then I was thinking, okay, what if I do something completely different? What if I just kind of travel the world? And that's where this idea of traveling the world came about. Because when you travel the world, and you force yourself to, like, interact with and meet new people, you, apparently increase your people say, makes you more appreciative of what the world is like, and you broaden your horizon and all that stuff. And that would be very much a case of increasing your surface area for a centre for a serendipity, which is what I want for myself. And for everyone that I know. And so that was where that idea came about. So the Odyssey plan and kind of going back to this U.S. thing, the reason I don't want necessarily want to stay in the UK is, if I stay in the UK, I'm limiting the amount of sort of world experience that I'll have. Yeah, I could leave Cambridge. I could go to London or something, which would be an interesting experience. It'll be a whole kind of new range of people. But even if I'm in London, my friendship group will basically be the same as it currently is. I'll basically be hanging out with the same people. I'll make a few new friends with the doctors that I work with. Maybe I'll go on a few more dates because there's more people on Tinder in London. But that's kind of it. And life in London will be very similar to life in Cambridge. And so what I'm thinking is that, okay, it would be kind of nice to move to a different country, at least for a bit just to see what happens. And I think it's almost a no-brainer. Like, if you've got the option of moving to a new country, then you might as well, right? Because I don't think anyone is going to be on the deathbed thinking, oh, you know, I wish I had stayed put. I wish I hadn't done, I wish I hadn't had that new experience. Like, no one's going to be thinking, I wish I hadn't traveled the world. They're going to be thinking down, I wish I traveled the world. And it's sort of in 50 years time when I'm dying, hopefully not 50 years, but you kind of get the point. Hopefully, I will look back on this time and think, I'm really glad I decided to live in America for a few years or whatever rather than just staying the UK and do my thing. So that is where this idea of going to another country came from. I feel like I've sort of stagnated a bit just kind of being in Cambridge and I like I'm sort of craving this sense of adventure, at least for a while. The next question is why America? There's a few different reasons for this. So Australia's an option Canada's an option Canada isn't really an option, because firstly I don't know many people who've done medicine and Canada from being international international medical graduates. From what I've heard, it's not notoriously difficult to get in because of the whole visa system and the whole medical system in Canada means that as an international graduate, you are sort of, I was speaking to a doctor about this like just yesterday and he was saying that the way that the Canadian system works is they would rather choose the worst Canadian graduate than the best international graduate. And so you're going to end up in the sticks in the middle of nowhere and not necessarily in the place where you want to be. So that was kind of what I've heard about Canada, although in fairness, I haven't really given it a shot. It's still on the cards. Secondly Australia is an option Australia is kind of cool. I was chatting to a doctor yesterday over the phone who works in Australia and moved from the UK to Australia and absolutely loves it and so Australia would be an option. It's generally a lot easier to get into Australia. You don't have to jump through so many hoops, the medical qualification in the UK is accepted there, you just have to sort of do a few visa bits and then you're done. So it's relatively straightforward to get into Australia. So that's fine, that's an option. The other option is the US. In general, I want to move, I want to do my medical training in a place that is sort of broadly similar to the UK. So Australia kind of did the US. I don't want to go to some place like Cambodia because that would just be a totally novel experience. Yes, it would be very good experience and stuff, but I think that's probably pushing the boat a bit too far. I want to stay in a sort of a big developed country as it were. So what does America have going for it? Well, the annoying thing about America is that you have to take exams to get in. You're going to take the USML E step one step two step two CK step two CK step two CK. That's more exams. I don't want to take exams. I kind of like taking exams and kind of like what I said at the start. You know, more knowledge is always a good thing as my mum always tells me. And so the fact that I have to take exams is not necessarily a factor against going to America. In fact, arguably because I make videos like study with new videos and videos about revision tips and stuff and I haven't really been studying properly for exams for the last like two years. In a way, it benefits my YouTube channel and my audience and therefore myself to be able to study like explicitly foreign exam to then create content out of. And that is sort of a synergy that is somewhat unique to someone in my situation where I've got a YouTube channel where most people are taking the USML E aren't going to be in that position where they are actively incentivised to take that exam. So that's partly why I'm not showing away from taking the exam and also I love exams and more knowledge is always good. The benefits of going to the US are that firstly it unlocks a lot of opportunities for collaborations like most of my YouTube friends are in America. Right? And so if I want to do a collab with Thomas Frank, a Matthew Veller or Sarah D. G. or any of these other people that I connect with but like I'm practically everyone in my YouTube agency standard is from America. Like it just unlocks so many new interesting opportunities for collaborations from these people that I'm already like internet friends with and it just seems that all of the other people that like most of the people that I follow in Twitter who I'm internet friends with, most of the people I follow in the world are productivity people like Telugu 14, Natalie Eisen. You know there's so many people on the internet that I've kind of gotten to know through this YouTube thing who will live in America. And so being in America means that you sort of unlock those interesting collaboration opportunities and I get to meet these people in real life. That's another kind of big plus for going to America. Thirdly a big plus for going to America is that the bulk of my audience is actually in America. Like looking at my YouTube analytics about 27% of my audience is in the US. Only about 12% is in the UK. About 12% is from India. And all the other countries make up small amounts of smaller chunks. So the US makes up is the significant sort of the the significant minority of my total audience. And so if I were to go to the US that would be kind of interesting. Right? It would be interesting from a content perspective. It would be a case of sort of you know I can vlog the journey of moving to the US. It would be interesting from medical perspective I can actually actively compare the two systems UK versus USA having been working there. And then like for the significant minority of my audience it would be kind of interesting because like oh this dude's coming to our country. And even for people in the UK for people in India and stuff like people who haven't been to America there is this sort of a lure of America to like to an extent that Canada and Australia don't really have. Like people would generally be more wondering of I wonder what life as an emergency medicine resident is like in America like you know in ER and like basically that's made for surgery and house and stuff. People have less of that kind of sort of intrigue when it comes to places like Australia and Canada. Like I've never once thought hey I wonder what life as a Canadian surgeon is like and for the next exposure I have to sort of medicine and Canada has been through Becky and Chris's YouTube channel link in the video description. So America has all these different factors going for it. The main reason I want to go there is not because of medicine like yeah the residency is interesting. It's it's a shorter program you make more money but like I don't really care about the money because I make enough money from this YouTube channel and the other side businesses. The residency program is shorter which is sometimes can be a good thing I think for emergency medicine which is what I think I want to do. It's either three or four years. Whereas in the UK you would do two years of acute and critical care stem and then you would do one, two, three, four, four or five years as an ED registrar. So you'd sort of be doing the seven year thing whereas in America would be three or four years. So there is that side that it's a bit more accelerated. In America the work is apparently a bit harder but hey how are going to be. So America has so many different sort of peripheral factors entirely unrelated to medicine that places like Canada and Australia and certainly the UK don't have which is why America is sort of top of my list of this would be an interesting place to go to to do my to do the rest of my training like to do residency in America. And so to answer some of this specific questions why leave what's wrong with the UK? There's absolutely nothing wrong with the UK I've just been here forever and so maximizing randomness and optionality, serendipity, it just makes sense to move abroad. What is wrong with the NHS? Again nothing in my opinion wrong with the NHS. It's a fantastic service. I love the NHS. I love the UK hospitals. The great, not saying a bad word against that. It's just being in the same place for a long time. It's just inherently less interesting than being in different places for short months of time. At least in my book, at least someone like me. Why the US specifically, I think I've talked about that, when are you going? That's a bit weird. That's also a very planned dependent. I'm not too keen on plans. But apparently it takes about two years to do the whole process. So I'm hoping to take the US maybe end of this year, maybe early next year. So between like December and February 2020 to 2021 in theory. And then maybe I'll end up in America in 2022 or something like that. Assuming I don't take time out along the way or assuming something else doesn't turn up. And assuming I actually get it, of course. Is earning money one of your main motivations? No not really. My end goal is never been to work full time as a doctor. My end goal has always been to work part time as a doctor. I think two or three days a week working as a doctor would be quite fun. In America, you work two or three days a week. You make $200 to $300 a year. That's all right. I'm, you know, I make more than that one of YouTube videos. The fact that you earn lots of money as a doctor in America is not at all one of my motivations because for me being a doctor is absolutely not how I want to make money. I want to make money on the side doing lots of other things and then I want to do medicine for fun, which has been something that I've been sort of telling myself since like first year of medical that this is, this is the goal to do medicine for fun, to earn money, doing other things. So money is not one of the motivating factors to go to America. Technicalities when, where in the US you're planning on going to, no idea, New York seems cool, how long you're planning on staying. I think it would be cool to do residency there and then think about moving back to the UK or moving to Canada or moving somewhere else potentially for being good and attending being consultant. But that's so far in the future that it's this completely point is to think about it. What will happen to your flat slash flat mate? My flat mate, Molly is moving out in August so I'm going to have this flat to myself and if I leave the country, I'll put it on rent. It won't be too hard. What will you do with all your tech? I've actually been thinking about this a lot. I'm going to get these big suitcases and I'm going to create a sort of traveling studio setup. So I'll have this light and a few stands and proper camera and stuff. And the idea is that anywhere in the world that I go, I'll have my sort of little pop-up studio that I can set up so probably need to sort of pair down some of the tech. But otherwise, I'll just leave it in the house because when you rent out a flat, you can rent it out furnished and I don't think anyone's going to complain that there is a standing desk and what other tech is there. It's all the video stuff, really. I can take the video stuff with me wherever I can and what specialty do you want to do and I'm leaning towards emergency medicine. Let's not talk about the USMLA. So that's the medical licensing exam. When would you recommend starting to prepare for it and are you sitting at because you missed studying? Partly I'm sitting at because I missed studying. My brother's cynical view would be that from August because I want to have a job, I'll have this kind of void in my life that I'll need to fill with something and it's a very easy thing for me to say, hey, why don't I just take this exam? I need to do something, taking this exam is something to do. Therefore, I will take the exam. And there is some truth to that. It's a very nice security blanket being able to prepare for another exam. And if I was really being true to myself, if I was really thinking, you know, to do I really want to spend six months on my life preparing for this exam, instead could I not just travel the world for six months or something? Yeah, that's probably true. I could probably get a lot more value out of that. Well, I'm in general a fairly risk-averse person. And I like having the security blanket. Yeah, you know, I'm doing something legit. I'm preparing for an exam. And so at that point, my sort of full-time gig will become preparing for this exam. And my side gig will still be the YouTube thing. And then so I can still tell myself that YouTube is just a side hustle for me. There are so many psychological benefits to having something like YouTube being a side hustle rather than being a full-time job. If it becomes a full-time job, it means I'm relying on it for money. It means I'm having to do it. Whereas when it's a side hustle, it's something that I want to do. And so I want to sit down and make this video. I don't feel like I have to do it. And I feel like you would lose some of the time if it became a proper full-time job. So that's partly why for me I want to take this exam kind of because, well, that's kind of the point. So those are some of the background reasons about why I want to go to America. But the thing that really sparked it off was that, I've got these two friends who are in New York at the moment, names that Osama and Shireen, they're married, they're very cute couple, etc. She's got an Instagram page, it's pretty big. We were sort of chatting on Facebook Messenger in 2019 and they've been running this course for the last few years because Osama is a dermatology resident in Manhattan and every year he flies back to the UK and does this sort of physical course about how to make it in America with a company called Liberty Medix, how to make it in America and every year they sell out to like hundreds of students in the UK who potentially want to move to the US and so he kind of guides you through the process. And so these guys were in America and so I was chatting to them was saying, if you guys considered doing it on online course about this because online courses are great. When you run a physical course and I would know having done lots of physical courses, it's a real ballic. You have to book a venue, you have to deal with logistics, you have to print stuff out, you have to deal with people in person. When you have an online course and again, I would know because I have online courses. It's fantastic because you feel it once and then you profit from it forever. And so I was saying to these guys, have you considered doing it online course? You know, if you do, give me a shout, I can help you get set up and things. And a few months later he reached out to me he said, hey, we should kind of go in sort of go in together as a business venture for this online course, Liberty Medix had to make it in America. And I was like, yeah, that sounds like a good idea actually. And so pre-locked down like on the second of January 2020, they came around my house. They flew from America to London immediately came to Cambridge and we spent two solid days filming this course. For most of the first day, I was just a camera man. I just had the camera set up the lights and everything and it was you know, it was looking quite pretty, et cetera. But then the more I was sitting behind the camera and hearing a summer describe what life in the US is actually like and how to get into it. The more I was thinking hang on, this seems kind of cool. Why don't I, why don't I do this myself? And so we sort of changed up the structure of the course. Initially it was just going to be him talking to the camera and sharing talking a little bit of the camera. But then we added these whole new segments where sort of here and I were like filmed lots of discussions that we had, where we were both sitting on the sofa. And I was asking him questions like, you know, how much money do they earn in the US? What's it like? What's the work life balance like? You know, why do you hate the NHS so much? And the question that was like that I really wanted to ask was this idea of if you're in the US short, like how can you possibly want to work in a healthcare system where they deny life-saving medical care to people who can't afford it, you know, coming from the NHS, that's just morally reprehensible. And so I asked him all these questions on camera and his responses were very, very reasonable. And actually, if you click, if you look in the video description, we have made lots of these videos free on the course websites. You don't have to pay for it if you don't care, if you care they're all, like, lots of these videos are available for free, where I'm grilling him extensively about what is life in the US actually like, do you really have to deny life-saving medical treatment to people who are that myth, you know, how much money they earn, what's worked with life balance like? And he's answering all these questions. And after he and I had those discussions over about two hours, which again is all filmed in the video description, after we had all those conversations, I was thinking down. You've kind of answered most of my objections about working in the US, because my main objection was, I've heard the work life balance is not great. I've heard that residents burn out all the time. I've heard that you have to kill yourself working for 50 weeks of the year, and then you can have a good holiday for two weeks of the year. And I've heard that you have to check people's insurance dates before you can give them any kind of medical treatment. Those were kind of my main objections, just that I sort of heard on the grapevine without really knowing anything about it. And he answered all of those and then some. And honestly, the main thing that sold it for me was that we talked about kind of the adventure. And I asked him, what's it like moving to a different country? And he said it was really, really good. He said that, and this really sort of stayed with me. He said that, like, if he stayed in the UK, he could see how his life was going to turn out is that he would get married. He would have some kids. His kids would want to get into Oxford and Cambridge for medicine, and, you know, they'd live in some in the suburbs of some place near London. And essentially, the life he and his kids would live would be almost identical to the life that he lived himself, because that was the exact struggle, the exact journey that he went through with his parents. And so he said that it sort of felt like, you know, I've seen this movie before, I know what's going to happen. And he just sort of felt that he wanted more of an adventure. So when I heard that I was like, damn, this sort of matches up exactly with what I was thinking with this Odyssey plan that I'd done a few weeks prior to that completely coincidentally, or I was thinking that, yeah, I can kind of see how this movie plays out. And I don't know, I kind of want to be in a movie where I, it's a bit more unpredictable and I don't really necessarily know how it's going to play out rather than just seeing this future map time front of me. And then speaking to Shireen as well about the adventure. Yeah, it's a bit lonely at times when you go, but, you know, I feel like I'm reasonably okay making friends. I feel like I know enough people on the internet that I'll have, you know, an existing social network there. I think the adventure is really the main thing that sells it for me. And they're, and America rather than any other place for adventure, because there are all sorts of peripheral benefits to going to America that I've talked about already. So that was sort of the proximal spark that sparked this interest in America before that it was just sort of a passing fancy. A few other things, things to consider that people have asked, how will you be able to do YouTube while working 80 hours a week? I think this is a myth. In the UK as well, people are like, oh my god, you know, working as a junior doctor is really hard, you have all this work to do. Yeah, but it's still like time to do YouTube videos, especially when you're not, well, when I now have a team of people, like, there are three people working for me, working for me. I, that still feels weird to say. There are three other people in the team who help with the videos, you know, we've got, like, all I have to do is sit here and film this. And the amount of time it takes me to film it is the amount of time it takes to film the video. Christian or Angus are going to handle the editing side a bit and the uploading and everything else. So when you have a team behind you, you can then leverage your time in more interesting ways. And so even if I am working 80 hours a week, how many hours are there in a week? So 80 hours are divided by seven. That's on average 11 hours a day. I've done plenty of shifts or I've worked 13 hours in the film the YouTube video that evening. Like, I don't think it's going to be that hard. Secondly, what are the pros and cons lifestyle wise? Again, we'll put some of the videos of Liberty Maddox in the video description that will be free. So you can watch them if you really want to. Life of a resident, and life of an attending, a consultant, are quite different apparently. Apparently, as a consultant, you have a lot more autonomy. You can work part-time. As a resident, it's not really a part-time type thing. I'm sure it'll be hard work, but I think it'll be fun, and it'll be interesting. And so I'm not really thinking about the lifestyle, because the thing is that none of these decisions are ever permanent. Like, if I go there, you know, if I even get in, because that's a huge question mark. Like, if I get in, and if I go there, and if I end up not liking it, I can just stop. I can just move. Like, this is the benefit of sort of having these multiple streams of passive income that I don't need medicine to survive. I don't need medicine to, like, whatever. So if I want to, and if I'm not enjoying it, I can just be like, right, screw it. Let's leave America, let's go back to the UK. And I can just apply to a training part when the UK, if I really want to, I can go to Australia. The world is open to you when you're a doctor, and the world is even more open to you when you have the financial freedom to not be tied to a place because of money. So that's a big, a big fact to why I'm open to considering kind of moving elsewhere. Would you want to start as an intern all over again? Yeah, they're really okay. I'll be kind of cool. What will you miss most about the NHS? I don't know, I don't know, really. The logo is pretty good. I like the logo. How will you deal with leaving your family and friends? Yeah, so that's interesting. I mean, I haven't really seen much of my family or friends since lockdown, and I've been pretty okay with it to be honest. And kind of from speaking to Osama and Cheering about this, what they said is that, actually, it's like, well, once you start working, then you actually see your, your friends very little. Like, I all, I see my friends from med school, maybe twice a year. And I can fly back from America to the UK more than twice a year to see my friends. And what Osama was saying is that when he flies back to the UK to hang out with his friends, it's like an event because he's like he's coming back. And so everyone kind of gets together for that event, whereas otherwise it's like really hard to actually get a group of friends together. Like, if you graduated from university and your friends and are working in different parts of the country, you will know how difficult it is to actually meet up with people. So I'm not massively concerned. Plus, you know, go to PlayStation recently, start playing Warzone. I'm sure I'll be able to chat with people on PS5's live or whatever it's called. The question is, aren't you scared of the guns? Not really. I don't know much about it, but I'm pretty sure if you're a doctor, then you don't really have much to be hugely worried about. How many feel when people who need medical care cannot afford it? That was a big one. This was like the main question that I asked Osama about. We have a 25-minute long video about this, explaining why it's not that simple. And certainly before having that conversation with him, the view I had, which was completely uninformed, was that if you can't afford medical care in the US, then you get denied medical care and therefore the system is bad. Therefore, the NHS is good. Therefore, we have moral superiority over the Americans because our healthcare system is moral and just and stuff. And that was my view of it, like not knowing anything about it. If you're interested in the answer to this, I'd recommend you watch that video. It's free. Again, you don't have to pay for it. You can literally just watch it for free. It's 25 minutes of him and me and Osama having a back and forth about this. I mean, really trying hard to argue that about why America is bad. And I think he sort of defended the position reasonably well. I certainly don't know enough about it to be able to defend that position myself, but you can watch that video if you're interested. Do you feel any guilt leaving the NHS? No, absolutely not. This was another thing that I've spoken to a lot of senior doctors about. Is that a lot of the NHS? There's a phrase that the NHS runs on Goodwill. And that really came to the forefront when this whole coronavirus stuff happened, the lack of personal protective equipment, and things like that. The NHS is fantastic, but I don't personally, like, I wouldn't feel any guilt per se for leaving it. I've gotten this question from a few kind of younger medical students and I don't mean, I don't mean to be patronising at all, but like, if you're a first-year medical student and you're looking at my stuff thinking, oh my god, he's moving to America, what's wrong with him? You know? Safety NHS. It's a very sort of sacrificial idealism that almost no one has by the time they're graduated or at least by the time they've been a doctor for a few years. When you're very young in your medical student and you still have this sort of rose tinted view of what life as a doctor is like, you might think, oh, you know, I'm going to give my life to the NHS, but it's not really like that. And it's certainly not like that for me. I don't really feel any guilt leaving the NHS. The NHS is also like a huge thing. It's like leaving the NHS. It's effectively like leaving the country. The NHS is the country's biggest employer, like leaving the NHS. It's like not even a concept. Like, I feel no guilt about not working next year. That's basically leaving the NHS because, you know, how will the NHS survive without me? But the NHS will survive without me. Like, it's a huge, huge, huge organization like an individual does make that make absolutely absolutely zero difference. And so, why would I feel guilty about it? That's kind of my thoughts on this. I'd be more than open to changing my mind and actively feeling more guilty about it if people want to give me a compelling case to feel free to leave that in the comments if that's the case. So yeah, that was kind of the end of my rambly life plan. The plan is to take the U.S. Emily in the next few months to actively prepare for it, which I started to do, to really ramp up the preparation for it, once I finished my job in August. And then, for a few months, to solid preparation for the exam with a view to doing emergency medicine residency in America as the current state of the plan bearing in mind. It's always subject to change. I'm kind of liking the idea of maybe working on Australia for a few months after having this chat with a doctor yesterday. Like in the idea of maybe becoming a doctor on a cruise ship for a year or so and just seeing what happens. Yeah, I've got all these sort of interesting sort of things that I could do. But at the moment, the medium term goal is to do emergency medicine residency in the U.S. And I will certainly update you guys if that plan changes. So if you've reached this far, thank you so much for watching. Have a good time. And I'd love to hear from you in the comments if you actually got this far. That's put like a little like a sun emoji or something. You know, just so I can see how many people watch this far. And I'll try and hang out in the comments to answer any questions that people have. I'm more than open to sort of being swayed on this front in terms of actually, you know, if someone is actually educated about this and knows about how the system works. If you're strongly advise me against it, then you know, I'd be more than happy to listen. But at the moment, those are my reasons. That's the mental model in my head about why America might be a good option for me. And yeah, we'll see how it goes. Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video. Bye bye.
