#  iPhone 11 & 11 Pro - Review
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XVhzQgRnYps
Get a 30-day free trial of CuriosityStream - https://curiositystream.com/ali and use the code ALI at checkout! 

💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking 

📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal

TIMESTAMPS
0:00:22 - Conclusion
0:00:55 - Novel vs Incremental Upgrades
0:03:43 - The 3 Cs
-- 0:04:13 - Consume
-- 0:05:21 - Create
-- 0:06:40 - Connect
0:07:35 - The Pleasure of the Flesh 
-- 0:08:15 - Measure / Frequency 
-- 0:09:46 - Hedonic Adaptation 
0:10:53 - The Pleasure of the Flex 
-- 0:12:53 - Internal identity singling 
0:14:39 - Intentionality 
0:16:46 - Overall conclusion

Who am I:

I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 



If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭
**Keywords:** iphone 11, iphone 11 pro, iphone 11 review, iphone 11 pro max, apple iphone 11, iphone 11 camera, iphone 11 pro review, iphone 11 vs iphone 11 pro, iphone 11 unboxing, iphone 11 pro max review, iphone 11 hands on, ali abdaal, iphone 11 pro vs iphone 11, apple iphone, apple iphone 11 pro, iphone 11 price, iphone 11 features, iphone xs review, ali, 
**Date:** 2019-11-06

## Transcript
 Hey friends, welcome back to the channel. If you're new here, my name is Ali, I'm a doctor, working in Cambridge and this is my analysis of whether the iPhone 11 and iPhone 11 Pro are worth it. As usual, I'm going to start with the conclusion and then we'll break that down by potentially analyzing the iPhone 11 and iPhone 11 Pro from the perspective of novel versus incremental upgrades and then the three Cs and then the two Fs. So here is the upfront conclusion. The iPhone 11 and sort of the iPhone 11 Pro are great phones and absolutely every way. If you need a new phone and you'd be happy to spend 700 pounds on one or even 1,000 pounds on one, then you'll be very happy with the iPhone 11 or iPhone 11 Pro. But in this day and age, do we ever really need need a new phone? I would argue that unless our current phone is causing us like it's so slow to the point that it's literally causing us pain, we probably don't need a new phone, we just want a new phone. And so if it's a one rather than a need, then it kind of makes sense to ask whether these expensive phones are really worth it. And that is what we'll be discussing in the rest of the video. So when asking whether the iPhone 11 is worth it, what we're really asking is is this a good use of 700 pounds or 700 dollars or a thousand dollars if you're thinking of getting the iPhone 11 Pro. And my theory on this is that when we're spending money intentionally, it should be contributing towards our wider life goals in some way, ideally. So for me, the wider life goals are some combination of happiness, meaning and value added to the rest of the world. And so I'm kind of looking for purchases to help contribute that happiness or meaning or value and that sounds really pretentious. Anyway, in this new like technology reviewing framework, the way I see that this two types of upgrades we've got novel upgrades and we've got incremental upgrades. A novel purchase is one that takes us from zero to one in some domain or another. So for example, going from not having a phone to then having a phone or not having a conduct with having a candle or not having a laptop to having a laptop. You get the idea, incremental purchases on the other hand are things like upgrading your phone. So getting a slightly better phone, getting a slightly better laptop getting a slightly better candle, that sort of thing. And I don't know about you, but at least when I think back to my own life, all of the purchases that have really added significant value to my life have always been the novel purchases rather than the incremental ones. Like I remember the first phone that I got added a huge amount of value to my life, the first laptop, the first candle that I got added like, you know, lots of value. But then the second laptop, the second candle, the second phone, the third phone, fourth phone, whatever. Like none of those really added such a gulf of value as that zero to one that novel purchase did. And so going back to the iPhone 11, the way that I would value it is that in the first instance, I would ask the question, is there anything better I could be doing with that 700 pounds? And yeah, we might argue that it's definitely a better use of 700 pounds to spend it on an experience rather than an item. You know, people say experiences of worth more than items or you might even say that it's better to donate that money to something like the against malaria foundation to actually save a life rather than spending it on tech. But, you know, this is the tech review video. If we can find our realm of things I can do with 700 pounds to tech purchases, then what I suggested that the first thing we should ask ourselves is that is there a novel upgrade that I could make in my life? That would probably add more value than the incremental upgrade of upgrading my iPhone 8 to an iPhone 11. Because for example, if you don't have a candle, you know, kind of as amazing or if you don't have a camera, you know, something like this, Canon camera or like a Sonya 6000 or anything. Like, I think those sorts of novel purchases add a disproportionately higher amount of value to our lives than upgrading our iPhone would for example. But let's say for the sake of argument that we have reasonably exhausted all possible zero to one upgrades in our lives. You know, we've got a camera, we've got a candle that we just really don't like reading what don't like taking photos. Let's assume for the sake of argument that there are no novel purchases we could be making with the 700 pounds. And assuming we don't want to spend it on like a life experience going on holiday or something like that. At this point, I think we should now analyze the iPhone 11 or the iPhone 11 Pro. From the perspective of the three C's and later the two F's. So for me, when I'm valuing tech and once I've gone beyond the novel versus incremental upgrade thing, what I like to keep in mind is that tech is ultimately just a means to an end. It's not an end in itself as Emmanuel Kant would have said. And tech, like new phones and stuff, are purely designed to allow us to fulfill higher aims and the three higher aims I think of when it comes to tech or the three C's. And that stands for create, consume and connect. And I like to assess how this new device helps me across each of these three domains. All right, so let's start with number one, consume. And by consume, I mean things like browsing the web, reading books, watching movies, browsing YouTube videos, playing games, listening to audiobooks. You know, that sort of consuming of content type thing that we do on our phones. Does the iPhone or iPhone 11 Pro help in that consumption? Well, if our old iPhones are or whatever phones we have are really, really slow to the point that they're hindering our consumption, then yes, upgrading our phone would actually make a difference. But for the most part, and for most people that I know, our current phones are pretty reasonable. Like ever since my iPhone six S, I haven't really noticed my phone being painfully slow. And so I wouldn't upgrade just for the consumption part. And yeah, they've made like incremental changes to the screens. And if you get the Pro model, you have a very slightly nicer screen if you hold them side by side. And in terms of consumption, sure, if we've got like an iPhone SE would like a really tiny screen or like an Samsung Galaxy S2 or something with a really absolutely terrible screen, then upgrading to an iPhone 11 or iPhone 11 Pro is going to make a genuine difference in terms of consuming content. But I don't know many people who have those kind of old-school phones are ever since like the iPhone six. There's not really much of a difference. Like when you look at it in the displays. So I don't think the consume camp is a reason to upgrade to the iPhone 11. Alright, what about number two? And that's create. The most important thing in the create camp is the cameras because you know, taking photos, counts as creation in my book. And I've made a video that compares the cameras of the iPhone 11 and the iPhone 11 Pro extensively against like lots of previous generations of iPhone. And I'll link that down below and up here somewhere if you want to have a look. But the bottom line is that yeah, these have objectively nicer cameras than the others. But like just taking standard photos and comparing them, it's really hard to tell the difference between like the iPhone 8 and above. Like it is genuinely hard to tell the difference between a photo taken with an iPhone 8 and a photo taken with the iPhone 11 Pro. And yeah, the iPhone 11 does have the standard lens and the ultra wide lens and the 11 Pro has the standard ultra wide and telephoto. I'm not a huge fan of the telephoto lens. I think it has very few actual use cases. It's kind of nice occasionally to have the option. But I think it's a bit too expensive. And the ultra wide lens that comes on both models is genuinely quite nice. You can get some interesting looking interior design shots with it. If you're into that sort of stuff. So I suppose if you're really into the whole photography thing and you don't have a proper camera and you want your phone as like a main photography thing, then perhaps upgrading to the iPhone 11 for the ultra wide lens and maybe the telephoto lens is a good thing to do. But that's essentially all we've got in the create camp. There are no other use cases that I can think of in which upgrading or iPhones to the 11 will actually help us create more things. And finally, let's talk about number three, which is connect and by connect. I mean, things like, you know, face time and I'm a surgeon. What's happened? Talking to people and, you know, Instagram and connecting with friends and that sort of stuff. And again, there's nothing really new here that yeah, the iPhone 11 and the 11 Pro have faster processors. But, you know, if you think your current phone is too slow at sending WhatsApp messages, then find upgrade your phone. But, you know, like I said, like, phones aren't really slow anymore. And it's genuinely hard for us to notice the speed improvements that come with the A12 Bionic X, whatever chip is in these new iPhones. So those were the three seas we've got consume, create and connect. And as I've hopefully argued, there's actually very little tangible improvement we get in the three seas when it comes to upgrading or iPhones from let's say an iPhone 6, iPhone 7 or iPhone 8. So those were the sort of tangible, tangible reasons for upgrading an iPhone. But I think there's two intangible or slightly less tangible reasons, and that brings us to the two Fs. So the first F is the pleasure of the flesh. And by that, I mean, the sense of delight that comes from using a luxury product, like an iPhone, like, you know, it's nicely designed, it weighs quite nice. And in the, you know, the way, the way the light glints against the back of the cameras, you know, the smell, the taste of it, all of that stuff ties into the pleasure of the flesh. And we might argue that, you know, even if there's no tangible improvement in creation, consumption and connection, it's still worth upgrading iPhones because of the pleasure of the flesh. You know, it's just more delightful to use a nicer phone. This is often the reason why people upgrade their cars. They would say, oh, I just like the experience of driving a new car. And when, when evaluating this, there are two kind of conflicting ideas that like to think about. So the first one is the concept of measure. And this is something that my brother and I came up with. It was kind of his idea. We came up with it in a weekly podcast, which you can subscribe to with a link down below if you feel like it. And the idea is that one way evaluating experiences, we tend to overweight the magnitude of the experience. Like, you know, we would say, oh, that was a really good meal at a restaurant, because, you know, it was, let's say, an eight out of ten type experience, or that was an amazing holiday, because it was like a nine out of ten experience, like the magnitude of very high. But what we tend to focus less on is the frequency of the experience, or as my brother likes to call it, the measure. So something like a really nice meal is a low measure item because it only happens once. Something like a nice holiday is fairly no measure because it, for the most part, only happens once. But something like, you know, interacting with our iPhone every day is a very high measure thing because it happens hundreds of times a day for a whole life. And we kind of use this idea of measure to justify spending a lot of money on a kitchen bin because a kitchen bin is something that you interact with several times a day. And the argument is that if that interaction is even five or ten percent better, then that actually corresponds to a lot of value added over the lifetime of the product. And so when it comes to evaluating the iPhone, then the idea would be that this is a very high measure item because we use it hundreds of times each day. And so even a one percent improvement in any parameter of the phone might be worth upgrading for, and that one percent will be multiplied by just the amount of times we actually use a phone. So then that's one idea. But then alongside this idea of measure, we want to be taking into account the theory of hedonic adaptation, which is a theory and the field of psychology research that says that whenever we get a new item or new experience or new anything in our lives, we tend to adapt to that new thing such that it becomes the new baseline. So if we have a nice of phone, that becomes the new normal. And we very quickly stop noticing all of the delightful features that made us buy it in the first place. And so while one person might say, well, the iPhone is a high measure item therefore, you know, it's okay to spend a thousand pounds on upgrading it just for a little bit of improvement. And other person might argue back and say, well, you know, you're just going to hedonically adapt to it within about a day of actually having the new iPhone. And so you're not really going to notice that improvement in quality of life, in pleasure of the flesh. And I can honestly say from from my perspective, since like my iPhone 6, I haven't noticed an increased delight factor in each new iPhone upgrade that I've had. Like, the iPhone 6 was great. The iPhone 5 was great. I thought of always great. Like, phones have just been so generally good over the last like decade that there is no improvement in user experience or like delight factor that I find within your life. So that was one F, the pleasure of the flesh. But there is one more reason why we might want to upgrade our phones. And that is the pleasure of the flesh. So as humans, we are essentially status-seeking monkeys. All of our evolutionary psychology and stuff is wired to try and seek status and seek the approval of our peers in whatever domain we happen to be at. And like it or not, our choice of phones is often seen as a status symbol. Apple, for example, does a fantastic job of showcasing, you know, these this triple camera setup and all their ads for the iPhone 11, which makes it really obvious that this triple camera thing is the thing you're looking out for to be the ultimate status symbol. And like, you know, when I have my phone on on a table face face down, so you see the camera sticking out, people do comment on it that I always, that the new iPhone. And I'm like, oh yeah, thanks for noticing, you know, I say it's not like I intended it. And so all these companies and Apple is very good at doing this, they like to instill within us this desire to upgrade because of the status that a new iPhone confirms upon us. And then in the Android camp, like Android marketing is, I think, objectively just less good than Apple marketing. But in the Android camp, it tends to be the specs that people use as status symbols. So for example, my snap dragon into five is bigger than your snap dragon 640. Therefore, I, you know, have more status. And that is what I feel is the intrinsic thought process behind this idea of Android phones being status symbols. And so I'm not at all hating on anyone for buying an iPhone because of the status that it might confer. But if we think intuitively that this is probably a sub-optimal reason to buy a new phone, we might like to apply what William Urbine came up with in his book, I think the ancient art of Stoic Joy or something like that. I'll put that here in the down below. Really good book. But he comes up with this idea. He says that we should do this thought experiment where we should ask ourselves that if we were the very last person on Earth, would we still want this item? And if the answer is yes, then it suggests that we're not thinking about the iPhone purely as a status symbol. But if the answer is no, we wouldn't actually get this thing if we were the last person on Earth. Then it suggests that maybe the status symbol aspect of it does come into it. But okay, I imagine lots of us probably have moved on from this whole, oh my iPhone means that I'm a high status individual kind of thing. But actually this whole status thing doesn't necessarily have to be about appealing to others. It can also be about our own sense of identity and essentially the status that we're conferring on ourselves like internally by buying this new iPhone. For example, when I was 12 years old, I saved up my money from like Eve and birthdays and stuff. To buy a Dell accent PDA personal digital assistant, which was like one of those old school like phone tablet type things that businessmen used to check their emails and organize their lives and stuff. And at the time, clearly, I thought I was above such pedestrian things like buying a PSP. And because I wasn't getting any PDA, I thought buying a PDA would help me signal to myself that I'm a techie, entrepreneurial geeky, cool sort of guy. I didn't really care about other people having that impression. But it let me reinforce the identity within myself. And so the point I want to make is that for a lot of us, when we're buying an iPhone 11 Pro and iPhone 11, whatever tech thing that we're buying, we're doing it to signal status in some way, either internally or externally. And that's not necessarily a bad thing. Like given that, we as humans are status seeking monkeys, we all end up playing status games in various aspects of our lives. Whether it is, you know, the amount of cameras on the back of your iPhone or the size of your snapdragon processor, whether it's the model and brand of the car sitting in your drive way, whether it's your job title at your fancy company, whether it's a number of likes and followers you've got on TikTok. Like we all have this desire for status. And so, I mean, it's a pretty harmless desire for status to use your iPhone as a status symbol. And I think there are actually very few of us in the world who are so enlightened that we are, that we've kind of opted out of these status games. And I'm certainly not one of them. And if you've gotten this far in a video about iPhones and heard the stuff about status, I would guess that you're probably not above stuff such status games either. And so, I'm not saying that wanting the iPhone 11 Pro, the iPhone 11 further state for the sake of status, external or internal, is a bad thing necessarily. I'm just saying that if that is the real reason why we want to upgrade our phones, then it's worth being honest with ourselves about it. And really, this whole speel that I've just kind of delivered about buying an iPhone 11 and analyzing it from all these different perspectives is really just about intentionality, like being more intentional with the way that we're living our lives. And apart from really overthinking tech purchases like phones and candles and cameras and stuff, there's another source of intentionality in my life. And that is, when I watch documentaries on CuriosityStream, who have a very kind of response frame this video, CuriosityStream is the world's leading documentary subscription streaming platform founded by John Hendrix, who's the founder of the Discovery Channel. And on CuriosityStream, you can find thousands of documentaries to stream. There's a few that I've really enjoyed recently. One of them was all about meditation and the science of meditation. And it, like, followed this researcher who tried meditation and did brain scans and stuff and showed the different brain changes that happen when you meditate. And watching that documentary made me appreciate the power of meditation in a way that I hadn't really done before. And now, that's a thing that I'm trying to actively apply to my own life and kind of be more mindful about the ways that I'm resting and not kind of being switched on productivital times. And there was another really good one about why we sleep and like the science behind sleep. And again, it was following a researcher who did lots of different experiments on their own sleep and looking at brain scans and focusing on the science behind all this stuff. And after watching that, I solidified my rule of never having my iPhone in bed. And so now, before going to bed, I set it across across the side of the room with the alarm on these days, the song that I wake up to is live by Camila Cabello, because it's just like, gets me up immediately. Anyway, I have it across the room from me. The only thing I have on my bedside table is my Kindle and therefore I read before bed. That's also probably suboptimal, but I have noticed a huge increase in with my quality of sleep ever since I stopped going on my phone just before bed. And so if you'd like to join me on this journey of Discovery and find more ways to help live life more intentionally, in addition to overthinking tech purchases, then please visit curiositystream.com forward slash Ali and enter the coupon code Ali at checkout. And that will give you a free 30 day trial in which you can sample any of the documentaries that you like. So thanks, curiosity stream for sponsoring this video. So let's go back to the original question. Is the iPhone 11 or iPhone 11 Pro worth it? Just quickly, iPhone 11 is definitely more worth it than the iPhone 11 Pro. This is 300 pounds more expensive, but all it gives you is a very slightly nice screen, a very slightly better battery and a telephoto lens that I almost never used. So I kind of regret getting the 11 Pro, and I wish I just got the 11 instead. But yeah, like to summarize what we talked about here, my theory is that if our current phones are terrible, then we should just upgrade to the iPhone 11, if we can afford the 700 pounds. It's amazing. If we can't afford the 700 pounds, then there are so many other options that are so much cheaper that basically give you the same experience, just not quite as good as the iPhone 11. But if our current phone is actually very reasonable, and we were just thinking of upgrading just because we were buying into the whole marketing hype. Then I think first we should ask ourselves whether there is a better, possibly novel purchase that we could make with that money instead. For example, getting a camera or getting a Kindle a Will, I almost guarantee at far more value to all of our lives rather than upgrading our iPhone. And if we've exhausted all aspects of novel purchases in our lives, and we really want to make this incremental upgrade, then I think we should consider it from the perspective of the three series, which is create, consume, and connect. And if we don't really think that's going to be an improvement in those, which I don't think there is really personally, then we can think about whether the reason we want to upgrade our phone is the pleasure of the flesh, i.e. the delight factor of using a new iPhone, or the pleasure of the flesh, i.e. the status that we confer on ourselves internally, or we displayed to others externally by having this shiny new iPhone with multiple cameras. And so is the iPhone 11 worth it ultimately? I mean, I can't really answer that question for you. Everyone's going to have their own individual circumstances, but what I can honestly say is that if I wasn't a tech YouTuber with a vested interest in having the latest iPhone every year to make videos about, I probably wouldn't have upgraded from my iPhone 7. I was using my mom's iPhone 7, which was my old iPhone 7 plus from back in the day that I gave to her several years ago. I was using that in the car yesterday, and I was actually thinking, oh damn, this is a really good phone. And I didn't notice any increased delight in using my iPhone 11 Pro Max, which is expensive and new and stuff. Like my old iPhone 7 plus from like four years ago, it was still really, really good. And I actually kind of appreciated having a physical home button, rather than having to swipe Face ID every time. So yeah, that's it. Thanks very much for listening. If you'd like to learn more about the camera upgrades in particular with these iPhones, then I'll put a video over there that covers that in like anal detail. So please do watch that if you care about this sort of stuff. Thank you so much for watching, and I'll see you in the next video. Bye bye.
