# Monthly Favourites #6 - Ali Abdaal
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=XY0fQ0ZVlRs
Hey friends, here's another Monthly Favourites video back after a bit of a break. Today we're talking about a language learning app, a new fantasy book series I've started reading, a YouTuber who's work I adore and a discussion about wireless earphones and how wonderful they are. Enjoy xx

💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking 

📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

📝My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://paperlike.com/ali
🎶 Where I get my music from (amazing for YouTubers) - http://share.epidemicsound.com/ali

TIMESTAMPS

00:53 - Rosetta Stone
05:03 - The Stormlight Archive by Brandon Sanderson
06:53 - Sam Kolder
09:52 - Wireless Earphones

LINKS

- Rosetta Stone - http://www.rosettastone.co.uk/lp/h2i/?cmp=ipromo&p=os&utm_source=youtube&utm_medium=sm&utm_campaign=ali50&utm_content=sl&cid=sm-sl-yt-ali50%20

Rosetta Stone subscriptions normally cost around £180 for the year, but you can get 50% off with the coupon code ALI50. 

- The Way of Kings - Book 1 of The Stormlight Archive by Brandon Sanderson - http://geni.us/thewayofkings

Audible - http://geni.us/AudibleAli

- Sam Kolder - https://www.youtube.com/channel/UC_tXKhJlqZrgr_qdhEKmrDQ

Wireless Earphones on Amazon - http://geni.us/WirelessEarphones

🎬 My online course on video editing - https://skl.sh/32TpEvm
🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal


Who am I:

I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

My most popular videos:

- How I take notes on my iPad Pro in medical school - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=waR3xBDHMqw
- Mu 2018 university desk setup - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zdew7At9S2U
- How to study for exams - Evidence based revision tips - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ukLnPbIffxE
- Study with Me + My revision method - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yiRYn97GJhM
- iPad Pro vs iPad (2018) comparison for college / university students - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tIdU4Sw6a5Y
**Keywords:** monthly favourites, monthly favorites, ali abdaal, rosetta stone, august favourites, brandon sanderson, way of kings, stormlight archive, sam kolder, wireless headphones, wireless earphones, 
**Date:** 2018-08-30

## Transcript
 Hey guys, welcome back to the channel. If you're new here, my name is Ali, I'm a junior doctor working in Cambridge and this is part of the monthly favorite series where every month I attempt to make a video where I talk about a stuff I've discovered that month and found interesting so it might be books, products, apps, podcasts, videos, that and so on and stuff. Firstly, I'm going to talk about Ruizetta Stone, which is a language learning app that I've been using for the past few weeks to brush up my Japanese skills and they are very kindly also incidentally sponsoring this video. Secondly, I'm going to talk about a new fantasy book series that I've started reading called The Stormlight Archive by Brandon Sanderson. Thirdly, I want to talk about a really inspirational YouTuber that I've been following for a while now. You might know him, his name is Sam Kolder. And finally, I'm going to talk about a pair of wireless headphones that I've been using and sharing my thoughts on why wireless headphones are really, really, really useful. As always, timestamps in the description below. So yeah, let's jump into it and let's start by talking about Ruizetta Stone. Okay, so the first thing I want to address upfront is that Ruizetta Stone is not a free app. You do have to pay for a subscription. I'll put some of the prices in the video description, this subject to change, obviously. You can sign up for a free trial. I'll put a link below and you can use my coupon to get 50% off, but ultimately it does cost money and I know that's going to put a lot of people off. I hope it wouldn't because I hope you'd see like stuff like this as I can investment in your future. If you're investing a few pounds a month into a learning language and that language can just kind of make you more rounded person and help your life in future. I think that's an investment with making, but of course, I understand that not everyone is in a position where they can afford it. And if you're in that position or if you just hate the idea of paying for anything in general, then you might want to skip ahead to some of the other stuff in this video. Although, I'm talking about a book which you have to pay for and some headphones which you have to pay for as well. Anyway, just want to address that upfront. So having said that, there are basically three things that I really like about Ruizetta Stone. Firstly, is the fact that it sort of feels like a game. You sound up to the app you download it, you pick the language that you want and then it takes you through a series of lessons. But within those lessons, they've got sub topics and within the sub topics, they've got like, you know, rings that you have to feel kind of like Apple Watch where, you know, if you get a hundred percent, it fills up the whole ring. And I found that while doing these lessons, I really wanted to get a hundred percent in everyone. And therefore, I was doing lessons again and again and again and again and, like, space for a petition, you know, one of my favorite, like, study techniques. And that, there's a gamification of the language learning was really helping me. Secondly, I think the pedagogy, you know, methodology of learning that Resetted Stone uses is really interesting. Normally, like with other language courses that I've done for Japanese in particular, they start off with the building blocks and then try and build them up kind of from that point on. So you'd start by learning what a noun is and what a verb is and then you'd be, then you'd learn some grammar and then you'd be able to string them together. But what Resetted Stone does is that it tells you what the word for a boy and girl are and you have to practice it. But then, like, the next lesson is just a sentence that it just strings everything together. And the first time you do it, you won't know what that said what that sentence means. But over time, as you develop more of a command of the language through the stuff, they teach you, you start to realize and you start to build the rules of grammar in your own head without necessarily being explicitly told them. So, for example, it might tell you that the word for boy is otoko noko and then you would repeat that a few times and then that's a so fun. And then the next bit would be otoko nokoa honno yon deimasu and you'd be like, whoa, okay, but they would show you a picture of a boy reading a book and they would, okay, okay, so this clearly means the boy is reading a book and then at some point you find the word for a book is hon and then you'd be like, oh, okay, so the hon bit of that sentence is the boy reading and it's really hard to explain it in words, but you should definitely try out the app, you know, you can do a free trial. But the idea is that it kind of immerses you in the language from early on, which is the way that we naturally learn languages like when we're learning English or whatever our native tongue is, we don't learn it in nouns and verbs and stuff. We learn it by immersion, by having sentences spoken to us and around us and all of that stuff. And I think it's really interesting however that a stone tries to emulate that natural way of learning. So that's something that I found that was very interesting about it compared to other language things that I've tried. And finally, I really like the fact that it makes you talk while doing it. Like, it says somewhere like on the on the frequently asked questions of the app that, you know, you have to probably be in a private space to do it because it does require you to talk. And they've got this like fancy language processy thing on it that like they would read out the sentence for you and then you have to repeat the sentence or repeat the word. And it somehow knows how well, how good you are at getting this and then it's really satisfying when you pronounce it well, trying to imitate, you know, the Japanese person kind of saying it. It's really satisfying when you pronounce it well and it goes green and it gives you like a delin and then you feel you get that endorphine release. Anyway, so that's part of the gamification, but I also like the fact that it's kind of integrated. It doesn't treat kind of words and speaking as separate things. It puts them all together. So those are the reasons I let Reset Estone. I've been using it for the past couple of weeks. Just to try and brush up my Japanese skills. I'm going to continue using it for the next year or so. Just to give it a chance and then I might do a video at some point in the future where I talk about like how my Japanese skills have improved. But if you're interested in learning a language, they've got absolutely loads on the website. Definitely check it out. Links in the description below. Yeah, Reset Estone. Thank you very much for sponsoring this video. You guys are wonderful. Secondly, I want to talk about the Stormlight Archive, which is a series of fantasy books written by Brandon Sanderson. I absolutely love Brandon Sanderson. He wrote the Mistborn series, which I've talked about in this thing in this video series a little a few months ago, actually. And after reading Mistborn, I read the name of the wind and the wiseman's fear, but Patrick Rothfuss. But then when I finished the wiseman's fear, I finished an audible audio book format. By the way, audible is amazing. He definitely sounded to that link below. I finished an audible book format and then it left like a hole in my heart and I had to fill that hole with something. So I started listening to the audio book of The Way of Kings, which is the first book of the Stormlight Archive. It took like an hour or two to get in two, but once I really once I got into it, I am now completely addicted to it and this is what I listen to when I'm commuting to work on my skateboard or whenever I'm driving. Tomorrow I'm going up to Birmingham, which is going to be like a two and a half hour drive. And I'm really looking forward to the drive because it means two and a half hours of listening to this absolutely sick audio book. It's just so so good. And I'm trying to kind of resist the temptation to just buy on Kindle and Blitz read it because I want to savor the audible experience for as long as possible. But if you're into fantasy, or even if you're not into fantasy, I'd suggest probably starting with Mistborn, because I think this Stormlight Archive is more is more dense. Mistborn is very readable. And I say that in a non-patternised way. It's really, really bold. It's really easy to get the story. This one is a bit more complex and you have to have a few more things in your head. If you read Game of Thrones, you know that introduces lots of different characters. So that's the kind of thing that the way of Kings Stormlight Archive does. But if you're interested in this sort of thing, I'd really recommend giving it a go if you haven't already. It's just really good. And I might actually do a book review series on this channel at some point where I talk about it and the other fantasy books I've read. Let me know in the comments if that's something you might be interested in. But that is number two in this month's monthly favorites. Thirdly, I want to talk about a YouTuber called Sam Kolder. Sam Kolder is like the the gold standard of travel vloggers is the impression I get from videos in YouTube. The editing of his videos is just absolutely insane. And he doesn't personally often he posts like maybe once a month if that. But every single video that he puts out is just absolutely beautiful and so well shot and so well edited. And you know there's a good looking guy who's got a six pack. You can do backflips. It's a very sort of inspirational. And I mentioned this firstly because I've had a lot of messages from people asking what are my favorite YouTube channels to learn stuff on so video editing in particular whenever I post about that people ask about this. And I think in general one of the things that I like doing is whenever I'm watching a YouTube video I like to think about what I can gain from it. Like I almost never watch YouTube videos just for the entertainment value. If you do and if you enjoy that that's absolutely fine. But I think for me because like now working a full-time job I have so little time in the evenings left to actually do stuff. It means if I can be entertained and also learn stuff while being entertained I think this ticks both boxes and it's a kind of in a way an efficient way of having an nice time but also learning stuff anyway. Whenever I watch a Samcorder video it teaches me so much about video editing and I sometimes watch the multiple times I've watched his my year 2016 video a load of times his gym shot video quite a few times because the editing techniques and the way the story is told just gives me a lot of inspiration that I can then attempt to add to my own videos and I find myself whenever when I'm planning vlogs now thinking okay so in in Samcorder's video of like Brazil he had a sequence where he did this and this maybe I could kind of apply that technique to to this video and this is not like copying because you're not copying like word forward what he's doing but you are taking inspiration from the techniques that he's using and that on the YouTube is using and trying to apply them to your own stuff and I often get the question of how did you get so good at video editing. Firstly thank you if you think I'm good at video editing I don't think I'm that good at video editing but you know compared to these guys at least but I've been doing it for a year now I've made like 150 videos it's something that does improve over time as you just keep on doing it but I think also watching other people and getting inspiration from them is kind of like subconsciously it makes you become a better video and turn a better whatever whatever you're doing because you're getting ideas and you're putting them into practice anyway Samcorder videos are great I'll link some of the description below please check him out if you haven't already it's just amazing and I've decided one of my projects for the next few months at some point isn't going to buy a crash map from Amazon and I'm going to learn how to do back because like you know how hard can it be and it's really cool if you can let you know go to some you know cool place in Vietnam and you just do this kind of slow motion 120 frames per second black flip off or play for something that's just absolutely sick I really wanted to learn how to do that and maybe try and become more like Samcorder but yeah that's point number three in this months monthly favorites and finally partly because I want to introduce like tech themed stuff to this channel more often because the iPad videos everyone seemed to like oh this this pair of headphones these are the beats uh power beats three or power beats cubed and these are headphones so put them over your neck stick them in and then you have headphones and by holding this power button on it automatically connects to the iPhone because it's got like the fancy chip and it's got good pairing with the iPhone so I just put these on whenever I'm going to the gym or whenever I'm going you know commuting to work and they just don't fall off like you can shake your head as much as you like and because of this like blue stuff in the on the side it just doesn't fall off now why am I talking about these uh I have been using the Apple AirPods for the last year and I absolutely love the Apple AirPods in fact I prefer the AirPods to these but a few weeks ago I went to a wedding and Manchester and I was wearing like a Shalor Krita which is like got really deep pockets and I put the AirPods in there and then when I sat down I think they fell out somewhere so I just lost them um thankfully I got a new MacBook Pro and these came free with them with the education discount um so like yeah I've been using them and they're great and I've been using wireless earphones since about two years ago and I think they've changed my life because wireless headphones are just so much of a nicer user experience than wired headphones. wired headphones are a real pain in the bum and once you've done wireless you really can't go back to wired. The reason I recommend them is because again I like to think of these as as an investment in my future and wired these in investment in my future and it sounds like a weird weird justification I think they are because having wireless headphones means like you're reducing the friction required to listen to stuff. I eat it becomes less of a pain in the bum to take your headphones out plug them in blah blah blah blah and if you can do it so easily like if you had a chip in your head that could just you know play whatever you wanted from your phone that would be really cool because you'd be able to play all of your books you'd be able to play podcasts you know all both of which are inherently useful and teach you stuff depending on what sort of podcast you or you can just play music if you're just feeling a bit chill or whatever so having a chip in your head is it would would be a nice thing I think wireless headphones come almost close to that. wired headphones have too much friction there there's just so much annoyance between you know this idea of having a chip in your head and wired headphones but I think wireless headphones are a good sort of sweet spot somewhere somewhere along that spectrum and and the reason I would spend money on wireless headphones you know you can buy cheap 20 pound ones of Amazon or you can get like the 150 pounds air pods which I'd recommend or you can get these I think these are like 120 but you can get them for free with education discount which is wonderful. The reason I'd recommend them is just because it reduces the barrier to entry reduces the friction required to listen to stuff on your phone and what I do is whenever I'm listening to stuff on my phone I'm almost never listening to music I'm just almost exclusively listening to podcasts or audiobooks and if having a pair of wireless headphones means I listen to you know one like an extra hour of stuff per week I think that's an hour that over time will multiply and you know compound and add value to my life. I've gotten so much value out of podcasts like Matt Develler's ground up show the Tim Ferriss show in the IndyHappiness podcast if you're into like making software stuff like that. I've got so much value out of these various podcasts and I think that partly having wireless headphones makes that a lot easier to do so if you don't have a pair of wireless headphones would highly recommend you invest in some I'll put some Amazon links in the description below to stuff at different price points. Ultimately if you had to pick one and you have the budget for it 100% go for the AirPods if you have an iPhone because the link between the AirPods and the iPhones is just incredible and it's just so convenient. Yeah love wireless headphones definitely get yourself a pair if you haven't already. So thank you for watching that brings us to the end of this month monthly favorites video. I'm going to try and do these more consistently because people seem to be enjoying them sort of but also I think I want to move away from new stuff I discovered this month because often a lot of the value we get from stuff comes as a result of like you know stuff compounding over time. So for example the Tim Ferriss show one of my favorite podcasts would would never be something new I discovered that month because I've been listening to it for years years it's been years I think it has been years but I still want to talk about it in these sorts of videos so I might move away from kind of new stuff this month and more towards generally stuff that I enjoy with some kind of monthly theme maybe. Also I try and do these on a monthly basis but if you want to hear from me more often than that you might not know I have a weekly email newsletter where every Sunday I try in the mornings but you know I every Sunday without fail for the last like 17 weeks, 18 weeks, how many months is that? That's like almost five months. Every Sunday without fail for the last five months I've been sending out a week of email and in that email I give a little snippet of like life advice or something I've learned or something I've discovered that week that's you know can be relevant to some people and I also sometimes include links to interesting things I've discovered so that's kind of a more real-time monthly or a weekly favorite sort of thing if you're into that I'll put a link in the description over here it's on my website I'll give the old calm which you can check out if you feel like it. Anyway thank you very much for watching this video thanks again to Resetterstone for sponsoring it you guys are great if you like the video please give it a thumbs up if you haven't subscribed to the channel please consider doing so have a lovely day and I will see you in the next video good night
