# How to Be Confident on Camera (5 Tips)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Y11SX2oHmw8
If you want to improve your own confidence on camera, you can check out my course here - https://go.aliabdaal.com/cameraconfidence

One of the most important skills that you can develop to really level up your life in all sorts of ways is camera confidence. I've been on a bit of a journey with this over the past few years and there are 5 things which have really helped me go from being quite a shy teenager to someone who's not afraid at all to put myself out there. Enjoy

⏱ Timestamps
00:26 Why camera confidence is important
02:18 How to improve your camera confidence
03:15 Tip #1 - The two modes of thinking
05:08 Tip #2 - Embrace imperfection
06:20 Tip #3 - Speak through a smile
07:03 Tip #4 - Body language
08:17 Tip #5 - Warm up

🍿My Most Popular Videos:
9 Passive Income Ideas: How I Make $27k Per Week: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=M5y69v1RbU0&list=PL7BImOT2srcED6c2hbR5JBlPoFEhwvjtn&index=3&t=330s
How to Build the Ultimate Productivity System: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T6hmdrsLQj8&list=PL7BImOT2srcED6c2hbR5JBlPoFEhwvjtn&index=1&t=61s
How to Invest for Beginners: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gFQNPmLKj1k&list=PL7BImOT2srcED6c2hbR5JBlPoFEhwvjtn&index=9&t=1386s
How I Manage My Time: 10 Time Management Tips: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iONDebHX9qk&list=PL7BImOT2srcED6c2hbR5JBlPoFEhwvjtn&index=2&t=1s

🎙 Check out my weekly podcast, Deep Dive - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/ - It's also available on all podcast platforms, including Spotify, Apple Podcasts etc.
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://go.aliabdaal.com/subscribe-sundaysnippets

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - 
 https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

🎬 YouTube for Beginners - Everything You Need To Know To Start  - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/YouTube-for-Beginners

MY CREATOR COURSES
🎬 Part-Time YouTuber Academy - My 6-week live online course on becoming a part-time YouTuber → https://go.aliabdaal.com/parttimeyoutuberacademy
🏆 Creatorpreneur - My flagship course for scaling up your creative side-hustle → https://creatorpreneur.academy/course
🗣 Camera Confidence - My self-paced course on how to improve your creativity, career, or communication skills → https://cameraconfidence.aliabdaal.com/

MY FAVOURITE GEAR
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) -https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE TOOLS
🚀 VidIQ - How I optimise my YouTube videos - https://go.aliabdaal.com/vidiq

✍️ Shortform - The BEST summaries of books - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform

📚  Readwise - How I remember what I read - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise

🎵  Epidemic Sound - Where I get my music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound

MY KEY LINKS
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com/
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I’m Ali, a YouTuber, podcaster, soon-to-be author and ex-Doctor working in London, UK. I make videos that explore the strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. I also have a weekly podcast called Deep Dive (https://www.youtube.com/channel/UChfo46ZNOV-vtehDc25A1Ug), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://go.aliabdaal.com/subscribe-sundaysnippets).

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, 
**Date:** 2022-11-08

## Transcript
 Right, so one of the most important skills that you can learn to level up your life is camera confidence. Yes, camera confidence is something that I used to be really bad at. I was one of the most shy and unconfident people I knew, but it's a skill that I've gotten much better out over time and it's genuinely changed the course of my life. And so in this video we're going to talk about firstly why camera confidence is a ridiculously useful skill to develop. And secondly, I'm going to share my top five tips for becoming more confident on camera. Let's go. So in today's world, being confident on camera is a skill that can bleed into every area of your life. When it comes to work life, for example, these days, it's even, you know, remote hybrid work all that stuff. It makes being on zoom calls being on teams, whatever, camera confidence just really shines through when you're having a meeting, when you're giving a business presentation, when you're trying to do sales, when you're trying to negotiate deals, in almost any kind of work that you're going to be in or that you're in already. Job interviews these days are being done mostly through zoom. I know a bunch of people who have applied for jobs in the last year, all of the rounds basically have been done on zoom except the final one, which might be in person. And in some of those rounds, you're with other people, in some of those rounds, you have to give a presentation, in some of those rounds, you have to have a conversation with your interviewer. And the ability to speak confidently on camera just as confidently as you would be in real life. Or in fact, potentially even more confidently on camera as you would be in real life really helps level you up when it comes to applying for jobs. Secondly, in the realm of content creation. Now, whether you're a YouTuber or a TikTok horror or an Instagramer, a lot of these video platforms really benefit naturally from being charismatic on camera. Even if, to be honest, you're a faceless YouTube channel and you have a voice that can come across confidently on camera. It just makes whatever you make a little bit more engaging. And thirdly, the great thing about being confident on camera is that it can actually bleed into other areas of your life as well. Like back in the day, when I was in school, I used to be pretty shy and unconfortable. And over time, I kind of honed my charisma and confidence, but it was really when I started talking on camera five years ago when I started making YouTube videos where that just took my entire confidence in life up an entire notch. Because all of a sudden, every single week, I was showing up to talk to an inanimate object of the camera. And I had to figure out ways of being energetic in those situations. And I've definitely found that over time, I'm now more confident if I'm doing a public speaking presentation or if I'm giving a talk or even if I'm just a normal social setting where I don't necessarily know people and I'm not comfortable by default. The fact that I've got so much practice and I've put in the reps to talk to a camera has really helped level up my confidence in real life as well. Let's not talk about some ways that you can potentially improve your confidence on camera. So there's all sorts of ways that you can increase your camera confidence. And completely coincidentally, I have just released a brand new online course about this where I've compared absolutely everything I've learned over the last five years of doing YouTube, doing business presentations, doing talks, doing sales, all that kind of stuff into an online course about how to level up your own camera confidence. We've got a bunch of different modules in the course. We've got a module on mindset, a module on technique, a module on drills where I take people in real life through various camera confidence drills and give them feedback. We've got a module on analysis and how you can analyze your own camera confidence to get better. We've got a module on case studies where I'm looking at famous celebrities and authors and speakers in other YouTube, pros and analyzing their style of camera charisma so you can get actionable tips from that. And we've got a bunch of guest speakers as well. We've got interviews from people around the world who are experts in the fields of storytelling and public speaking and all of these guys are giving you the expertise and how to speak on camera. And we have a full 30 day no questions asked money back guarantees if you don't like the course you can just get your money back. Anyway, that'll be linked down below if you want to check it out. But now let's go into five top tips of how to be more confident on camera. Starting with tip number one, which is to recognize that there's like different modes of thinking about the camera and this is a bit of a mindset thing that I found really helpful and that's like there's two ways of thinking about the camera. Firstly, there is the coffee mode and secondly, there is the presenter mode. So in coffee mode, what I'm imagining is that the camera is a friend of mine who I'm having coffee with. So this is the sort of vibe that I might talk to if I'm doing coffee mode, you know, this is more appropriate for a Zoom presentation or if it's a negotiation with someone or it's like a sales thing. I'm not necessarily going to be over the top and presentry about it. I'm going to be speaking to them as if I'm having coffee with a friend. And so this is the mode that I go into when I speak to a camera like right now. Or if, for example, I'm doing a YouTube video where I'm speaking from the heart about something that's somewhat difficult to talk about or that's a little bit deep, then I'll go into coffee mode when I'm speaking to the camera. And then the second mode that I personally find useful is a bit more presenter mode. And that is, you know, speaks to the idea that generally when you're speaking on a camera, you lose out on two points of charisma out of 10. So let's say, I don't know, you're talking at a five out of 10 in terms of like energy level. When you're speaking to a camera and it's coming across to the other person, that comes across as if it's a three out of 10 in charisma. And so if you want to speak on camera as if you're speaking naturally, often you do have to ramp things up slightly in real life. And so my presenter mode of speaking, the way I'm speaking to the camera right now, is a bit more like six and a half seven out of 10 in terms of my energy levels, but hopefully that comes across as fairly natural, rather than like, certainly, you know, energetic, like it probably doesn't real life right now, but hopefully on the camera it sounds reasonable. And so the mental model I have for this is I'm giving a kind of presentation to three or four medical students. That tends to be the model I have in my head. And you can figure out for you whatever model works for you. But I think thinking of the camera in these two different modes, coffee mode, like it's a little bit more chill, a little bit low energy versus presenter mode, a little bit higher energy, especially if you're doing a presentation. Maybe if you're doing an interview, that might be more appropriate. Tip number two for speaking on camera is to embrace imperfection. One mistake that I see a little bit a lot of people, a lot of students from my part-time YouTuber Academy, you can sign up to the waiting list down below. But one to take a lot of newbies to cameras is that they think they have to put on some kind of personality. Like, you know, I am speaking like a BBC presenter from the 1950s. And I'm going to talk about cameras confidence in this way. And it just becomes a thing that sounds very fake, especially now we're also used to seeing other people on camera. It's a bit weird. You can kind of tell when someone is not really being themselves. And so tip number two is to really embrace the imperfection and to channel your own personality. Don't try and necessarily put on a personality for someone else, although in the course we do talk about strategies like imitating other people's styles and using that to figure out your own. But broadly, if you can allow your own authentic self to shine through. So maybe when you're giving a presentation, you're using jokes and terminology and phrases that you would use in real life. You don't have to be all stuffy about it. You don't have to kind of over-professionalize yourself in an attempt to sound more engaging because generally leaning more towards the casual end of the spectrum. So generally how we talk in real life. Generally, that comes across in a lot more of an engaging way to an audience rather than if you dial up the professionalism because you've got to be professional in a work presentation. Ten number three for being more confident on camera is to speak through a smile. Now this is a great strategy. Basically, you can be saying anything. But if you say it with a smile on your face, it just sounds as if you're more confident and more engaged with the thing. So if I didn't have the smile on my face, I could be talking like this. I could be kind of varying my intonation. I could be talking hopefully, quite charismaticly and quite confidently. But now if I say exactly the same thing with a smile on my face, now I'm just like, I'm infused with more energy and I just feel a lot more engaged and I feel a lot more confident. And hopefully that comes across. And all I've done is just plastered a bit of a smile on my face. It feels really fake initially. It feels like absolutely bizarre. If you're not used to kind of speaking through a smile, the muscles around the cheek start to hurt, all that kind of stuff. But it really genuinely does come across as way more engaging and way more confident. And it also bleeds into your own energy levels as well. Tip number four for being more confident on camera is body language. Now if you like it's it's really interesting to analyze kind of YouTubers who've been on the platform for absolutely ages. Two really good examples of this are Mark has Brownlee and Mr. Who's the boss, both huge tech YouTubers. And they've been on YouTube, but I think like ten years at this point. So you can see what their camera confidence was like at the beginning and what it's like now. And they're both radically different camera presences from ten years ago versus now. But you'll see that one of the major changes, one of the major evolutions of most people becoming more confident on camera is that they start to use their hands and their body a little bit more. There's not to say you have to do this sort of weird kind of stuff. But generally I find that kind of moving my hands around this general zone makes me come across as a lot more confident than if for example my hands will static. Because with my hands static, whatever I'm kind of doing, especially if I'm like fidgeting and stuff, it just comes across as a little bit weird. If my hands are here, there's a limitation to the amount of energy that I can exude and the level of comfort that I feel like see even then like and the level of comfort I see I feel when I'm speaking on camera. But if I allow myself to relax a little bit, if I kind of relax my shoulders, if I use a little bit more body language, especially you know, elbows down here and then gesturing in this kind of zone. Hopefully this comes across as a little bit more confident, a little bit more natural and a little bit more engaging, then it would be if I wasn't using my hands at all. The tip number five is to warm up. Now something that I do before every filming session is that I generally put on some music on Spotify on my Amazon Echo behind me and I will generally sing along to the song. Because your times come in around, don't stop crying, don't stop never give up. And I'm doing that while I'm sitting up the camera while I'm sitting on zoom, like if it's a particularly high stakes thing, like a zoom presentation or if I'm filming a video, I'll just get myself into more of a high level energy zone. And for me personally, I do that by singing along. You can see this Tony Robbins video on YouTube where he has a whole full body warm-up where he jumps around and does a little hop, does a little spin. And all of these things are just different strategies to get us into the higher energy zone that we want to be in, mostly if we're trying to be a little bit more confident on camera. Now ultimately with all these tips, it all fundamentally comes down to practice. The more you get in your reps, the more you practice being confident on camera and speaking on camera, the more confident you're going to be. And the mistake that a lot of people make is that they see themselves, they speak to a camera for the first time because they're filming a YouTube video or they're doing a presentation, they're not very good at it and they compare themselves to someone who's been doing it for years and think, I'm, I just don't have it. I wasn't born with the ability to speak on camera. No one comes out of the womb with the ability to speak on camera. It's a skill that develops over time and it's a skill that you can absolutely develop over time as well, provided you put in the practice. And one bonus tip, one super easy way to practice, is to actually just get used to the habit of sending video messages to your friends. Instead of sending a WhatsApp voice note or a WhatsApp kind of text message, you can just turn on the camera feature, send a video to your friends, say hi, say hello, say how you're doing, give them a little life update. And that's a very easy way of getting in the reps. So that next time you're speaking to the Zoom camera, the webcam or a camera when filming a video for anything at all, you had more practice with that than you would have done otherwise. Anyway, if you're still watching at this point, you might like to check out the course, like I said, we talk about mindset and technique and case studies and drills and analysis and sort of looking at other YouTubers and celebrities and seeing how they talk on camera, getting guest workshops from other speakers or experts and storytelling and public speaking and their tips for camera confidence. And we've got a full no questions asked money back guarantee. So you can watch the entire course. If you decide you don't like it, all you have to do is email us and we'll literally give you your money back. If you want to check that out, that'll be linked right over here. Thank you so much for watching, and I'll hopefully see you in the next video. Bye.
