# How to Stop Procrastinating
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yBP1VjO9RSE
To improve your thinking and learning skills, visit https://brilliant.org/ali and sign up for free. The first 200 people will get 20% off the annual Premium subscription :)

How can we stop procrastinating with so many distractions?!? Procrastination is something even the most productive of us have to deal with on a daily basis. In this video I'll be tackling a simple formula to end it once and for all. 

00:00 Intro
02:26 Motivation
03:32 Momentum
04:27 HOW - The Two Rules

--------

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
😃  How to be Happier - Stoicism Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/stoicism

TOOLS OF THE TRADE:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk
📚  How I remember what I read - Readwise - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali
What I Use For Analytics - https://go.aliabdaal.com/tubebuddy
🌐 My website platform (Ghost) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost

OTHER RECOMMENDED COURSES
📔 Effortless Output with Roam Research - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/roam
📓 Building a Second Brain - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/basb

🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, procrastination, how to beat procrastination, getting over procrastination, how to overcome procrastination, productivity, productive, overcoming procrastination, how to be productive, productivity tips, how to stop procrastination, beat procrastination, how to stop procrastinating, be more productive, tips to stop procrastination, increase productivity, how to avoid procrastination, how to be more productive, productivity hacks, time management, productivity 2020, 
**Date:** 2020-07-28

## Transcript
 Regardless of how many productivity books we've bought and haven't read or how many of Matt and Tom's videos we've watched, we all struggle with procrastination, but procrastination is nothing new, 10,000 years ago the ancient Greek philosophers even had a word for it, a crazier, meaning to act against our better judgment by doing one thing, even though we know we should be doing something else. But despite its ancient history, it's probably even more prevalent today as we live in a world full of distractions and perfect procrastination temptation. So, how do we overcome it? Hey friends, welcome back to the channel. If you're new here at my name is Aliya, I'm a doctor working in the UK and on this channel we explore the strategies and tools to help us their healthier, happier, more productive lives, but even for a self-professed productivity guru like me, one of my biggest struggles in life is overcoming procrastination. So why do we procrastinate? Well, I'm very glad you asked because procrastination is the perfect example of a thing called present bias. Present bias is this idea that I can set whatever goal I want for my future self, but it's my present self sitting here right now that has to actually do the action together. And when it's a choice between doing some exercise or watching some episodes of Hunterx Hunter, we can always say, well, I'll do the exercise tomorrow and our present selves will always prefer the short term instant gratification of watching random anime rather than the long term goal of becoming a gym shock athlete. Hey, 2013 study by the famous researcher in the field of procrastination, Dr. Tim Pichel, pulled procrastination the primacy of short term mood repair over the long term pursuit of intended actions. In other words, procrastination is more about being focused on the immediate urgency of managing negative moods and pushing the problem away rather than getting on with the task in the present moment. The weird thing is that at certain times we can't afford to procrastinate. Like, when I'm at work at the hospital, I can't just put up treating someone the idea of delaying it because I don't feel like putting a cannula in does not even cross my mind or so I tell people. But one of got the space and freedom to manage my own time at home, I can always just keep putting things off until the next day. And like rationally, we all know that procrastination is objectively bad for us. Like, for me, one of my biggest fears in life is being shackled to a job that I might not enjoy. And I know that right now I'm at the age and I've got the opportunity to not procrastinate and build towards the future where I've got the freedom to kind of do what I want and procrastination is actively holding me back from that. But the good news is we can do something about it and there is a simple formula to overcoming procrastination that I've discovered over the last couple of years and that's really helped me personally in, you know, fighting the procrastination battle. Firstly, let's talk about motivation and it was a blog post that I stumbled across a few years ago that was a real paradigm shifter for my mind in terms of how I think about motivation. Like, I used to think that you need motivation to get something done, but actually, it's the other way around. You get stuff done and then the motivation naturally follows. And this is something that Jeff Hayden talks about and his book The Motivation Myth talks about. We've got this idea of motivation all wrong. He says motivation isn't something that you have. It's something that you get. He says that motivations not the cause of action. It is the result of action. So it's like action comes first. Motivation comes second. And so the way that I think about it is that I try and scrub the word motivation from my vocabulary. And instead, I think about it in terms of either discipline or in terms of habits. Discipline is energy that we've put into the system. We're using our will power. We are being disciplined. We are doing the thing. But then once we do the thing often enough, it becomes a habit and we don't need will power to do habits. Like, I don't need will power to brush my teeth every night for the most part, but I do need a supplant to get up and go to the gym because going to the gym has not yet become a habit. So part one of this formula for overcoming procrastination was understanding motivation. The second part is about understanding momentum. And the key insight here is that most of the resistance that we feel when doing a task is just in the act of starting. This idea of resistance is discussed by Stephen Pressfield in his book The War of Art. He describes resistance as a universal force that has one sole mission. To keep things as they are, preventing action, creativity and progress. In other words, resistance provides the beating heart of procrastination. But as soon as we cross this action line, then the pain of procrastination begins to go down. And so the idea is that it's not doing the work that's hard. It is starting the work. That is the problem. It's kind of like if you had a ball at the top of a hill, you can't get the ball moving unless you physically push it. But once you've pushed it, it starts rolling down the hill and then momentum carries it forward. And so if I feel like I'm struggling with procrastination, I know that the real problem is just in that initial push. It's just end getting started. And I've got three rules that I tried to use if I'm struggling to get started with doing something. Firstly, we've got the two minute rule. The two minute rule is a concept put forward by productivity guru David Allen in his book of getting things done. And the main idea is that if you have a pending task that can be done in less than two minutes, then you should do it right away. And so if I'm procrastinating from doing something that I know is going to take less than two minutes, I will try my very best to just do it. And I will have this mantra that no, I must follow David Allen's two minute rule. So if it comes to I don't know refilling my water bottle or you know putting a coffee mug or a bowl away in the kitchen and washing it, I know all of that's going to take less than two minutes. And so I kind of force myself to just do it. It's the two minute rule. But if it takes longer, then I'll write it down. But clearly, there's stuff that we've got to do that is obviously going to take longer than two minutes. So we can't trick our brains into thinking, oh it's fine. It's only going to be two minutes. And that's where the five minute rule comes in. The five minute rule is simple. It's that if I'm finding myself procrastinating from something I have to do, I tell myself that I'm just going to do it for five minutes. Some people call this the 30 minute rule, 20 minute rule, 10 minute rule, it doesn't really matter that the point is we're tricking our brains into thinking that all we want to do is do the thing, do the work for a certain small amount of time. And so when I was procrastinating from filming this video, well, I told myself, oh, all you have to do is shoot the introduction, it'll take five minutes and then you can stop if you want to. But here I am, three hours later, still struggling to form the video. Because the problem is in getting started not in continuing to do the work. Other than the two minute rule and the five minute rule, the third rule that I like to follow is the mind activation rule. And that is, if I'm feeling like I'm in a slump, which usually happens directly after lunch or in the evening when I've come home from work and I really can't be bothered to do anything, I'm procrastinating from filming the videos or whatever I need to get done. And the mind activation rule is that when I recognize that feeling that kind of haze in my mind, it's like, oh, I can't be bothered to do anything at that point, I need to do something to stimulate my mind. If it's before 2pm in the afternoon, then I'll make myself a cup of caffeinated coffee. But if it's after 2pm, I like to use a non-pharmacological method. And that is by doing an online course over a brilliant who are very kindly sponsoring this video. If you haven't heard brilliant is a fantastic platform for maths, science and computer science courses. The courses are super interactive and they've got lots of problems along the way. So the idea is that they teach you a little bit of something and then they do an interactive kind of problem to help activate the mind to get you out of that procrastination slump and you learn something along the way. I really enjoyed working through the computer science courses on brilliant, they've got a fantastic introduction to computer science, introduction to algorithms and also more complicated topics like neural networks, machine learning and they also have a very good course on the basics of Python and also on advanced Python, Python being the world's most popular programming language. Brilliant works across all platforms and it's the perfect way to kickstart your mind into learning something useful while also overcoming the productivity slump. So if that sounds up your street, then head over to brilliant.org forward slash LA and the first 200 people to click on that link in the video description will get 20% of the annual premium subscription. So we've talked about the simple formula for overcoming procrastination firstly it's understanding motivations, secondly it's understanding momentum and then we've talked about three rules for getting out of the slump so the two-minute rule, the five-minute rule and the mind activation rule. If you want to hear more, you should definitely check out my book club video about the motivation myth. It is pretty good. That'll be linked in the playlist over here along with some other videos that you might find helpful. Thank you for watching and I'll see you in the next video. Bye bye.
