# Harry Potter - Medical Science Explained
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YF00S6U_C1g
In this video, I break down some of the vaguely medical scenes in Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone. We discuss the science behind gigantism, the properties of plants like asphodel, wormwood, monkshood and wolfbane, some real experiments done with Bezoar stones, and some ways in which Petrificus Totalus could work in real life. Enjoy xx

Clips used under fair use (education and review). Copyright Warner Bros. 

💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking 

📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

📝My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://paperlike.com/ali
🎶 Where I get my music from (amazing for YouTubers) - http://share.epidemicsound.com/ali

🎬 My online course on video editing - https://skl.sh/32TpEvm
🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal

TIMESTAMPS
00:25 - Hagrid’s entrance
02:01 - Asphodel and Wormwood
03:51 - Bezoar 
06:51 - Monkshood and Wolfbane
08:38 - The Elixir of Life
11:50 - Petrificus Totalus

LINKS
- How to cute aging during your lifetime (Kurzgesagt) - https://youtu.be/MjdpR-TY6QU
- The Fable of the Dragon Tyrant (CGPGrey) - https://youtu.be/cZYNADOHhVY
- Dr Hope's Sick Notes - https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCMtZt5KQmhCLXiQVRhIgzTg

Who am I:

I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

My most popular videos:

- How I take notes on my iPad Pro in medical school - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=waR3xBDHMqw
- How to study for exams - Evidence based revision tips - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ukLnPbIffxE
- How I ranked 1st at Cambridge University - The Essay Memorisation Framework - https://youtu.be/-46Vyiwat_Y
- My productivity desk setup - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rApxWtDIRAM



If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭
**Keywords:** doctor breaks down, real doctor reaction, doctor reacts, doctor reacts to movies, doctor reaction, real doctor reacts, dr reacts, medical science, doctor watches, harry potter, ali abdaal, doctor mike, harry potter science, ali, 
**Date:** 2019-06-12

## Transcript
 Hey guys, welcome back to the channel. If you're new here, my name is Ali, I'm a junior doctor working in Cambridge and in this video I'm going to be combining two of my favorite things in life and I'm going to be explaining some of the vaguely medical slash scientific scenes in Harry Potter and the Philosopher's Stone. Let's have a jump into it and take a trip down memory lane. So, Hagrid. Hagrid in the books and in the films is famously a half giant and I suppose the closest medical slash scientific correlate to that is two conditions. The first one is called the gigantic and the second is called Akron Megley. Both of these are caused by excessive growth hormone which, unsurprisingly, is the hormone that makes you grow and that's secreted from the peturatory gland which lies somewhere in the middle of your brain. Some people will have something called a peturatory adenomer which is a benign tumor that grows in the peturatory gland and if it's the right sort of cell type that can release an excess of growth hormone. So, if Hagrid existed in real life he'd probably have the childhood version of it called a gigantic and that makes you grow really, really, really tall. So people with gigantic and can be between seven and nine feet according to Wikipedia and the reason that is is because when you're a child your bones still have the ability to grow. So if you imagine a bone it's like a long stick and at the end of it you've got your kind of fist bits of the bone. But in between those two bits there's something called a growth plate and when you're young your growth plates are where all the growth happens. So it's like as you inject growth hormone and as time passes the growth plate expands and allows the cortex of the bone to grow. Whereas the growth plates fuse by the time you're an adult which means you can no longer get any further elongation of those bones. So instead if you have circulating growth hormone excessively you tend to get the growth in the face, in the hands and in the feet that grow with a different process. Maybe some of you have come to Hogwarts in possession of abilities so formidable that you feel confident enough to not pay attention Mr Potter. Our new celebrity tell me what would I get if I added powdered root of asvideal to an infusion of wormwood? Okay so this is an absolutely iconic scene the first time Snape and Harry famously interact and it's actually quite a lot of scientific slash medical stuff that's going on in the scene so I'm going to try and break that down. So firstly Snape asks what would I get if I added powdered root of asvideal to an infusion of wormwood? So what do these mean? So firstly asvideal is a plant and it's offered associated in Greek mythology with Hades and the underworld so we've got some kind of dog connotations there. Back in the day it used to be thought to be some kind of cure for snake bites and even more interestingly it actually used to be classified under the family of lilies before it got its own classification and it gets even better because wormwood is the common name for the plant Artemisia which is probably named after Artemis who is the goddess of the forest and the moon will come back to those in a second but a common symbol that's been associated with the goddess Artemis in mythology is the deer and as you might know both Snape and lilies patronises are do's which are female deer and in Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows when Harry is chilling in the forest of Dean he comes across the do which is the Snape's patronis on a moon lit night and if we make things a bit more medical the plant wormwood are Artemisia is where we get the substance Artemis sinning from and that is the active ingredient in a lot of anti-malaria drugs and this was discovered by the Chinese scientist to you who won the 2015 Nobel Prize in medicine so in this very first thing that Snape says to Harry we've got firstly a reference to lily potter secondly we've got some foreshadowing of events to come and thirdly it actually got some legit medical reference behind it. Well let's try again where Mr. Potter would you look if I ask you to find me a beesawr. Okay so a beesawr in the Harry Potter and the philosopher stone the book they explained that a beesawr is a stone taken from the stomach of a goat and in the world of Harry Potter it's got the power to cure poison and Harry famously deploys it twice in Harry Potter and the half blood prince firstly to show off in slow corn's lesson when they're trying to build this fancy potion that Hermione gets really pissed off about but secondly Harry uses the beesawr to save Ron's life when Ron drinks the wine that malfoy was trying to send to dumbledore but ends up in Ron's hands anyway so beesawr actually real things it's a term given to any trapped mass within the gastrointestinal system and you can get loads of different types of them they're caused by buildup of certain food substances so for example within milk there's a protein called casin and that reacts with the gastric acid that you get from the stomach and that can form a certain type of beesawr stone so the question is do beesawr's actually cure poisons in real life and there's mixed evidence so on one side we've got an experiment that was done in 1575 by the French surgeon Ambrose Paré so his cheeky little experiment was that he found a cook who was a cook in the king's kitchens and he was trying to steal some cutlery and apparently back in the day the penalty for stealing cutlery from the king's kitchen was death so this cook was going to be hanged but Ambrose Paré managed to convince the guy to drink some poison instead of being hanged so he drank some poison and then Ambrose fed him a beesawr stone and hoped that it would cure the poison unfortunately it didn't and the guy died in about seven hours after ingesting the poison would have been quite a slow and painful death but that any equals one study sort of showed us that beesawr's don't really cure every poison but on the other hand we do have some evidence that beesawr's can remove the toxic component from the poison arsenic and this is where I guess a little bit complicated so firstly arsenic contains the ion arsenate and the ion arsenate looks quite similar in its chemical structure to the phosphate ion and the phosphate ion is used in loads of different processes in the body but the most famous one is glycolysis which is the breakdown of glucose into energy and we need phosphate for that if you've been poisoned with arsenic then you've got this arsenate ion floating around in your body and therefore when your body is trying to glycolysis glucose into energy or ATP instead of using the phosphate it uses the arsenate which means you get fewer molecules of ATP ie energy produced and eventually if you can't produce enough energy from glucose then eventually your body is going to be stored of energy and you're going to die but this is where the beesawr stone comes to the rescue because beesawr's have phosphate within their crystalline structure and if you put this beesawr in a solution containing arsenic then the arsenate ion in that solution gets swapped out with the phosphate in the beesawr so you're inactivating the toxic arsenate by replacing it with phosphate from the beesawr stone so long story short in some cases perhaps beesawr's might be useful in inactivating certain types of poison but they're definitely not the catchall magical cure that they were purported to be back in the day and apparently back in the day beesawr's used to use to sell for lots of money because people believe they had these magical healing powers unfortunately the evidence that isn't quite there for those just yet and what is the difference between mugsford and wolfbane okay so this final part of snakes assault on harry is what is the difference between mugshood and wolfbane and in the book he explains that mugshood and wolfbane are the same thing and there are other words for the more common plant called acchanite which is actually a real plant it's a poisonous plant and from it we get the toxin that's called aconiteen and aconiteen is very interesting because aconiteen is able to bind to voltage-gated sodium channels that we have everywhere in our body and sodium channels are absolutely essential for the conduction of nervous impulses down our nerves so what aconiteen does is that it binds to the sodium channel and causes it to stay open and because nerve conduction is based on the influx and e-flux of sodium and potassium and other other ions the problem is that if your sodium channels are staying open you don't have the ability to regulate the influx and e-flux of sodium ions which means you cannot conduct an action potential down that nerve so this means that your nerves don't work and if your nerves are not going to work then you're going to lose sensation and motor control pretty much every part of your body so you can die from that but also voltage-gated sodium channels are intimately involved in the generation of the cardiac action potential i.e. it's the generation of the electricity that makes your heart beat on its own so if your sodium channels get poisoned with monxhood and wolfbane as SNAP calls them you're not able to generate a proper cardiac action potential which means your heart doesn't beat regularly like it should which means you can go into what we call a ventricular arrhythmia i.e. where the ventricles the big bits of your heart are not pumping properly and then you can die because of lack of blood flow to all of your not to your brain and everything else so all of these questions that SNAP has asked Harry and that Harry's unable to give the answer to these are all associated with poisons of different types but the cool thing about that is that they've all got some kind of bases within medical science. of course here it is Nicolas Fummel is the only known maker of the philosopher stone. what? honestly don't you to read the philosopher stone is a legendary substance with astonishing powers it will transform any metal into pure gold and produces their legs your life which will make the dream for mortal immortal it means you'll never die. all right let's talk about the elixir of life and this actually takes us into a really exciting field of medical and scientific research into prolonging life and reducing aging and unfortunately this is an area of research that not many people in the general public are very familiar with. now there's this amazing youtube channel called codesca sacked that you should definitely subscribe to or put a link in the description but here is a clip from their video introducing this concept. guessing old curly means spending more time in pain. so scientists are trying to shift the attention of the medical community from optimizing life spans to optimizing health spans the part of our lives during which we're disease free. to do this we need to attack the root cause of almost all bodily defects aging itself. so that's a bit from their video you should definitely check out the rest of it and I'll include some other links in the description if you're interested in getting an introduction to this whole idea of aging and why we should fight aging and how we can fight aging. but in in the olden days this whole quest for the philosopher stone used to be called the Magnum Opus which is Latin I think for the great work. so like hundreds of years ago people realized that actually this whole thing about aging and death did not have to be the inevitable thing that we now take for granted and I think it's very interesting how we're all very happy to poor billions of dollars into these massive fundraising campaigns for things like heart disease and cancer but also millions of dollars into very rare genetic conditions that affect very few people and yet so few people relatively speaking have thought about contributing to anti-aging research cause if we can cure aging as a disease then we won't need to worry about heart disease and for the most part cancer and Alzheimer's and dementia. these are all diseases that tend to be strongly associated with aging. going back to Harry Potter that sort of what the elixir of life is it's trying to cure the process of aging and that's how Nicholas Flamell our friend from the philosopher stone who recently featured in the fantastic beast film survived for that long. drinking the blood of a unicorn will keep you alive even if you are an inch from death but at a terrible price. okay for the record this unicorn blood thing probably isn't real. there is some kind of talk about how maybe we can do blood transfusions into older people from younger people and that might help combat aging but again the evidence is very very sparse for that and I doubt that's what Jackie Rolling had in mind when she talked about unicorn blood being used to sustain life. you'll get griffing darts trouble again. for you. Neville I'm really really sorry about this. but truffacos totalis. alright so but truffacos totalis has a couple of vaguely medical things that it could possibly relate to if Harry Potter were real. the first one is a film a phenomenon called Rigor Mortis that you might have heard of and that is the third stage of death. the first stage is Palo of Mortis and the second stage is Algor Mortis. Palo means you go pale and Algor means you go cold but in the third stage of death you go rigid and if we look on the scene we also see this like blue sheen appear on him. so maybe that's a reference to the coldness. we also see him looking quite pale but then he is quite pale anyway. there are also a few diseases and drugs that can cause muscle rigidity like what happens to Neville. you can get these things called upper motor neuron lesions which are diseases that affect certain parts of the central nervous system and that can be things like strokes or brain tumors or hemorrhages or spinal cord injuries and it's the interplay between the upper motor neurons and the lower motor neurons that causes our muscles to be able to move and it's the upper motor neurons are either ones in the central nervous system, either brain and the spinal cord that provide an inhibitory effect. so if we have a problem with our upper motor neurons are you a problem with the brain or the spinal cord then it's only the lower motor neurons that are able to function and therefore you get hyperactivity of the muscles so you get rigidity and there are also some chemicals that cause this type of muscle rigidity type effect. probably the most famous one is a poison called tetanus toxin which is the second most potent toxin in the world after botulinum toxin and what tetanus toxin does is that it makes you get this rigid type of paralysis and the way does that is that it gets into your bloodstream and it targets a protein called sinap to breven and cleaves it in half probably not in half but it cleaves it in some way that inactivates a sinap to breven. sinap to breven is a protein that's involved in the release of the neurotransmitter gamma amino buturric acid also known as GABA. now GABA is an inhibitory neurotransmitter which means that much like the upper motor neurons that we just talked about in it inhibits it stops the muscles from being overactivated. so if you get tetanus toxin into your body you don't get sinap to breven working therefore you get less release of GABA from your inhibitory neurons therefore it causes your muscles to become hyperactive so that's kind of what's happening to neville in petrificos tetanus. you're great wizard you really are not as good as you me looks caffinus and I want important things friendship and bravery. there is nothing medical in that at all I just think that's a really really nice and cute part of the film. there's science behind. doesn't it? i'm not going home. not really. alright so that brings us to the end of the video thank you very much for watching that was a breakdown of some of the vaguely scientific slash medical scenes within Harry Potter and the philosopher stone. big shout out to my friend and colleague Dr Ed Hope. our link is a channel down below he does really good breakdowns of all the medical signs within things like the marvel films and anime and stuff like that so you should check that out if if you enjoyed this kind of video. if you liked the video please give it a thumbs up. if you haven't subscribed to the channel yet then please consider doing so. I usually make videos about medicine, tech education productivity that sort of thing so if that's up your dog on Ali you should definitely hit the subscribe button thanks for watching and i'll see you in the next video goodbye.
