# How I ONLY Work 4 Hours a Day - How to Stay Focused
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yGYh_6WdAjA
In this video I'll go over five key elements that have helped me focus on my work and reduce the wasted time that just feels like work but is ultimately unproductive. 

✍️ The best summaries of books (Shortform) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform

00:00 Intro
01:07 Deep Work vs Shallow Work
02:51 Treat the ability to focus like a muscle
05:22 Chase the goals that are most meaningful
06:44 Get into a routine
08:28 Embrace the satisfaction of deep work

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

PART-TIME YOUTUBER ACADEMY:
🍿 My 6-week live online course - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ptya_aliabdaal
CREATORPRENEUR
💰 My flag-ship course for scaling up your creative side-hustle - https://creatorpreneur.academy/course


YOUTUBE FOR BEGINNERS COURSE
📸 This is for anyone who'd like to start a YouTube channel. You'll learn everything you need to get started as a YouTuber including how to script, shoot, and edit your first video - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/YouTube-for-Beginners



MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
📚  How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali

🎙 Deep Dive podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/
The podcast that delves into the minds of entrepreneurs, creators and other inspiring people to uncover the philosophies, strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. You can find it by searching “Deep Dive” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮  Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I’m Ali, a YouTuber, podcaster, soon-to-be author and ex-Doctor working in London, UK. I make videos that explore the strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, how to stay focused, how to focus, how to concentrate, study tips, stay focused, tips for focusing, ali abdaal productivity, tips for focus, stop procrastinating, intense focus, deep work cal newport, deep work book summary, how to focus to change your brain, how to focus on work, how to focus on one thing at a time, how to concentrate better, how to be productive, tips for productivity, productivity tips, productivity motivation, 
**Date:** 2021-07-11

## Transcript
 Hey friends, welcome back to the channel. Let's talk about focusing. Now, there's this whole thing that goes around in the productivity YouTuber game of some people acting as if they study for longer than they actually do or they work harder or they're more hustly or they're more productive than they actually are. And often, you know, when I meet people in real life, they always ask, you know, oh, you know, I've got a question, are you actually as productive as you seem to be in the videos? And I'm always a bit confused about that because I don't feel like I spend a large amount of time working at all. In fact, most days, I only put in about four hours of work each day. But for some reason, there's this impression that some people have on the internet that, oh my god, Ali Abdullah works like 24-7 and I guess you look at the vlogs you see the videos. You see that my desk right now looks super clean, but actually you don't realize how much of a absolute shithole like the living room is. And so I think the important question isn't how can we work harder and longer, but more like how can we be more productive in the few hours that we are working? Because I'm not really a fan of like working all the time. I am a fan of working efficiently so that I can work less of the time and do other things that I enjoy in the rest of the time like playing World of Warcraft or like playing the guitar or like hanging out with friends or whatever. And the Bible on this topic is Deep Work by Kel knew put and there's a lot of pretty solid lessons in this and I want to go over some of my most intriguing takeaways from this book that I've sort of tried to apply to my life and that I'm still trying to apply to my life in this video. Let's go for it. So point number one is appreciating the difference between Deep Work and shallow work and recognizing that Deep Work is generally better than shallow work. So if you see a video of me being like, hey, I study 14 hours today. Probably like three and a bit hours of that was actually Deep Work like actually fully focused. And the rest of that time was probably just kind of screwing around or answering emails or doing little bits and bobs here and there. Deep Work versus shallow work. And obviously like for me, my best ideas and actually like meaningful progress and all the stuff that I'm working on comes from all of the deep work that I do rather than shallow work. And this is a problem because normally I don't have empty blocks in my calendar these days where I can just sit down and do some deep work. And I find that for me to actually make decent progress on something important. I eat deep work. I need like three to four uninterrupted hours. And in fact, since I re-read the summary of this book, which I often like to do with books that I've already read. In some reason, they're some pretty compelling evidence that even like three or four hours isn't enough. You actually need like a whole day of uninterrupted time to kind of get that proper focus state. People like Bill Gates used this sort of thing where, you know, he's got his think weeks where twice a year he would take like a whole week off go to a cabin in the woods where all these meals are prepared by a chef and like his laundry is done and all like I'm sure his laundry is done anyway. But he would like go to this cabin in the woods for like a solid week at a time and use that to just think. And apparently back in the 90s, this was how Microsoft like, you know, vision for how they're going to move forward with the internet like came about. And so that's one thing I'm trying to remind myself to do more often like I was in Oxford for the last two days for my own like think two days. And then I'm not doing very much like work work and I'm just hanging out with people mostly, but I feel like having that recharge was quite nice. Point number two from the book is that we want to treat the ability to focus like a muscle. And anytime I ask on my Instagram story or Twitter or whatever, hey, what are your top struggles with productivity broadly people split into two camps camp number one is I struggle with procrastination and the motivation to get started with doing something. And camp number two is people who are like, I'm okay getting started with doing the thing, but then when when I start doing the thing, I can't focus and I get distracted. And a lot of people in camp number two, like the I can't focus camp almost where they're inability to focus as a badge of honor that, oh, you know, there is this like perverse joy in the sense of like, oh my god, I am such a waste man, I don't know how to focus. I get distracted every five minutes on the internet. And sort of we build this identity that we are chronic procrastinators, we're terrible at focusing, we build that up as a story in our heads. And I think one of the insights from the book is that like you can actually train your focus and focus is a muscle. And you know, these days I don't particularly struggle with distraction, but I certainly used to back in the day. I trained it out of myself over time by kind of spending these bits of time and focused work. Two things I found helpful number one like artificial deadlines. So there's a thing called Parkinson's Law that you might be familiar with, which is that work expands to fill the time that we allocate to it. So if I only give myself half an hour to do something, I will try my best to get it done in that half an hour. Whereas if I give myself a whole day to do something inevitably is going to take the whole day to actually do. And the second one that I find you, so this actually just get rid of distractions by turning my phone on silent and chucking it onto the sofa, which means it's quite annoying to actually get to. And since doing this, yes, occasionally I may say, what's a group chat where a friend sends a meme or something, but that I kind of just give a polite LOL further down the line. And it means that you end really when I'm on a computer and I don't have my slack notifications on because I don't do not disturb on my mac whenever I need to actually do some deep work. It means that I've just sort of over time trained that ability to focus and that is something that's very, very doable. And he's got some more tips in the book if you want to check it out. Quick thing, if you can't be bothered to actually read the book and I won't blame you because it's quite thick. It's quite thick. It is good, but it's quite thick. There's a great life cycle to short form, which is my favorite way of reading book summaries. They're not sponsoring this video. In fact, no one is sponsoring this video. But I have a link to short form.com for slash I'll leave it in the video description. And if you hit that link, you'll get a free trial and I'll think you'll get a bit of a discount of your subscription, something like that. I'd recommend it. It's really good. It's good. If you don't know if you want to read a book yet and you just want to see the summary and then decide if you want to read a book. So I do that quite a lot. And also for me, if I've read a book like a deep work or the four hour work week or whatever. And I want to revisit the ideas from it. I don't really read the book generally. I just read the summary on short form. So yeah, would recommend. Alright, tip number three from the book that I'm trying harder and harder to apply to my life, which again, I still struggle with, is this idea that we should chase only the goals that are most meaningful. Quite often these days, I get to the end of a day and I'll be like, you know what, what did I actually do today? That like made meaningful progress towards a goal that I care about or something that I care about. And often I was like, well, I was just kind of zoomed calls all day and answering emails all day and trying to sort out this random admin all day. And if I think like which goal in my life, any of this stuff propel me towards, I think, I really find it hard to, to point to that. And I think a big part of that reason is that, you know, these little bits of time, you know, 20 minutes here or half an hour here and hour here and there. That's time that's only really suitable for shallow work rather than deep work. And what can you put talks about is that a lot of the difference between shallow work and deep work is that deep work is that the work that moves us towards our goals. And shallow work is those sort of those little bits like answering emails and replying to messages and like the zoom calls and all that sort of stuff. One way that I like to help combat this, it doesn't work all the time, but I try it is that every day I set myself a daily highlight where I'm like, okay, what is the one most important thing I need to do today? And then I schedule it into my calendar, I literally have a block in my calendar for my daily highlight and then I try my best to do it in that time. And on the days where I actually set my daily highlight and schedule it in the time block around 80% of the time, I then managed to get it done. And at the end of the day, I'm always like, yes, I did my daily highlight. I made progress on something that was meaningful to me at some point in the day and that feels really good. Tip 4 from the book is to get into a routine. Now, when it comes to deep work, I sort of have a routine whereas each morning from like 10 a.m. to like 1 p.m. I've sort of got that block type in my calendar where no one is allowed to book any calls with me or anything like that. And most of the time, in those slots, I do manage to get some amount of deep work done. Having reroute the summary of this on short form, I realise that three hours is also probably not quite enough time in an ideal world. That would have like the whole day. So now what I'm trying to do is kind of block out all of Tuesday and all of Friday, just for deep work, where I'm not allowed to do anything else. But if you've got a job or if you're a student or whatever and you don't quite have that capacity to literally just block out a whole day for deep work. I think this thing of having a recurring ritual where either every morning or every morning on certain days of the week. For a few hours, you've got this time blocked out to work on things that are meaningful. So for you, there might be, I don't know, preparing for a university exam or it might be learning how to code or working on your business or like learning a hobby or in my case, it's actually making progress in writing my book, which is something I've been struggling with for the last couple of months. And he talks about here that like apparently the scientific consensus is that the our overall capacity for deep work is about four hours a day. And so if we try and do more than four hours a day of deep work, it's really not going to be very deep and our brains broadly can't like focus for that amount of time in a given day. And so don't feel bad if you get recommended one of my videos on the sidebar that talks about how I study for 14 hours a day. So it's not actually true. I went through my old like study with me videos from my university days. And even though it looked like I was studying the whole day, I like added up the amount of time where I was actually doing focus work. And it ended up being around about four or five hours each day and some of that was procrastination as well. So I think we all need to be a little bit more realistic about what is an achievable amount of productivity or deep work to do in a day. And the goal that I'm personally shooting for is four hours. Finally point number five that really resonates with me is to embrace the satisfaction of deep work. Like shallow work is satisfying in that if it feels good to reply to an email and then tick off like little things from the to do list and I get into that. And I often like convince myself that I'm being productive by doing these like shallow work, he type things. But it's only really at the end of the day is where I've done a decent chunk of deep work. I keep unplugging the name. It's good. It's good title for a book. It's only other days where I've done a solid set of deep work and made progress on something. That feels like genuinely satisfying and like fulfilling and nice. And then I think to, you know, like yesterday I spent most of the day replying to emails. It didn't really feel particularly satisfying. I go to the end of the day. I was like, I'm not really sure what I've done with my time today. If you're interested in more tips on how to focus, I actually recommend the book or reading a short form. If you haven't got the time to actually read the book and if you're interested in more tips on time management I have a video here. I'll explain how I manage my time as a doctor in YouTube. So thank you so much for watching. Have a great day and I'll see you in the next video. Bye bye.
