# Study with Me + Active Recall tips | Life as a Junior Doctor
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YHJzSbLiQNs
🎬 Check out my FREE 36-video online class on how to study for exams - https://skl.sh/2UOx68x 

Another study with me video! Today we're continuing the journey of preparing for the ALS (Advanced Life Support) course, and along the way I share some pointers for how to effectively use Active Recall. 

Rosetta Stone - http://bit.ly/RosettaStonexAli
- Use the coupon code ALI50 to get 50% off 😁

--------

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
😃  How to be Happier - Stoicism Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/stoicism

TOOLS OF THE TRADE:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk
📚  How I remember what I read - Readwise - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
What I Use For Analytics - https://go.aliabdaal.com/tubebuddy
🌐 My website platform (Ghost) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost

OTHER RECOMMENDED COURSES
📔 Effortless Output with Roam Research - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/roam
📓 Building a Second Brain - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/basb

🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** study with me, study tips, medical student, junior doctor, junior doctor vlog, doctor vlog, ali abdaal, cambridge medical student, cambridge medic, study with me live, 
**Date:** 2018-11-29

## Transcript
 Hey guys, welcome back to the channel. If you knew him, my name is Ali. I'm a junior doctor working in Cambridge and this is another episode of the Study with Me Log Series. So as usual, I wake up at 7.30 in the morning, but lie in bed like a wasteman until 9 a.m. Between 9 and 10 I get out of bed, have a shower, make some coffee, eat some left over pizza for breakfast and tidy the house a little bit. I then grab the boosted board and head over to the hospital to meet up with a student from Germany who was in Cambridge for an interview and wanted to have a chat. By the way, if anyone ever wants to meet up in person, I have a stunning offer that I'll buy your coffee in Cambridge if you happen to be around. I get home around 12 o'clock and work through some of my Japanese course on Rosetta Stone, which is my favourite up for learning languages. I've been using Rosetta Stone for the past few months and I love how it teaches you some vocabulary up front, but then you end up picking up other bits that they didn't explicitly teach you and this feels really rewarding. It's become a personal project of mine to get my Japanese skills up to speed so that when I visit Japan hopefully in the next few years, I will not allow to speak anything other than Japanese to get around. If you're interested in learning a language you can use my 50% off promotional code to get a 2-year subscription for just £5 a month and if you're shopping for Christmas presents for loved ones, one at 4-go materialism for a year and give them the gift of learning instead with a Rosetta Stone subscription, more details in the video description. Anyway, from around 1pm onwards I get down to actually do some work and I continue working through the ALS manual which stands for Advanced Life Support, basically a course in resuscitating patients who have, you know, died or are acutely deteriorating and are about to die. I start by revisiting my active recall questions that I wrote yesterday as shown in the previous study with me video and this is of course space repetition in action. As always while reading through the course book, I'm highlighting stuff that's new to me particularly interesting. I turn some of these highlights into questions that I'll go through later today but also when I'm revisiting the subject in a few days time, a point I want to make is that I don't really just turn every single highlight or piece of new information into a question or a flashcard. This is a mistake students often make when we first get started with this whole active recall thing and we end up with thousands of flashcards that we never ever have the time to actually go through. There's no real hard and fast rule for what warrants a flashcard and what doesn't. It is something you pick up through familiarity with the subject. When you see a piece of new information and you can judge how relevant or important it is and whether you need a flashcard at all to remember it. This is why it's so easy to make too many flashcards when you're first getting started with the subject because everything is new and you don't know what you'll end up picking up without needing flashcards at all. In general I like to write two types of question for myself. The first is discreet facts like a drug dosing or mechanisms of action or nerve supplies to a particular muscle discreet facts that you either know or you don't. These lend themselves nicely to flashcards or to questions in my spreadsheet. The second type of question I like to set myself starts with the phrase, what's the deal with? For example in this study session I write the question, what's the deal with synchronized shocks? Now flashcard enthusiasts would not like this question because it's vague, it's open-ended, it's not specific. However, I think it is a fantastic question for testing your understanding of a subject. So when I see this question, I imagine myself explaining it to one of the junior medical students. So I probably explain how shocks delivered with a defibrillator can be synchronized or unsynchronized. The synchronized refers to whether the shock is delivered at the same time as the R-wave in the QRS complex. Unsynchronized shocks are used for the classic shockable rhythms of ventricular fibrillation and pulse loss ventricular tachycardia. Uh, it doesn't matter when in the cardiac cycle you deliver them. If, however, we're dealing with a ventricular or super ventricular tachycardia and the patient is unstable, but alive, we need to synchronize the shock to the R-wave. Because if the shock came in during the T-wave, for example, when the ventricles are repolarizing, then that has the potential of flipping the patient into VF. And this is why we need a synchronized shock for unstable tachycardia as well. The patient is alive. But obviously, there's a lot of jargon in there. It sounds pretty robust. And if I were to turn this into a proper flash card and write out the answer in full, it would be really long and probably not worth it. But the fact that I've got a question saying, what's the deal with synchronized shocks? As a question for myself, means that when I see it, I run through this reasoning in my head. And if I notice that there are holes in my knowledge, I open up Google and look it up. There's no need for me to write the whole answer out in full in a flash card because it's far quicker to just Google it if there's a hole in my knowledge. Anyway, now we're at around 2.30 pm and I start to get bored of studying and so I write out the script to yesterday's study with me video. Wow, this is getting very meta. The study with me videos are the only ones that I write out the script for swall because then I can record the voice over first and worry about fitting the footage to it later. I then spend another hour and a half having some more left over pizza, making some tea, playing around with the likes in the living room and calling my grandma and WhatsApp. I had around 4 pm, I headed to town to get a birthday present for my mom, Q&B role sequence. That evening, we grabbed dinner at Tycoon, a cleverly named Ty restaurant in the town center, and I get home by around 8.30 pm. I spend the next two hours continuing the process of going through the course manual and again, writing active recall questions for stuff that's new or that tests my understanding in a good way. At this point I want to make three points about study techniques. Firstly, let's talk about active recall. Hopefully you'll have seen my evidence-based study tips video where I talk about why active recall is the most efficient study method, but I seem to get questions all the time from students worried about what counts as active recall. This is always a bit confusing for me because active recall just means testing it doesn't matter how you do it, it doesn't have to be fancy, it doesn't matter if it's flash cards or anchored, quiz little Google sheets or writing out questions by hand. What matters is that you're testing yourself in one way or another. Active recall is complicated, it just means retrieving information from your brain. You can do this however you like. For example, you could write down everything you know about a topic without looking at the book in the form of a spider diagram or a bullet point list or an essay or literally whatever you want. Or you can do what I do and answer these little questions that you've set for yourself. It really doesn't matter what matters is that you're testing yourself, you're retrieving information from your brain. Secondly, another thing I do in these study sessions is that when I finished with a chapter, before moving on to the next one, I glance back through my active recall questions for the previous chapters and make sure I know the answers to all of them. This again is space repetition, which is the second pillar of efficient studying, but space repetition isn't just what you do the next day and the next week. It even works when you repeat stuff in the same day and if you haven't yet seen my video dedicated to space repetition and talking about the evidence behind it, I'll put a link in the top right corner and also in the video description. Finally, I want to point out that while I'm going through the chapter on rhythm strip analysis, for example, I'm covering up the answers so that I can test myself as I'm going through it. I was very tempted to just forget about this and read through it, but I had to actively fight the temptation to take the path of least resistance. Testing ourselves is always more work than just reading, but it's that added effort that encourages the links to form in our brains. So don't be disgruntled if your studying feels like effort. It's supposed to and the more effort full it feels, the more effectively you'll encode and retain that information. Right, now we're at 10.30 pm and I've had enough. I realized at this point that I've been working for the last two hours with only a toilet break in between, which is pretty good going. I sense myself starting to lose interest and I see that some quite information heavy topics are coming up, so I'll save those for another day. I then wind down before bed with a hot bubble bath and some reading on my keyboard. So thank you very much for watching. I hope you enjoyed this video. If you did, please give it a thumbs up. If you haven't subscribed to the channel yet, then please consider doing to have a lovely week and I'll see you in the next video. Good night.
