# How to be More Productive in Lockdown
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yOC7w8kfsB4
To improve your thinking and learning skills with active recall, visit https://brilliant.org/ali and sign up for free. The first 200 people will get 20% off the annual Premium subscription :)

TIMESTAMPS
00:20 - The One Year Rule
02:06 - The Daily Highlight
03:38 - Write a To-Do List
06:08 - Parkinson's Law
07:32 - Get Out of a Slump

--------

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
😃  How to be Happier - Stoicism Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/stoicism

TOOLS OF THE TRADE:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk
📚  How I remember what I read - Readwise - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali
What I Use For Analytics - https://go.aliabdaal.com/tubebuddy
🌐 My website platform (Ghost) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost

OTHER RECOMMENDED COURSES
📔 Effortless Output with Roam Research - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/roam
📓 Building a Second Brain - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/basb

🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** productivity tips, how to be productive, top productivity tips, how to be productive at home, being productive at home, how to stop wasting time, parkinson's law, how to be productive as a student, productivity for students, productivity for busy people, best productivity tips, how to be more productive, productivity tips and tricks, how to get more done, time management, how to stop procrastinating, how to manage your time, increase productivity, time management skills, 
**Date:** 2020-03-24

## Transcript
 Hey friends, welcome back to the channel. In this video, I want to share five productivity tips that I find really helpful, especially at times like this, where we are stuck at home, pretty much doing nothing with all this social distancing stuff going on. At least me, I want to be productive, I want to get stuff done rather than just kind of, sort of hope and watch Netflix, even though that's quite fun as well. So anyway, five productivity tips coming up that I found helpful. So let's dive into it with tip number one. Alright, so tip number one is what I call the one year rule. And the one year rule is asking ourselves the question that in one year's time, what will I regret not starting today? And I think this is really good because when we're deciding what to do, especially at a time like this social distancing and stuff, where we're all going to be stuck indoors for a long period of time, I think it's really helpful to think about doing a service to our future selves. And I find that, like, if I ask myself the one year rule, the one year question, then I can sort of bring loads of things to mind. Like, you know, a year from now, I wish I were better at piano, better at guitar, I wish I'd taken singing more seriously, I'd wish I'd learnt a site read music, which is sort of what I'm doing in music very, and stuff. I wish I'd just have, like, book reviews on my website, I wish I'd started this aspect of my videos, that aspect of my videos. I wish I'd done that thing, I wish I'd been going to the gym more seriously, I wish I'd been taking my posture and stretching and stuff more seriously. There's all sorts of things that I know a year from now, I will regret not starting today. And I find that really helps in terms of helping me figure out what to actually do with my time. So, for example, in my 30th year of med school, I was studying psychology, and I had a load of spare time on my hands. And part of me was tempted to restart playing World of Warcraft, but then I asked myself, you know, what would my future self want? And I haven't had a piano in my room, and so that was the time where I first taught myself how to play the piano by following YouTube tutorials and stuff. And now, piano is one of the, you know, best things in my life, and I post songs on Instagram about me singing songs, singing the piano and things. And that wouldn't have happened if I hadn't thought about the one year rule back when I had gallons of free time in my 30th year of med school. So, if you're at home, social distancing, whatever you're doing at home, maybe consider asking yourself the question that in a year's time, what will I regret not doing today, not starting today into it consistently? And I think that is a good tip to help us guide the direction that we should be heading. So, that's time number one, let's move on. Alright, so tip number two is the Daily Highlight. Now, this was a tip I picked up from this book, Make Time by Jake Kapp and John Zeracksky, which I'll be doing a proper video about in due course. But essentially, one of the key insights from this book is that every day we should have a single highlight, like the one thing that we're going to focus on for the day. So, for me, the highlight of today is to film this productivity tip to video. The highlight for yesterday was to figure out like a website and read architecture for my personal website, but essentially it's like the one thing that I want to get done today to make today a win. And the way I write it out is that every morning I sort of write an analog list in my north term 1917 notebook. And I have like three sections, I have HG and L. So, the H is what's my daily highlight. So, today, film productivity video. The G is something that I'm grateful for, and I've written, having something to do during social distancing. And the L is something to let go of, and I want to let go of fear, which is just something that's been floating around in my mind, because I watched loads of yes theory videos this morning, all about embracing discomfort and leaning into the fear of doing stuff. And I've certainly got a lot of fear about doing certain things that might be a bit rogue. And so, I want to kind of let go of that. But essentially, yeah, it was an important thing, having a daily highlight, having a single thing that you're going to focus on for the day. And I found that to be a really helpful way to guide my sort of point myself in the right direction. And then I can start kind of pouring fuel on the productivity thing. But once I know what direction I'm pointing, everything kind of falls into place. And that's what I get from the daily highlight. So, thanks guys for that, and I'll see you in the next tip. All right. So, for tip number four, once we have figured out what a daily highlight is going to be, we should write a to-do list of everything else we want to get done in that day. So, for example, this morning, I sat on this desk with my cup of coffee, which is now very cold and still very clean. Oh, god, that's terrible. I'm so bad at making coffee. Anyway, this morning, I sat down after doing my highlight thing I'm grateful for and the thing on let go of, I wrote down a whole list of things to do. So, day in the life of log, which is kind of what I'm filming, a call 90, because my grandma fiction video script that I need to look over, guy any day in the life video voiceover. But yeah, essentially, I think it's really helpful to have this kind of list to do. So, that in the back of my mind, it sort of adds this slight element of me knowing I have more stuff to do. Which means I'm more likely to kind of get my current thing, my main highlight for the day this video, done quickly because I know I need to tackle these other things on my to-do list. And the other way of thinking of it is that, I think, one way of thinking about a to-do list is thinking about it as sort of stuff that's weighing you down. But the other way of thinking of a to-do list is thinking of it as obstacles in your path that you're going to power through. And the way I like to think of it, which I got from a friend of mine said, is on the rugby team and like the sports analogies. And I can pretend to be some sort of sportsman. And it's better to think about it as a series of things that you're going to bashing, sort of get down. So I'm going to bash through this, this and this. And I feel really good at the start of the day when I sort of brain dump and empty my mind onto the page, I call it my morning dump actually, because the morning dump to do this, that can be what tip number three is anyway, the morning dump, empty my mind, and like literally right down everything that I might need to get done. So, whatever I recommend for you is that if you're struggling with being productive during social distancing, or isolation or quarantine or whatever, even just in day-to-day life, whatever this virus thing blows over things across, hopefully. If you're struggling to be productive, I think I was just writing out a long list of things that you want to get done that day. And then just kind of tucking them as if you're like a rugby player, like running into someone. That's a good way of thinking about it. But doing this in the morning, this morning dump gives me kind of clarity on what I need to do. Yeah, basically, more of the story is to do this, writing down everything that you need to do in a given day. And I'm a fan of using apps for absolutely everything, but there's just something nice about doing the morning dump on the Lifetime 1917 Analog Notebook with the Uniball Air Pen where to go. Oh, there's so many favorite series of pens. I'm talking about this in my latest monthly favorites video. But yeah, it's really good. Anyway, that was tip number three, let's move on. Alright, so tip number four is called Parkinson's Law, and Parkinson's Law states that work expands to fill the time that we allocate to it. So, basically, the more time we give ourselves to do something, the more time the thing will take. If we give ourselves less time to do the stuff we need to get done, it will get done in that time. And we've all experienced this like the night before a deadline. The night before an essay or an assignment is due or whatever, we just get it done. Whereas if we know it's due three months from now, then we'll just procrastinate or put it off or do all this research that we don't really need to do. And probably it'll be no better than it was if we just did it like a few nights before. And I really found this, which is partly why I like having this whole long to do list of everything. Because if the only thing I wanted to do today is just film this video, I would inevitably procrastinate all day and end up doing absolutely everything. And then at 8pm, I would be like, okay, I need to get round to film in this video. But because I've got so many other things on my to do list, which I basically kind of just manufactured up this morning when I was like, you know, what are all the things I could potentially get done today. Even if I'm not going to get all of them done, which I probably won't, because it's quite a lot on the list. That just means that in my mind, like subconsciously and consciously, I am trying to get stuff done efficiently, which means I can be more productive because productivity is doing the things we want to do as efficiently as possible. So we can act in service to our future selves and have fun while we're doing it. It's pretty good definition actually. Anyway, Parkinson's Law, we should always keep that in mind. Yeah, that was tip number four, let's move on. And tip number five is for finding ways to get out of a slump. We all have those moments when we're kind of bashing through our to do list, we're treating it as like obstacles, we're going to tackle out of the way. But when it comes to sort of roundabout, like, I find that for me, a sort of an hour or half an hour after lunch, that's when I feel a real slump, like, oh, I just want to stop doing the thing, or kind of in the evening around seven, eight PM time, even though I've still got loads of stuff to do. So there are a few different things that we can do to get out of that slump. The first one is coffee, so I drink a lot of coffee in the mornings, but I try to avoid coffee after like two, three PM, because there's some evidence that caffeine stays in your bloodstream for about nine hours, and that means if I have caffeine after three PM, my quality of sleep is going to get reduced. So coffee before three PM, I also find that making peppermint tea actually helps me get me out of the slump, because peppermint tea is naturally caffeine-free. And so even if it's like seven PM, and I know I need to do like a final wind to get some work done, then I'll make some peppermint tea, not worry about the caffeine side of it, because it's caffeine-free, and that'll help me get out of the slump. Another thing you can do is do a quick workout, so I've got some gym supplies on the balcony, then I'm going to be working out with today, because going to the gym is a terrible idea during social distancing, and isolation and all that stuff. It's also really hard to not touch my face, but hopefully everything else will be alright. Either going to the gym doing a workout, even just kind of going for a walk around the park, that's one of Thomas Frank's favorite techniques. Every time he's in a slump, he just kind of goes for a walk. Oh, the final thing you can do that I actually do a lot is like genuinely do an online course on Brilliant, or a kindly sponsoring this video, and I'm not just saying this because this sponsoring this video, because even in days of the life videos that are not sponsored by Brilliant, I still sometimes go on Brilliant and do an online course, but if you haven't heard, Brilliant is a fantastic online platform that has courses on maths, science, and computer science. And the great thing about those is that they're very interactive. It's not just didactic teaching, it's not like watching a lecture. It's like reading a little bit, watching a bit of a video, seeing an animation, and then you ask you a question that puts everything into perspective, and that lets you actually work your own mind. So a few days ago, I had like this whole day in the life thing. I was filming stuff, and it got to about like 10pm, where I still had loads of stuff to do, but instead I sat down and I did an introduction to neural networks course on Brilliant. And I actually spent like 20 minutes half an hour just doing this online course, because it was so interesting and engaging, and I was finding out about this neural network stuff, which I've always sort of been interested in, because I know, especially in medicine, there's all this kind of neural network AI machine learning stuff that supplied to image recognition images, and analysis for things like chest X-rays, CT scans, and ECGs, and various sorts of imaging. But this was a really sort of accessible and engaging introduction to how image analysis works on that front, and I just find myself just actually spending absolutely age and just kind of going through it. And then half an hour later, by the time I kind of finished the first few lessons in this course, and done the daily challenge, this is another good feature from Brilliant that you can check out. By the time I done that, I felt like my whole brain was rejuvenated. And so, again, not just saying that for the sponsoring this video, but they asked it, if you want to exercise your brain with courses and maths science and computer science, there's no time like the present at a time like now to learn some new skills, learn something interesting, go to Brilliant.org for what's slash Ali, and the first 200 people to click that link, will get 20% of an annual premium subscription. So thanks again, guys, I'm sponsoring this video, and yeah, that's kind of brings me to the end of what I want to talk about. We've talked about five tips of productivity. We've said number one, one year rule, like in one year's time, what when I regret not starting today and doing consistently, number two, the power of the daily highlight from that book, make a time. Point number three, writing it out of to do list, and treating it as a sort of bashing through multiple things in a given day. Number four, Parkinson's Law, bearing in mind, that work expands to fill the time that we allocate to it, so we should limit our time allocated to certain tasks in order to get them done. And point number five, finding ways to get out of a slump, so I'm about to do a workout at the gym, because I feel a little bit of a slump right now. Drink some pep mint tea if it's after three pm, drink some coffee, it's before three pm, because there's loads of evidence that coffee improves like brain stimulation and stuff. Do it online course, and bring in to org if you fancy exercising your mind. So yeah, that's it. If you enjoyed this video, I have another one, which is called, how I manage my time as a doctor in YouTube, and that has like eight different time management tips. We talk about Parkinson's Law, but I think everything else is seven other tips that are not mentioned in this video, so you should definitely check that out, that I'll be linked over here. Thanks for watching. Stay healthy, stay safe, and I'll see you in the next video. Bye-bye. Thank you.
