# Investing Advice for Teenagers (2023)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=YuCRDlEFaw4
The first 1,000 people to use this link will get a 1 month free trial of Skillshare: https://skl.sh/aliabdaal04229

Hey friends, this video is about how to invest as a teenager: basically the advice I’d give my 15-year-old self. You might be fairly broke, but that doesn’t mean you can’t build good money habits + make decisions that’ll pay off further down the line.

How to Invest for Beginners - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gFQNPmLKj1k
The Best Book I've Ever Read about Making Money - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Gx2vyi4JcV0
The Book That Changed My Financial Life 🤑
 - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Gg8_TA7U0Uw
Revealing My Investment Portfolio
 - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MgI6iquuuzA&ab_channel=AliAbdaal
Bitcoin for Beginners (2021) - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hXkiAfjFtgU
The best summaries of books (Shortform) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform

00:22 Part 1 - Investing your money
00:24 1. The dangers of saving too much
01:39 2. Investment accounts
02:54 3. The power of index funds
03:57 4. Crypto?
05:19 5. Leveling up
06:30 Part 2 - Investing your time
06:45 1. Build a fastlane mindset
07:42 2. Learn useful and in demand skills
09:08 3. Document your learning and your journey i.
10:55 4. Learn about video production
12:45 5. Become money literate
13:57 6. Get a job or work experience
14:30 7. Make things for people you admire, for free
15:42 8. Find a way to build a business
16:45 9. Turn your active income into passive income
18:44 10. Consider outsourcing some work


MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying

PART-TIME YOUTUBER ACADEMY:
🍿 My 6-week live online course - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ptya_aliabdaal
CREATORPRENEUR
💰 My flag-ship course for scaling up your creative side-hustle - https://creatorpreneur.academy/course


YOUTUBE FOR BEGINNERS COURSE
📸 This is for anyone who'd like to start a YouTube channel. You'll learn everything you need to get started as a YouTuber including how to script, shoot, and edit your first video - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/YouTube-for-Beginners



MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
✍️ The best summaries of books (Shortform) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
📚  How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali

🎙 Deep Dive Podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/
The podcast that delves into the minds of entrepreneurs, creators and other inspiring people to uncover the philosophies, strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. You can find it by searching “Deep Dive with Ali Abdaal” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc).

BE MY FRIEND:
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/friendzone/
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
💙  The Friendzone Discord - https://discord.gg/Dh2kGavffd
🎮  Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I’m Ali, a YouTuber, podcaster, soon-to-be author and ex-Doctor working in London, UK. I make videos that explore the strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. I also have a weekly podcast called Deep Dive (https://www.youtube.com/channel/UChfo46ZNOV-vtehDc25A1Ug), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://email.aliabdaal.com).


GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, how to invest, how to invest in stocks, how to invest as a teenager, how to build wealth, investing for beginners, how to invest as a teen, passive income, stock market investing, how to become a millionaire, how to invest under 18, how to invest for teenagers, how to invest in stocks for teens, how to invest in stocks as a beginner, ali abdaal productivity, stock market, index funds warren buffett, investing for beginners uk, 
**Date:** 2022-04-29

## Transcript
 Usually, when you're young, you are a time-billionaire, ie, you have loads of loads of time, but not much money. And then, as we get older, we get more and more money, but we have less and less time and more and more responsibilities. So, in this episode of Money Club, with the ongoing series where we discuss the principal strategies and tools that can help us along our shared journey towards financial independence. We're going to go over the top five ways to invest your money and also the top ten ways to invest your time, that I would do if I were a teenager all over again. Part one, investing your money. Now, the first most important point when you're saving money when you're young is please don't try and save too much. I know it sounds counterintuitive, everyone says you should be saving money all that kind of stuff, but you definitely don't want to be getting to the point where you are sacrificing fun experiences for the sake of having an extra few dollars in your bank account. Like, for example, let's say you're a teenager and you're living in the UK or the US. If you have fifty dollars or fifty pounds, that actually goes pretty far. It's going to be a big percentage of your monthly income, whether that's from a part-time job, or from gifts and things like that, and you can use that fifty pounds for a bunch of fun things, like hanging out with your friends, or going to the cinema, or even going on dates, or going on cool experiences, going backpacking, there's lots of stuff you can do with that money. Now, the reason why we shouldn't save too much as teenagers is because as we get older, our earning power is only going to go higher and higher. And because we're going to have loads more money coming in, that extra 50 pounds is going to seem like a drop in the ocean compared to the money we actually make through having a proper full-time job. And really, as we get older, our happiness from spending the same amount of money decreases significantly over time. So if you think about 10 years from now, it really won't matter to your future self, whether you save that 50 pounds, but the experience that you might have gone through hanging out with your friends, rather than thinking I need to save the 50 pounds, would have added to your bank of experiences, just generally for a happier life. So really, when you're a teenager, it's important to keep in mind that the best thing you can do for your future self, isn't really to save that money, but it is to spend that money on cool experiences that you can then look back on in your memory bank. Right, so having said that, point number two is that you should probably try and open an investment account. There's a basically like a savings account, but if you put money into it, it lets you then invest it in the stock market and stocks and shares. Now, I've got a whole separate half an hour long video, which is all about an introduction to investing in the stock markets, so we're not going to go over all the basics of it here, but that'll be linked up there over there and down in the video description. If you want more of a primer about why and how you should be investing in the stock market. Now, for example, in countries like the UK and the US, you do have to be over 18 to invest in the stock market as an individual, and so what you need to do is you need to ask your parents where you're guardian or whatever, to open up some kind of investment account for you, like junior, icees like the call in the UK, or custodial joint accounts that they're called in the US, it's going to vary depending on which country you're in. Now, the point of opening one of these investing accounts when you're a teenager is not that, you're plowing all your savings into it so that your stock market money can go up. Really, the whole point of opening an investing account is so that you know what the process is like of actually putting money into stocks and shares. There are so many people I know who are in there, sort of late 20s, making good money, but have never invested in the stock market because it's always seemed like a mental barrier. It's like, oh, it seems so hard. And if they'd start doing it at a younger age, even putting $5 in here and there, it just removes that mental emotional barrier from putting money into the stock market. So that's really the point of doing this when you're young, rather than thinking, hey, the point is to make loads of money over time. Right, so once you've got your investment account, point number three is that you want to invest some small amount of money in index funds. Again, I speak much more about index funds in my more detailed video about investing, but essentially, when you buy an index fund, like for example, the 50, 100, you are investing some amount of money in the top 100 companies in the UK. Or if you buy the index fund, the S&P 500, you are investing a little bit of money in the top 500 companies in the US all in one go. For most normal people, this is way better than trying to pick individual stocks. Like, instead of saying, oh, I reckon Tesla's going to go up. I reckon Disney's going to go up because I like watching Disney+, or whatever. You just diversify your money by splitting it between these top 500 companies. Now, again, the point is not that that $10 that you're investing in the top market is going to compound over time in making millions further down the line. You know, it will compound and that is a good thing, but it's negligible compared to the amount of money you are going to be putting into investments as you start earning real money. But the whole point is that it just gets you familiar with the experience. It gets you into that investor mindset of when you have spare cash thinking, you know what? I can just chuck it into the S&P 500. I can chuck it into an index fund and not think anything of it. Whereas, if you wait until you're 25 to do that, it's going to be a big mental and emotional hurdle. So you should get over that hurdle when you're a teenager. So we're investing some of our money into index funds. I'd recommend we also invest a little bit of our money into crypto. Yes, crypto. Crypto these days, really interesting asset class. Interesting to learn about, interesting to follow. If you want to educate yourself about crypto, there are loads of channels here that do that. I've got a video up there, which is a basic introduction to Bitcoin. There's a chap called Paki McCormick, who has a really, really good email newsletter called Not Boring, they'll be linked down below, which is a great primer and all things related to crypto. And again, I'm not saying put loads of money into crypto because you might lose it because it's still a fairly high risk investment. What I'm saying is put a little bit of money into it. Make an account on Coinbase linked down below, verify your ID, all of that jazz. Make an account in whatever crypto brokerage platform exists in your country. That is safe and reputable and put a few dollars in here and there into something like Bitcoin or something like Ethereum. I'm about 50, 50 split between Bitcoin and Ethereum. I don't really bother with the altcoins or anything like that. I'm not a very sophisticated crypto investor. But I think it's sufficiently interesting that I put some amount of my savings and my net worth into crypto. And again, the point is not that something you're going to become a crypto billionaire and kind of money goes to the moon. It's more that you get an idea of what it's like to invest in this asset class and you educate yourself more about what it's actually like to invest in crypto and all the stuff around Web3. And really, there's nothing like actually having skin in the game and actually having money invested into something like Bitcoin and Ethereum to really encourage you to explore it and take it seriously. And really, the educational value of investing in crypto is why I'd recommend it for teenagers rather than money going to the moon or anything like that. Finally, if you still have a little bit of spare cash left after actually spending money on experiences and hanging out with your friends and stuff, I would recommend that you invest some amount of money into books or learning of some capacity. Now, to be honest, when you're a teenager, you probably know that you don't necessarily need to pay for a lot of things. There are ways to get books basically any book under the sun for free on the internet. And you probably don't need me to tell you that. Similarly, software, similarly courses. Now, I'm going to hold my hands up and say that when I was a teenager, I was a bit of a bad boy. I'm not going to lie. I actually did pirate a Adobe Photoshop back in the day. I'm not proud of it, but I now pay for price for it. And actually, our team pays thousands of dollars a year to Adobe these days. I also, when I was 17, so 10 years ago, one with 11 years gone now, pirated my first copy of the four hour work week by Tim Ferriss. Come on, you're killing me here. Which was the book that most changed my life. Since then, I have supported all of the stuff that Tim does to responses and stuff. So I feel feel less bad about it. But hey, you know what I'm just saying. Probably not morally good, but, you know, you can make a decision on that front. Alternatively, you can go to libraries to get things like libraries of these incredible inventions, whether you just have books available completely for free, that you can just like read. And that's amazing. Because then you can read books about like business and learning and entrepreneurship. And all that kind of stuff that will help you out further in life, if that's the root you want to go. But investing some amount of your money into learning would generally be a good idea. Part two, investing your time. So let's talk about 10 different things that you can invest your time into when you're young. When you're young, you generally have loads of free time and not much money. So really, investing money is like a bit of a side hustle. Investing time is really where you can make decisions that move the needle for your future life, if that's the sort of thing you're into. And tip number one is to build a fast lane mindset. And you should read this book, the millionaire fast lane. If you don't want to read the book, eight, you should, but I have got a video about it up there. And I'll link to the short form book summary of the book, which is also pretty good. And I'll link that down in the video description. But basically the book talks about and genuinely it's sick. It's one of my favorite books about making money of all time. So 100% would recommend reading this if you're a teenager or even if you're not. And one thing he says in the book is that get rich quick is not necessarily bad thing because get rich quick is what we're trying to do quick, meaning in under 10 years. Get rich easy is the thing that is non existent. And anytime someone is promising you a path or a course or anything to get rich easy, they are trying to scam you because there is nothing to that. There is no easy way to get rich. But there are quicker ways to get rich than others. And they generally involve building a business. So you can read the book. You can educate yourself about the idea and kind of start thinking, instead of this slow lane approach of get a good job, go to university, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, retire at 65. Try and think more around what can you do to build wealth in the short term by building some kind of business that provides large amounts of value. Two lots of people at scale. Tip number two for investing your time. When you're young is to learn useful and in demand skills. Now, even today, learning to code is still one of the best skills that you can have. I had dinner with a chap yesterday who learned to code. Did a computer science degree at university in fairness. And now he's earning $750,000 a year as like a 27 year old working for some tech company in the Bay Area. I absolutely absurd how much money software developers are making these days. I even know people who didn't go to university. I've got a friend who left school at the age of 18. Didn't go to university taught himself how to code using the internet. And then got a job as a software developer within a year of actually teaching himself how to code. And I think was making ATK year as his first salary. And that's just kind of slowly grown over time as well. And especially with all the stuff around web three booming these days, like being able to code in something like solidity or being able to program stuff for the fear and blockchain or salon or polygon or all these other things that I don't particularly understand. If you can actually get into that world and it's not that hard. There's free tutorials on the internet. There's YouTube channels dedicated to this sort of stuff. If you can teach yourself that stuff, that is a skill that's ridiculously high in demand. And you can use it to either build your own thing. Your own little startup, your own product, your own web three company. Or you can be hired to someone else's thing. Or you can join an early stage startup. There's so many options if you don't have a code. And honestly, if I was young, in fact, if I didn't have this YouTube channel, I would be spending all of my time basically, you know, even at the age of 28 learning how to code in solidity and becoming a web three developer. But I've got this YouTube channel so that I'm more of a media person than I code person these days. Tip number three for investing your time as a teenager is to document your learning and your journey in some capacity. And the easiest way to do this is through writing. So this can be through a blog or through posting on Twitter or writing on medium or writing a newsletter on sub stack. There are all sorts of different platforms where you can document stuff through writing. But this is good for two reasons. Number one, it helps build the craft of writing and being able to communicate well in through written language is also an incredibly valuable skill that makes you ridiculously valuable in the job market that also makes anything that you start. And he business that you do more life you to succeed because now you're able to communicate whether it's writing copy for your landing page or writing sales page staff or even sending emails just being able to write competently and in a nice way is a huge competitive advantage. But the second reason why documenting your stuff is good is because it's really nice to look back upon like I've read so many books like probably hundreds of books in my time so far. A lot of them when I was a teenager and a lot of them really changed kind of the way that I was thinking but because no one told me I should start a blog back then or like document it in some capacity. All of those like learnings, all of those experience all those memories of sort of lost in the void of my brain and as we know, the brain is not a great device actually recalling stuff because memories fade over time or that kind of fun stuff. So documenting your journey is good for your own personal memory bank but there's a third reason I forgot there were three, my third reason why it's kind of helpful as well. And that's that you might well build an audience of people who are interested in the stuff that you're sharing. It's pretty unlikely unless you really take it seriously, it's not something that like happens by accident, most people who do it well are very intentional about it. But there's definitely the scope to then potentially build an audience of people who really enjoy your writing. And even if you're a teenager even if you're 13, 14, 15 like whatever, there are probably people out there in the world who would be interested in reading about the stuff that you're sharing, especially if it's about documenting your journey through entrepreneurship or through learning cool things, anything like that. So that was the world of writing. But if you're interested in potentially making videos, maybe starting a YouTube channel, maybe doing a TikTok, maybe posting stuff on Instagram, YouTube is still pretty sick. That brings us to tip number four, which is to learn about video production. Again, this is one of those ridiculously valuable skills that all companies are now on the lookout for, every startup I know is trying to do some kind of content marketing play. And so if you can educate yourself around cameras, how to use a camera, how to talk to a camera potentially, how to edit videos, stuff like that, you again, have a massive competitive advantage if you're looking for one of these jobs in in the future. Or also if you're trying to promote your own thing, which you might want to do at some point further down the line. And if you don't already have these skills, the best way of picking them up is by actually taking my own course on Skillshare, which is called YouTube for beginners. Skillshare, I very kindly sponsoring this video, so thank you, Skillshare for that. I've got about 12 classes on Skillshare, and there's this new one that I've just released called YouTube for beginners. And that class is about four hours long, I think there's about 30 lessons in it. And it takes you step-by-step through how to actually build a YouTube channel from scratch, starting with like the concept, how do you talk to how to talk to a camera, how to set up a camera, how to edit videos, how to do thumbnails, all of that stuff. And that is a great introduction to all of the skills required to be a YouTuber, which are all the skills required to do the video production thing well. Now the reason this is investing your time, rather than money, is because if you are one of the first thousand people to hit the link in the video description, then you will get a free trial to Skillshare for a whole month. And in that month, you can take whatever classes on Skillshare you want, so you can take all of my classes. I've got like 10 12 classes on that now, there's absolutely loads, you can take my YouTube for beginners class, you can take my how to edit videos and find a cut pro class if you want to learn more about video editing, you can even take my three productivity master classes where I share everything I've learned over the last five years around how to be more productive and how to get more out of your time. And on top of that, there are thousands of other classes on Skillshare covering all sorts of topics from business on entrepreneurship, like productivity, interior design, cooking, everything under the sun, there is a class for it on Skillshare. So if that sounds up your street, then do hit the link in the video description, sign up for a free trial, take my classes, I think it's really good, and learn about this video production stuff because it really will add value to your life in a really solid way. I hope if you're investing your time well. So thank you very much Skillshare for sponsoring this video and let's now move on to tip number five, which is to become money literate. And this basically involves investing your time in learning and reading and watching videos about money to become more money literate and to educate yourself about this thing that's quite important to how we live our lives and how society runs. We've already talked about the millionaire fast lane, which is the best book I'd recommend on how to make more money. Thanks, we have Die with Zero, which is kind of interesting around how to spend money if you're interested in a sort of philosophical take on the topic. We have the four hour work week, which I've long talked about as being the single book that most change my life and treated the way I approach my life and retirement and business and all that kind of fun stuff. We've got your money or your life, which changed the way that I approach my career. She makes like Vicky Robbins and makes some really interesting arguments in it. I actually have a book club video about, actually, I have a book club video about a lot of these. They'll all be linked in the video description. If you want to check them out if you don't necessarily want to read the books. Then finally, we have the psychology of money by Morgan Housel, which is generally a way to become more financially literate and to understand the emotional and often irrational mindsets and thought processes that govern our approach to how we spend money. I've also got a book club episode about that linked up there and down there if you want to check those ones out. It's not just books, if for whatever reason you're unable to read, either also the YouTube channels that talk about money in a really nice way, Graham Stephan and Andre Jick are some of my personal favorites. But now let's move on to the second half of the tips on how to invest your time, and this is investing your time in gaining experiences. So tip number six here is to get some kind of job or gain some kind of work experience. This is really helpful. A generally getting a real job or some kind of work experience or a part-time job makes you some amount of money. I used to work for four pounds an hour or five dollars an hour teaching maths to people when I was younger. And it doesn't really matter what you do. The point is having that job gives you an idea of like, okay, this is what it's like to actually spend some of my life energy to give some of my time to this thing and to get money in return. And you also learn a few skills along the way, like how to deal with colleagues and co-workers and how to have conversations with your manager and these are generally skills that are very useful for the down in life as well. Tip number two that I would say is to potentially do or make things for people that you admire completely for free. This is the idea of being a permissionless apprentice. For example, let's say that you admire an author or a YouTuber or a Tik Tok or something. If there is a way that you can create something for that person, maybe you take one of their videos and turn it into a tweet thread, maybe you take one of their Tik Toks and you turn it into a little nice infographic poster type thing. A, that helps you develop your own skills in using Photoshop and doing graphic design in writing and all these other skills that are quite useful. B, it also helps you develop the skills in a kind of fun way because now you have a tangible output and you're actually potentially helping someone and see it might even get you noticed by that person. There are a handful of people who, for example, with me over the years have been very, very helpful in, for example, we hired a guy recently to turn one of my tweet threads into this really cool visual graphic key type thing and we hired him because we just saw his work on Twitter where he was doing this for other people for free. I'm going to like that. This guy's really good. So we paid a bunch of money to do this graphic and that graphic did really well on Twitter. Similarly, there are other people, some people who I now work with who started off basically called emailing you being like, hey, I've created this thing for you for free, what do you think? And we're like, oh, this is awesome. I want to hire you as a person. So basically, there's a bunch of benefits in like finding someone you like and like creating something for them in improving your own skills and potentially getting you into into their network as part of their network. Tip number three is a big one and this is to try and find a way to build a business when you're a teenager. So when I was younger, I had a little business doing web design and web development and for small businesses and I was charging like $5 an hour trying to undercut the market. But the skills that I gained during that are so much more valuable than the small amount of money I made. And it really helped me get into like, what it's actually like to work with a client, what it's like to pitch and sell my services, what it's like to negotiate stuff. And I was like, we're gaining all these skills randomly from the age of like 13 to 18. This is stuff that you don't learn in school. And so when I got to university and actually started my first successful business, I already had this sort of six years of experience through trying to make money through web design and web development stuff that I was selling to clients from all around the world. Back in the day, I used to use a freelance website called GetToCoder.com. That's no longer a thing. But these days, five are an up work and a people per hour. There are all sorts of these different platforms where you can potentially find clients for the services that you want to kind of sell to them. And obviously you want to be good at those things, so this involves developing skills and then finding a way to sell your services in a way that adds value to other people. But broadly it's a great way of building a little side business even while you're at school in the weekends and in the evening. Tip number four is that if you can and it's actually quite hard, but if you can, try and find a way to turn your active income into some kind of source of passive income. So if you can figure out a way to create some kind of product or some kind of digital product or sell something that is not directly tied to your time, again, MJD Marker talks much more about this than the millionaire fast lane, that is really kind of the ultimate place to get to where you could potentially even be making money while you sleep. Something like starting a YouTube channel is actually a pretty good shout as well and you can definitely check out my Skillshare class if you would like to have a startup YouTube channel. But the great thing about YouTube videos is that any time you make a YouTube video, once you're beyond a thousand subscribers and four thousand hours of watch times you get into the YouTube partner program, every single video you make is an asset by itself. So for example, right now, I'm investing time into making this video, but this video is going to be on YouTube for the next several years, I hope, and people are going to keep on watching this video two years from now, I hope, if the video is actually good. And so I'm going to be making add sense money even while I'm asleep and therefore this video becomes a kind of passive income asset. And not saying that to make money on the internet, you need to do some kind of social media, you need to show your face and you should debase yourself on the internet like I've been doing for the last five years. You don't necessarily need to do that, but we just want to be thinking more about like, is there some way I could kind of start out with some kind of active income source where I'm directly trading my time for money by offering a service, but then can I turn that into some kind of productized service, I kind of read something like the million F. last name, or another really good book called Take Your Shot, or for example, the four-hour workweek, there are so many books and so many YouTube videos and stuff that break down the process of doing this. This is not that hard. I'm still surprised when I get emails and Instagram DMs and stuff from people who's a thing like, bro, can you give me advice on how to make money? Like, bro, the advice is already out there. Like, all you have to do is go and find it and actually execute on it. There's no magical advice that I'm going to give that someone's suddenly going to put hundreds of dollars in someone's bank account. It's really about educating yourself about the process, reading books, potentially, even if you don't enjoy reading, because books are incredibly useful value for money, especially this one, this one's absolutely. And then when you execute on that, you're developing your own skills, but be you're also hopefully making money on the side. So that was tip number four, try and pacify your active income. And one of the best ways to get started with pacifying your income is tip number five, which is to try and dabble with outsourcing. Yes, this does require that you have some amount of money coming in, but if you've got a part-time job, you've started making your own business, you've started selling your services on the internet on one of these freelancing platforms or through other people, you should hopefully be making some amount of money right now, even as a teenager, at this point you want to be thinking about, what is actually your realistic hourly rate? And is there a way that you could potentially outsource some stuff to people who are making less than that, or that you can pay less than that amount of money? For example, when I was building my business at university, there was a lot of stuff that required data entry, like taking stuff from previous exam papers and putting them into a database, with permission, all that kind of jazz. Of course, but I wasn't going to sit there copying and pasting stuff from one PDF into a database. And so I hired this chat through Upwork who was charging $5 an hour to do basic admin and data entry, and I paid him for like several tens of hours to do this work, which would have otherwise taken me, tens of hours. And in a way, that was a way for me to pacify the active income that I was making by teaching courses, and by helping people kind of helping people get into med school. Again, I'm not saying you're going to make millions doing this, that's not the idea, the idea is that, especially when you're a teenager, it's useful to develop the skill of what it's like to actually hire someone else. If you're a YouTuber, for example, what it's like to outsource editing, like what would that actually look like? If you're a business owner, what would it be like to work with a virtual assistant who helps you with emails and kind of doesn't stuff? You'd have to do all of that kind of stuff, but it's just worth at least a dabbling in the space, so you get some experience of what it's like. Now, with all that said, and if you're still watching this, firstly, thank you. I hope you found this video useful so far. But the final thing to keep in mind, really, is that we don't want to be thinking of these things as like sacrificing today for the sake of a better tomorrow. I think generally one thing that I've learned over the years is that it's really all about enjoying the present moment and enjoying the journey as we're going along. And if I think back about my web design career, when I was from age 12 to age 18, I don't think about the money that I earned. And I never really saw it as being a sacrifice, but what I remember is the feeling of excitement, that I'd get home from school, I'd be so excited to get back on the computer to see, has anyone hired me for a project? Can I learn some more PHP stuff? Can I do some more tinkering than this online game that I was building? And that was such a joyful and exciting and exhilarating part of my life. What I didn't do was that I didn't feel like I needed to sacrifice anything in my real life to make that happen. A. I wasn't invited to many parties when I was young anyway. That might come as a surprise to some of you. But for example, if it was like, you know, some friends been invited me over to play PlayStation or Pied and Seagulls. I mean, obviously I still do that because that's like the fun stuff. But rather than sitting at home and just watching TV. Instead, I got even more joy out of life by doing this web design stuff. So what I'd encourage you to do is not think of it as like I'm sacrificing my free time right now for the sake of a better tomorrow so I can make more money. Instead, more about thinking like, what are the things that I can do that I can develop an interest in? What are the things that I can do that I enjoy that energize me that are generally fun? So that even if I don't make any money, I'm still glad that I spent the time doing those things. And a lot of these 10 things that we've talked about in investing your time, you want to find the ones that really fill you with intrinsic joy or find ways to make them more energizing and make them more fun so that you end up enjoying the journey and not just being fixated on the destination. If you've gotten this for another video, then thank you so much for watching. If you'd like to see more videos in this money club series, I'd love it if you can leave a comment down below with a little money bag emoji of some description. And I'll tell me what video you'd like to say. I love talking about money. I've been reading books about it for the last like 15 years and actually building businesses since the age of 12. I'm now 27 years old, so a long time and I really want to share everything I've learned along the way. So if you have ideas for videos that you'd like to see, please do leave them in a comment down below. And if you enjoyed this video, you might not check out this video over here, which is my ultimate guide to how to get started with investing in stocks and shares. That'll give you a full primer on everything you need to know. In this video that I wish I would have had when I first got started with investing in stocks and shares. So thank you so much for watching. Do hit the subscribe button if you aren't already and I'll see you in the next video. Bye.
