# The Children's Surgical Centre (Cambodia) - Cambridge Medial Elective #02
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z2xKvVNZgL0
A quick tour of what we get up to at the Children's Surgical Centre. Please subscribe for VLOGs, medical application tips and more :)

WATSI - http://watsi.org/partners/csc

DONATE TO CSC DIRECTLY - http://csc.org/donate-to-csc/

Gear:
- Audio and video on iPhone 7+ 
- JOBY Gorillapod
- Edited with Adobe Premiere Pro CC 2017

Social:
- Twitter - https://twitter.com/AliAbdaal
- Instagram - https://instagram.com/AliAbdaal
- Website - www.aliabdaal.com
**Keywords:** medical student, medical student vlog, medical elective, medicine at university, electives, cambodia, cambridge medicine, medical electives, CSC, childrens surgical centre, CSC cambodia, CSC phnom penh, 
**Date:** 2017-07-18

## Transcript
 Good morning everyone, it is about 7 o'clock on a beautiful Friday morning and in this video we're going to be looking at the hospital that me and some of my friends are working out in Cambodia for a medical elective. First things first, I'm going to have a shower or get changed into my scrubs, I'll see you on the other side. Alright so here we are, time to head down. It's about a ten minute walk. Let's go. So I'm at the Children's Surgery Center in John Penn. It's a pretty incredible place, really. They do consultations and operations for everyone, not just children and everything is completely free of charge patients from all over Cambodia and even neighbouring countries like Thailand and Lals Rockup, they get seen free of charge and might get an operation. Each morning we have the morning meeting where all the staff sit in a room and the patients come to us one at a time and the doctors discuss what operation they're going to do and look at the x-rays and look at the nose. And it's quite nice because at the end of the morning meeting they have about half an hour of presentations so the local staff and visiting doctors and even medical students like us we do powerpoint presentations where we teach a topic of our choice so that everyone improves their medical knowledge. After the morning meeting that's when we go to the operating room. This is the operating room. It's pretty nice. You'll see that there are actually four operations that can happen at the same time in one operation room. This is probably not quite as aceptical hygiene, maybe. But it's a really good use of resources to use the same equipment for different operations. It's much more sociable as well than it is in the UK. Over here it feels a lot more collaborative people sort of walking between operations and and for us to be able to see operations and go from one to the other to the other. That's pretty nice as well. Upstairs there's an ophthalmology area where people come to have their eyes tested and get a cataract operation and that sort of thing. It's a pretty incredible operation that they seem to run here. It seems like every week, every other week, they're visiting surgeons from abroad who come to lend their expertise and the cool thing about that is that instead of just coming in and doing operations, their visits are more aimed at teaching the local staff so they're ultimately this can be a sustainable project where the local, the local doctors, the local surgeons are the ones doing most of the operating. At the moment there's a hand surgeon team from Hong Kong who are here for a week and they see pretty nice. And in our first week there was a team from France which had a plastic surgeon and orthopedic surgeon and they didn't really cool operations and they threw big party friends at the end. One of the really interesting things about CSE is that it's funded a lot through voluntary donations from individuals. So this is website called WATC where every single patient that comes through CSE has their story put up on the website so you can see their name, their face you can read about them, you can read about the family and the website tells you how much each operation costs and somehow people from all over the world donate to individual operations and individual patients. And each month CSE gets money from these individual donations without which it probably won't be able to operate at the level that it currently does. So I'll put a link in the description below if you want to have a look at some of the patients that CSE operates on and if you like you can donate a few pounds and maybe help save the life. For the last few weeks we've been involved in this cataract project with the ophthalmology department sadly this involves going through about 600 patients notes. So Ben and I have been spending few hours each day working through these patients and just like including all the data into the computer and hopefully something will come out of it in the end. On the plus side I've discovered that I can actually watch Netflix while doing it which is pretty nice but now it's lunchtime so let's head down and see what's on offer in the cafeteria. So this is what this place looks like from the outside. You can keep a lot of people a lot of motorbike and really big cars as well and I don't wait to lunch so let's see what's going on. That was a very close call. Right so that's a good day's work done at the hospital. Time to head home and we'll see how Ben is doing. He's been a bit poorly recently and then I think I want to motorbike into town. Go to a camera shop. Get a decent microphone for this week. See you in a bit.
