# Malignant haematology supervision - Cambridge University medical student VLOG #12
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z_0Npoa3lCQ
In today's episode, we take a stroll through Addenbrooke's Hospital after a simulation session, get some slow-mo shots of students laughing during the pantomime script table read, and get a cheeky time-lapse of a teaching session I run on Malignant Haematology. We end with some thoughts from my friend Katherine, who also features in most of the interview tips videos. Enjoy xx

Who am I:

I'm Ali, a final year medical student at Emmanuel College, Cambridge. This vlogging thing seems quite fun so I'll be vlogging life and other things throughout the year. I'm also making regular videos about application advice for UK medicine applicants.

💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking 

📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal 

🎬 My online course on video editing - https://skl.sh/32TpEvm
🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
**Keywords:** Cambridge medicine, Cambridge medical student, Cambridge medicine vlog, Cambridge medical student vlog, medical student, medicine vlog, medicine, medical student vlog, Oxbridge, Oxford, Cambridge, cambridge medicine, oxford medicine, med student vlog, med student, oxbridge medicine, oxbridge medicine vlog, life of a medical student, 
**Date:** 2017-11-11

## Transcript
 Hey guys, welcome back to the channel. It's beautiful Sunday morning, and I've just come back from a simulation session at Adam Brooks Hospital and there was a scenario in which I was a doctor and we had a patient and some nurses and things and had to kind of respond to the scenario as if we were real doctors. I find simulation exercise is really good because they're like a nice bridge between kind of books and reality. There's a big difference between knowing which drugs you're supposed to give, you know, in textbook format versus actually finding them and giving them in real life. All right, so simulation training done, that was really good. It's this pantour on through at one o'clock and I've got the supervision where I'm giving a talk about malignant hematology so like leukemia, lymphoma, all those kinds of things. It's a better prepared for that. So I think now I'm just going to kind of get my presentation together, get the handouts together. It's going to be a good Sunday. I was lost in a very dream and I was a home again beside the street. Then you walk past me. All right, so that was really fun. We've just gone through the whole script. I did the run through the script as I can pretty sick. The cost of our fantastic loads and loads of really like laugh at loud moments which are only going to get better as the rehearsals progress. And so one of the best parts about pantour every year is always the kind of community feeling that you kind of develop with the cast and the crew and the orchestra and everyone towards the end of it and makes it like probably the best part of being a medical student at Cambridge. So it's super looking forward to how the year ahead is going to go. Plan now, grab some lunch, do another few hours of work preparing for the supervision about leukemia. See you in a bit. All right, guys. Time for the supervision. Say hello. So we're making our way towards one of the buildings in the manual college for the supervision. And yeah, you should be fun, hopefully. Hopefully they'll. Hopefully they'll learn something. All right, so that's today's supervision on Melignette hematology finished. We went for a solid two hours from like five to seven pm. It was actually really fun. There was one guy who seemed to know like absolute loads, but I think even he learned some stuff and the others seemed quite satisfied with the way it was run. But yeah, that was really fun. Really joyed it. Looking forward to doing more supervision like this. And final order of business for the evening is visiting Katherine Drume to grab some of the beam at crash course workbooks, which are like in this box. Oh, sorry. There's an interview book. It's not beam at books. Yeah, because I thought it would be better to just chuck them because they're over the last year. Why? Why is there a big? I don't know if the beam was linked. It took so guys into the crash course handbook come on out into the course if you were applying to medicine. You can get someone like Katherine teaching you for you. Woohoo, exciting times. You go to a nice cup of tea, which is looking a bit weird, made by microwave and water, because the guests respect microwave and water. Student living. Actually, it actually tastes quite reasonable. This is a fun diary, which is like, it's not literally a line, but it's a very short diary entry day, which is good for people like me who will not do it regularly if it requires a large type commitment. And then you do it every day, go across like that, and then when you get to the end of the book, you loop around and do this second row. And so on. And so because of that each year after this one, when I'm writing, I'll be able to see exactly what I was doing or feeling or thinking at the same time last year. What's really cool? Reflecting on your day is meant to be a thing that makes you more happy, so. Well again, guys, so after getting back from Katherine's place, I told myself I would go to the gym, but ended up sitting on YouTube instead. I added a few more videos, which I've been scheduled as we speak. So yeah, let's call it a night and get ready for tomorrow's mediate conference. Thank you very much for watching. If you like the video, please give it a thumbs up. If you haven't subscribed to the channel yet, please consider doing so. Have a lovely night. I will see you in the next one. Bye.
