# How to Retire in 10 Years (starting with $0)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZaCNnliEW9A
Get a 14-day free trial of Shopify with this link - https://shopify.com/aliabdaal 😀

If you're anything like me you don't really want to wait until you're 70 to live your best life so in this video, we're going to break down the 3x3 framework which you can use to work towards early retirement. Enjoy x :)

🎙 Subscribe to my podcast, Deep Dive - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://go.aliabdaal.com/subscribe-sundaysnippets

⏱ Timestamps
00:00 Intro
00:43 Part 1 - The Three Levels of Retirement
04:25 Part 2 - The 3 Methods for Retiring Early
09:09 Part 3- How to Make a Plan to Retire Early

********************************

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - 
 https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
🎬 YouTube for Beginners - Everything You Need To Know To Start  - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/YouTube-for-Beginners

MY CREATOR COURSES
🎬 Part-Time YouTuber Academy - My 6-week live online course on becoming a part-time YouTuber → https://go.aliabdaal.com/parttimeyoutuberacademy
🏆 Creatorpreneur - My flag-ship course for scaling up your creative side-hustle → https://creatorpreneur.academy/course
🗣 Camera Confidence - My self-paced course on how to improve your creativity, career, or communication skills → https://cameraconfidence.aliabdaal.com/

MY FAVOURITE TOOLS
🚀 VidIQ - How I optimise my YouTube videos - https://go.aliabdaal.com/vidiq
✍️ Shortform - The BEST summaries of books - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform
📚  Readwise - How I remember what I read - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise
🎵  Epidemic Sound - Where I get my music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound

MY FAVOURITE GEAR
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) -https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY KEY LINKS
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com/
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🎮  Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I’m Ali, a YouTuber, podcaster, soon-to-be author and ex-Doctor working in London, UK. I make videos that explore the strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. I also have a weekly podcast called Deep Dive (https://www.youtube.com/channel/UChfo46ZNOV-vtehDc25A1Ug), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://email.aliabdaal.com/).

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but feel free to email me at (mailto:hi@aliabdaal.com). I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, how to retire early, retire early, early retirement, financial independence, how to retire at 30, fire movement, financial freedom, financial independence retire early, how to retire young, finance tips, how much money to retire, how to retire early in 2022, retire early fire, 
**Date:** 2022-09-24

## Transcript
 Right, so imagine a future where you don't have to work a job that you don't enjoy. You might choose to work but you'd be doing it on your own terms. You can spend your time doing the things that you want, working on your hobbies, connecting with your friends and family. And you're making enough money from your investments and your savings that it funds your lifestyle pretty much forever. That's a promise of retirement, in theory. But if you anything like me, you don't necessarily want to wait until you're 70 to get there. And you'd quite like to get there in your 20s or your 30s where you're living your best life without necessarily being shackled to a job that you don't enjoy. But clearly this is easier said than done. And so in this video we're going to break down the 3x3 framework that you can use to work towards this concept of early retirement. And that's the subject of this episode of the Money Club, the ongoing series on the channel where we explore strategies and ideas and tools that help us along our shared journey towards financial independence. Let's go for it. Part one, the three levels of retirement. Okay, so my understanding of retirement has sort of evolved over time and I've split it up into these three different levels. Level one is what we're going to call traditional retirement. And this is the concept where you work and work and work and then eventually at the age of 65 or 70 you then retire. And I thought that this concept had been around for ages, but actually it turns out it was invented in 1889 by the German Chancellor Otto von Bismarck. And our friend Otto realized that Germany at the time had a massive problem with unemployment of the youth. And so this guy realized hang on why don't we pay people to quit their jobs when they're 65 or 70 and then let the state take care of them through welfare and stuff. And that will encourage more teenagers to join the workforce. And then all the other countries were like, this sounds like a good idea. Let's invent this concept of retirement so that 65 or 70 you leave the workforce. But this concept of retirement was all good back in the day when the life expectancy was like 70 or under. But today it's actually not great. Generally what you find is that when people do retire, there's a bunch of studies that show that their risk of various health complications goes up. And they start to lose the meaning of life. And if we look at places like Okinawa, which is this island in Japan, where people live to like 100 plus and seem to have a really good quality of life. You don't even have a word for retirement. Instead, they use the word Ikigai that you might be familiar with is basically the Japanese concept of your reason to get up in the morning. Also, the other issue with this idea of traditional retirement is that you and me, we probably don't want to be waiting until we're 65 or 72, quote, enjoy life. And this whole idea that, oh, work for ages and then you can enjoy life when you're 65 and you've got osteoarthritis in both of your knees. It's not really the way I want to live. And I know that like chilling on a beach when I'm 65 is actually not going to be particularly fun. So that brings us on to level two in terms of retirement. And that is the idea of mini retirements, which was first broadly popularized in 2007 by Tim Ferriss in this fantastic book The Four Hour Work Week. And the idea of mini retirements is that instead of waiting until you're 65 to have your 30 years of retirement or whatever, why not spread your retirements, your mini retirements throughout your life. So if you can have a job where you have autonomy and you've delegated and automated stuff, could you take a month off of six weeks off a few times a year? So that you can live in Thailand for six weeks and sip cocktails by the beach and realize that's boring. So you can travel, I don't know, Brazil or Argentina or whatever place you want to go, while you're still young and healthy, but you spread that out throughout your life. And this is how I was considering the concept of retirement. I was imagining when I was in medical school that, hey, I'd go through university, I'd have like tech startups on the side, I'd be able to make money and stuff. And then while I was working in medicine, I'd be able to take extended periods of time off from my full-time job as a doctor or a part-time job as a doctor to be able to do these mini retirements, to be able to travel the world, kind of spread out throughout my life. But then over time, as I've had more financial success through the businesses, through the YouTube channel, through the other stuff that I'm doing and investments and things, I sort of got to this sort of level three of retirement, which is, in a way, what Navarrava can't talk about in this great book, the Almanac of Navarrava can't. And that is what we're going to call perpetual retirement. I'm going to read a quote from the book where Navarra says that retirement is when you stop sacrificing today for an imaginary tomorrow, when today is complete in and of itself, you are retired. And I think this is a really interesting way of viewing this concept of retirement. Like when we are working, the reason we call it work is because we are sacrificing something, generally most of us don't work for fun, we're sacrificing something for the sake of making money, we're trading our life energy for money, so that in the future we can then enjoy the money that we generate from our work. And yes, of course, work has all these other benefits, bloody black, etc, etc. But generally, if you ask most people, if you want the lottery, would you still do your job for fun? Most people would say, no, probably not, or I'd go part-time. If you ask most people, would you do your job if you weren't being paid for it? People would probably say, no, even though I love my work, I'd rather do all sorts of things if I wasn't being paid for it. So I like this definition of perpetual retirement when you are not sacrificing today for a better tomorrow. When today is in and of itself complete, that is when you're retired. Hard to, the three methods to retiring early. So how do you get to this state where you're not sacrificing today for a better tomorrow? How do you get to this state where you're sort of technically retired or like spiritually or mentally or emotionally retired? Preferably while you're young. Broadly, there's three different ways of doing it. The first one is, can you make enough money so that you're very comfortably satisfying your lifestyle demands? Now, there's this movement on the internet called fire, which stands for a financial independence retire early. Bit of a weird acronym, but like the fire movement. And within fire, there's the idea of fat fire and lean fire. Fat fire is what we're talking about in this first method. Fat fire is where you're financially independent. And you have loads and loads of money because you've made loads of money from stuff. And you've put it into fairly safe investments. And there's a concept in the fire community called the 4% rule. Which is the idea that if you have, I don't know, however much money in stocks and shares as an investment portfolio, every year you could safely withdraw 4% of that money and you'd be able to live off of that. And you wouldn't be touching the principal, the amount that's in the investment account. So let's say I had a million dollars in my S&P 500 stock account. Every year I could take out an income of $40,000 and the million would stay as it is, because it probably grows at like 7% to 10% a year. And so hypothetically, if I wanted $40,000 to basically fund my lifestyle, I would need a million dollars in my kind of investment portfolio to be able to comfortably fund that fairly passively. That is the 4% rule. The only problem with that is that this requires making a rather large amount of money to make that number go up as much as you can. And as early as you can, so that this 4% becomes a very large number. And so the second method of retiring early to getting to fire is lean fire. And this is where you drive down the cost of your lifestyle as much as you possibly can. So let's say instead of requiring $40,000 a year to live comfortably or to live at the lifestyle that you want, let's say you drop that down, you only need $20,000 a year. Maybe let's say you move to the sort of country where $20,000 a year gives you like a ridiculously good lifestyle. Even $10,000 a year. Now you've reduced the amount of money you need to have in your investment portfolio for that to make sense. And so if my lifestyle cost was $20,000 a year, I would only need $500,000 in my investment portfolio. And you know, let's say I had a reasonably high paying career. I probably could save up $500,000 within a high paying career here in the UK. For example, to be able to retire within a few years based on this idea of lean fire where my expenses are pretty low. The only problem with this is that it then requires your lifestyle cost to drive down and down and down. And a lot of people find that they enjoy living the aesthetic lifestyle where they don't own very much. And the lift kind of like minimalist, but for a lot of people they're like, you know, I kind of like nice things. I like the idea of traveling and going on holiday and sending my kids to a nice school and living in a nice neighborhood. All those things means that your lifestyle costs are just going to keep on rising rather than staying at rock bottom. And so if we take those two concepts and we hold them in online, we can get to a third concept. And that is almost like this third method of getting to retirement, which is basically where the work that you're doing to generate income is the work that you'd be doing for free anyway. This is where you are, quote, doing what you love and therefore you never have to work a day in your life. And it sounds kind of cliche and kind of trying to like, oh, whatever is like people like to kind of poo poo on that particular phrase. But it is actually very true. Now, obviously this is a very privileged position to be in. But I actually think it's a more realistic position than fat fire or lean fire. Like most of us probably can't get to a point or we'll find it really hard to get to a point. We've made so much money that it just comfortably could comfortably funds a lifestyle. And most of us would struggle to drive a lifestyle cost so far to the floor that we can easily live for our investments and our savings. But actually finding work that you enjoy, finding work that you would be doing anyway, especially in today's internet economy, creator economy, remote work, hybrid work, all that kind of stuff. It's probably reasonably doable compared to these other two methods to actually get to that point where you genuinely do love the work that you're doing. Now for me, I'm not yet fully at this point of retirement. I think I'm pretty close to it where most of the stuff that I do day to day is the stuff that I would be doing for free anyway. And I'm going to talk about my plan for getting to early retirement in a moment. But before I do so, I just want to tell you a little bit about Shopify who are very kindly sponsoring this video. Shopify is by far the best way to sell any kind of thing online and also offline. We've talked about this idea of getting to the point where you're making money from doing the thing that you love. And actually because of the whole creator economy, a company like Shopify, a platform like Shopify is fantastic, because you can then directly sell things to your audience, to your consumers, your customers, and you don't necessarily need a middleman to do that. Shopify lets you sell products to customers in over 175 countries. They accept hundreds of different payment methods. They've got thousands of integrations with all sorts of other third-party apps and widgets and things. And I've been using Shopify personally and we've been using it within our team for the last year to host all of our e-commerce online money making type endeavors. We are selling our courses through Shopify. We're selling digital products through Shopify. We're selling physical products through Shopify as well. And so if you like the idea of getting to a point where you're potentially making money from doing what you love, then head over to Shopify.com forward slash Aliabdal. And that will give you a 14 day free trial where you can try out the store. You can customize your own store. You can sell products and you can see what it's like to make money on the internet. Part three, how to make a plan to retire early. All right, so my plan for all this retirement early stuff is basically a combination of all three of these methods. Firstly, I want to try and do the fat fire thing. I want to basically try and make a lot of money and put it into assets. Secondly, I want to reduce my lifestyle costs. And thirdly, I want to make sure that the work I'm doing for active income is the work that I would be doing anyway and the work that I would enjoy. So let's break these down a little bit more in detail. And hopefully you can get some tips on how you might want to approach this as well for whatever that's worth. So firstly, with the make lots of money and put it into assets thing, there's a concept in rich dad poor dad called the cash flow quadrant or something like that. Basically, the idea is that initially when we're trying to make money, the way you make money is by exchanging your time for money. And so that's generally if you're an employee, you're trading your time for money. If you're a YouTuber and you're doing brand deals, you're trading your time for money. It's a one-off amount of money you're getting in return for putting the time into this particular brand deal. But generally through trading your time for money, you're generating cash flow. And then you can use that cash flow to either make or invest in assets and assets are things that build your wealth. So while some of the stuff that you're doing is making you money right now, the other stuff that you're putting that money into or the other stuff that you're doing is generating your wealth. So in my case, this YouTube channel and the business around it is a pretty good cash flow type business in that every month, it makes profit. And what I do with that profit is that I take that profit and I put it into things like property, or things like stocks and shares, so investing in assets that will hopefully fingers crossed theoretically grow over time. I do put some of it in crypto as well, that's not doing particularly well right now. But what I also do is that I spend some of my time trying to generate my own assets. So every single time I make a YouTube video, I consider that an asset because it's a thing that generates money over time. Any time I make an online course or I'm writing my book right now, this is all me investing time and a little bit of money into creating these assets that will hopefully compound and generate wealth over time. Now that's how I'm trying to make money. In fairness, this is a pretty good place to be right now where I was able to quit my full time job of being a doctor to get to this point. But actually, I know a bunch of people, a bunch of medics actually who are working full time as doctors or part time as doctors and are building up the side hustles alongside because they recognize the value of having multiple streams of income. So I know a bunch of friends who are doctors who have YouTube channels, for example, and they also do the making core system and writing ebook sting. And that's great because now you're making some amount of active income from your day job as a doctor or a consultant or investment banker or whatever. But you're making the side income over time and hopefully eventually that will get to a point where maybe you can quit your job. But even if you don't, that extra money is still very useful in buying your freedom and buying your optionality in that it allows you to quote retire earlier. So overall moral of the story is that if you want to retire through the fat fire method and you want to make full money. It's worth having a side hustle of some description. I don't think it's particularly controversial these days. Secondly, what I'm also trying to do is reduce my living costs or at least try and combat the effects of lifestyle inflation. This is the idea that as you make more money, it becomes easier and easier to spend money because now it's like, oh, I could fly business class, I could could fly first class, I could upgrade my apartment, I could get a fancy or TV. And so even though I do some of that stuff, I always keep an eye on lifestyle inflation. And whatever will always go in the back of my mind is what are the expenses that I can just get rid of without really having a hit to my quality of life. And so one thing that I kind of do a little bit is that, you know, I will test out what it's like to go on holiday and spend different amounts of money on holiday. So like one time might stay in a five-star hotel, one time might stay in a hostel or an Airbnb and see like, did does spending three times as much on a holiday, actually make the holiday much better. And generally the answer is no, generally things are just a bit more fun when it's a bit more kind of a bit more budget, a bit more chill and less fancy, at least for me. And that's nice because it's like, okay, cool. Now I can enjoy a fancy hotel if I want to, but I know that it's not a requirement. And there are a bunch of people that I've gotten to know through like the world that I'm in now, who, in a way, have a requirement that they'll only ever fly first class or only ever stay in a five-star hotel. And in a way, that's kind of hard to sustain because now you're having to, you know, your lifestyle cost just keep on rising. But really, if you can increase the gap between your earnings and your spending on surprisingly, that is that extra surplus of cash can be invested into things like property or things like the stock market. And certainly the plan that I've got anyway to retire early is to really make sure that as much as possible, I'm actually enjoying the journey of making money and doing the work that I'm doing. And actually trying to get to the point where the work that I'm doing is the work that I would be doing anyway, even if I wasn't being paid for it. So one question I like to think about is, if I had a hundred million dollars in the bank, for example, how would I be spending my time? I probably wouldn't just be chilling on a beach doing nothing because that's boring and a recipe for depression and burnout and stuff. But then the follow up question from that is, okay, once I figured out what I would be doing, once I figured out what does my ideal ordinary week actually look like if I wasn't worried about money. Then it's about figuring out, okay, cool, given that retirement is not about not working, it's about actually doing the work that you want to do. How much does it actually cost to have a lifestyle where I am just reading writing, learning and teaching? And generally, the answer is, nowhere near a hundred million. Like, I don't need fancy stuff to make me particularly happy. I just need my laptop, nice coffee shop, nice cup of coffee in my hand, and broadly doing work I enjoy. Are you reading writing, learning and teaching and hanging out with my friends and family? And then the other question that I ask myself is, when I look at my calendar, what are the activities in my calendar? The activities in my calendar that energize me, that give me energy. And what are the activities in my calendar that drain me, that drain my energy? And then for the ones that drain my energy, I try and either figure out a way to make it enjoyable or figure out a way to not have to necessarily do the thing. So that's how I'm personally thinking about the idea of retiring early. And if you're interested in potentially trying to do the same and you want to try and make a little bit more money through a side hustle of some description, you might like to check out this video over here, which is about six side hustle ideas that you can start to make in the region of a thousand dollars per month, which is a good place to start your journey towards financial independence. Thanks so much for watching, do hit the subscribe button if you're already. And I'll see you hopefully in the next video. Bye-bye.
