# My $2.4m London Apartment Tour
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZazwqwjDY6M
Hey friends, in this video I give you a complete tour of my $2.4M London apartment. I also chat about the finances: is it worth paying so much for accommodation, and why I can afford to rent this place but definitely not buy it. Hope you enjoy!  ❤️

🍿WATCH NEXT:
Why Buying is Not Always Better Than Renting: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ngWZaSbw130&t=772s
7 Side Hustles You Can Start: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4V2ZwgJw62I&t=343s
The Book that Changed My Financial Life: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Gg8_TA7U0Uw&t=285s
The Best Book I've Ever Read About Making Money: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Gx2vyi4JcV0&t=548s

00:00 Intro
00:32 Kitchen
05:44 Entrance Hall
06:30 Living Room
11:23 Bathroom
15:21 Bedroom
19:50 Financials 

How To Turn Your Passion Into A Business Without Sacrifice - James Hoffmann
 - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gIxEkX_2kt8&ab_channel=DeepDivewithAliAbdaal
My Productive Herman Miller Desk Setup - Ali's Vlog S4E9
 - https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9uIeml0J4Is&ab_channel=AliAbdaalVlogs
Subscribe to my Book Journey Newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/book-journey/

💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://go.aliabdaal.com/subscribe-sundaysnippets

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - 
 https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
🎬 YouTube for Beginners - Everything You Need To Know To Start  - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/YouTube-for-Beginners

MY CREATOR COURSES
🎬 Part-Time YouTuber Academy - My 6-week live online course on becoming a part-time YouTuber → https://go.aliabdaal.com/parttimeyoutuberacademy
🏆 Creatorpreneur - My flagship course for scaling up your creative side-hustle → https://creatorpreneur.academy/course
🗣 Camera Confidence - My self-paced course on how to improve your creativity, career, or communication skills → https://cameraconfidence.aliabdaal.com/

MY FAVOURITE GEAR
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) -https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

🎙 Check out my weekly podcast, Deep Dive - https://www.youtube.com/c/DeepDivewithAliAbdaal/ - It's also available on all podcast platforms, including Spotify, Apple Podcasts etc.

MY FAVOURITE TOOLS
🚀 VidIQ - How I optimise my YouTube videos - https://go.aliabdaal.com/vidiq

✍️ Shortform - The BEST summaries of books - https://go.aliabdaal.com/shortform

📚  Readwise - How I remember what I read - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise

🎵  Epidemic Sound - Where I get my music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound

MY KEY LINKS
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com/
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I’m Ali, a YouTuber, podcaster, soon-to-be author and ex-Doctor working in London, UK. I make videos that explore the strategies and tools that help us live happier, healthier and more productive lives. I also have a weekly podcast called Deep Dive (https://www.youtube.com/channel/UChfo46ZNOV-vtehDc25A1Ug), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://go.aliabdaal.com/subscribe-sundaysnippets).

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, real estate, London, London Apartment, London Apartment Tour, house tour 2022, real estate investing for beginners, should i rent in london, should I rent in a city?, should I buy in a city, should I buy in London, London apartments, My productive Apartment Tour, 
**Date:** 2022-05-04

## Transcript
 Oh hey friends, how you doing? This is my London apartment tour. Come on in. Alright, so I'm going to show you around and then at the end of the video we're going to talk a little bit about the finances behind this place. So we're going to start with the whole Harry Potter merchandise thing that we have going on in the kitchen. I got pretty good at tying aprons when I was working in the hospital in Covid times because you had to wear an apron for all the patients. But my absolute favorite part of this kitchen is the fact that we have so much Harry Potter themed merchandise all over here. So we have the lucru se Dutch oven with the fancy Harry Potter lid with the scar and the hair and the glasses, which is very conveniently exactly the same size as the cast iron skillet. So it feels like we've got kind of two for the price of one and in here as well we also have oh my goodness. With a smaller one and this is really cute. I make fajitas. I intend to make dolls in here at some point, which is kind of cool and also because I'm getting into cooking. I got a walk from the school of walk.co.uk. If anyone wants to check them out and continuing the Harry Potter theme here we have a mug cupboard. But within the mug cupboard we have four more lucru se Harry Potter mugs. We have this one, the three broomsticks. We have all of Anders one shop. We have Weasley's Wizard Weasers and we even have the bank of Gringots. So these are the cups that I have my T slash coffee and whatever I want and speaking of T we actually have a kind of weird oh god. Oh yeah we have this very bizarre idea. Very bizarre T set from Harrod's Knightsbridge, which is like super fancy and came with the place, but I really don't like the aesthetic of it because it's a bit too like it's a bit too Dolores umbridge I think. It might particularly like it and so this stays up here and no one really ever uses it. But speaking of T and coffee we also have coffee making apparatus so I use the I'm trying to make freshly ground coffee. But realistically I tend to use instant coffee, Nescafe, a zero. Shout out to my friend James Hoffman about this one podcast to link it down below but he's going to be helping me upgrade my coffee setup at some point soon. So T coffee all of the Harry Potter supplies we've got going on here. Let's talk about a little bit about the sink so obviously this is where we come in and wash our hands because COVID and stuff. Oh I actually feel a little bit of a breath with that whole clamoring onto the onto the countertop but the washing up liquid that we use is run by method and apparently method is not a water water warcraft guild. It is in fact a kind of nonchemical environmentally sustainable environmentally legit washing up thingy. Moving on we also have this wine cooler. It's like specifically a fridge where you're supposed to put wine but what do we have in here? We have some Sprite Zero, we have some Diet Coke, we have some San Pella Greener, Lea Minata, what else do we have? We have a heel, hashtag not sponsored. Uh loads more Diet Coke, cranberry juice and this is often where we also have protein shakes but I seem to have run out of them. I use bare bells banana flavored protein shakes which are my favorite. Would recommend if anyone is in the market for some protein some protein shakeery. That's a little wine cooler. There is a profound level of organization among some of these cupboards as well. So for example here is where we have all of our grains. Obviously this organization has nothing at all to do with me and is entirely the doing of my house mate Lucia. But here we have like garlic and onions and like hands and oils and stuff. That's like somewhat related to cooking. Oops. Next. Next we have the dishwasher. Which is nothing fancy but it's nice having a dishwasher and then we have more cupboards over here. Spice cupboard that includes paper plates but when we host people and don't want to do any washing up alongside some like one of these fancy like story napkins been trying to get into a little bit of hosting people recently so I've been practicing my cooking skills and also inside our spoon cupboard we have more Harry Potter merchandise. We have the set of four. Lucru say special like utensils that are all shaped like various different ones. You know I just find that the more of Harry Potter vibe I can get in here including paper. The more likely I am to actually cook and then finally we have all of our cleaning supplies. Not much interesting going on there. Cleaning supplies type of wear. Mostly for my mum because whenever she makes buriani she gives me a whole box of type of wear for it and then I eat the buriani and then I don't return the type of wear so that's how that works. Putting this back up there. This is a little storage spot. We also have two ovens for whatever that's worth. Came in handy one time and hosting a party for 20 people and then we have the fridge and in the fridge we have orange juice, diet coke, lemonade, loads of vegan stuff and just it's a bit of a mess where probably most of the stuff is out of date and needs some clearing out. So that is what we have in the kitchen. Let's now move over to this sort of entrance hall type area. So in this entrance hall area firstly we have all of the camera gear that we brought into the flat. This is usually where we store our shoes as well. We have what I like to call the cloakroom where when people come in we can say oh can I take your coat for you and people think oh my god you're so adult this is fantastic. We hang it up in the cloakroom usually more in a more legit way than this and we also have a massive mess of shoes. They're mostly mine actually even though I live with this here she doesn't have that many shoes. I tend to I tend to be the one who has more boots and trainers and squash shoes and more boots and more boots and more boots. We also have have in here the washing machine and dryer super convenient in my flat and Cambridge I'd never had a dryer and so we'd have to hang up clothing whereas now we have a dryer so that's absolutely sick. Anyway that hopefully gives you a tour of this area. Let's now move on into the living room area. So this is the balcony and this is where I usually start off my morning routine after doing the whole like getting up, shawering and changing shabang because as per Andrew Hebenman from the Hebenman lab podcast if the first thing that you do in the morning is like get some rays in your eyes that's like really good for setting your circadian rhythm and all that stuff which helps it just wake fullness and rest and all that jazz. Anyway this is now the living room and this is actually the site of the podcast that I do with my brother. So it's a fairly chill kind of recording area, recording setup. I usually just set up my iPhone and one of these tripods, set up the angle and then we sit down and we'd record an episode of Nord over thinking which is the podcast I do with my brother linked down below if you want to check it out. Thank you very much Timel. You can leave now. And yeah the whole podcast that it fits very nice and very nicely and neatly inside this little drawer here. So it's all pretty low friction and just need to pile in the wires. This is how you minimize friction with the podcast and we're also working on a course on how to do a podcast for less than two hours a week. So that'll be linked down below if you want to check out the waiting list, the mailing list for the course. Let's now move on to the bookshelf. So in the bookshelf we have a few interesting books we have the life you can save by Peter Singer, fantastic philosopher, all about utilitarianism and we have of course the thinking persons guide to Islam, solid book. We've got a few cookbooks, Dr. Rupy Orta, all of my mates, had an interview with him on the Deep Black podcast recently, the Dr. Skitchen 321. This is probably the bookshelf and then of course we have the guitar. This is the Martin Mini to guitar that Ed Sheeran apparently uses but like a much cheaper version of the guitar that Ed Sheeran uses and so this is sort of like my chill out area. And one of the nice things about separating the apartment from the studio now is that I don't have to have camera gear in my apartment whereas in every other place I've lived, I've had to film in my living room or film in my bedroom and there's something about that that just like it means you have like all this camera crap like around and it's just not not good vibes. Anyway now we come to this sort of TV area. We don't really spend a lot of time watching TV but the TV is there just in case. Over here we have loads of board games. So we've got banana grounds, fantastic little game that you can play with your friends. We've got magic maze which is in me one. We've got anemia, we've got katan, katan, really solid game. If anyone is not a fan of like strategy games, you should definitely check out katan. And then moving on we have a little PlayStation 5 which is just sort of chilling on the side and you know when I had covid over Christmas I was playing a lot of Horizon Zero Dawn. I've not yet bought Horizon for Bit and West or Eldon Ring because I know that as soon as I start playing them then suddenly I'm gonna be wasting loads and loads of time on video gaming but PlayStation 5 with a single controller and we have an Amazon Echo. So if you want to play some music we just ask Alexa to play the music and I hope she doesn't activate Alexa stop. Thank you. We have this little thing which occasionally acts as a foot rest which is kind of nice. People chill here. They're actually generally room for about like 10 15 people. We've hosted parties. Then we had one party with 30 people. That was probably a little bit excessive. People had to stand up for that. There's kind of a small space but hopefully the wide angle lens makes it look bigger than it actually is. And now we come to the dining table. The dining table is often not really used for eating but it's more used for working. So for example here we have four like dining-y type chairs but we also have the Herman Miller Cosm which is a chair that Herman Miller very kind of gave to us when we were shooting a video right here for the second channel. That'll be linked down below for the block channel and this is usually if I'm working from home. I'll sit. I'll just the cosm to be my height. This is quite nice. I've got these leaf things. I'll have my laptop over here and I'll just be doing my work. Well I'm here. It's kind of cool. And it's also kind of bouncy. So it's like a nice way. Nice way to do the chair stuff. Block the tissues obviously. Plant, plant, candles. We like we enjoy lighting candles at night sometime. It's good for helping you sleep as well. But that's broadly the living room and then we just come to this area over here which is the work keyboard. The keyboard is on top of this weird ass table looking thing. This was a furnished flat by the way. We'll talk more about that in the finances section at the end of the video. But this was a furnished flat and so none of the furniture as far as it just came with the place. And so it's a little bit weird in terms of design including this very strange ornament. Not really sure what's going on there. But of course I do like to have a little keyboard. This is the Yamaha P125 and so sometimes I want to get home from work even though I don't really call it work because it's just you know making silly internet videos. I can do my little practicing, play some tangled, play some Disney, play some musical theater, play some Ed Sheeran and Taylor Swift songs. So that is the living room overall. I think that broadly covers everything. Fake bonsai tree over there. Kind of nice vibes. Real plant over there that needs to look after. But that's a living room. Let's now move on to the bedrooms. Alrighty so now we have the bedroom but let's start with the on-suite. Otherwise known as a bathroom. It's kind of nice. It's pretty nice having it on suite. First things first we have a laundry basket which is where I put dirty laundry. Perhaps unsurprisingly we have the towel rail where I have two towels and I also have my scrub bottoms. Now this is what I use as pajamas and I've actually been using these exact same pair since 2015 when I stole them from the hospital that I was on placement in when I was a fourth year medical student. But that's kind of fun. We have the bath tub but I don't think I've ever once taken that actual bath in here but the shower is kind of nice and we use Curl Smith shampoo. Pretty good for mice curls. Sanx men 0% body wash or something like that. We use Curl Smith calming post biotic conditioner. I didn't even know that was called but it's just a conditioner that might all have to make. Sheen recommended me whoops. And we have a little bit of Serovay hydrating cleanser because obviously cleansing twice a day is useful. More on my skincare routine video coming up at some point soon so if you're not subscribed or please do hit the subscribe button if you want to see that. Serovay hydrating cleanser means I can do a little cleanse while I'm in the bath. Moving on we now have the sink and the mirror and I like to have a little pink teeth brush which is mine. I have my hand wash obviously because I do wash my hands after I go to the bathroom obviously and another big top of Serovay hydrating cleanser because cleansing is super important and then I have my invisilines which I'm not wearing right now because I'm doing a video but I just shove them on the sink over there. Moving on we have this sort of storage area, cup of tea type thing that has a load of other random assortment of like stuff. A bit of fragrance collection. We have Penhaligan's Health Fettie. We have Creed Silver Mountain Water. We have a Mont Blanc Explorer I do believe. We have some deodorants. We have some like empty purse prints. We have my this is a bit of a mess. A bit of a mess. Some Korean dental monitoring Serovay in Visiline. Shout out to Angli or orthodontics for hooking me up with in Visiline a couple years ago. Nearly finished with that and this is where I spend like inordinate amounts of time on my phone in this position. Bad for my posture of scrolling twitter or instagram or replying to comments on YouTube so if you leave a comment somewhere on this video I might even reply to it when I'm on the toilet. This is the bathroom. It's a pretty good place. Pretty good place to hang out. Moving on. We are now in this sort of cupboard area. The cool thing about this place. This bedroom is that it does have a lot of storage. So for example here we have like loads of like shirts and hoodies and more hoodies and more hoodies, jeans and trousers. This is where my t-shirt's lie. Huge collection of t-shirts. Most are actually from cuts clothing. Shout out to cuts and then I have sort of gym stuff. So I have a combination of Nike and gym shock supplies and also interestingly this Pakistan cricket top that has my name written on it which a fan specifically got made for me. When any any came to Dubai for the nuss summit that I was in a few weeks ago and you said oh my god I love your videos. I had a custom cricket top made for you here you go. I haven't worn it yet but thank you very much to whoever that was sadly. I don't know what that person's name was. So apologies on that front and oh this is kind of fun. I have another Harry Potter lucru C set of mugs which I'm gonna give as a present to some of my cousins who recently had a baby. So that's cool. That and then we have another huge kind of storage area where we've got suitcase number one suitcase number two. These are suitcases from away. This is the away large and the away carry on and then we have my ski bag which has all my ski supplies in it. Some jackets nothing particularly interesting there and then we have more cupboard space. This is generally where we store all of the spare bedding and delays and pillows and stuff. So if we have friends staying over they have some to sleep on and here is just kind of underwear and socks and all that fun stuff. Now we get to where the real magic happens and that is the bedroom and of course by magic what I mean by that is consolidation of memory because consolidation of memory happens while we are asleep. We have a nice double bed. I think it's a double bed. I'm not sure what like beds are officially but the bedside table there, bedside table over there, my collection of slippers over here. Then we have a desk setup which is pretty cramped. One of the annoying things about living in an apartment in London is that they're quite small and so we don't have a huge amount of room although the wide angle lens hopefully makes it look bigger than it actually is. This is the Herman Miller Airron chair which again they gave to us for free when we did a little shoot with them because I'm now a Herman Miller ambassador which is very fun and I think this is a hey desk H-A-Y which yes it is which is one of the brands that's owned by Herman Miller so that's kind of cool and so occasionally if I squeeze myself into this into this desk setup this is my old laptop but I like having that on the stand over here. Generally I use it as like a journaling or writing device so for example if the living room is busy or if in the morning I feel like it or if in the night time I feel like I can't sleep I will just open up the laptop and I'll do some like journaling I don't know why these cables are not connected but yeah I do some journaling and it's kind of nice it's good for the posture having a laptop stand something like this we've got how do you live by against a burrow Yoshino which is a book that I bought from the Shakespeare bookstore in Paris a few weeks ago or my brother a couple months ago while I was there we have this thing which is kind of cool this is the bellkin wireless charger so I can use this to charge my Apple Watch at night time and I also use it to charge my phone which I currently don't have with me and even better I also use it to charge my AirPods and so the cool thing about this is that when I charge my phone it charges wirelessly but it also means that the phone charges away from my bed and that means that when the alarm goes at 7 o'clock in the morning I have to get physically get out of bed to switch the alarm off provided I don't need series to switch it off which I do very occasionally but then when I'm out of bed then I open the curtains and then I feel like okay cool I'm awake I might as well just go and have a shower now so just having the phone far away from me has been enormously helpful there some sharpies a box of sharpies I find sharpies really good these days I'm working on my book some of you guys know link below to the book journey news letter if you want to hear more about what's happening with book progress but I find that writing on an A3 pad with sharpies is a great way of making progress when it comes to sketching other big ideas we have some more skin care stuff I use the altruist dermatologist SPF SPF 50 face fluid which is sort of my moisturizer and sunscreen combination each morning and I use the Dometica Retinoid more on this in my dedicated skincare video and then we have ooh Tom Ford Noir which is another fragrance fragrance that I occasionally dabble with got the key card for my car you know obviously Tesla's have key cards and then like loads of deodorant and stuff hairdryer from Heist I'd love to upgrade to the Dyson one at some point and we also have a physical alarm clock which is currently not working for whatever that's worth and of course the fake ikea potted plant the fedge cup plant that I've had on my desks since like 2014 which is an absolute staple in every youtuber's desk setup so that is quote the desks setup oh dear and then that's really all the rest of this particular bedroom we now have with a bed double bed kind of nice and is a were asleep little thing over here this is the Kindle Paper White signature edition which is kind of cool because it does charge wirelessly which means I can put it on charge over here which during the daytime it charges wirelessly and then at night time I turn the lights off turn my fan on and then I can read on the Kindle before bed so that's usually how I get in at least 20 minutes to half an hour of actual reading in each day just before bed we also have here the hour ring version three this is actually my finger has got in a bit fat for it so I think I have the wrong size but yeah doubling with the hour ring is the way of monitoring all my vitals not vitals all of my kind of sleep stats on that stuff we have another amazon echo which is currently not plugged in because I haven't bothered setting it up and we have this dice and cool fan which I've had since 2018 for the last four years it's really good definitely needs a bit of a clean but I always get really hot in night time and so having a dice and fan it's just been super nice and it was like pretty expensive initially and I couldn't imagine spending that much on a fan but it's definitely coming handy and it just looks way better than most other fans that was the bedroom that basically brings us to everything in the house we did we have another bedroom as well which is where my house made Lucia lives and there is another bathroom nothing particularly fancy over there to see but now let's talk more about the finances so we're gonna head back into the living room all right so let's break down the finances of how much it costs to live in a place like this now if you were to buy something like this in central London a flat like this this place would have cost 1.8 million pounds or 2.4 million dollars I did not buy the place I did not buy the place primarily because I could not afford it I wanted to live in a nice place in central London and a nice place in central London is like super expensive and I don't yet have enough cash to actually be able to get a mortgage or be able to buy a fancy as a place like this and so I decided to rent instead also it's surprisingly hard to actually come by fancy two bedroom apartments in London because usually foreign investors tend to buy them up as soon as they are even in development and so at the time that I realized I wanted to move to London I kind of dabbled a bit of like how much does it cost to move like if I were to buy a place immediately realized it was outside my budget and so I decided you know what I am going to rent for a year or two as a bit of an experiment to see what it's like living in central London while I'm young and relatively unencumbered with dependence so how much does this place cost to rent? Well, me and my house made up paying 4,100 pounds a month in total to rent the place which comes out to 50,000 pounds a year which is quite a lot. Conveniently the place is fully furnished so we didn't have to worry about any furniture or anything like that it came with all the things that we needed we just brought in like the piano and like laptops and you know that kind of stuff but it also does not include bills so bills wise we are paying 459 pounds per month for bills. Now this is obviously quite a lot of money and in my previous flat in Cambridge where I was living for three years me and my brother we had collectively pitched into buy the place together and had I've been renting an equivalent to bedroom flat it would have cost about 1,400 pounds so we've gone from like 2 bedroom flat for 1,400 pounds to 2 bedroom flat for 4,100 pounds so that's like a 3x increase in kind of the amount I would pay for rent that's obviously completely ridiculous so why am I paying so much in rent? Well I'm going to be honest I semi regret getting this place it was a bit of an experiment and I've decided that it's probably not worth it and there were really two main factors that I was weighing up when I was thinking about what sort of place I wanted to live in and how much I wanted to pay in rent the first one was location and the second one was like how nice is the apartment how nice is the building so location is the one that I think is worth it so this place is banging the middle of central London it's like ridiculously amazing in terms of transport links I can get anywhere I want relatively easily and all of my friends who live in other areas of London and other areas of the country they tend to come to me because I'm in such a central location it's also really nice because now when friends are moving by London they can stay over and it's just like a ridiculously convenient place to have people around the area super nice there's loads of coffee shops restaurants etc etc and it's just so easy to get absolutely everywhere in London from where I'm living here so that was the main thing now if location was the only thing I cared about then probably for about half the price probably for around about 2,000 pounds a month we could have gotten a two bedroom relatively okay apartment in central London as well and so the extra 2,000 a month the extra cost for this particular place is mostly because of the niceness of the building and the niceness of the amenities and in terms of the amenities there's a gym in the building which is kind of nice there is a spa in the building which is even nicer there's a sauna steam room in a hot tub type thing there is a co-working space within the building itself like a little business area where you can like work there's also an entertainment suite that has a cinema room and like a special dinner area that you can book and like a special games room that has a pool table it's all a bit much to be honest I use the gym fairly regularly but it's not an absolute requirement I could have easily got an a gym membership that was near my studio where I work that would have meant that I didn't need a gym in the building the spa is nice to have it's a bit of a novelty kind of wears off not gonna lie it's nice being able to have the steam room and the sauna but I don't use it particularly often entertainment suite and cinema room I've never once used and the co-working space downstairs I mean it's okay but I have a studio we've got an office where the team hang out as well so that's just a nice place to hang out so I think before moving into this place I thought that I would value the amenities a lot more than I actually do and to be honest when it comes to the niceness of the actual flat like the apartment I'm also not sure it's worth it at least for me like I think if I was a sort of person who spent a load of time in here then I'd probably think it's worth it because it's just like it was spending a lot of time here but I tend to just leave first thing in the morning and go to the studio and then I tend to come back around done 9pm 10pm and then I'm not even hanging out on the flat very much I'm literally just going to bed and so given that we're paying so much for the niceness of the building and I don't even use the niceness of the building because I've got a studio and I'm not in the house during the day a sort of feels a bit like what's a point of paying so much and I think when I think about getting a place in future unless there's funky stuff I can do like kind of making it a YouTube studio as well at the same time where the niceness of the building would feed into it I probably wouldn't rate the kind of amenities and the fanciness of the flat massively highly because having lived here I don't think it's a huge kind of a huge part of what makes this place worth it now I want to talk a little bit more about the idea of bivisus rent this is something my mum always asked about like why not just buy a place in London and so firstly the answer to that is it's really freaking expensive to buy a place in central London generally when you're thinking about buying you've got to think about like the bivisus rent ratio now in a place like central London or in places like Manhattan, New York or kind of these big popular cities it costs a lot more proportionally to buy a place then it does two rent and equivalent place so for example this place with cost 1.8 million pounds to buy but it only costs 4,000 pounds a month to rent this means that in order to buy this place let's say you're putting a 10% down payment of 180,000 pounds you're getting a mortgage of about 1.6 million pounds and to get a mortgage of 1.6 million pounds you need to have an annual income of 400,000 pounds per year that's quite a lot a lot people like most people don't have that kind of annual income I also don't have that kind of annual income because the way our business structure that I didn't take that much at money out of business we reinvest a lot back into the business to help it grow all that fun stuff but if you want to rent a place with 4,000 pounds a month or 50,000 pounds a year most people spend probably around about half of this salary on rent and so with an annual income of around 100,000 pounds you can rent a place as nice as this even though you need four times that amount to buy it so in this particular context because central London is ridiculous like that the buy rent ratios are wildly skewed which means if you want to buy a place with a hundred k salary you end up in a much grimy or in less nice place not in central London compared to what you could do if you rented it but let's run the numbers let's say hypothetically speaking I did have enough money to buy the place and I wanted to buy the place what would that look like so 1.8 million pounds for the place 10% down payment at 180,000 pounds 1.6 million pound mortgage and let's say that mortgage has an interest rate of 1.7% which is the interest rate on my Cambridge flat so assuming we get the same interest rate that would mean that every single month I'd be paying 6,500 pounds a month in mortgage repayments so the mortgage repayments would be so much more expensive than the actual rent like but about 50% more mortgage payment than rent when you own an apartment at least in the UK you also then have to pay ground rent and maintenance and I'd estimate that for this building the ground rent and maintenance is around about 5,000 pounds a year which is around about 600 pounds a month and so I'd be paying around 7,000 pounds a month in terms of mortgage repayments and also in terms of ground rent and maintenance again compared to the 4,000 a month that we're paying instead in rent so that's a big difference between like what it costs to rent a place in what a cost to buy a place but then people would say okay but if you buy a place then you're not throwing money down the drain in rent because you're adding equity and you're building equity and all that kind of stuff and that is definitely true but if we use an amortization calculator to see what the repayments for this mortgage actually look like some amount of the mortgage repayment is principal so how much is actually contributing to the equity of the house but another big part of it is interest which is literally money down the drain it's essentially the money you're paying to the bank for the ability to get the mortgage on the house so if we run these numbers if I want to buy this place a assuming I could afford it and assuming it's available both of which are not true if I wanted to buy the place I'd be paying a 2,200 pounds a month just in interest payments and another 500,600 pounds a month in ground rent and maintenance so around 2,800 pounds a month would be money down the drain because ground rent maintenance is money down the drain leader pay for what you're renting and interest is literally money down the drain because it's the rent that you're paying to the bank this means that the difference between 4,000 pounds a month in terms of rent and 2,800 pounds a month in terms of money down the drain you know let's call it about 1500 pounds let's say you're saving 1500 pounds by buying the place okay cool at that point we then have to think about how much it costs to buy the place and if even if we ignore all of the taxes and all of the stamp duty and all that kind of stuff and we just think about the down payment it would cost around 180,000 pounds of down payment to actually buy the place and so in essence that's putting 180,000 pounds away and that's saving 1500 pounds a month or 18,000 pounds a year and so 18,000 divided by 180,000 is 10% so essentially by putting this 180,000 pounds into the mortgage for a down payment you're getting a 10% rate of return every year which in fairness is actually pretty good that's a pretty good rate of return that a lot of real estate investors would think is pretty reasonable and that point to really figure out the true cost and the difference between buying and renting we have to figure out what would that theoretical 180,000 pounds be doing instead and if it were me I'd probably put it into a low cost index fund like the SNP 500 the SNP 500 tends to return about 7% a year on average it's done really really well over the last 5, 10 years but if we take an average of the last 30 years right about 7% we can say is the average rate of return and so the actual difference between me buying this place again if I could afford it and if I wanted to and if it was available and the difference between between me renting it is 3% of 180,000 pounds as like an annual rate of return which is 5,400 pounds per year so really the money it costs or the money down the drain to rent this place is around about 5,400 pounds if you take all of these different numbers into account making a few assumptions along the way and at that point it's still better to buy the place than to rent it because at least you're saving this 5,400 pounds a year but then you think well why do people rent in the first place like I don't think it's quite as simple as renting as money down the drain because when you buy a place you're kind of stuck with the place you have to then worry about it you have to deal with the maintenance you have to deal with the fare you have to deal with the ballake and the logistics of actually buying a place which can take several months and in a way I like to think of it as a difference between setting down roots and having wings like when you rent and you have like a one year contractor a few months contractor whatever you can leave whenever you want and so the reason why I wanted to rent in central London I didn't want to buy is because like even if financially speaking buying would have been slightly better and much better over the long term it wasn't really a financial decision it was a decision based on freedom and autonomy I didn't know what it would be like to live in a place like central London I wanted to try it out and so renting gives me a lot more optionality it gives me the ability to change my mind without having a real cost to changing my mind which involves all of the costs in time and money associated with buying a place all right so ultimately is living in a place like this worth it I think it really depends so I often think about like worth it calculations when it comes to tech I've done reviews of iPad and iPhones and Macs and all that kind of stuff and really whether something is worth it is really hard to objectively define objectively for me it's probably not worth it right because yeah I would pay £2,000 a month to live in central London might even pay £3,000 to live in central London but £4,400 when we're getting into those sorts of numbers you're paying for the niceness of the place and I don't really care about the niceness of the place because I already have a nice office that I spend most of my time in but also I think whether or not something is worth it depends on how much disposable income you have so if you mean I don't take too much money out of the business I instead put it all into investments or reinvest it into the business and so if I if I actually had way more disposable income like I don't know if I worked a banking job or something and I had a large salary and I didn't care about investments and savings and all that kind of stuff a place like this probably would be worth it for me because it would be a smaller percentage of my annual income than this place actually is if you're interested in how I afford a place like this as a kind of full-time youtuber then you might like to check out this video over here which is a breakdown of how much money the business made last year and like the 10 different sources of income that we had so that'll give you an idea of what those numbers look like if for whatever reason you're still interested so thank you so much for watching do pay the subscribe button if you want to ready and I'll see you hopefully in the next video bye bye
