# Music, Reading and Note-Taking - Productive Day in the Life
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Zo5cf_CgR6M
To improve your thinking and learning skills with active recall, visit https://brilliant.org/ali and sign up for free. The first 200 people will get 20% off the annual Premium subscription :)

Hey guys, today I'll be showing you how I spent a somewhat productive 1st of June in isolation.

MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️ My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝 My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
📚 How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵 Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
🌐 My website platform (Ghost) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost
🎤 My podcast hosting platform (Transistor) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/transistor

OTHER RECOMMENDED COURSES
📔 Effortless Output with Roam Research - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/roam
📓 Building a Second Brain - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/basb

🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app (eg: Spotify, Apple Podcasts, Google Podcasts etc). 

BE MY FRIEND:
💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, study with me, study, studying, school, university, how to revise, motivational video, cambridge university, student, studytube, study hacks, junior doctor, doctor on call, productive day, day in the life, filming b-roll, tech blog, tech review, day in the life of a youtuber, how youtubers spend their time, doctor day in the life, derek sivers, anything you want, 
**Date:** 2020-06-10

## Transcript
 Hey friends, welcome back to another day in the life lockdown vlog. Today's job is as usual to try and be as productive as possible while also having a nice time along the way. As usual I wake up at 8am with my alarm and as usual it's an ongoing struggle to negotiate myself out of bed. I just live here doing absolutely nothing for half an hour. And then I remember that I've got the iPad on my bedside table so I bust that out and do my morning journaling practice on notion. At 9am a solid hour after waking up I finally managed to negotiate myself out of bed and into the shower. I weigh myself on the Wi-Fi enabled scales currently I'm 72.46 kg with 16% body fat percentage whatever that means. And then by 9'20 I'm out of the shower. I make my morning cup of coffee and pour some boiling water into this plastic thingy that makes me some oats. While I consume my morning sustenance I do some more writing on notion and then from 10am it's the somewhat weekly team meeting with the 18 on zoom. So for half an hour Christian Angus Elizabeth and I chat about what we're doing in terms of videos articles, podcasts and Skillshare classes for the next month or so. At 10'30 I take advantage of my gastrocholic reflex and sit on the toilet. What was meant to be a five minute job turns into half an hour of watching covers of John May of Songs on YouTube on my phone. And then at 11 as my legs are feeling dead I remember that I meant to be a productivity guru so I leave the bathroom and station myself on the sofa. I practice a bit of in the blood by John Mayer on the guitar and then procrastinate on my phone for another 20 minutes doing God only knows what. By this time it's 11'20 and so I decide to stop being a complete waste man and do something more useful with my life. So as usual to mark my move from waste man to productivity grease monkey I make some more coffee with the chemics and then I sit on the sofa with my iPad Pro Magic keyboard which is my favorite casual writing setup. I ask Sirita to play the Apple music pure country radio station on the home pod and then from 11'30 to noon I reread one of my favorite books anything you want 40 lessons for a new kind of entrepreneur by Derek Civers. We're planning a video for the book club series distilling the main insights from the book but it's proving to be a little bit tricky because it's a collection of 40 short lessons. So instead as I'm rereading it I think about which bits particularly resonated with me the first few times that I read it and I try to figure out how I can present this in a nice way on video. At 12'5 I decide to take a break but I'm still in the mood to do something useful so I continue working through Justin guitar's music theory course. We revisit chord triads that I'm very familiar with on the piano but I realise that there are a thing on the bottom three strings of the guitar as well which is a game changing insight. I work at this for around an hour and then at one PM I grab some lunch which today is looming with rice and peas from the fitness kitchen. While waiting for the Tupperware to warm in the microwave I bust out some weird tricep exercises with the resistance bands and pull-up bar. I grab a cheeky beverage of pair and barley water squash and then while eating I watch some more music theory lessons on Justin guitar because I'm kind of on a roll of inspiration with the whole guitar thing and even though obviously motivation is a myth I think it's helpful to take advantage of burst of motivation when we do have it. From 140 PM I spend half an hour sorting out some general admin on the computer, gearing up for the launch of liberty medics, a new business that means my friends have set up. And then from 2 to 3 PM I do some more productive procrastination on the guitar and spend a distressingly long amount of time shooting a thumbnail for this vlog. I look at the time, realise it's 3 PM and realise that I haven't really done anything useful for the past three hours. Oh well there goes my status as a productivity guru. At 3 PM I make the final coffee of the day to get me out of my slump and into a productive mood. It's a bit dangerous having caffeine at 3 PM because it stays in your body for ages and it can reduce the quality of our sleep, but it's fine today because I've got a twilight shift tomorrow at 4 PM so I can afford to stay up late reading paranormal romance fiction and have a lion tomorrow morning. I spend some time setting up the overhead rig to get a shot of the coffee from above. I want to get this overhead shot. This is how I procrastinate these days when I'm doing a vlog, right? I set up these ridiculous shots and it just makes everything take about four times longer than it should, but oh well it's all good. I also get a delivery of the juby teleport to a fancy new tripod for my phone so I do a cheeky unboxing and play around with that for a little bit. Finally at 325 PM it's time to get back to work. I switch my desk over to standing mode which annoyingly involves fiddling around with my studio lighting setup and I switch over to my colorful keyboard which is a nicer typing experience than the Apple Magic keyboard. From half past three I spend an hour writing more stuff for some upcoming videos and I have some more chats with my team about our upcoming content. I look through our video ideas database on notion to see if there's anything that we can move from idea to reality. At 450, energised from this hour of standing and typing away, I decide I'm going to continue my daily challenge of writing a thousand words per day. I move over to the sofa with the iPad which seems to be my dedicated writing device and fully intent to bash out some more writing but I make the mistake of browsing Twitter and then fall down a rabbit hole of reading articles and watching videos related to the black lives matter protests. I tweet briefly about it, retweet a few things and wonder if there's anything more I could be doing with my platform to help. Next thing I know it's 615pm and I've been depressed about this stuff for the past hour, I decide to get back to hashtag productivity for whatever that's worth. Today's the first day of a 30 day singing class that I'm taking online so I watch the introductory video and then I record a video for the first project which involves sharing my story, musical background and talking about my favorite genres of music. Then I sing a bit of country roads by John Denver as an introductory video. Initially I cringe a bit inside, having to talk about this stuff on video to this random group of strangers which I don't normally do but then I think you know what, screw it, I've paid for this class and I want to improve my singing so I'm going to take it seriously and I'm going to do all of the exercises that the coach assigns each day. By 730 I've recorded my intro monologue and song and so I eat some chicken takeaway while doing a quick edit on Final Cut Pro and uploading it to YouTube as an unlisted video to share with the class. By 750 dinners done and so I watched the dishes and then procrastinate on the piano until 815. At this point I decided to do a final burst of work for the day to get my word count up to a thousand words. This takes me a solid 50 minutes as I write about luck, serendipity and how to maximize it. Off the back of a discussion that I had with my friend Bobby Seagull during a YouTube livestream earlier in the week. Through this I end up revisiting an episode of the Final Street podcast that I heard in October 2019 and took a few notes on at the time. Revisiting this episode makes me stumble across some pretty cool ideas that I've forgotten which is one of the nice things about note taking. I don't trust my dumbass brain to actually remember anything and so I like to take notes on the stuff that I read, watch and listen to but I like to take those notes in a way that I will stumble across them again because otherwise I might not even remember that they exist. I finished this writing stuff by 10 past 9 and then I decided to do a final few hashtag productive things as a bit of a wind down. First I make my self a cup of caffeine-free chamomile tea and then I sit down to work through an online course on brilliant who are very kind of sponsoring this video. Brilliant is an amazing platform for online courses in maths, science and computer science and I'm working my way through their computer science series these days trying to build a more legit understanding of the field. I quite like working through these courses because they have a lot of interactive elements and challenges along the way which helps exercise my mind in a nice guided fashion. If you also think that learning is quite fun and you want to join me in taking some of these courses on brilliant, head over to brilliant.org forward slash alley and the first 200 people to visit that link will get 20% off the annual premium subscription. Anyway at 940 I move over to the piano to continue practicing learning how to reach sheet music. I sort of have this new rule for myself that I have to be productive before 10pm but after 10pm I'm not allowed to do anything explicitly productive unless I really feel like it. And so I intend to do only around 20 minutes of piano practice but I get quite absorbed by it and trying to play stuff from Lord of the Rings soundtrack and from Phantom of the Opera and then I end up just screwing around on the piano a little bit. It's not particularly productive because it's not really deliberate practice but oh well it's fun and this is my wind down time for the night so it's all good. At 1030 I get up off the piano and think about whether I want to get an early night in bed but I find that I'm still pretty hyped and I've got some energy left to expend. So I find some more articles to read and take notes on from the stuff that I added to my residence calendar last year. People sometimes ask when I make the time to relax but to be honest I find this sort of stuff quite fun like it's just really kind of fun taking notes from random articles that you've read once upon a time and it's quite relaxing anyway so it doesn't really feel like work. Finally at 11pm I sense my concentration beginning to Wayne and so I upload the vlog footage to Google Drive get ready for bed, type out my daily reflection on the iPad and then read a bit more on my Kindle before calling it a night. Here is a playlist of more day in the life videos thanks for watching stay safe and I'll see you in the next one. Good night.
