# Collecting My Tesla Model 3 - Day In The Life
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zPc0j-Rzo28
🚀Join Cohort 4 of the Part-Time YouTuber Academy!

It's my flagship live YouTube course where I teach people to do YouTube as a side hustle. If you want to learn how to grow your YouTube channel without quitting your day job or sacrificing your current projects, it's one of the best places to start this journey.

More than 350 people are already signed up, and we're stoked to get started. We're closing the enrolment this Wednesday the 20th so, if you decide you do want to join me and other creators and spend the next 6 weeks learning ins and outs of YouTube, click the link below. 👇
https://academy.aliabdaal.com

If you buy a Tesla using my referral link, we’ll both get 1,000 free Supercharger miles 👀- https://ts.la/ali66036

Hey friends, in this episode of Day In The Life I'll be picking up my new Tesla Model 3 and taking it for a spin, along with trying to be as productive as I can despite the enthusiasm.

Check out the Superorganizers article: https://superorganizers.substack.com/p/the-double-life-of-productivitys

MY FREE ONLINE COURSES:
🚀  Productivity Masterclass - Principles and Tools to Boost Your Productivity - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/productivity
🎬  Video Editing with Final Cut Pro X - From Beginner to YouTuber - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/video-editing
🎓  How to Study for Exams - An Evidence-Based Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/studying
😃  How to be Happier - Stoicism Masterclass - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/stoicism

MY FAVOURITE GEAR:
🎥  My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal
⌨️  My Keyboard - Wireless Coral mechanical keyboard (Cherry Blue) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/keyboard 
📝  My favourite iPad Screen Protector - Paperlike - https://go.aliabdaal.com/paperlike 
🎒 My Desk Accessories + Todo List - Ugmonk - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ugmonk

MY FAVOURITE SOFTWARE:
📚  How I remember what I read (Readwise) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/readwise 
🎵  Where I get my Music (amazing for YouTubers) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/epidemicsound
👻 Where I get my Website Themes from - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-themes
👻 My personal Ghost Website Theme - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost-theme-ali
What I Use For Analytics - https://go.aliabdaal.com/tubebuddy
🌐  My website platform (Ghost) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/ghost
🎤  My podcast hosting platform (Transistor) - https://go.aliabdaal.com/transistor

OTHER RECOMMENDED COURSES
📔 Effortless Output with Roam Research - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/roam
📓 Building a Second Brain - https://go.aliabdaal.com/course/basb

🎙 MY WEEKLY PODCAST - https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCdXpN-Z7LyTgc3OLo_Zw2Pg
My brother and I host a weekly podcast where we discuss happiness, creativity and the human condition. You can find it by searching “Not Overthinking” on any podcast app. And we post clips + full episodes on the YouTube channel, so please subscribe to that!  

BE MY FRIEND:
💌  Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
 
📸  Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦  Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮  Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

WHO AM I:
I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

🌍  My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 

GET IN TOUCH:
If you’d like to talk, I’d love to hear from you. Tweeting @AliAbdaal directly will be the quickest way to get a response, but if your question is very long, feel free to email me at hi@aliabdaal.com. I try my best to reply to things but there sadly aren't enough hours in the day to respond to everyone 😭

PS: Some of the links in this description are affiliate links that I get a kickback from 😜
**Keywords:** Ali Abdaal, Ali abdal, tesla model 3, tesla drive, tesla model, driving a tesla, how much is tesla, driving tesla, tesla, tesla model 3 review, tesla model 3 interior, tesla model 3 drive, tesla model 3 acceleration, tesla model 3 cost, 2020 tesla model 3, tesla model 3 uk, ali abdaal vlog, tesla model 3 2020, tesla uk, tesla motors, new tesla model 3, model 3 review, tesla model 3 price, model 3 tesla, model 3, tesla model 3 performance, tesla review, 
**Date:** 2020-09-27

## Transcript
 Hey friends, welcome back to the day in the life of log. If you knew here, my name is Ali I'm a doctor based in the UK and this is episode one of Season 4 of the vlog and the theme for this season is the unemployment diaries. I'm now one month into my sabbatical for medicine, which means I can spend literally all of my time making these internet videos LMFA-000. The day begins at 7.30 a.m. I'm at Mother's House in St. Alpen just outside of London. Mother is very good to me and she even feeds me sometimes. Today I'm in luck and she cooks up a mean omelette with toast and butter and jam, a solid start to the day with a healthy and nutritious breakfast. I wash up the dishes, drop my phone in a bowl of water because I'm an idiot, and then shower and change into my incredibly masculine t-shirt before sitting down on my MacBook to do some hashtag productivity for half an hour. Then at 10 a.m., my brother and I set off towards London Heathrow to visit the Tesla Collection place to collect the new model 3. In anticipation of the psychological phenomenon of hedonic adaptation, I get some thoughts on the record about what it feels like to drive a normal car before my world view changes forever. All right, so we're on the motorway at the moment and in the normal car, one thing that I've often like actively noticed is how much noise there is. There's the noise of the engine and there's all the noise on the outside and if I want to actually kind of have a conversation while driving at 7.25 a.m., you kind of do have to raise your voice a little bit to be heard. Also, if I'm distinct in all of your book or music, I have to have the volume up pretty loudly and assuming I'm not wearing my AirPods because apparently that's not allowed. The other thing about normal car is the acceleration. So I think the acceleration of this is absolutely fine. I have no idea what they're not 16 on this, but I imagine it's like 10 seconds or something other. And there have only been very few circumstances what I've needed to overtake someone or where I've had like a stretch of empty road in front of me, where I've kind of felt that it would be nice of this accelerated a little bit faster. But in general today today driving, I actually don't need particularly fancy acceleration. The other nice thing about this normal car is that it's very higher. I feel like I'm sitting generally quite straight. I can kind of see the end of the car and I therefore feel like I am distanced from the road. So it sort of feels like I'm just sitting in a normal chair with the same posture that I would in a normal chair and like at my desk or something and I've just happened to be moving. Whereas I know that way the more sportier cars you, your body is closer to the road and you're kind of more lean back. So that'll be something I'm not really used to. This to me right now feels like a 10 out of 10 in terms of comfort, even though it's a very normal car. It kind of does everything I needed to. The only thing this car doesn't have right now is that the air conditioning is broken. So that has been a sort of significant negative on very hot days. I don't really know what I'm missing right now. And I suspect that one of the Tesla arrives. Maybe my standards will increase. We get to the collection center and queue up with a load of other dudes picking up the Tesla's. The Tesla Guide types a few details into the computer and hands as the key, which turns out to be a fancy asked card rather than a proper key. When we enter the car for the first time it asks us to give the car a name. Friends meet my new companion Hermione. There we go. Now how the hell do you drive this thing? Whoa! What are you looking for me? Okay, I need to not crash into anyone on the way out. Literally no noise. Whoa! Okay, I need to adjust steering wheel and stuff. This is not comfortable. Okay, so that's the first experience driving the new Tesla Model 3. Honestly, it feels kind of the same as driving any other other car. There's a few things about it that will particularly interesting. The acceleration is actually really nice. It feels like you're very powerful when you're on the road because you're not really using much of the speed or much of the acceleration. And so when you want it, there's like a load of reserve that's there in terms of accelerating quickly, at a random battle from traffic light. So that's been quite a nice feature. The other nice thing is the sound system. It is a little bit quieter overall driving the car than my normal car and the sound system is significantly nicer so I can listen to my audio book with like a better quality which is just kind of nice. The seat is pretty comfortable. It's it's immediately obvious once you get in that it kind of feels like you're sitting on a sofa. But then you get used to it very quickly. And overall it doesn't feel any more comfortable than my previous normal car. I think that's more a case of you just sort of get used to a seat when you're sitting in it and you can't really tell unless you're going from one to the other, which you probably wouldn't do. Tamor drives the old car home and I take Hermione out for a proverbial spin. After showing the car to mother and watching her take lots of photos from inside, I get back to work. I make myself a cheeky cup of instant coffee and get back to my MacBook to do some more hustling. After all, man's got to make some more online courses to pay for this new car am I right? I go I want to share the ultimate view of something that has transformed my productivity and that is basically the idea of having a project list. This is something I kind of far faster a little bit, but I could kind of stop by taking it seriously. So last night I just made a list of all the different projects that I was working on. And I kind of realise that if you just have this list and you just order it kind of based on the effort you want to be putting or the attention you want to be giving to each of them. The last kind of hour just this morning we've gotten so much done in terms of me getting stuff done and delegating other bits that I just never would have done before before just having this project to this. In general, there are so few people who have used project list, but apparently it's one of the single biggest things that can absolutely boost your productivity as I found out in the building a second brain course that I am taking part in and mentoring at the moment. So that's been very exciting. I just thought I'd share that with you. So if you're interested in boosting your productivity really useful to have a list of projects that you're working on, we'll do a video in more detail talking about the power of the project list. In fact, you should plan that video right now. At this point, it's around 1pm and so I spend some time preparing for a physiology teaching session that I'll be doing over Zoom for my first year medical students who have their exams coming up isn't that fun. After half an hour though, I find myself losing concentration, so I head over to Tamal's bedroom for a cheeky map. After dosing for a bit, at 215, I stopped being a waste man and warm some leftover buriani for lunch, which we eat while watching season 10 of modern family. Then at 3pm, I decided to continue a burst of productivity and I drive over to the service station to charge the car. I plug it in, give a nod of respect to the other Tesla drivers in the army and grab a latte from Starbucks. I intend to get some work done, but instead I end up spending 20 minutes browsing Tesla accessories. Hermione finishes charging in around 30 minutes, so I head back home before it starts to charge me for idle time in the supercharger. All right, so more first impression stuff. So the supercharging experience was pretty good. I just rocked up to a supercharger. I pressed the button on the thing, the charging door of the car opened, I plugged it in, didn't have to put any payment in. I don't know how it's going to charge me, but it just worked really well. And within about half an hour, it went from 38% all the way up to 80%. I could have charged it longer if I'd wanted to, but they recommend a 80% unless you're going on a long journey because the fine and 20% takes a bit longer and apparently if you charge it all the way too much, then that ruins the quality of the battery or something like that. The driving experience as well, having done it a little bit more, there are so many moments where I thought down this thing is really nice. It was mostly when accelerating, because when you're on a motorway, for example, traveling at 70 miles per hour, it doesn't really feel much different to my normal car, but in kind of day-to-day town driving where there's a gap of road in front of me, and I can then accelerate, that's what I feel. Yeah, I've got the power to sick. It's also very quiet. Now again, if you're driving at 70 on the motorway, you still get the sound from the outside, and you still get the sound of the wheels. It still feels quieter than my normal car, but you really get a sense of the quietness when you're driving slowly. So for example, coming into this gated area right now, I almost couldn't hear the car at all, whereas with my normal car, I would have heard a big thrum of the engine noise. So I suppose the slower you drive, the more you appreciate the silent features of the car. And so halfway through day one of driving at the moment, I'm thinking, this was totally worth it. It's just very pleasant to drive and makes me feel kind of cool. So we'll see how it goes for the rest of the time. I get home around 430pm and do another burst of work. From 5pm, I join a mental session for the building a second brain online course that I'm a mentor in, and I chat to some of the other students in breakout rooms to discuss what we're all aiming to get out of our second brains. And then at 530pm, I do a zoom interview with Dan from the Super Organizers newsletter where we talk in-depth about my notion set up, and the behind the scenes of my personal productivity for whatever that's worth. At 640, I get back on the computer this time to plan out some of the Tesla videos in detail. I spend around 20 minutes writing scripts for more upcoming videos, and then at 7pm, I decide that I might as well head to the gym to bash out a quick session and try to bring my dream of becoming a gym shark athlete one step closer. I get to the gym around 730pm, and then I spend 40 minutes there, only really doing two exercises, because I'm way too caught up in the audiobook for cricket kingdom by Lee Boduga. I leave at 810, arriving home at 825pm, and marveling at how nice Hermione is to drive at night. When I get home, I continue plugging away at some more video scripts on notion, and then Tamor and I drive to town to pick up some grilled chicken takeaway. We get home around 930, when we munch on our takeaway, while watching two episodes of Modern Family. And then before calling it a night, Tamor and I practice the harmonies of the song, something stupid, but Robbie Williams and Nicole Kidman. That brings today's day in the life vlog to a close. Thank you for watching, do please hit this playlist for more videos in the series, and hopefully I'll see you in the next video. Good night. That's okay.
