# Q & A - 5,000 Subscribers!
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZuarurfP4BA
We’re on 5,000 subscribers!! This is incredible, thank so much to everyone who’s subscribed and/or watched these videos. Today’s video is a Q&A with some questions about the medicine application, and others about other stuff (eg: motivation, inspiration, procrastination etc). 

If you’ve got any more questions please DM me on instagram and I’ll either answer your directly or answer in a subsequent video :)

💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking 

📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal

Medicine Application Questions:

1 - 00:27 - How do I know if Medicine is right for me? Should I apply even if I have doubts? 
2 - 01:32 - Do positions of responsibility (head boy/girl, school council etc) help with a Medicine application?
3 - 03:00 - Would universities prefer if you viewed Medicine as a caring thing rather than a purely scientific one?
4 - 03:43 - Extracurricular activities for building a strong CV in medical school

Personal / Misc Questions:

5 - 04:21 - What do you enjoy most about medicine? What’s your favourite speciality?
6 - 05:52 - How did you get into medical education / public engagement?
7 - 07:11 - I’ve started a blog about medicine. How do I get the word out?
8 - 08:22 - Did you ever want to drop out of university?
9 - 09:07 - How do you manage your time? Any tips for being productive without procrastinating? 
10 - 10:19 - How do you deal with rejection / failure?
11 - 11:42 - What inspires you?
12 - 12:51 - When will you get married / How do you plan to get married etc?
13 - 13:13 - What are the secrets to your everyday look?
14 - 13:47 - What is life like post-5k subscribers?

15:37 - Closing comments

LINKS TO STUFF MENTIONED:

1. 6med - www.6med.co.uk - My company, we run courses for the BMAT, UKCAT, interviews etc.
2. “The day I became a millionaire” by DHH - https://m.signalvnoise.com/the-day-i-became-a-millionaire-55d7dc4d8293
3. Jayden’s Journey - An account of an aspiring doctor - http://jaydengittens.wordpress.com
4. Sid and Dina - https://www.youtube.com/channel/UClctYQNXCxFRuVmg4QBeQAw
5. Miley Cyrus - The Climb - https://open.spotify.com/track/5x5JM1BSB6vollcIzDocqT?si=Lnj1JOKNTrOPBYzf8SREhg

🎬 My online course on video editing - https://skl.sh/32TpEvm
🎥 My YouTube Camera Gear - https://kit.co/AliAbdaal

Who am I:

I'm Ali, a junior doctor working in Cambridge, UK. I make videos about medicine, technology, productivity and lifestyle design. I also have a weekly podcast with my brother (https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking), and I write a weekly email newsletter that contains some quick thoughts + links to interesting things (https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/).

💌 Sign up to my weekly email newsletter - https://aliabdaal.com/newsletter/
🌍 My website / blog - https://www.aliabdaal.com 
🎙My weekly podcast - https://www.youtube.com/c/notoverthinking 

📸 Instagram - https://instagram.com/aliabdaal
🐦 Twitter - https://twitter.com/aliabdaal
🎮 Twitch - https://twitch.tv/aliabdaal
**Keywords:** Cambridge medicine, Cambridge medical student, Cambridge medicine vlog, Cambridge medical student vlog, medical student, medicine vlog, medicine, medical student vlog, Oxbridge, Oxford, Cambridge, cambridge medicine, oxford medicine, 
**Date:** 2018-03-21

## Transcript
 Hey guys, welcome back to the channel. If you're new here, my name is Ali, I'm a finally a medical student at Cambridge University, and in this video I'm going to be answering a various questions, some of them about medicine applications and some of them about like general life, as like a 5,000 subscriber milestone, because that's like a thing that people do on YouTube. So first, yeah, 5k subscribers. Thank you very much. If you subscribe to this channel, if you haven't, there's still time, you can click the subscribe button down below and up there everywhere. Because I value your time, as always, there's going to be timestamps in the description to every single question. So anyway, yeah, let's go into it and we'll start with question number one, is medicine ready for me? If I've always had doubts about it, at the same time, I don't know what else I would do at uni, and what could you do from just a normal science degree? This is a good question. This honestly is sort of the position I was in. I didn't really know what I wanted to do when I applied for medicine, so I thought like it's quite a very degree. It's pretty broad. I thought that six years at university was going to be better than three years at university, which is why decided to go for a medicine degree, and it was the best decision I've ever made, and I would not look back. People sometimes say that you should only apply for a medicine degree if you're really really sure that you want to do medicine. But I think that's not really, I wouldn't give that advice personally. I think it's unfair to expect someone to know the age of 16 or 17 that they want to become a doctor for the rest of the 50 years of their life. I think it's perfectly reasonable to say, you know what? I'm going to apply for medicine. I'd be because I like the idea of studying a medicine degree, even if I'm not 100 patients at 100% sure about being a doctor yet. So yeah, in that sense, yeah, apply for medicine. If you think that's what you want to do, or even if you think that's the only thing you might want to do, yeah, medicine is amazing. I'm applying to medicine next year. Do you think that taking up a position of responsibility of headgirl slash school counsel would really help a med school application, or if it's a bit overrated? Interesting question. I didn't have any position of responsibility at school other than being a prefect. I mentioned the fact I was a prefect on my personal statement, it I think had less than zero impact on my application. I think if I was headboy, it would have had a little bit of impact, but overall, I think I don't think there's much to be worried about. I think if you do have a chance to go for headboy ahead of gold, go for it because it puts you in a nice position to be in with your school because you like good links, gives you good relationships with members of staff. We hope and it's a good way of like genuinely getting the skills that you might need later on in Dr. Later on in life, but just for the sake of it, I probably wouldn't want to do it, as if you're only a reason for wanting to do it is because it will help you medicine application. Equally something like school counsel, run for it, if you really want it, but don't run for it, if you think that I'm doing this because it'll impact my medicine application because likely it's not really going to have any effect at all. Also, to be honest, when it comes to interviews and they ask you stuff about your experiences of leadership or teamwork, it's more about what you've done in these roles than about the role themselves. The fact that your headgirl or headboy doesn't matter at all, but if you help to organize something like orchestrated and old people's charity dinner or whatever you do in school, that's just kind of stuff you can talk about and it almost doesn't matter what title you have. So yeah, in conclusion, don't go for things just because you think it'll help you medicine application, go for them if you really want them because really it's not going to matter that much for your application. All right, question number before, would you invest you like it if you viewed being a doctor as more of a scientist of then a caregiver if that makes sense or would that seem too cold? Honestly, I think it depends where you go. Some Oxbridge colleges are all about the whole research thing, but in general, people interviewing you for medicine admissions at most almost all universities would prefer you to view being a doctor as something about caring for patients rather than I'm doing a medicine degree so I can go into research if that makes sense. So the short answer is yes, universities do like it more if you can view being medicine as like a caring thing rather than purely a sort of a coldly scientific thing. If that makes sense. Okay, question number five, I think we're at what extra curriculars would you suggest for building a strong CV during medical school? Honestly, like you know, extra curriculars during medical school aren't really that important in terms of bringing your strong building a strong CV because by the time you're applying for jobs, like the foundation job, it matters not at all what extra curriculars you're doing. I think if you're applying for an academic foundation program and you like you're an Olympic medalist, you go to few extra points for that. But honestly, no one really cares about your extra curricular activities. I think pick the extra curriculars that will let you enjoy and that you enjoy doing that like help you develop skills generally rather than picking them again on the basis of I think this will help me further down the line. Okay, so that was five questions about medicine, application, medical, student-y stuff, now we're transitioning a little bit more into personal territory if you're into if you're still here and thank you for watching. Question number six is what do you enjoy most about medicine? What's your favorite specialty? Okay, my favorite specialty at the moment is obstetrics and gynecology. I like the fact that it's a mixture of medicine and surgery because I quite like the idea of operating but also quite like the idea of being in a clinic. I also quite like the fact that within obstetrics you're like helping babies coming through all of which is generally quite a happy thing and the patients are generally sort of young and healthy, whereas a lot of medical specialties deal with, you see, chronic conditions and I think I'd find it more exciting dealing with young healthy patients with this kind of happy event coming into their life. So that's why that's currently my favorite specialty these days, maybe that'll change. I'll keep you guys updated if it does. The thing I enjoy most about medicine, I think is the teamwork aspect of it. I really like the fact that you and your team of doctors and seniors and juniors and nurses and physios and everyone else, you're all like working together for the benefit of the patient and there's like there's like good banter on the teams, good banter on the words and you're like it's it's it's it's that team dynamic that makes it really fun and it's it's that team dynamic that's the thing I've enjoyed most about being in clinical school as well as when we're on placements and and sort of where there's like three four of us on a surgery placement going to the middle of nowhere, it's because we're all working together that's pretty fun. Obviously there are other things about medicine and the intellectual challenge, the you know, the caring for people and all of that, but for me personally I think it's the teamwork aspect that I enjoy the most. Question number six or seven I think a plus count at this point. How did you get into medical education slash public engagement? Interesting question. I got into medical education because I saw an opportunity to make a bit of money. I ran a beam at course for some students at my school when I was like in first year of university and they seem to really like it and then I decided to one day use my web design skills to kind of build a website around this to beam at crash course and sort of market it nationally because I thought why not and that ended up getting bigger than I could have imagined. So the reason I got into medical education was because I started off this little course to help and my school and then it turned into like a money making opportunity. So that was kind of these last five years what I've been doing with six met my company. But now it sounds kind of bad to say but I don't really care about making money from education anymore. I think I like I've grown to really enjoy just medical education and education generally for its own sake. So that's why I started this YouTube channel. That's why I enjoy doing teaching sessions. I'm not getting any money for it but that doesn't matter. It's just fun to do the education thing. I think in a way it's kind of that thing of the more you do something the more you enjoy and because I spent five years teaching beam at an interview courses I therefore grew to like the process of education and sort of teaching people which is why I'm into that. So yeah that was how I got into it. Okay the question number eight I think we're on is I've started a WordPress blog about medicine perspective student but I'm struggling to get the word out. How did you start slash do you have any tips? Interesting. I will link this guy's blog Jayden G. I think I'll say pronounce it. I'll link this by his blog over here and in the description below so you can check it out hopefully that'll give him maybe one or two extra extra readers. Honestly if you're starting something then don't really expect to get any reader or any viewers anytime soon. Most advice that I've come across from podcast and books regarding anything any kind of creative endeavor is that. For the first few months to years you're going to be just shouting into the void you're going to be writing stuff consistently or you should be writing stuff consistently and not giving a toss at all about whether anyone's reading it. The idea is that at some point when you're writing improves and when you know the right combination of circumstances happens people will stumble upon your work and at that point they'll it'll be really useful for them to see this backlog that oh this person's been published in a medical article every single week that's incredible and then they'll become your loyal fans but there is absolutely no point in trying to get the word out there when you've got one or two person your site make it a consistent thing make sure you're writing high quality stuff on a regular basis and the readers will follow over time don't worry about it in the short term. Okay so our next question which is question number eight I think is was there ever a point where you wanted to drop out of university? The answer to that is for me honestly there has never been a point where I wanted to drop out of university. I know not everyone has this experience. I know a lot of people find university a struggle and people do drop out for various reasons. For me personally that's never been a thing. There's a good crisp crack quote he said this in an interview one time he said that every year since the age of three has been the best year of my life and I would I would probably agree with that. I every year just seems to keep getting better and better by you know luck or the grace of God or whatever you want to call it. So yeah for me personally I've I've never felt ever the need to drop out of university but I appreciate that that's not everyone's experience. Yeah okay next question question ten question nine do they? How do you manage your time? I want to be more productive and get everything done without procrastinating. There will be a very detailed video about this in the next couple of weeks at some point in general a few tips. Firstly motivation is is pretty much a myth and we should be using discipline instead to get stuff done. There's a good quote that goes something along the lines of you don't wait to get into Olympic form before training you train in order to get into Olympic form. So it's just about breaking this link that we have between I need to feel like doing something before I do something. The answer is just you know you just do something and you'll develop the motivation and the enjoyment later on. That's something I find useful. Secondly most of my procrastinator activities personally are quite productive in themselves in that it would either be playing on a piano a bit or like browsing some web design inspiration or stuff like that that helps me be more productive in other spheres of my life or like watching some tutorial on on YouTube about how to part of log or watching of log and taking tips mentally about you know how they're doing and how they're doing the stuff like that. So I think it's useful to have some of you productive procrastinatory methods but yeah there's two things that are just on the top of my head but I have planned out like a legit video about this that will be on the channel in the next few weeks. Alright question number 11 how do you deal with rejection slash failure again there will be a video in this in the channel in in the next couple of weeks maybe two three weeks probably this month at some point. In general I really like stoicism as a sort of philosophy on dealing with with rejection and it's it's that classic serenity prayer that God give me the serenity to accept that which I cannot change the courage to change what I can and the wisdom to know the difference and when it comes to rejection that then falls into this fear of things that we have no control over. The only two things we have any control over are our own thoughts and our own actions. So if someone has rejected us from you know romantically or academically or like professionally that was something that we didn't really have any control over. We hopefully did the best we could but it was then in their hands and therefore you know there's absolutely no point in even thinking about that or even sort of dwelling on it. We use it you will use it as a learning experience reframing failure as yeah this is an experience I've learned from this this is what I'm going to take away from it and you move on with a life because we gain absolutely nothing from from growing about the stuff. I really like stoicism as like a way of living to kind of reduce negative emotions and all that but yeah that was slightly randomly I'll talk about it more in in the actual video on how to deal with rejection but really good question. Okay so question number 11 I think for one is what inspires you? It's a very general question. I think sort of professionally when I meet doctors who are really nice to their patients but also who really know their stuff who are really good at teaching the students and who also take it take it all with good humor like they don't take it too seriously they don't consider themselves like for the kings of the world for being doctors they don't have this attitude that a lot of medics and doctors have that oh my god I work so hard and medicine is such a hard thing people who have that attitude and I I've met quite a few of them in my time. Those are really inspirational figures and I kind of hope to emulate them one day with this whole YouTube thing you're watching this video on YouTube if you're at this point there are a few YouTubers Gary Vaynerchuckers is one Casey Nice Tap Peter McKinnon either people who've built audiences from from the ground up who have really good work they deliver a lot of value consistently for free and they've built there's this sort of personal brand they've built this sort of business around the fact that they're just providing value to people and either from either in the context of entertainment or like photography tutorials or like life entrepreneurship advice so it's sort of people like that that I like watching on YouTube and that I sort of feel it feels inspired to attempt to emulate okay these these next two questions are I think from various various friends of mine so four of my Asian friends asked me various varying degrees of have you got any tips on how to get married when do I plan to get married and so on we'll leave that for another video but I will refer you to Dina Tokyo and her husband's YouTube channel which is good if you want to know more about marriage and that'll be linked in the description below and finally I think there's another banter question from one of my friends it's how do you stay so humble what are the secrets to your everyday look and what is life like post five case subscribers that's going um how do I stay so humble let's let's let's let's let's let's let's ignore that one what is what are the secrets to your everyday look it's all about wearing a great t-shirt and wearing black jeans and I wear like the same black jeans every every day and watch them very occasionally um yeah it's all about like a minimalist look you just decide to look and you just wear it every day because you realize that no one really cares and provided you have like a well fitting t-shirt and you occasionally go to the gym then it'll all work out and finally your question is what is life like post five k which is clearly that's a banter question but I think it does raise a wider point that about this whole thing about having milestones when people say that when I hit 100,000 subscribers then something or when I get that three bedroom house then I'll be happy when I get that raised then I'll be happy when I make a million dollars then and you know invariably that's obviously never the case it's it's more as you know in the immortal words of miley Cyrus it's it's about the climb you know it's it's not about reaching the destination there is an absolutely incredible article written by a programmer I follow called DHH he runs a company called Basecamp which is a software company yeah it's it's an article on medium linked here and down below and it's entitled the day I became a millionaire and he's he's talking about the story of how he felt when Jeff Bezos the CEO of Amazon decided to buy a tiny stake in his company for a few million so he and his business partners suddenly became a few million dollars richer pretty much overnight and he talks about the feelings he had when he saw this mining his bank account and stuff he bought and ultimately he says that actually he realized that you know the things he wanted to do was were you know continue programming continue working on his company continues spending time with his friends and family you don't need a million dollars for that um so yeah clearly you know what what is life like post 5k life post 5k is absolutely no different to life post 1k or even you know post 200 subscribers because I'm enjoying the process of making these videos and connecting with you guys it's nice it's nice in a way having a bigger audience because then you know I get more more comments and if I you know ask something of poll on Instagram for me in Instagram please or if I ask people to send questions in for a 5k subscribers credit Q&A then they're obviously more questions coming in than they were when I was at 200 subscribers but I mean honestly apart from that it's it's no different it's about the climb as Miley Cyrus says I'll link the Spotify to the song down below oh that brings us to the end of this 5k Q&A thank you very much for watching if you've if you've seen this far uh again 5000 subscribers absolutely incredible thank you so much if you're a subscriber if you're not you can click the subscribe button because I make videos most weeks about like life is a medical student and occasionally that educational stuff about how to get into medicine and I'm branching out hoping hopefully into singing songs with my medic friends and more videos like aimed at medical students themselves like tips for off skis and how to write a song and all this kind of stuff so yeah thank you so much for watching you're amazing if you like the video please give a thumbs up if you haven't subscribed to the channel please consider doing so have a lovely day and I'll see you in the next video bye bye
