# Increase Productivity With These Email Hacks
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-624UM7g4cE
My Simple Habits Course is now enrolling! https://slowgrowth.com/simple-habits
☝️🚀

🙊 Here are the things I mention in this video:
Use this link to skip your inbox and compose an email: https://mail.google.com/mail/u/0/?view=cm&fs=1&tf=1
Thomas Frank: https://www.youtube.com/thomasfrank

💯 You can follow me here:
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** minimalist, minimalism, email, Matt D'Avella, gmail, email tips, email life hacks, email pro tips, labels, forward, productivity, lifestyle, lifestyle design, work, work from home, 
**Date:** 2020-04-07

## Transcript
 You may get stressed out by email, overwhelmed even, endless tasks, infinite newsletters, and spam galore. Well, what if I told you that everything you're doing when it comes to your inbox is wrong? And that by following a few simple steps, you could change everything, saving you hours each week. Or you could just let your laptop on fire. So I realized this is not exactly the sexiest topic in the world to talk about email can be a little bit boring, but I think it's really important. And that's the reason that I'm making this video because when it comes to your productivity, email can be your best friend or your worst enemy. And I want to really get into the what and the why. So why am I setting up these systems? What does it really look like? Not so much the how. You can figure out the how with a couple quick Google searches. But I genuinely geek out about this stuff. I love talking about the systems and the tactics and the nitty gritty things that really help to make my life efficient and save me a whole lot of stress. And most importantly, time. So let's just get right into it. First, I think it's important to talk about how we typically use email. It can often be a source of distraction. We constantly check it multiple times every hour. And that repetitive checking can slow us down and pull us away from our work. By choosing to batch emails once or twice a day if your current work allows it, you'll be able to quickly fly through emails and spend more time in the flow of work. In truth, this is an ideal that I don't always live up to. I often find myself stuck in my inbox repeatedly checking over and over again throughout the day. And that's okay. But when I do this, I definitely find myself being more productive, more inflow. And one of the ways that I avoid my inbox and also help myself to move the needle on certain projects is to create a shortcut on Google Chrome. So this bookmark here is to compose email when I click it. It will open up a dialogue that allows me to write an email message. The great thing about it is that I can skip my inbox and send important emails to get projects moving forward. So if you use Gmail, I've got a link in the description. So you can just copy and paste that into your own bookmarks. And it will work with everything in this video and videos in the future. All of the references are going to be in the description down below. So let's get right into my actual email inbox. So this is usually what I see when I log into Gmail. I'll have 10 to 15 emails in my inbox, some of them new. A few of them have been read, but are tasks and things that I need to do in the future. I often use email to manage tasks. So a lot of times emails are very simple quick responses, but sometimes they require 30 minutes, 60 minutes of work. I have to compress out an upload a video that might take me hours. And so sometimes I will take these tasks and put them on a two-do list. That's really fun being OCD and I want to get to inbox zero. A lot of times I'll just leave them right in my inbox and then eventually over the coming days. As I find time for it, I will get to them. If it's in my inbox, it will get done. It will get responded to. The trick is that I don't let everything get into my inbox to begin with. I'll talk about that in just a second. But first, I want to cover some basics. So I've enabled a feature called Auto Events, which means that when I delete archive or reply to a message, it's going to automatically take me to the next email in line. I also turned on this feature called Send in Archive. So whenever I reply to an email, it will automatically archive it, removing it from my inbox. This way, I can just quickly do a pass through all my emails, cleaning up my inbox as I go. As you'll see on the left hand side of the screen, I've created labels for different categories of email. The search function in Gmail is really powerful, but it can only go so far. Creating and managing emails through labels can really help you find items and information from projects that occur over the course of months. So every time I get an email related to our wedding, I drag it into the wedding label. All receipts from my business, going to receipts label, and travel itinerary and tickets can be found under travel 2020 in the designated destination label. This has saved me a lot of headaches during travel. I also have a label called Subscriptions that are the newsletters that I subscribe to. So on that note, I am absolutely ruthless when it comes to unsubscribing from emails. If I buy a sweater and somebody puts me on their newsletter without my permission, I get very upset. I will mark you as spam and I'll unsubscribe, get out of my inbox. And that's just one way that I'm able to keep my email clutter free. Some of the labels like incoming podcasts and newsletter are how I organize all my unique email addresses. I have multiple email addresses and all of them filter into one of these labels. Incoming is my email address for people who reach out to me via the contact page on my website. Newsletter is another unique email that I have set up for my newsletter. Podcast is my email address that I use for all my podcasts related activities. All of these email addresses help me to keep track of incoming opportunities. So I don't miss anything and reply to people who want to get in touch with me. The most important step I've taken to keep all this organized is to create filters for each of these email addresses so that it automatically skip my inbox and go directly into one of these designated labels. This is an automated system. You set it up once and now all your emails automatically filter into a specific label. This is an absolute game changer and is saved me so much time and also gotten me to be really clear on what emails I'm checking and what mindset I'm in when I'm checking them. In addition to setting up filters for my different email addresses, I've also created one for the newsletters I subscribe to. So all these newsletters automatically filter into my subscription label. So one thing that I started to do just a couple of months ago is whenever a receipt comes into my inbox and it's something a place that I know I'm going to be purchasing from again for business. Say it's a coffee shop. It's a place where I get cameras from. It's an Amazon purchase. I want to make sure that automatically filters into my receipts and to do that I just take the email address that it came from and then I put it on that filter and then I can just continue to add as many email addresses as I want to that specific filter, sending everything to receipts. That's a tip that I got from Thomas Frank. So thank you, my sir. Thank you, my sir. Let's talk about templates. If you find yourself constantly writing the same email over and over and over again, you can use templates to save you hours of drafting the same exact message. I've created a few template responses to commonly ask questions that I get. Sometimes I'll tweak and customize them, but even having a starting point of a response saves me a ton of time. Let's look at some examples. If someone didn't get my newsletter, this happens pretty often. It's usually in their spam folder. So I have a reply for that. And back when we released our documentary minimalism, I would get screening requests every week. This template definitely saved me a bunch of time. So to finish up here, there's two more features that I want to talk about that have really helped me a lot. This used to be extra plug-in, an extra app that you had to use to install into Gmail, but now it's built natively in. So it certainly saves me a lot of time. The first one is called snooze. So I can use this snooze button to remove something from my inbox for a period of time, say until I can get to the request next week. Or it can be used to remind me of when someone doesn't respond to my email, which again is hugely helpful. So I don't need to keep track of all the communications that went unreply to. You can also now schedule emails with Gmail, which is something that I used to do a lot when I was younger. And I would procrastinate on projects. There would be those nights when I'd be up until 3am, the day before a project was due. And I didn't want to look like a total piece of crap by sending my client this email at 3-4am when I finished up. So I would simply just schedule it for the morning at 8-9am. And now I don't look like a dead shit. I look like somebody who's got my shit together. So that works out really well. I don't do that much anymore. I've kind of got things together at this point. So I don't procrastinate as much. But hey, if you're a younger version of me, this will help you a lot. I also use this now if I'm schedule on social media content to someone who has appeared on my YouTube channel, like I just showed you. Instead of sending the email one month before the video goes live or having to remember or sort of remind you to do it, I can craft the email, schedule it, host all the media files, and then send it to them a few days before it goes live. Super convenient. And that is it. That's the end of this video. Thank you guys so much for watching. I really appreciate you sticking around and taking an interesting email. This I hope was an interesting video. I was afraid to make this video. I was like, I can't really make a video about email. Can I? And I should. I must. After. Did it. Thanks for watching. And if you want more videos for me, go to Instagram. I've been making a lot of videos on Instagram TV behind the scenes. Talking a little bit more about these kind of things and go up those into them. I don't know why I touched my head like that. See you guys. Thanks for watching. Bye. Are you still there? You're still there.
