# Prepare for the Worst // Ground Up 081
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-MXuvVVipMw
Chris:  http://booklight.co/
Get exclusive content:  http://patreon.com/mattdavella
My essential gear... https://kit.com/mattdavella

The Kit link above is a collection of affiliate links. I've only recommended products that I use & fully endorse.

Chris Newhard is a director of photography & owner of Book Light Creative. He's back on the show to help me answer listener questions about money, filmmaking & freelancing.

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** 
**Date:** 2018-10-03

## Transcript
 Welcome back to the ground-up show. My name is Matt DeVilla and today I've got back on the podcast Chris Newhart. He's a DP filmmaker and friend of mine. He appeared on episode six way back when and Today he's here to help answer some audience questions We've got about 10 questions on money freelance and filmmaking. It was a lot of fun and I hope you guys like it You How does it feel to be back you know I went to Jimmy Kimmel, but Just turned down so yeah, oh, so yeah, they couldn't have you on. Yeah, just a scheduling Come on. They told me I had to get to episodes of this in oh, okay. I wasn't you got you don't have enough experience Yeah, so I was like let me get one more Let's get on the ground-up show for the second time You're the first repeat guest that I've had on the show. I'm kind of like a test subject for you for this It was like the first video one I did and you figured out all your like with a guest, right? It was like where you did both or something like that. Yeah, actually when I think back to it I was pretty nervous for our interview. We know each other for so long But still I was like it was a new thing for me to have an interview to interview somebody on camera Right, you know, and you had like a dual platform idea for releasing it like it's gonna be an audio and it's gonna be a video And so it's okay because I won't judge you if you fuck up, which is nice So if I'm coming back on they kind of let's you figure out how you want to do comebacks for people Yeah, so that you know how to figure out a platform You're my you're my test subject for all these yeah for this entire thing. Yeah, I help you I look dumb and I help you figure out how to move fast Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah for other people exactly that can course correct Chris correct, yeah You uh I Think it back to that first episode it was episode six Oh my god six over a year ago and now I'm on you know, this is gonna be past episode 70 It's gonna be some 70 4, 5 and 5 or something. Congrats to you. Thank you. It's really cool to see how much it's scaled since like a year ago. Yeah Yeah, it's um It was just you know in the beginning I actually wasn't that consistent. I would do an episode and then Sometimes I would go two weeks I think the longest I did was maybe three weeks without an episode and eventually I hit a rhythm where I was like All right, I need to start taking this seriously I'm just gonna start putting out one episode every week which is a lot of work to find new guests Meet new people to get them to schedule to come on the show and then also doing all the research that it takes Plus you're planning a move and then across country move That's gonna throw the whole thing up like I do stay on schedule while also like oh I need to replace my home. I think that's the hardest thing for most people is that when they're starting something new They don't plan for the Those kinds of life-changing Moments or the moments when life gets in the way yeah when you know We always have those moments where we're overwhelmed and maybe we can't go to the gym where we can't keep up our you know Healthy eating routine and then We let it go and then we never pick it back up again. That's it means like one of the scariest things Yeah, it's like that your life will fall apart and like you won't be able to pick the pieces back up Yeah, I mean just even think about that gives me anxiety like the idea of like okay I have a routine and there's something breaks that routine It's up to me to overcome the break and like mend it so I can continue on a healthy path But then like okay, let's say two things break it Okay, well then I'm like can I handle two things break two different things like for me it could be like not having a job for two weeks But also it could be like an emotional thing like a family member argument or or something that just gets stuck in your head and Like throws you off routine in your case like moving across country and you know getting established here in a new city and all that stuff So yeah, it's like you have to plan for the worst case scenario and you have to also make sure that Yeah, get back on track, but also don't give yourself such a hard time for those Loles if you have like a few weeks or a month where things don't feel like you're making it doesn't feel like you're making any progress It feels like you're you're kind of standing still that happens to everybody But it's about like can you pick the pieces back up? Can you get back back into it? Yeah, I mean that's like on even on set when someone is like you can always tell who's professional and who's not because like Amateurs just flip out at the smallest shit Like something goes wrong and you're like, yeah, this what happens like everything's gonna go wrong It's up to you to like move past things and keep keep that boat going right you can like just see it in their eyes Yeah, like especially for like you know, whether it's a grip or somebody that's like entry level type positions are an assistant Like you just see it in their eyes. This is the last job of my life, right? Your perfect is a lot of nervous energy and I think yeah, yeah I think that there's something good about nervous energy and like I mean Maybe that's I try to just justify my anxiousness like that it actually helps me I think there's something that's good about it because you're always trying to like You don't want to screw up you're trying to figure out ways to Execute and to deliver for a client or for your boss or whatever But then you have to eventually let that stuff go you can't like just be a neurotic mess Yeah, the entire time you have to be able to deal with these situations as they come up because there's always problems. There's always problems. Oh my god It's like everything's so good and then you're like okay terrible thing happened. Yeah. Gotta keep going. Yeah. How cut why can't we What how can we don't see these things coming like because we've done so many shoots together And we've worked on so many jobs that you would think that we would be able to remedy those Problems before they arise or we'll be able to foresee them as we're planning out a day You know, you're going into a shoot you've got like four interviews to get you've got B-roll to get Where did the problems come up and why it can't we see them? I don't know. I think you know there's to me to me there's a little bit of like a Confliction in my head of Wanting to try new things and be adventurous in my creatives like styles or ideas But also knowing what works and then like how they kind of Compete against each other a little bit so like if you do the same thing every time and you get it to look good every time That's great like that's awesome. That's a really good formula It's likely going to make you more successful because you know the key to a lot of success It's just consistency and like most you know fields of industry just are you consistent with delivering success successful products So that can cause a little bit of conflict inside when you're like oh, I want to do something different or new So okay, well, then you're not doing what you know works and that is like That's a hard thing to kind of come to grips with sometimes it can be small and it can be big like You know for projects we've done together We have like a good flow of like things we like to do things we don't like to do and those are completely different than The way I will film with other people and like you know some people be like I don't want any lights in the house I want all lights outside the house. Okay, well, like that's fine. That'll be cool But it's it's just different. There will maybe with the last like 10 shoots where for me So how do I still make a successful execution of something even though I'm doing something very different When I know that hindsight and historically Something works and I'm going against the grain to do something else and hoping that my knowledge of what works I can apply that to make something else work. Yeah, there's probably a couple of things there one is that You when you're trying to execute on more ambitious and bigger ideas and bigger projects You're always gonna be pushing yourself into a situation where you maybe haven't done the full scope of that Like you can take your previous skills and maybe lighting say like you have a five We've you know you've been working on five person crews for so long and you have this much gear And you know exactly how to light for those situations and then all of a sudden you've got like a bigger budget You've got no bigger crew to deal with there's more problems and then I would say the other side of it is that you're always dealing with humans Who are flawed so whether you're dealing with an actress that maybe isn't like you know For a D.P. or director these are different challenges to overcome, but like you Have to deal with an actress that maybe isn't hitting their mark or there may be not you know performing and you know How you envision it or or they say can you move all lights all the way? It's too bright. Yeah Or maybe like it just now looks good. What do you mean move it sounds like you if this is something You know, I mean, it's a real thing it happens. You know you you're like lighting to stand in I mean, this is such like a specific situation, right, but this is a really good example Like the one of many things this is something that can make or break a D.P. or a photographer or an art director is like If you design something if it's lighting costume wardrobe like you know white contacts for somebody to wear for a cool shot And it doesn't work for them and Like that's going to fuck your whole plan up, right? So everything has to pivot and some people can and some people can't and that's really like You have to make yourself pivot because if you don't like You're gonna fight something that is kind of not able to be won You know like it's collaboration Yeah, it's not about you even if it's about you. It's not about you. Yeah, I think about how many times that we are just very Disappointed with something that comes up But this is not how we envisioned it. This is not how we thought it was gonna be But here we are we got it we got to do we got to deliver something to the client So gotta make it happen. Yeah, I mean that like to be specific with that like If I'm lighting a scene and You know I have my lights In order to make it look good. They're hitting someone in the face You know with a lot of light in front and and sometimes like it's funny because I Experiences myself. I've blue eyes blue eyes is super sensitive to light Somebody might have blue eyes and they can't Help but just kind of do a little squint or something and the director is like why are they squinting us? Because the lights that but if I move the light we got to change everything because it's not gonna work this way So like that's a situation where like if you're not able to put yourself and you almost have to be empathetic Like you have to put yourself in somebody else's shoes like okay, well, you know I wouldn't want somebody being like you have to do it this way even though it ruins You're actual performance Like I wouldn't want somebody who's not a technician or a lighting person or a camera department person Giving me like you know directions on what to do I can take their advice. I can take into what they're saying. I can be empathetic towards what they're asking and That's up to me to make that decision on will I listen or will I say thank you, but I have to do it a certain way You know and that that kind of applies like to a lot of like creative field Especially if you're dealing with people who are not creatives in a creative field like Preducers or you know like managers Anything of that sort of like business people and they just see the bottom line and and they don't really have time for a lot of that like Am I figuring out how to pivot how to work and how to collaborate very quickly and get like controversial and Aggressive and all these things like it just make you feel like insecure about What you're doing and then that can like ruin the whole experience of a project really fast for somebody who's you know Getting into the business whether it's filmmaking or just freelancing in general like is there room for people who are Assholes I mean, I guess there is room for it because like you see it a lot like They have to really make up for it with their skills right and it's like are you actually going to enjoy the experience of working with somebody who is A piece of shit like so many there are so many times when we are forced into situations where we're working with people that we might not want to work with or that may not be the best Collaborative partner like how do you work with people who aren't? Nice to put it oh my nicely like how do we deal with people who don't show respect or who aren't actually listening to you That is like That's such a great question Because it's it's not really Answerable it's not really something that can you can put an answer to but it's just something that you can kind of keep in your head at all times I mean I'm very lucky that like I have a lot of people that I work for and work with which I think are two different things And sometimes You know they can be like picky or aggressive or passive aggressive which is the worst But they're generally they respect me now I have That happened because I've made choices to eliminate work with people I don't like working with and I'm very lucky that I'm able to Say no to some people and turn down projects But that's that's the thing that I went through for like half a decade Where I was like figuring out how to be a creative that like was for hire Because I knew myself as like a full-time creative even though I wasn't working full-time in my head I'm like I do this every day Whether I get paid for it every day or not is irrelevant and it is relevant Because it kind of makes you approach it more like a businessman and not like a personal like territoryal thing And it gets a little territorial and I think that that is that same feeling that assholes have is a territorial Over something they believe in or something this there's Could be a director or writer that's like no like fuck you it has to be my way and you know like oh my god I hate this person And that's the tough feeling but you know how how do you being adult and deal with people you don't like you know Yeah, you got a killin with kindness You respect them and usually the best thing you can do is just listen listen what they're saying Identify what their issues are and try to counteract them positively. Yeah, I think it it takes a lot of patience And I think that there's two forms of patience There's the patience and the actual Communicating with them on a day-to-day basis and throughout the project and then it's also outside of You know in between of projects It's having the patience to Realize that maybe this client isn't for you that maybe you've done one project with them before and you really didn't like the experience It was really draining and You decide you know what like it's not worth it for me I'm gonna be patient enough that I know another project's gonna come down the road that Maybe I can go a month without a little bit of work. Yeah, yeah, and there's like You know, there's two ways I think to kind of deflect those kind of clients or or those kind of attitudes and people And one way is a Perfect excuse for anyone listening who wants to know how to get rid of crappy clients I'm a little booked up right now. Maybe we'll touch base in a couple months Signed whoever yeah, you know there because any one understands it. You're busy. You're busy You get it. You can't do it. I'm sorry. I'm a little booked up right now Potentially a couple months might be free, but you know, I'm on a six-month project. It doesn't matter. It's really not Yeah, I've said it's a plenty of people like I'm like in my head I just want to be like middle finger middle finger get out of my life But in my email it says like I just took on like a one-year contract I'm doing a workout and I you know I'm on retainer, so I'll let you know next year from taking on new Yeah, and I think there is something to say about like closing doors and burning bridges and like you know You don't necessarily want to flick somebody off and and first of all you don't want to be rude because that person's I may end up recommending you down the road. Yeah, and usually what happens? Yeah, and then the Like what and that might actually be an amazing client that they recommend you do and also like a year down the road You could also be like, oh my god, I don't have any money Really need this project. I will work with anybody. Oh, but guess what you told them to go fuck themselves Exactly, exactly. So that's why the busy thing is a Perfect response because it's not disrespectful. You're not saying you don't want to work with them Actually it's showing your it's showing your value. You're saying I'm booked up like I'm really sorry I'm booked up there think oh wow like he must be getting a lot of work. Always you always bookend it with Let's touch base again. Yeah, even if you don't plan to because it means you're open to communication Which means on their end they're saying like if you sent that to a creative you wanted to work with and you didn't know They didn't like you and they said let's touch base in a couple of months You would still keep that hope of like okay things are cool It also allows them time to grow and I think that's really important is like There's a little bit of like a wall that gets put up when you get fucked everybody somebody and like entertain me or any kind of industry That's like you know this this is all I know so You know But that wall gets put up and you kind of like you know shut someone out or in the bridge whatever But we all need to grow we all need time to grow and like if you don't have Someone giving you like a chance to come back and show your growth Then like you're really not giving some people to benefit the doubt I work with some people now who like three or four years ago like I didn't want to work with them because they're As holes and it's probably same from me people who work with me now who like five years ago We're like Chris is a dick You know but I was going through some shit in my life like some serious shit that like I was taking out on people taking out on business relationships on projects And it was giving me positive results in my work and it was giving me horrible results in like my happiness and my business life And so like that happens to everybody You know everybody goes through shit so like Now I've had time to kind of grow and hopefully be a better person and I have these working relationships with people that You know probably didn't want to give me the time of day and now I can I can do things for them now that Show my value show my work and show my growth that I probably would not be able to do successfully back then You know, yeah, I think we do need to Drop a lot of assumptions that we have like all this person's acting like an asshole Therefore they are an asshole and right very likely they might be just going through a tough time in their life And you creating those assumptions or Reacting from that place of negativity is not going to help at all sure. Sure. Sure. What do you say? We answer some audience questions. I reached out on Instagram and I got a bunch of people So we're going to be answering people's questions about primarily about filmmaking and Freelance school thing that you and I have been doing for many many years Sometimes successfully Every now and then we get it right So I got a question here from many parolta from Florida His question is during those dry months where freelance work isn't as fruitful What are some ways you budget yourself in order to save as many pennies as you can ramen and rice has been my go to for those types of months So What do you do? Because obviously dry months happen like you know slow periods happen all the time How do you manage for those situations financially? Well, that's a tough question because I'm not always able to really manage for them. I can manage in them when I find myself in them sometimes You know every every year is completely different financially for me like some years I do really well some years. I don't some years. I have to buy all new cameras Like I made I did pretty good this year so far, but I also had to replace all of my cameras and all my computers Well, you also think about like you know not only dry months, but you Having your car stolen Yeah, I'm into all your gear stolen. Yes hard drive stolen whatever it is like going keep going Falling into a manhole. I don't know that actually helps her accounts as part of a that but like But they're basically unforeseen Yeah, natural woes are gonna come in many forms. Yeah, and that can screw everything up like to be very specific. Okay, so Maybe like a year or two ago. I had like a thousand dollars to my name the week that I came up to do that shoot for you And I had finished the shoot. I had all this shit in my car Which is a dumbest thing ever anyone listening do not leave anything in your car ever never ever ever ever ever ever Three times I've lost everything. I did I've only done it once where I've left and it because it was again The gear's not that expensive. It's two tri-pods and a man Frodo stand it was stolen my deductible was a thousand dollars I had to buy all the gear from scratch again. Yeah, so You know, I felt good about getting by for like two three more weeks One of thousand bucks. I had some money coming in but I was like, okay, I know my bills are paid This money's fine, but then I found myself owing You know, I had to replace a car. I had to replace about $4,000 worth of gear that was you know, I had rented and Then also I had no gear that was like not I had a wireless shit and it wasn't even mine So very quickly a thousand dollar little nest was just completely gone and I was forced to just put like a Thousand two thousand three thousand on my credit card Which was the worst you know because you just as a freelancer like you have to and you'll know this you have to get rid of your debt Like it's like you have to get rid of your debt if you're gonna be a freelancer Because you need as little overhead monthly as possible so for me now. I've learned from these things, but You know, it's if you want to pinch pennies sometimes it's really not about the foods But it's about the lifestyle so okay, getting cheap food. Yeah, that's fine You might find yourself if you eat enough cheap food getting bad health from it I'm getting health problems end up costing more money. I find that like if you want to save money You you create a lifestyle that doesn't require a lot of spending for me It is I like to buy What are one or two video games every couple months and I play them whenever I'm not working? I sit and I play play station because it doesn't cost me anything Yeah, it's like a two bucks a month in electricity whatever and then I'll get my time through so I'm not going out with friends Not going doing stuff going the bar whatever, you know as far as foods go go to Sam's By a fuckload of food that lasts forever if you know you're not gonna be working a lot right like you can it's all preventative measures I think yeah, I think that's that's the main key to get out of it is that don't wait until the dry months Yeah, like well, what do I do now like it's it's be very very intentional and smart with your money all the time Yeah, you know what I mean set these things up in advance because you know the dry months are gonna come You know that there's gonna be that emergency Yeah, when you know your car breaks down and you need to spend a thousand dollars to fix it So make sure that you you save up as much as you can for me like I mean common financial advice is to have a thousand dollars in an emergency fund You had a thousand dollars and and like it helped but it didn't cover everything because when you're a freelancer or You're a filmmaker or you're an entrepreneur or somebody who's doing things on their own It requires some more expenses you have to be a sure during those you know certain Sances where you get your gear stolen that you can afford it and also like for me It really depends on how risky you want to take it but for me. I'm pretty risk averse Having graduated with six figures in student loans I never wanted to be in that place again so for me it was like and also like having to move home with my parents Because I couldn't afford to pay rent. I was like I don't want to have to move back to my parents again So I'm always gonna make sure I have six months rent. Yeah, that's a great in advance I'm at that now. I wasn't there two years ago But it took two years to get that's the goal. Yeah, you didn't see get to that play So you probably not there yet most people aren't yeah, I mean it's it's scary to look at the numbers that like 80% of America's living paycheck to paycheck. Yeah, like that that is scary because I know The weight that that has over you and also the decisions that you make when you're under that kind of stress When you're living paycheck to paycheck, you're gonna start taking jobs just for the money just because It's it's gonna pay the next bill right you start like you do devi your own time in your own hours And you're like okay, so let's say I owe 2,640 dollars and bills every month If I just get enough worth the covers exactly that I'll be fine The problem is it's 90 hours a week of work. I I'll just do it right. I'll just we'll just push through it. And that's I did for like six years I mean like you can probably a test that I was like the shell of who I am now because I was always exhausted I was always just like oh, I just got done a shoot. I have to go edit for six fucking hours to get some dumb thing They were grinding. Yeah, just nonstop. I had I had to do that though. Yeah, you know, I'm not talking down on it I'm just saying that like it has its negative effects and Ultimately by doing that by trying to fill every dollar with the dumbest things I could just to meet the bills I ended up costing myself a lot of time and a lot of money So it wasn't able to make smart decisions. I wasn't able to keep up with things that needed to be kept up with And there's actually a really good analogy. I had a conversation similar this to a friend not that long ago And he told me a really really good analogy So I'll share it with you guys so Slow times as a creative is essentially an umbrella and you Don't plan on it raining every day, but you don't want it to rain and not have an umbrella So you gotta make sure when it's not raining you get yourself a really good fucking umbrella Right so that essentially what you're saying Being aware that slow times will happen So when you're not slow take preventative measures to ensure that you are okay You're safe. You're eating healthy. You're covered. You're covered When it does rain and when it's slow I love that right. Yeah, that's like it was like that's that's a hundred percent how I feel Yeah, it's the worst feeling in the world when slow you'll have money It's worse feeling in the world, you know, you got size pouring rain. You know like I don't have an umbrella Yeah, I have nothing to cover me during this you know two three-day storm But I got to get through it because that's what we do So I think this is where like there's the invite all right have $1,000 emergency fund stashed away. That's not in your checking account. That's like hidden somewhere I got Dave Ramsey suggest cash in your apartment. Right. Yeah, like he says actually like frame it And it's like literally put only a break in case of emergency take it out in cash Then you're not gonna use it. I hide it in little things throughout my house. So it's all over the place But no that's that's smart because then like that's always there. It's a little bit of security you have it Next step would be you know get six months of Rent oh head yourself and I would say for those that are freelancers and creatives like do this before You start to tackle your debt for me like I had that before I started to tackle my debt because as much as I wanted to get out of debt I knew that I didn't want to put myself in a in a sketchy situation And I wanted to continue to be able to do this and I wanted to live comfortably and I didn't want to have this stress and anxiety of having no money So I had that built up and then you can start to chip away at your debt. You can be a little bit smarter You know be smart with your money and don't spend it on frivolous things that don't add value or things that you know aren't made make a list of what it costs to be you for a month That's really important. Yeah, yeah, do a Google spreadsheet like actually break it down I was I thought that my overhead was like three grand when I was living in Philly like two years ago I was like oh, you know I think my overhead's like just about three grand a month like for all my bills my rent my car my gear buying and show it that and I actually sat down and added up like okay, how much is Netflix? How much is Pandora and Spotify? Oh my god, I forgot I had both okay, and then I just go through all the things that take out monthly The Adobe that went up ten dollars three months ago, you know, that's sixty dollars a month now and then I made that list and it was $4200. It was $1,200 more than I thought it was which man I thought I was making enough money to cover myself and it was not And that's why I never had enough money to cover myself more than the month that I was living and that was really Crapied to figure that out but it was a defining moment when I knew Because then I was like I got to get at least a thousand dollars off of this now and then I was able to make smart decisions That would be a huge thing. I would say dad that it's always gonna be more than you think Yeah, it's all because like going out to dinner going out for coffee these little things add up and I'm not saying don't do those things I'm just saying we should be aware of how much our our standard of living in culture is and how much it costs We have a question from Matt De Silva from real community talks on average for your short films what kind of turnaround time should clients expect for the finished project is that negotiated beforehand Or do you set windows like one month one week, etc? What is considered when determining finished project timelines? It's a good question and I think it really cuts to the core of How we communicate with our clients. Yeah, because The I've only had a couple serious Seriously negative Interactions and moments with clients one of them specifically when I didn't Clarify the deadline. Yeah, when I didn't get out in front of it and talk with a client and say So yeah, this is gonna a probably be able to turn this around in a week or giving them an exact deadline What I did was assumed that they would expect it within two weeks or so and then I ended up Like an idiot I went away to my cabin for a couple days my parents cabin Which was totally off the grid no connection and I'm just editing up there and just enjoying my time away being disconnected And I come back to 20 missed phone calls from this client and the call these texts and emails and He had expected the next day turnaround time that was his expectation that I was gonna get it shot and then the next day Have it's him edited it He was an idiot He was immediately fired as a client. Yeah, he had way too high of expectations of what that turnaround would look like But at the same time I You fucked up to I am completely at fault you have to take Responsibility for not communicating and saying hey like what kind of turnaround time Where you're thinking on this project? Do you have a deadline when you really need this out? He says next day I say all right, well, that's gonna be four times the cost Right, you know, I can do it, but it's gonna cost you a lot more money because that's gonna require me You know not getting any sleep tonight and working to to get this done in a rushed manner and not only that But you're dropping anything and everything you had to do tomorrow, which could be other client You're pushing yeah, you're pushing other client work back like there's a lot of reasons why you would want to Change your rate in that regard, but you need to get out in front of it and like you need this list of questions to ask your clients before hand. Yeah, the setting of expectations. I have been I mean this is a very interesting question because it's a varying answer so There is no way to set or determine a specific timeline without having a conversation with who the video is for You can't decide your own timeline. That's the first thing my advice on this is never make up Your own timeline for a project. So I've had clients that have been like Oh, how long does it take to do the video and I've like I can probably do it in like I don't know seven and ten days However, I don't realize that they're gonna want like ten fucking revisions And they're gonna give me a million notes. We're gonna go back and forth and now we fit five weeks and now that Expectation that I've set makes me look bad It makes me look like I'm not able to keep up with my word Whether or not that true is like is true or not doesn't matter. It's the perception of it So like when I have the conversations now with clients I say okay, well, let's talk about the post-production process One are their deadlines that I need to be aware of which would be when do you need this release? And if you're talking to a business client business clients working quarters all businesses ran quarterly throughout the year So first quarter second quarter is so one they might say quarter four beginning we need this release for our marketing plan Okay, well quarter four is like October so You know October first let's say is like our hard deadline So then we work backwards. Okay. Well, how long does it take to edit the first edit might take you know three days But I might not want to give it to them on day three because I might want to take into a date of Step away come back see if it's still good, you know that kind of stuff. You have that conversation You know that being selling the other side of it like if you're Not a business client you're creating something like just for fun like narrative like a short film Like we just had a short film that like I got a lot of shit from people who worked on it They were like where the fuck is this short film you shot and Does it want to barge your drone for yeah, and you know, I was forever gone That was January of 16 or something or 17 was a long time ago 17 and It took me 11 months to edit a 20-minute short film 11 months. I'm a really good editor I couldn't edit that you weren't learning the application right it took 11 months That's how long it took to make that film and that was me, you know getting Getting in scores from composers and then realizing that like My side wasn't competing as well with theirs like their work and so that's something where like if you were to ever tell me like What's it gonna take you like a year to edit this 20-minute short? I'd probably be like no of course not that's absurd. It would never take a year to get this out. Yeah, I think it did It's probably also has to do with the fact that that's not a paid project right that's a passion project and the bills need to get paid and and science That's the trouble and and the difficulty in having and working on side and passion projects is because Very easily they're pushed to the side so then you can focus on what's making you money and that's like That was the story in my life for as long as I did client work Yeah, and I think that's a hard transition to make if you're trying to work on your own personal projects But just expect that it's gonna take way longer than it necessarily would I'm going through that right now like in real life So when I go back home I have a lot of client work. I got to get down the next like three months to meet like fourth quarter releases Unfortunately and fortunately, so both good and bad I am also pursuing my own documentary right now. I have been for two years. It's been a slow process of taking me You know, out of the country and it's very very very expensive And obviously you know this you're doing your own you know a minimalism you're like yeah, I just got to put a lot of money into it up front I got to do this I got spend the time And I'm already two years in and I'm like six percent of the movie done Right so people like how long are you playing on working on this like realistically? I probably get done in like four or five years like done done where you're watching the final film I might get it 90% of the way there this year who knows But it's gonna take time and I have to be smart. I had to prioritize properly Both financially and with my time you got a client, you know you got to make sure you make your client happy They're gonna pay for you to live. They're gonna pay for you to do side work I mean, they're essentially helping you to fund your personal project, right? So it's very important. Yeah I think to to piggyback on what you were talking about with kind of you know setting these deadlines and communicating with the clients Always give yourself more time than you think and like a lot more time like I know I could edit many videos in two days So I'd say two weeks for the first draft the first version and I make it clear that like from there on we'll go into the revision process and I also Specify the amount of revisions included per Project yeah, so or per video whatever. Say if it's set of five videos I'm including two revisions in cost per video right and then we can I don't even like I'm like all right and then after that We can talk about and negotiate what that would be sure if we had to go into more revisions We can even we could do hourly or we could just set a whole project rate for like all right We can do you know two more revisions per video for this much money. Yeah, and that just it covers you and makes them not want to do more Visions and then they have to like nobody wants to do 10 to 15 revisions But if it if you're giving them unlimited free, you know, we all they can do whatever they want They're gonna use all they're gonna go 10 15 20 revisions So how can you tweak the color can you tweak the shot by shot shut my shot? It's gonna happen So you need to try to you need to add a little bit of friction for them to not want to do that That's also gonna it's gonna make it so they don't take advantage of you and also you're gonna get the project done sooner So you can get on to the next one sure Yeah, that's a good one great question Matt Question from Jacob Jali is a filmmaker from Oklahoma Do you have any tips for freelancers looking to transition from creating wedding films to shooting for bigger clients? Hmm We both went through that. Yeah, we did this is a question for us. You don't do any weddings anymore, do you have you done maybe? Yeah, I know you've like helped some friends out every once in a while Maybe once a year I'll shoot a friends wedding for free. Yeah, just like to help them out. That's like the nicest thing ever I don't care about my friends To do that. Oh my gosh, sorry. I'd rather shoot their wedding and then just give him footage than like give him a check Right because if yeah, weddings are expensive. Yeah, like I'd rather give him a check I'm like I don't want to actually like have fun. I don't know but it's uh you're gonna you're gonna hate this advice But I'd say um Get out of Oklahoma No, I'm just kidding. Well, you know, well make yourself aware that like you have to Be realistic about the work you're pursuing You know what kind of work takes place in Oklahoma You know do it break down. There's a lot of commercial work being done. Okay, if there is who is making it what agency is in what companies Go meet those people go walk into their offices and introduce yourself and You know just start on that path for me getting out of wedding work was It was difficult because it was scary because that was where most of my money came from You know at the on weekends. I was doing weddings and during the week editing them And at nighttime. I was doing music videos and other dumb little things here and there corporate stuff But nothing really pay the bills the way that weddings did But the problem with that and the problem that most people who do weddings find is Once you start doing weddings, it takes a year to get out of doing weddings It is not a I'm done today thing. It is I'm no longer doing weddings except for the 14 already booked in the next 12 months That happened to me Where I'm like I was like I was totally over it. I was like I'm done with weddings and I'm like fuck I got all next summer the entire next summer and like you're talking weekends during the summer and that's job That's real jobs. You cannot take now Yeah, someone's like hey, what are you doing you're like a fucking wedding? I booked a year ago When I was still doing weddings. Yeah, yeah, I can't get out of it because it's in two weeks. It's rough dude. Yeah The work that you do now is the work that you're going to get in the future and that's true of weddings This true of music videos corporate work like the because those clients will talk with other people that are very similar to them Like think about the clients that you have in weddings It's brides and rooms and they're going to be talking about this amazing video or the amazing photos that you delivered for them And they're going to they're going to talk it up to their friends who may potentially want to hire you That's the same thing for a corporate client or start up in tech companies They often interact and communicate with other tech founders and tech companies Those are going to be the the clients that you're going to get and also the people that are coming to your website Those that are seeing your work your real You can't show wedding videos to a corporate client. No, you can't you're never going to book a video like I you know five figures let's explain why because that's really that's a huge thing you just said And you do not understand the weight of of what like Matt just said unless you've done what we've done where you stop Here is why you do not want to show a wedding to someone's you know corporate client or whatever I will never trust Someone who does weddings currently With a large campaign project because I am never going to tell them like let's say I'm an agency person or I work for some company I need a bunch of content made. I want to do 10 15 videos this guy does weddings. What does that tell me one This gear is probably not that great two Probably is either overworked or overbooked Availability is going to be tough and Like we just said with weddings you're booked out for a long time which means I might be like I need something next week And he'll be like I got a fucking wedding next week and also every weekend for 40 weeks So I can't do that. Okay, that makes me not want to work with you three If you're doing weddings there's nothing wrong with doing weddings but when you want to transition out of it Usually there's a financial burden that how do you how do you replace that money with work you don't have And that is like Sometimes it makes me feel like people are afraid to like like I almost trust people who are willing to be freelance and not take a job People who take their job very seriously With really really expensive projects as opposed to people work all the time Like doing wedding work and stuff like that like I don't necessarily bring those people on to the bear jobs I have even like me as a DP like hiring a crew I know some really good crew, but they do a lot of wedding work. I don't want them on my sets It's just a little bit too much crossover the experience is different though like the experience of shooting a live event versus shooting You know a video for a startup company It's very different. I just think about like showing that video to the startup founder They want to see like they want to see Like I think it comes down to it that the people that are looking at the work aren't filmmakers or photographers They're not in that world so they can't say Take that and then like change the music out and then change the visual out and make it You know pitching a startup video. They want to cease another startup company that you made a video for That has the nice similar tone and similar style They don't want to see like some a bride crying and like kissing the groom and like you know I mean it's it's just totally different and you want them to be able to envision the work that you're gonna give them Yeah, and it's top man. I mean it's a hard transition and my advice for getting out of it and pursuing new work is One figure out what you want to do Like let's say you took wedding work completely out of your schedule. What does it you want to do? Do you want to be doing commercials? Do you want to be doing documentaries short films? You know doc you life projects things for advice? Figure out what it is what you want to do and then Make like three projects completely for free on your own produce them yourself Even if it's for friends. I did this last year when I rebranded I was like well, I don't have enough of This kind of work my portfolio. So I hit up some friends who have had ran businesses and I made like a couple commercials And then that book me on like a bunch of real commercials Well think about stuff that we did together like if I was hiring you to shoot a video for a company You would just ask me like hey, can I use that the video that we made for as a part of my real? Yeah, and yeah sure I want to show somebody who wants something that I've done what they were looking for yeah And even if I haven't done it through my company and I worked on like with your company or whatever Like if I didn't have you or didn't have other people like you I would just go make something like that myself locally. Yeah, and I think that that's better than Either you do it your vision do a fake spec commercial for a brand or product that you love versus doing shitty work for free for a client that you don't like I mean like just execute on your own vision and get creative and have fun with it And also like you know weddings are amazing especially when you're just getting started out. Yeah, I know that like it's not for everybody Some people love it and can work an entire lifetime in weddings And they can truly Continue to have a passion in that and I think that's great and I say more power to you But also I think it's an amazing way for people to get experience behind a camera Learn to deal stress learn to deal stress learn to deal with clients and like you also realize that Oh, this is why I charge a premium because you have to deal with the emails the phone calls and everything else that goes along with it that you don't You don't it's not just that was the number two Yeah, getting out. So number one is figuring out what you want to do Number two is if you want to get out of weddings Raise your prices Just raise them up significantly. I think just across the board always be raising prices. Yeah, oh wait If there is a gear that goes by that you haven't raised your prices even a little bit Then you're making a huge mistake. Yeah, because what's the difference in the beginning between $405 projects to the client? It's nothing. They like like $100 difference is nothing and then honestly Like it'll you can just keep raising it from there to we go 1,000 to 1,500 The difference doesn't seem like that much. It's not that crazy and then 1,500 to 3,000 and then eventually You're at a premium rate and you can pretty much charge whatever you want so if you're charged in like four grand And you're like I want to get out of weddings. Okay start all the rest of the wedding or the rest of the year Just raise your prices to like 65 oh four weddings. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No double it. Yeah $8,000 for wedding. Yeah, that's it. So here's here's what's gonna happen. One you're not going to book Right, so let's say 70% percent of the people that say hey I want to do wedding video with you They're not going to book it which is great. It's exactly what you want. You don't want to be doing weddings The other 25% of the people go Let's do it and you just book the fuckload of money with a very little bit of work You're doing a fraction of a wedding and that is the for about the same amount of money or if not more money And then what you do is you pay somebody else to go she goes wedding so you don't have to do it and then you've isolated the rest of the Weddings out you've taken them off and you've made your profits and now you're actually out Then if you're smart you save that money and you push into your new territories. Yeah, that's it That's it Simple yeah, raise your money or raise your money. Raise your raise your money. Raise your money God that advice cannot be given enough It kind of segues into this because we just shed on Jacob for living in Oklahoma And the Oklahoma is a great place. I love Oklahoma. I've actually been there. It's awesome Yeah, I don't know if I have a flown over it Chris Temple who was actually on the podcast He has a company with Zack and you're honestly called living on one They've got a couple documentaries on Netflix that are great. Oh, yeah, so he asked a question on Twitter How important is location? Can you truly find success outside of a major hub like LA and New York even if it's San Francisco or DC How important is the location that you're living to the work that you're doing? The bigger budgets you get The more likely the clients will be willing to send you anywhere when I was just starting out the projects that I was getting were $400 $500 per for a project There is no way a client is going to send me across the country spent $600 on flights around trip as well as you know staying at a hotel for three nights and The rental car and all that stuff if the project is $400 Once you get a higher budget projects, which is like obviously the ideal scenario when you're getting Thousands of dollars for a project. It's way more likely that you can get clients anywhere and you're not restricted to just your area When you're living in New Jersey and you're working on small projects Everything has to be local and you're dependent upon these like local small businesses To survive and then I think as you grow as you get bigger budgets as you work with these bigger companies Then that opens you up a little bit more to not be so location specific. I can clearly agree I think there's a part of it though that is really important Which is you have to define what you believe successes Like you know What does it mean to be successful is that finances? Is that meaning you've made a hundred thousand dollars for the year does that mean? You did not make a hundred thousand dollars, but you're working every day in a game paid for it Does that mean you've worked on high profile stuff That everyone's looking at like viral videos or feature films or TV shows and maybe you're only making 50 thousand here We're going on them, but you're you got some good credits. There's different ways you can be successful And you have to really figure out what that means I think all three are definitely doable, but I think not all three can be done anywhere So if you're living in the middle Kentucky you're probably not going to work on a show that shoots in New York City Realistically So you might have to go there. We're Los Angeles like you're not going to be a part of some of those projects You could work on a documentary This can take place anywhere. You could work on editing things for people like remote editor You could be doing a lot of things like that, but I think figuring out what the success is like super super important So for me, I was very lucky that the first half of my career I made no money and I had all of my work I was like everything and I was like work home was like going viral So like I wasn't making any fucking money. You had the views, but I had the views So I was like within like a couple of years. I was at like I don't know like 80 million views on my stuff And I was like fuck yeah, I'm good Like I'm successful. Yeah, but I had nothing nothing to my name Nothing And now I work on things that are much smaller That are not necessarily music videos or my videos and stuff like that. You and I just totally switch paths Yeah, I am getting views, but I have nothing I have no money We totally took a change of course there, but like yeah, it's definitely about like I think there's also a difference there and that like the views you were getting You also didn't have ownership or that content. Was it my creating stuff and you're pushing it out there and Ownership became a huge thing for me because like and like as you you're experiencing now With making your first documentary. It's like this is yours You can put your entire creative say on your passion into it your heart into it. However much money you want Because you believe in the project. Yeah, and I think it takes It takes a lot to be able to do that. You know, it's not always so easy So I don't know if like this is I mean he provided two locations I don't know if that's because he's by coastal or if he's in LA here, but I would say that like DC has a Not so great film scene, but Baltimore does so like and when you say film scene though like is it Like isn't working production companies sure like of actual caliber for big agencies and stuff like that Okay, so as opposed to just like a freelancer like you could just be a freelancer doing like video gigs And you may not make a lot of money, but you could work probably every week in DC. I mean there's people doing it Right, I think maybe because we both have different approaches to it where you might Encourage people to work for agencies and production companies and like things that create Well even if you're a grip or even if like if just a general filmmaker like finding companies that do Consistent work not I think there's a big difference between like like I have some clients I don't work with many more because they're fucking jerk-offs, but I had some clients that were and they were just so important for me Started my freelance career and it was like my fork main clients and one of them like worked I won't say any names, but like one of them was like a company that did a lot of videos like two to three videos a month for like pen like hospitals like in the area, you know So we're going to interview doctors and like film them doing a surgery or film them doing some shit But like it was really really important for me as a young filmmaker Who was not really in the best location? I was in like the suburbs of Philadelphia not even in the city You know they were giving me a consistent like 800,000 dollars a month in shoots That was important I had to find three to four or five clients like that that could provide consistent work Now that's a little bit different than you being like a director or filmmaker doing like a commercial or something that's not every month Yeah, you know those are like like if you get a client like we don't know You're not everybody's going to get like an envision or something like that where it's like a long-term project So maybe it's like a short video that might be great for like a month But you may not have them coming back next month and you should Want reoccurring work if you're starting out and especially in a location That's not you know paramount for working a lot Yeah getting retained clients getting clients that come back because it's it takes a lot of effort And relationship building and building trust with clients And it's just so much easier for them to come back to for work I think it's opening up for people that are just freelancers especially as like Video is becoming more and more in demand online through like Instagram and and like you know anybody who has Is trying to Connect with an audience online whether it's a barber shop or you know a hair salon or whatever They will they see the value in video whether it's one video a short clip or it They want to actually create consistent content over a long period of time I think it's opening up to where you can do it in these smaller areas to get started Yeah, and then that's your decision once you like you you establish yourself in one of these smaller markets Whether you're in Oklahoma or Jersey or Pennsylvania Then you can take a step back and say all right like do I want to stay here? That's what both of us have done It's like well, we've established ourselves in these smaller areas and then once you're doing well You and naturally people might want to move for a number of different reasons Once you get to a really good place you restart you're like let's just start over Let's just bring everything out the window But then I mean that was definitely something that I was worried about a lot in the beginning was like I can't move away from New York And then I know you just had this too, and then all of a sudden you step back and you're like You're you're worried about this for so long like I'm so I'm so I'm kind of trapped here I can't leave because all my clients are here and then you step back and you realize I don't have any clients that are in New York anymore Literally I'm flying to San Francisco like in times of year because that's where all my clients are yeah And that's gonna happen naturally and then you realize okay things are opening up a little bit I'm not necessarily stuck here But the decision about where you're gonna live is is how would say it has to be largely It's gonna be personal if you can do work from anywhere Let's do a couple more questions here Okay, this is a Question from collume Davies very similar to what we were talking about from the first question about these Loles or dry periods But they're asking how do you stop yourself from getting down in the dumps when you're not getting work? I think it's like a different thing because obviously the money is one thing But then the emotional toll of Not getting work is as an entirely different thing. Oh, man That's a heavy one. I completely relate to that. I like Okay, so Regardless of the money aspect There's two things I think you should consider here which is if you're not working You're not making money But also you're not feeling productive. You're not feeling fulfilled and you're not feeling valued Like people don't want to book with me equals in my head people don't want me They want somebody else because they're still making the products. They're just going to somebody else And it has nothing to do with me. It's usually just the work or the timing or whatever, but That's like that's a really heavy part of it and Them it's made worse because you don't have the money to kind of like I've had times where I've gotten pretty depressed because I'm not working and You know, it's been it's been bad But I've also had times where I've been working and I made money and then I stopped working I didn't do anything for six weeks And I'll still depress what I had money You know, so it's like those are totally different kinds of times So to be the most effective in this question. I would say let's talk about when you don't have money And you're feeling down in the dumps because that's like a heavier hit and that to me is like What a lot of creatives go through because it's very often to people complain They don't have work when they have a bunch of money in the bank You know like that's not that wouldn't be so they'd be like oh, I'm in my off time because I made I made 30 grand and send my account I'm fine for three months That's a lot different than someone's like I have 900 bucks and I have nothing on Okay, all in there seven weeks Yeah, for me I was like I I You know made some money and I was like I had a little bit of a low-end work. Yeah, I was like I'm gonna start a podcast There's like things that you can do to fill that time Yeah, that aren't necessarily related to money But when both hit you at the same time it's definitely tough I don't want to take it away because from from people who are slow but they've been smart with their money because that Yeah, it's it's not equal but it still is a scary proposition to look at your calendar and see nothing Yeah, you're not you don't you're not doing weddings. You got nothing booked for This foreseeable future yeah, and you're like well, I do I have a limited amount of runway You know what I mean whether it's Four weeks or it's an entire year, but eventually you're like I need to get work somehow So how do you and how do you deal with that? I deal with it by doing creative things that are not related to filmmaking or photography So for me that is Re-ranging like a room like furniture Sounds so stupid, but it's it's a checklist of things I can easily do to make myself feel better It's going for a bike ride It is I love the rearranging of furniture Yeah, it's so silly, but also like an easy win. I used to like love that when I was like when I was younger and I could Your bedroom it's like fresh. It's like wow. It's like a different room Easy wins right yeah, make the bed you know what I mean clean up and easy wins. It's focused on yourself like exercise go to the gym Yeah, you really take advantage of those times great. Yeah, I started to develop those habits when work is slow Pain paint paint a room paint a paint a wall. Yeah, change it up Like those are the things that Should we keep going yeah, I know what there's sirens helicopter is a rest happening outside So I mean honestly, I think that it's really important if you have not much work coming on and you're trying to be low cost But even if you already have money in your okay with sweaty money like figuring out things that benefit you and bring you happiness That are not related to your work Usually get you through the times because there's nothing you can really do to make work get booked You can try to help the process as much as you want and you can reach out you can cold call create a new website Do reals whatever the fuck you want to do those things will help the process But ultimately it's up to the other person Sometimes if they want to book or not you can't force the way you can't force when you're free land You can't force work to happen and when you do when you're trying to force it It's like quick sand. It's harder and harder to get the clients when they know it Yeah, they know that you're you're like hey, you got any work. Yeah, it's up Hey, just want to reach out to see if you know it's like I would have reached out if I needed to work You know 90% of the time that we say hey, well glad you reached out Yeah, like I've been meaning to give you $5,000 Yeah, exactly Now I think yeah, that's that's good. I think that's great advice because like those lows are always gonna happen And as far as I've been through it as long as I've done it I've always come out of it There's always been work at the end of the tunnel. There's always so it's about getting through those really Those low periods or the slow periods It's like reading a lot of books. It's listening to podcasts. It's it's staying like inspired and motivated and knowing the reason why You're doing this and knowing that yes, it's gonna be tough at times, but it's worth it to stick through Yeah, I think the balance between those things is key. Yeah, my group. Yeah Let's do a couple more Martin Roses from Illinois When are you happy with your filmmaking gear and an ever-changing market Where there's a new camera and new lens that comes out every week? The first thing you can do is understand that no gear will bring you happiness That is the most important thing is a tool and only that do not get emotionally attached to anything you buy Specifically filmmaking gear because I mean think about it, right? The whole red you were like fucking jumping up and down you got it. It's gone already. Yeah And I was like gone That was a lot of money. Yeah, but you know, it was utilized, right? So it's like You bought the C300. There was a lot of fucking money But then you used it for what you used before and you got rid of it when it was done and now you have another one You know like the next model and it's so cool, right? And we got all these little Sony cameras here That's so great. They're so they're gonna be gone in the fucking year and a half like we can be on this five years People would laugh at you for using these cameras. Yeah. I have I wonder if the quality If anybody would know the goddamn difference. I think because I think the way that it's going spread It's all proud. It's all pride. Like I mean Are we all gonna have five K monitors at the time and like is somebody gonna be able to I don't know if my phone can't even load an Instagram photo sometimes What the fuck do I care about like as a shot and red or like so like it doesn't make it really online shit at It's not that big of a deal. And but I think that's actually good for people that are just getting started out We don't have much money to spend on a camera. Yeah, is you can buy my I when I made minimalism I shot it on a Canon C300 mark one that camera you can get used for a couple thousand dollars now Do like two grand that when I bought it it was $14,000. That's a very expensive high-end cinema camera that produces a gorgeous image And people are like that's the old version. I'll put my 1080p C300 up against up most people's red cameras Yeah, any day because I know how to make a look good right one look at them You color minimalism we played that in theaters. Yeah Not one person watch that went Doesn't look 4K at me. Yeah, like doesn't look good does that doesn't matter doesn't matter at all. Yeah Don't get too caught up on on the the gear the cameras the lenses And only buy shit if it's gonna make you money Like there's there's so many stupid like the last decade. I've probably spent I don't know 50,000 dollars 60,000 dollars on camera stuff And I would say only 30 of it was relevant to the actually what I was doing You ever 30 was shit that in a year later was gone got rid of it. This is stupid I need this and then I got rid of it. I need that got rid of it. I bought a matte box recently Doesn't fit in any of the gear or any of the shoots that I bring it on and so I take it off because it's heavy So I bought a fucking matte box so I can leave it at home for shoots right like still Part of the process. Yeah, no, and then you buy stuff that you realize that you don't need so yeah You just sell it get rid of it and it's not a big deal I would say like yeah one reason it's gonna make you money the other reason it's gonna save you time Which essentially could be the same thing sure? For me that was my decision to sell this red camera that shoots at 8k It's very cinema gorgeous images probably like the nice images you can get out of a camera today For something that's a fraction of the price because it's gonna speed things up like crazy Like I'm the file size is gonna be smaller. I can edit quicker I've got audio and videos synced at the same time Like there's there's pros and cons so you need to find the right tool for the job that you're working on That's within the budget that you have yeah if you have no money to spend on it the camera you have is fine Whatever you currently have is good And then once you get some money I do think that it's important to invest in yourself and to sure make the upgrades As they come but know that that's not the most important thing Yeah, I mean you have to reinvest in your business because if we never got a new camera We'd still have a Sony handy cam. You know we'd still be working on like these mini VV tapes I think that the the margins are getting smaller and smaller and it's making less difference every year each camera that comes out It's like you know the difference is so subtle like how how how how many frames a second? Do we need to shoot in slow motion like dnia thousand frames a second like you're gonna get dope shit Look even like if you want a 7s too Which you know at this point is probably the oldest 4k internal Sony they have I think it's like two years old or something with that right That was like the first one that did internal 4k you could buy that now a 7s 2 for like I don't know I don't know two grand some of that but whatever it is You can buy a Canon 70 or 24 to 70 that's not gonna go old that'll last for a long time right the lens So you can spend three grand and you can make probably 50 thousand dollars off that that little just those two things Obviously you'll need you'll need tripod, but you know you know you can not you can get this stuff that's so small and just understand that all it needs to do Is it's job Doesn't need to make it happy just needs to do a stop doesn't need to make it Yeah, it's like it's it's like a it's not a home thing. It's a work thing Kid you know you're you set of it too. Yeah, and don't like run At the minute the new version comes out. Yeah, you're came up great it like it's it's like people that don't Wear their car in like when if you buy a car a new car or whatever it is You got to beat that thing to the ground like use it for as long as you possibly can to really make sure you get your your the full value Yeah, if I didn't tell you there was an update like oh, just hear this new thing You'd probably still think your thing is the best thing. Yeah, you know you wouldn't notice the difference right Let's do one more question here. I got Joe Patrilly from New Jersey Hey, hey, hey, what I'm Joey house That's just that that's a thing that we do to fellow New Jersey people I'm not from New Jersey. It's a fuck off. Yeah, fuck you How saturated do you think the filmmaking field will be in five years and will the expectations of a good filmmaker increase with that? You know, I think like a lot of people think that It's so saturated now they look at it and like oh my god, there's so many like want to be filmmakers or Talented filmmakers people who are like filling up the market and trying to provide the same value If you think that it's saturated now just wait For five years down the road and see how crazy it's gonna be like so That I think is your motivation to put everything you have into it right now that You need to get started as soon as possible because it's The competition's not gonna drop away. Yeah, it's just gonna be more people with these higher-end cameras Because the prices are gonna drop so much people are developing an eye with Instagram I think Instagram is like kind of turning a lot of new college right like it's it's turning a lot of people into like being like Having more of an eye for it People didn't know like what would have filter what you know to me like a color grading or whatever now They're starting to understand a basic element of it and it's only have a better eye for it Which I think is gonna be it's gonna probably push more and more people into That world of being like well, I can be a filmmaker. I can be a photographer and then now you have a lot more competition See, I think I'm probably have like the controversial view on this because I don't think that it will be more saturated I think and I think technology has proven this historically that as things become more available And they become better and easier to use it cuts through the People using it between good and like if the professional or for a hobbyist So I think the amount of people like if I separate Instagram out of this I'm just talking about the the question which was You know is the film seen going to get more and more saturated in five years I think that was part one. I forgot part two was part two is like and then are the expectations of a filmmaker gonna increase with right? So you know Let's talk about this so 10 years ago. It's extremely difficult to get an image That it takes five seconds to get out of in the Sony cameras now, right? That doesn't mean that there's more people using the Sony cameras now. It just means that it's easier to see through the bullshit So I think as we all get smarter as we all get better at this We're all gonna be able to identify who's good and who is not Some people will not want to wait around and I find this because as I've You know, I've been doing this about 10 years now. So in the last 10 years I've noticed that The amount of people that I would consider Being good at with their job or the amount of people that are even available for the job. It's gone down in the film world for me and I've met more people for sure and that's made up for it Because obviously time goes by meet more people you network, blah, blah, blah, blah, but like I think that there's different levels you have to be aware of different tiers of like okay Are we talking about the film scene are we talking about low-budget videos? scene are we talking about the wedding scene are we you know there's different areas and they they expand and scale as time goes by And it's like you probably noticed this when we first started doing weddings So we both started right around the same time and It was like two on nine ten something like that and Anyone who had the 5D you were like fuck we got a higher room Is there gonna have immediately the ground? Good quality is gonna look good. They got some lenses whatever And then everybody had a 5D and you were able to tell who was good and who was not good So while there were more people there was less people getting higher because you could tell the difference between good and bad easier But then there was also the You know as somebody who's edited a lot of weddings that you didn't shoot There's a difference between somebody that has a 5D that just bought it and that's their first camera and their first time filming Right all the footage is shaky. They don't hold their b-roll for fucking five seconds and then somebody who has been doing this for five years That has a better eye for like and hold a shot and do all they keep the shot and focus Do you see that there's more people today at the entry level position who are not very good But they have nice cameras versus the middle to Higher tier of people who are like very talented they put in the time Maybe they haven't gotten 10,000 hours other craft yet, but they put in a significant amount of effort in an energy To where that's not as high because it still takes a lot of time and a lot of effort and I think a lot of people get really excited about hobbies And I'm gonna be a filmmaker and then they pick it up and then they right let it die they let it die. I mean that's what I'm saying is like You can have more people doing stuff. It doesn't mean that a scene is more saturated and if anything, it might be saturated with idiots Which means is up to you to be really good at what you're doing good at your craft what's good about this is the fact that there is That's why we have different budget projects. Yeah, you have people that aren't as talented that are just getting started out That's where the $300 to $500 projects are perfect for exactly take the like yeah Get as many of those small projects and small jobs as you can and the more you develop your skills The the higher you can raise up with the budgets the money you're charging because you're you're delivering so much more A lot of people just see it as like you're delivering higher quality or you're better But there's so much more than just Quality of the visuals you're putting out. It's like you learn how to deal with clients You've delivered you can deliver on time You can guarantee them that you're not gonna have to reshoot something because you screwed up the first time You're gonna guarantee that you can get it right the first time and those are the things that come with experience Yes So there raises the expectations of everyone. Yeah, so yeah, I think you know Wow all those things are true There is um something to be said for the expectations of both what your client set for what they want and What you set for what you're delivering and just make sure they're matching and if you can match them Match your expectations. They're in the same wavelength good communication And it doesn't matter how saturated the scene is and as you said this before like last year We would talk you don't need a ton of clients to be successful You know you just need a couple of believe in you So that's like the most important part I think is like are you trying to make a video for every single person who needs a video in your city? No, that's unrealistic But what if you can find a couple clients that you can really connect with and get them a good product You can make a lot of money Love it any last words Yes, actually here's the last word for you. I got you a present. What? What what is this? That's my coming to L.A. present for you This is insane So now you can sleep with the rock. Oh, that's bad That's amazing for those of you who can't see it is a ginormous blanket with a portrait of the rock Natalie is gonna love this Wow, thank you so much. This is really really thoughtful. Look at that. Where'd you get this? I had a custom made Yeah, this custom made yeah, I was actually gonna mail it to you when I lost it remember I was like oh, I'm sending you a present with your address. Oh, I totally pretty And then I couldn't find it and then I found it you lost it. So I've been sitting on this for like six months Wow, that's amazing. Yeah, thank you so much. Are you very welcome? It's a gag. That's bad. Yes I'll expect you to actually sleep with it It might get weird. It's gonna get weird now. That was whole thing got weird Yeah, I started get you a weird blanket so that you could lay underneath the rocks head and just realize how ridiculous Yeah, but how cool it is. Yeah, it's beautiful. Thank you so much for that that really means a lot If we want to send people Somewhere to see your work Chris new hard calm. Is that the place to go? Chris new hard calm sure if that's my work My company is booklight creative so that's just booklight dot co booklight dot co be okay. I like GHD dot co. Yeah, that's my company. Thanks for doing the show again Thank you all and also if anyone's in Ireland hit me up Some shoots coming up there and you crew Yeah, okay, we might be able to get some people to jobs. Yeah, cool dude. Thank you for doing this. Thank you, man. Thank you everybody That's the podcast for this week. Thank you so much for listening if you want to find out more about this podcast You can go to groundupshow.com All right. Thanks for listening. Thanks for watching. See you next week
