# Intentional Hustle
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-tzv8bK4Qmo
Get my podcast 👉 http://groundupshow.com

If you’re a freelancer and don’t have clients then you don’t have a business. All the time you’re spending on your business plan, logo & social media accounts is a complete waste if you don’t have clients.

That's where hustle comes in.

The main excerpt from this video is from my podcast episode with photographer Dan Prakopcyk. Get the full ep here: http://mattdavella.com/057

New videos every week! New podcast every Wednesday!

Subscribe:  https://goo.gl/nzS5ri
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com
Instagram:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella/
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella/

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** behind the scenes, creative, creator, creators, documentary, film, filmmaker, filmmaking, freelance, freelance life, freelancer, hustle, declutter, lifestyle, lifestyle design, minimalism, minimalist, simple living, simplicity, create, get started, ground up, make, matt davella, matt d'avella, podcast, podcasting, start, the ground up show, brian bowen smith, rich roll, christian crosby, live life nice, bbs, daniel prakopcyk, john mayer, 
**Date:** 2018-05-04

## Transcript
 Let's cut things down to the absolute simplest terms. If you're a freelancer and you don't have clients, then you don't have a business. All the time you're spending on your business plan, logo, and social media accounts is a complete waste of time if you don't have clients. Let's say you're a filmmaker. This is what you need to start getting work. Step 1. Create a real. Step 2. Get clients. Now, step 2 is the part where most people start working on their logo for the next three months. But in order to make things happen, you need to be able to turn your art into a business, and you need clients fast. So how do you get them? It always starts with hustle. Every guest I've had on my podcast has one thing in common. They created their own opportunity. So I walked in off the street and was like, hey, what are you doing? I'm like, oh, I'm a photographer, and she's like great, you know, making a appointment. You know, offered my time whenever I could, I came in for free, like I'd never, it was never about money for me. I was a guy that was like, do you need anything? Do you want anything? How can I help? What can I do? I had to like craft it out of whole cloth, I think, and it wasn't, it wasn't linear by any stretch of the imagination. Daniel Prackupic recently traveled the country on tour as John Mayer's photographer. After that, he uprooted his business and relocated to LA. The problem, he didn't have any clients in the area. This is when you hustle. I just started emailing and calling texting and anyone that I can get a coffee, a lunch, a dinner, a drink, anything that I can do that maybe someone could hire me for, I'm doing. That's just a hustle man. That is, and I'm by myself, so it's not like I have an agent doing it. What has been the conversion of success? Like, I mean, you go out, all these people that you reach out to, it's how many of them turn into a paying gig for you. Maybe three or four people will tap into already, which is great. I don't have many people that you reach out to, it just like dozens and dozens. Hundreds. I mean, I'll sit in DM people, I'll sit in email any photo editor, I can possibly get my hands on, I'm, I just cannot stop. I'm like great. Because I get in this weird mode of like, I need to work, always. And if I'm not editing or retouching or whatever I'm doing one week, I have to be shooting the next week. If I'm not doing it that day, I have to be shooting the next day, stuff like that, I have to keep myself busy or I get in this weird cabin fever. When you're reaching out to these people, and like a lot of it will be lunch or coffee or whatever, like, is, what's the approach or is it different every time? Is sometimes it's like, like, hey, you know, I'm currently taking on work, like, how does, how are you normally messaging people? I don't know. I don't know. You can't go out. Yeah. 100 coffees. No, no. Okay. I was like, I had someone with interscope, I had someone that's a freelance producer at, and then someone, like, you just like, back to doing it, you're like, back to back to back to back and I'm running around at a light, just like, full, having tea. Exactly. Yeah. Yeah. Coffee, I love beer. Yeah. But yeah, you have to, I think a lot of it is intros to, from people, like, my fiance helped some of the intros, and then other people have insured me to other people, and all that kind of stuff. Like, let's go get lunch, and then hopefully that will be the way to get into with people. Because I think face to face is so much better than like, email, and be like, okay, I'm available for work, and maybe like, okay, cool, I'll keep you in mind, like, don't ever. No, I say that to people all the time. I have the time to say. Yeah, it's like, oh, yeah, I'll keep you in mind for future stuff archive. And then, because it's like, it takes a lot of effort for me to recall people, and especially when somebody else is going to message me a couple weeks later, with the same request, I'm like, eh, it doesn't matter. I can't do, especially for photo editors, like, they get hundreds of emails a day from photographers who want to shoot for the magazine, and it's really hard to get anybody to respond to you. I think I got three responses out of the 50 emails that I sent one week, and it's like, fine. I get it. You have to send promos out. You have to send this stuff out. You have to get meetings with people, and like, you just have to hustle. Three clients might not sound like a lot for the amount of work you need to put in. But I can trace back 75% of my work, and some of my biggest projects to a handful of early clients. When you get a client and you deliver them massive amounts of value, you're creating a snowball effect that will continue to build over time. But here's the key that will separate you from every other freelancer. It's not just about hustle. It's about intentional hustle. Start by asking the right questions about the clients you want to get. The work you'd love to do, and how to best grow your business. And from there, you can put your head down and get to work. You can find the ground up show on your favorite podcasting app. Go to groundupshow.com for all the links.
