# Letting Go of Stuff // Ground Up 076
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=07TciShQMOM
Say hi to Todd 👋 http://twitter.com/toddglass

Todd Glass is a comedian and host of The Todd Glass Show. His latest comedy special Act Happy is available on Netflix.

On this episode we talk about Todd’s journey to letting go of stuff, the mantra’s that help guide his minimalist philosophy, and what things might be worth holding onto.

This podcast is made possible by Patreon subscribers. Get my exclusive AMA podcast  at http://patreon.com/mattdavella.

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** 
**Date:** 2018-08-29

## Transcript
 Hey guys and welcome back to the ground up show. I'm your host Matt DiVella and today my guest is comedian Todd Glass. You might have seen Todd in his Netflix comedy special Act Happy or listen to his podcast The Todd Glass Show. This conversation is so much fun from the start. What you will learn is that Todd is very enthusiastic about minimalism. Just be able to apply it instantly, you know, it was fun. And I couldn't stop and everyone looked at me like I was a maniac. I go, no you don't understand. I'm not doing this in some carefree way. If I have even a question mark next to it, I don't get rid of it. On this episode we talk about Todd's journey into minimalism and letting go of stuff. The two mantras that he uses to help guide his minimalist philosophy as well as knowing when to hold on to things and when to let them go. It's a great episode and hope you like it. What do you, what do you want to talk about today? Do you know? No. I feel like you probably want it. You have something to say. One thing. First of all, I set it on the phone to love the documentary. I don't know you talk about more than that on the podcast, but it changed my life. And I was already organized. I was already organized. And I think that's what I think a lot of people think. When they, when I would tell them I saw that documentary, they would all go, yeah, but you're already, I go, no, it's more than just being organized. Everything in my house was organized, but there was stuff I didn't need. And I asked my friend when he wanted me to watch it. He was, you got to watch this documentary on minimalism. And I said, well, it give me a mantra because I really need a mantra. He goes, yes. And it did. And that was the, does this add purpose to my life, which I learned could be aesthetics. Because we're certain things, oh, I like the way that makes that room look. Sometimes it was that. But a lot of times, I don't even know a bore you with so many things that there were that I got rid of. And it was hard. It was some things more. I like, I will give you a few, you want to feel example. Yeah, yeah. Well, I had like 30 chairs that I would say for when I had a dinner, which is not that often anymore. My old relationship with a big dinners. And even then it wasn't that important, but at least we had dinners. And I had 30 matching chairs with covers that someone gave to me. So there'd be a big set table with 30 chairs. They all match. And yet look cool. People go out in your backyard. But I don't have every three years, maybe. And they take a broom. And then I was at someone's house a year ago. And these little salt and pepper shakers, every person had them. And you know, of course, I was about 20 when I saw that at my friend's house. And they were rich, you know, and every person had their own salt and pepper shaker. So I became obsessed with that. Those. Okay, you're not using them. Get rid of them. I had a wine craft. You know, you're to restaurant. And there's like, you put a wine in it with a crap. Yeah. And I thought, I thought, oh, I'll be. And then when I saw the documentary, the next day I went, you're never using those. Not once a year, not once every three years. And that stuff just started flying out of my house. Like left and right. And if it was on the fence, I didn't get rid of it. That's the amazing part. I go everything I got rid of was not difficult. If I went, I'm not sure. Thank you. But start with absolutely not absolutely not get rid of it, get rid of it, get rid of it through taking stuff to the thrift store. You know, Or if I'm lazy, I leave it outside of my gym because I know someone will take clothes. Like, I'll just leave it on a bench. And I'll put a tape for a good home, you know. But here's the, this is my only, if you want to say it in a gender, two things that I, when I tell people, I always tell people, watch the documentary. And here's two things that I had. One, when you get rid of stuff, sometimes something you get rid of, just call it Murphy's Law, you'll need in three weeks. So what? Don't have that, have you go on a backwards, backwards spiral of, you don't want to get rid of stuff. I got rid of those knobs, I needed them. Oh, that, that, that, that connector, that hose valve. Whatever it is, it's not about the one thing that you get rid of that you need. Okay, you'll go rebuke it. But what about the other 95 things you got rid of that you never need it? So just because there may be one thing you got rid of in a month later, you need it. So what? There's one thing that helps me, because that happens, that happens. But I thought, so what? There's 95 other things. And the other thing is taking pictures of things that do mean something to you. Now, I'm not everything. I have some things for my dad. I don't want a picture of the item. I want the item, and that I can't keep a jacket of his. But other things, I feel guilty for getting rid of. Maybe it could be something that a fan gave me that I do value. I do value. I can't, not I won't. I can't just throw it out. I can't do it. Maybe if you're, you know, someone that gets hundreds of things a day, okay, I get it. But so I take a picture of it, and it would be in the book, and I actually saw it more in the book than I did if I had the item in a drawer. That really helped me. I went through, took a picture of that. It's in the book every year. I print out a book. But even if you don't, just take a picture of it, and I would just, you know, it's going around my house, just taking pictures of things. Okay, I feel bad about getting rid of that nickname. My mom got it for me. It's a Christmas, took a picture of it. I was, and if you look at my book every year, I, you know, go and Apple or whatever. I got two buttons and I printed out a book from all the pictures in my phone. I see those things so often more now than I did when they were in a drawer. And I told a friend about this, and I forgot when him and his girlfriend were over in my house. They were looking through my book. I already told them about, when you don't suck mean something to you. And I remember it, they're turning the page in, I go, oh my god. That thing they gave me is in the book. And sure enough they turned the page before I could even think it. They were turning the page before I can finish my thought. They were on that page. They weren't even upset. They went all this made it in the book. They just cared that it meant something enough for me to be in the book. Not that that's a reason to do it or not do it, but anyway, side note that. But I think that's probably people's biggest fear. And I get that still as well as like getting gifts is difficult. It's easier now because people see me as a minimalist. My family knows. But still come Christmas or the holidays. Like my mom still likes getting me gifts and she'll get me like my name inscribed on this little ornament for like a tree ornament. And you know, we don't usually have a tree. And even if we did, we want to have like collecting 100 ornaments every year. So I think that's a great alternative to be able to still cherish and look back at that thing. But then also to get rid of it. But the biggest fear is that the people are going to be upset with you. You're exactly, and I dealt with it with funny you mentioned that with your mom because I thought of a great way to. I just came upon me naturally to deal with my mom with I don't want mom at Christmas. I know you get a lot of joy out of it. So when I after I saw the documentary, Christmas had come around and my mom had bought me again some nicknakes and stuff. And I said, mom, no, I said I'm being honest with you, but it was perfect for the last nicknake you ever bought me. I go, I truly love it. So I'm being honest. And between me and you, I did. I really liked that I go, but after this, no more. I just saw this movie. I saw this documentary on minimalism. I told her she should watch it. She goes, oh, I don't really, it's only the delusion of people. She goes, oh, I don't really, I don't really need that. I'm already, I throw out everything. I over throw out stuff. Now my mom says it's crazy neat, but every single closet and it's only her and her husband. And they live in a fairly large house that a four kid, people with four kids could live in. And every single closet, including the basement closet, is packed. But in her head, she doesn't have a lot of stuff. But that's why I liked the documentary because it doesn't turn into an argument. And she goes, and she started getting like defending herself. I go, oh, mom, mom, I watch the documentary for me. I was an insinuating for you. I go, it's just whoever feels they need it. I'm not throwing it upon you. But I was not being totally fourth, right? I just didn't want to, you know. Well, yeah, there's a truth to what I said. But there's also, like, I wanted to go, oh, my god, even affectionately, like a conversation between a mom or two friends go, are you shitting me? You really don't think you guys have stuff packed and every drawer and everything. Yeah, everybody thinks that they don't have a problem. It's very hard to see her. Especially with our stuff because we're so attached to it. People like really, even like you were saying when you were going through your stuff and trying to figure out what you needed and what you didn't, there's a real connection to it. And it's hard to start to let that go. Especially if it becomes a part of our home, we see it every day. It's there to get rid of it. It's very difficult. I did it with VHS tapes about five years ago. I told a friend of mine that's an editor. If I did a show, they used to give you VHS tapes 20 years ago. VHS tapes, you know, were back when it turned into a DVD. And I had them all and I told a friend of mine, I said, if I put these all in bags, shopping bags, and I give them to you, when you have a slow month, like maybe you have two weeks. You're like, oh, I don't have any jobs. And you want to make, let's say $500. That's what I said. If it's less or more, tell me, but that's what I'm throwing out there. To spend two days or three days. And so sure enough, he had the bags for two months. And one day he called me, because it's all done. I did it. I labeled it. If it was a VHS tape, and it had a one minute appearance, when you were on a show, he took the one minute off. And he put them all on a hard drive in DVDs, dropped them all at my front door, and left the VHS tapes and all the DVDs with it. I'm like, no, this is the hardest part. I go, oh my God, please come back and get them. So I put them in the trash. I put them, but this really does show how hard it is to get rid of stuff. I knew that they were in there. And I knew I didn't want to get all of them. But oh, maybe that one, and I literally, this sounds crazy, but I didn't want to be able to go back into the trash and get them. So I took some chlorox, because this was like a Monday, and they don't pick my trash up the Friday, and I just poured it over. I went there and now you don't have to think about it. They're done. They're gone. Because it is, it's hard. I didn't need any of those things. So, right, and this is something that's like, almost like an interesting difference there, because it is a physical object, but also what's on it, digital. It's something, or it can be made digital, and it can be, right, it can be kept. Because a lot of people talk about, at least within the minimalism space, digital clutter. And it's very hard to keep that stuff organized, and, but I think having a system, and keeping those old stand-up tables, or keeping for me, like keeping my films from when I was in high school, that's really cool to look back on. Yeah, yeah, that's why I don't want to over-get rid of stuff. So, I just thought, I do want that, and now, by the way, now that they're all on digital and a hard drive, I look at them more. I will. They're clean and organized, but yeah, it's very, some stuff I was convincing myself meant something to me when it didn't. You know, I'm not defined that I have physical things that I want to hold onto from my dad, my dad died when I was like 24. But like, one thing was like, this razor, and it was the razor he used, it's an old attra razor, and I had it, and I went, this doesn't really, I don't need this. I'm just convincing myself that I, this has anything to do with him at all. Yeah, I think until you actually take the time to say, all right, this weekend, like, I need to start going through at least one drawer, or one room, one closet, and then just take it little by little, because it can be overwhelming. And it's almost that, one of those tasks that you can just keep pushing off forever. But the thing is, like, for most of us, most Americans, especially, are accumulating stuff subconsciously. Like it just comes into our house, we get Amazon deliveries, we're rarely throwing stuff out or decluttering, unless we actually set the intention to do so. Exactly. And that's what the movie did, that movie documentary did for me, and just, and you know what, a few other things real quick, because I always say, I know how good it felt for me to watch the documentary, and then apply it, with just being able to apply it instantly. it was fun. Yeah. And I couldn't stop, and everyone looked at me like, I was a maniac. You don't understand. I'm not doing this in some carefree way. If I have even a question mark next to it, I don't get rid of it. It's not me sitting there. The first round was just very easy. But also, with my toolbox, I give a toolbox, and I don't, I didn't know what was in there, what was in it. I'm not going on site, where I need a toolbox, so I took, you know, those plastic shoe trees that you can hang on a door, and each one is clear, so you can put a shoe in it, holds 20 shoes, or 24 shoes. I have that hanging in the, in my laundry room behind the door, and that's my toolbox now. And I love it because I can see there's the screwdrivers, there's the pliers, there's everything that can fit in a shoe tree. Now if I had a saw that couldn't, I left that in the toolbox, but there's like four things in the toolbox now. But the shoe tree I can see, and I really like it. And I also do that. I don't believe in junk drawers, because you don't know what's in there. So I have a shoe tree that is my equivalent to a junk drawer, and you can see every pouch, there's scotch tape, there's birthday candles, there's batteries, there's, so I call it my shoe tree junk drawer. And that for me is very cleansing. I always know where stuff is now, because it doesn't feel good. I feel like it's like a weight. It's, it's, it's, there's not one thing in my house now, but even my, I have a podcast studio, and although it was neat, and although it was clean, and very organized, things were in drawers. I had a few old drawers that I had in my podcast studio, and in there was everything. But I forgot what was in there. Where's that cord? Where's that? I put pegboard in my storage area. Not just one piece. The carboner goes, oh, one piece. That'll be enough. You get those hooks. You hang everything on plastic clear bags. So there's your microphones. There's your wires. There's those, the casus you might use for that bit. But they were in drawers. I forgot. Now, not one drawer, not even the cabinets. I threw the cabinets out. They're not in drawers. They're on the pegboard. And when I walk into that, garage, that wall of pegboard, I see every little thing I want. The other day someone goes, you know what we're going on the road to do my show, and one of the guys in the band goes, you better bring those little portable lights, so we can see it, some of our sheet music. I know it was, because I passed by it every single day when I'm going in that garage. I see every bag of stuff, and it, oh my god, it's, wow, it's great. It's so much fun. It is, it's, I think you have to have a system in place, because then stuff accumulates, especially with like surfaces, you have tables, or if you have end tables, desks, desks tend to just paperwork piles up on top of it. But you need to have a system, we're like, well, I'm going to put this here in this, maybe in this corner of my desk, and every week, I will, I will go through it. Or, for my camera gear, I like tons of camera gear, and I don't want this stuff to be out all the time. So I have a system, okay, this goes into this cabinet, and this drawer, this goes into this drawer, and I just know that's where I put it every time. But even before that, I didn't have a system, even when we first moved into this apartment, it was like, very chaotic. I would just put stuff on shelves, and it would be wires, tangled over top of each other, and it just like made me feel uncomfortable. I don't know if it's a problem. I feel like it's not, it's more of like a, like I said, a way, or just like a kind of a background annoying, being like, I really need to like clean that out. I really need to do that. Yeah. It's not like OCD, like I have to fix it right now, but it's definitely, when I'm clear when my, when my apartment isn't cluttered, I feel a lot better, and I feel like I can be more productive. There's this like mentality of like the, the artists that there's paperwork everywhere, but I feel like it doesn't work to be that. It doesn't work to be that. That's why I always like that part in your movie, where you said, the guy with the books, my rendition of it's funny. Your rendition of it changes, as you keep repeating it. My rendition of that, which is probably all, I amped it up a little, it was like, I love you talking to you, but I have a lot of books in it. Books and I love my books. I don't know what to do, but I really appreciate it. You're talking to me, and I share them with my friend, stop, sir. Stop. Sounds like these books add a lot of purpose to your life. Think keep them. Yeah, there's not one rule for everybody. You know, that's why I'm not really crazy about Fengchue, because I do agree with a lot of the things in there. But you know what, if you're in a small apartment in New York, maybe you maybe you need things under your bed. And this, so you can't just have, Fengchue says no things under your bed. Maybe they're under there in perfect baskets and folded, all the clothes you don't wear in the summer, but it's so organized under your bed, where it doesn't represent, yeah, you don't want clutter under your bed, maybe unless you like clutter under your bed, then that's great too, which this for me is like, if you, like I was talking to my brother about it, and he loved it, and he now stuck something in my head. you want to hear him on a mind. He goes, when it comes to files, fuck miscellaneous, and I go, you son of a bitch, I have my miscellaneous file, and he's right, miscellaneous, because if I lose something, I'm on the road, and he goes, and I tell someone they go into my desk, you know, open my file cabinet, there's no miscellaneous, even if it's one thing, in a folder, great label, it's one thing in the folder, you know, it could be a title to car or whatever, you know, okay fine. So I love that he, like that gave me something else, I don't want fuck miscellaneous. I went and took my miscellaneous folder, out of my file, and just added six more, and each got its own little clean file. Yeah. The one thing I think people have trouble with, like we were talking about, even with, our moms is like dealing with the, the stuff people give us, but it's also like, being in relationships with people who maybe don't, aren't as conscious or aware about the stuff that's in their life. My girlfriend is certainly not a minimalist, and when we first moved in together, that was kind of, it was, there was some friction there, there were times I would make some, like throw away comments like where I'm like, maybe we should get rid of the TV, as in like, because like, I like experimenting, let's just get rid of that, because we could always buy it again later, but it might be nice, because maybe then I'll spend more time listening to podcasts, maybe I'll be more productive, I won't be as distracted, and she was very upset. She did not want to get rid of the TV, and then I was like, okay, that's, that's fine. We don't have to get rid of the TV, that's totally cool, maybe we can get rid of the cable. And then it's coming to these little compromises, and I think what it came down to was just having respect for each other, and listening to each other, and understand that maybe we value different things, I have a lot of camera gear, she has maybe more shoes than me, and a penguin snuggie, but like that's totally cool. Like that's like, she loves that stuff, and I encourage her to buy things that add value to her life, and that she loves, but I do hear from a lot of people who struggle with that. Yes, it's so funny, bringing up being in a relationship, because I was in a relationship, and it ended after 13 years, whatever it's worth, we are amazingly, we get along great, and that's nice. When somebody was in your life for 13 years, that now they're not dating them anymore, but they're still, they're still important to you. But I always said, look, I'm not implying that it was, well, the relationship was great and it ended, that's just what happened. So there's really, it was a journey to get through that point where we get on friends again, but it didn't take that long, but he, again, far from a hoarder. That's the whole thing. But no, we're even close, not a hoarder. But he had so many things that when we broke up, that I did think in the back of my head, even in the first week, oh, that'll be sort of nice. And it, the back of my head, all the, the CDs and cases, CDs, cases and cases of CDs, some didn't have them, some did, it bothered me, to get rid of those, and shelves and shelves and shelves of DVDs, and, and, and VHS is every single one of them gone, every single one of them gone. I thought if I need any, it's a digital age, and boy, that clear my back of my head, just tons of that crap. Perfectly organized on shelves, but still gone, so nice. It is, it is nice. I think that's like something that, everybody goes through at the end of a breakup too, because the things remind you of that person too, and especially at the, the end, and in that transition point, I think, at least for me, like I need some step away time, where I'm like, I just need to like, be on my own for a little bit, and just get my head clear, and it's kind of hard if you're always reminded that person, especially with social media, it's so much harder now, where it's like, maybe I block that person for a little bit, but then, but like, if it's like a long relationship, if somebody's with you for a long period of time, it, I think, grows beyond a point of just being an intimate relationship. It's like, there's a bond there that's like, it's amazing if you can make it work. Yeah, certainly easier, and in some cases, people can't legitimately can't, not because they're being selfish, the person they were with might have some, whatever, alcohol problem or something, but in my case, it wasn't that, but it was nice to, to not have a lot of that stuff, and then you just can't stop. You know, now I'm like, I realized I had a big old desk from like, 1980, where you needed a desk with drawers and things, and I went, I just got rid of the desk. Someone goes, have a yard sale, you know what? because now, during this minimalization project, who doesn't give enough to charity? What a great reason they get rid of stuff, and not mind if you need to buy it again. You gave it the charity, got rid of the desk, all my beds in my house. Now, this really is nothing to do with minimalization in a way, but it's what got me there. I put, there's these things you can put under the legs, or they slide, even the biggest bed in the world can slide. So now they slide back, so I can clean behind the museum. It's not a thing, one of my beds, so I didn't rock. I bolted to the wall, and then I, when I, unbolted it from the headboard, I looked behind there, I mean, clean person. It was a little legitimately filthy behind there. Took the bolt out of the wall, braced the bed, so it didn't need to be bolted into a two by four, and then clean behind there. Got rid of the desk. Now I have a cool little retro desk, with a finger, because it has felt under all the legs. I want everything to be able to be moved, which is a finger, like just slides out, can clean behind there. So there's a tension there. It's like a lot of thought about those kind of decisions. I think I'm feeling most of the time, we don't think these things through. We just like see, oh, that's nice. Let me get that. It's like is it going to fit in the space that I have? Right. I'm watching during this whole process, I have a duplex, and I rent people upstairs, and a girl just moved in and her parents must have some money, because she's like 21 years old, she has a roommate. They're great. I love them up there. But she's in the opposite, and she's just buying. Like I say this affectionately, but whenever I see stuff, they're bringing out, because she's just buying shit, buying shit. Now I'm not saying everything. Of course, people buy things they need. No one is, no one's defying that. But whenever I see stuff getting delivered, tables, and chairs, and just shit. So that's our joke, she's just keep buying shit. Because she doesn't know that might keep her there. Like she might have a job that she doesn't want to take, just because now it represents all that crap she has to move. So that's in the back of your head. I told my nephew, I go Tyler, just don't buy anything. Just be able to, if two years, you'll know when it's time, and you really want to settle down. And it doesn't mean your cast can't be nice. You can still have clean and orderly, you know? So what was your relationship with stuff before watching the doc, before starting to think about this? Because you said you were organized, but I'm curious about just living in a society that's pretty consumerist, and this focus on stuff, especially as like material signals of success. Did that ever play a factor for you? Or generally, I guess I'm just curious about what your relationship with stuff was before. I mean, I think it was like a lot of other people. I was just buying, like, does it fit with my question? Do I need, and now it's like, I'm not saying I don't buy things, but I'll tell you what, I'm much more careful. There's still some things I buy, but I would just, what was something, you know what? And you realize, I hope this is answering your question. I put a little guest house in my backyard, just a guest room. They still come into the house. It's so close to the house for the bathroom. you know, it's like if I had friends in from out of town, at least their own bedroom, you know, in their own space. But I was thinking about putting a bathroom in there, and I went, no, that's going to need prepare. And it's going to be need to be, I don't want another thing to have to take care of, you know? And this might be telling you way too much. My obsession now is like, I'm happy in my home, and if I live there forever, I'm great. But since I watch the documentary, my new obsession is like, if I could build the perfect house, it would be as much cement as possible. No grout. You know what I mean? Even in your bathrooms, after 30 years, the grout starts going, yeah, everything as, what do you call it? no maintenance. cement, no air ducts, not hand, you know, going through the ceiling. open seal. Right through the fix it. It needs to be fixed. I don't have to take down a wall. The electricity. I don't mind if it's a, it's a, you know, an industrial type looking house, maybe lofty. The electricity wrong in the walls? No, it's outside. If something breaks, it's everything is there. It's almost like the pegboard, but it's the house. Now I'm probably not going to be able to do that in my lifetime, but it is my weird fantasy. That would be the perfect house for me that the landscaping outside is lovable as possible. Just clean, and everything is just easy to get to. There's no wall to have to rip down of a pipe breaks or anything. I have that kind of fantasy, too, about like creating a home that's like self-sustaining that like isn't like is solar panel that has everything built into it. It's like a fun project, and it's like one of those things in the back of my mind where I'm like right now, not possible at all to do that. Especially in a place like LA, like it's like unless you were to like go to Montana and just like do it as a side project, it's very hard to close. I always say I want to live on the grid because I'm, you know, I want electricity out on that. It's on the grid, but it's off the grid as you can. Like have your cars paid for. So you have a car paid for, and maybe you keep putting away money for your next car, as like I know that's what my, and uncle used to do. I thought that was cool. Yeah, we have no car payment. But just try to like, you know, just have it as simple and clean and nothing like. There's a home on Melrose that I saw that's built that looks like what I'm talking about. That's the outside. You can tell the fencing made out of the corrugated metal, which is virtually, you know, it does not need maintenance. The whole house looks like cement. The landscaping is simple and clean. So I'm not done. Like I'm still working. I'm still getting rid of stuff. And then I started doing it with color. Like, I have Nick Nax all over. Some of them I like. I started painting everything, Dan. People thought I was crazy. I'm like, and I had books and books and books. Some of them were just for looks. So one day, this was only like a week ago. I said, that's it. I can do it with these books. And a friend of mine goes, you sure you're not going crazy? So I have tons of shelves. I cleared 90% of the stuff off those shelves and gave all the books to charity. The books that I like. I go, what books do I really like? Come on. The others were just because books look cool back then. I did it. I gave a room warm. Then I never lied to people. they're just books. makes the room feel warm. My friend thought I was crazy. He came back two weeks with his girlfriend. Maybe 40, 50 books on those shelves. Or maybe 30 or 40 books. But they're the books that I would want to look at. Like cool patio decks. A book about surfing. When the cool pictures of surfing. Now, people are looking at the books. Like it sounds like, of course that's what you're going to say. No, now they come over because there's six books there. Leaning against the shelf. There's three over there. There's two there. And now people are taking the books off the shelves. And they look so clean and so simple. And the knick knacks that I have. That means something to me. They're there. They're not crushed in with other stuff. That was fun getting rid of those. Yes. I mean, that's I think one of the great things about having stuff in your apartment is that when you have guests over. It starts a conversation. And when you have like you said. 300 books on a shelf on a wall. There's nothing really to pick out. No. But like if you have 10 of your favorite books. And you've read everyone. Or maybe there's a couple that you mean to get to. The topic that interests you. I think those can actually start conversations. And it can be a little bit more interesting than just having. Apparently like the average household has 300,000 items in it. Really? Yeah. Yeah. Which is hard to even imagine. But I think if you were to go like even to my. My parents probably have 500,000. And like they're it's pretty organized. But like you just see every like wall space everywhere. And it's like let's fill that with some stuff. And there's going to like 10 cow ornaments or whatever. And then drawers are filled up. Everybody's got an attic or a basement filled with stuff or their grandparents stuff. It's it's kind of crazy to think. But it's nice to see now that people are starting to. To look at it because I do think that there's a lot of there's. You know, we always talk that minimalism is the things are kind of like the first step. And it's like exciting to to pair it down the stuff. But it definitely opens you up. And it helps you to focus on important things. And it's not just worrying about like, well, like I got to redo this. Like I always thought about my friends parents would always be renovating their house. Like they would always be adding a room on or redoing a bathroom. Everything was always about upgrades. Everything was changing. Everything was always trying to get better. And they never seem to be just happy and be like, okay, we're done now. And I think that can that can be a problem because you're not necessarily focusing on maybe Relationships or experiences or living life. You're focusing on. Did you say that the documentary I'm trying to put more. Oh, no, it's a nice polite way because look as you're doing this to still a kind way to deal with your Especially your mom and mom mostly. Yeah, and I said, you know, I'm trying to like not make it about her directly. But I'm trying to put more money into experiences. So what could we do that would be an experience? Maybe instead of buying everybody gifts, mom, maybe. Because show us, oh, I don't want to spend money on a housekeeper the day after Thanksgiving. But what if a Christmas? What if that meant mom that instead of you towards the end of Christmas? You know what happens when it hits late at night. We're all hanging out and having a good time. Christmas Eve and Christmas Day when I go back home. But you think the next day you got to clean up. What about instead of buying things that nobody needs. You have a housekeeper come the next day. So when it hits 11 o'clock at night and you're thinking, oh, we got to get up the next. That's to me that's putting that's a good that's virtual. That's giving a person money who needs it. And that has a business, a cleaning business. And that is also better than her buying shit for everybody that nobody needs. You know, so I try to tell her that way. And then I think she's realizing it because she was talking a bit about Christmas. And she goes, I know. You know what I mean? I mean more Nick Nax. I go, I love it. I still love Christmas. I go, mom, do you know that? I go, I want to be really clear with that. When I say stop at the presence and everything. Not Christmas. I go, I love Christmas. And I love being with my family or Christmas. We have our stuff sometimes, but overwhelmingly, like we have a good time. So I'm not negative about Christmas or anything. It's just the crap and all the stuff that comes along. Yeah, I love the enthusiasm you have for minimalism. Has it like, when did you watch the film? And how long is it carried through? You know, I forgot how long ago I watched it. It was probably seven months ago, eight months ago. And it really did start me on a path of, you know. Oh, when you mention TV, it's crazy once you do it. How much other stuff it connects to. I mean, I got rid of a guest house I had in this period, up in Lake Arrowhead. I told myself, you know what? It pays for itself. And when I want to go up there, I just block it out for me. But when people ran it, it doesn't. Now look, I'm not saying this is for everybody. I'm just saying me. Once I got rid of it, oh, I was just holding on to it as a thing. It didn't mean anything. Any of the items that meant something to me in the guest house are in my home now. A dining room barn table. I brought it down and all those memories. But I was just thinking, it kissed good by the memories of that house up in Lake Arrowhead. But it didn't. It was just a house. And once it's gone, I was so happy. But I got rid of cable too. And what I did notice, that's why when people never shit on like, oh, today, nobody does anything. You know, sometimes, you know, but what happened in the old day when people were just, you know, hanging out together and talking. Look, sometimes technology can lead to good old fashioned talk to your neighbor type of things. So, well, some people might shit all over, you know, oh, with the internet and the, and now there's so much stuff. It's how you use it. Because I noticed something that's more positive now than TV. In 2018, we're basically going online when I friends over and we're watching YouTube clips. Somebody has a week, we go around in circles. It could be a music video, and then it could be pretty much its music videos a lot. But it could be, oh, this is an interesting thing about fish. That they, what they do underwater, this certain type of fish, no one knew existed. We watch it. It's three to four minutes each year. And then we talk about it. And I'm like, that's, that's great. That's what you want. They were watching stuff on television, and we're talking about it. And we're utilizing modern technology to be able to do that. So, but to getting rid of cable for me, that was just a bill. That was just a bill that I loved. I don't, I don't need cable. Now, I don't even have the internet, which I know I need to get it back. But I wanted to just try. How long have you been doing that for? About five months. And it's getting to be a little bit of a pain. We have a neighbor to over that I'll use theirs. Yeah. It's funny that even do that with apps, or like maybe a delete apps or a hide it on my phone. But like eventually I'll find them. I'll figure out like a workaround. And I'm like, what am I doing? I'm like going through five different things just to get onto the internet. And like it's, we tend to fall back into these patterns pretty quickly. Yeah. But I will get back, proving that I don't have an obsession that will work in my not in double-negative and my not-favorite for the cable. Yes, I'm happy without it. There are a few times I want it, who cares? But the internet, yeah, I already said one of the kids that helps out on the podcast. Because that's what they're great for. Not only their comedic ability, but that work on there. But like, hey, would you just get me cable again? I need cable, you know? It's all about two days ago. I go, we need cable for the podcast studio at least. Yeah. But I just wanted to get rid of, you know, bills and stuff. And you know what else? You know, like Thanksgiving's coming around. You see a Thanksgiving tablecloth. No. You don't need it. The theme stuff. That's the worst. Yeah, you don't need it. They're like, I'll get a pumpkin. Because at Pumpkins, like, yeah, a couple of pumpkins. They're going to eventually- I, the same with me. I'll put a tablecloth on the table. I have. And then I'll put some pumpkins on the table. I'm having people over for that time year Thanksgiving. So I'm not void of being creative. But I don't need- That's the shit. Oh, I used to go from the gym to the car wash and pass by a Ross. Yeah. During the holiday season, I know. It's like, no. Now you don't need it. That's a lot of stuff for me. Yeah. That is great. The seasonal stuff is like a whole nother level. Because there's like, I mean, we used to have the Halloween stickers that you would put on the windows. You have it for every holiday that you wouldn't. You would get it. And it would just, it just adds up. That's just like, I should shit in the, that you're storing in the attic. Even the way I did my, in front of my front door. I used to get, hey, and I'd get this, and I'd get that. And also, you do. You spend more time doing what you really want. And that's the, for me, it is the people coming over and feeling great around your house during the holidays. It feels great. It does. How can you still do that without buying shit? A certain color bulb can do a lot for me, romance of a room. You know, but outside, I have two pumpkins and a mom and some of those corn. You know, what's the, the dried corn? Yeah. Not, I used to have the big pumpkin and four bells. Hey, and I'd bring it home of my car. And if we're what? But again, I always end up by going, if you enjoy it. If you're sitting listening to this and you're going, we do the four. We do the four bells. Hey, we do like six or seven pumpkins and probably about 10 or 12 moms. And we enjoy it. Okay. I would ask yourself. Honestly, you enjoy it. Yeah. And if the answer's yes to getting it, to breaking it down, how much chaos does it cause in the house? You know, oh, we got to get rid of that. Honestly, not how it looks when it's done. I get it. When it's done, you just take a step back. But if you say, no, overwhelmingly, it's a lot of joy for me to do that. And I would say, I would recommend keep doing it. But if you're able to go, all right, honestly, getting rid of its socks and going to pick it up, sex and vacuuming the car, socks, and when the pumpkin's raw, and I got to bring the trash cans over and remember to, for me, it was like, no, I can make it look Halloweeny. If that's a word, or Thanksgivingy, without buying a lot less stuff. You have a couple of mindfulness practices. One specifically is the hot towel treatment. You want to talk about that. It seems like something that you're very passionate about. It's something that's, how long have you been doing it for? Been doing it for about five years. Oh, really? But I just started adding some, so to your listeners all explain, I think you already know. And it's not just doing it. I have very specific, that I think make it better. But I would imagine anybody doing any version of it is pretty good. But for me, like, if some, and I'm not, I respect people to do yoga. I really do. What I'm saying for a lot of people having even a touch of that spirituality, to like, cleanse their, or, or, or, or what does it call when you close your hands and just sort of, uh, meditation. Yeah. You know, look, this is not that, but it will give you a taste, the laziest way to get a taste of what it does. And then if you get the taste and you want to go crazy after that, you know, crazy in a good way. So other types of meditation, oh, do it. But if this is all you do, that's my point. And so before I used to do it just before dinners, and I started as a joke, I would take the, the teapot, and I would pour it over five or six hot, washcloths. And I would go, oh, just like it, a fancy restaurant, that would be the joke, you know? And then a lot of the kids that work, I say kids, because some of them are 19 or 20, and I would do the hot washcloth thing. And they would love it. They'd be like, oh, can we do that again? Mostly before dinner. Sometimes why not cherish having friends over? So what we'll do is we'll, I have a hot teapot, that's how I do it. I take the washcloths, I put them on the kitchen counter. And I always tell everybody, when I bring this to you, you have to be very specific. It's going to be too hot. Now I always say that, but for some reason, when people go to touch it, they go, oh, this is really hot. So I'm telling you now, you're going to be able to, and the reason is, I explain to them if it's new people, my friends that already did it, they don't need to hear any of this. I go, because it has a very short life of being hot. If you take hot water from the spit kit, as hot as you can get it and put a washcloth under and manage to ring it out a little bit and bring it literally 20 seconds later, it's not hot enough to get that experience. So I say, oh, I ask, it's from the time I start dropping them in front of you, because everyone will be like sitting standing around the kitchen or at the dining room table, getting ready to eat, from the minute I start dropping them, no talking. Just respect that, no talking, and turn the music off. Sometimes they'll be music in the distance, very soft jazz, and I'm just lazy in this I'll think, oh, that could be nice as we're doing this. Nope, turn it off. I'll start handing out the washcloth, everyone shh, once I start handing them out, don't go, oh, this is hot, everything's happened, everything I'm saying, not to do, it's because someone will do it, someone's girlfriend, someone's boyfriend that's never been there before, or they'll go, this feels good, not shh, and I'm not trying to be a Nazi with spirituality, but it's very important that we're quiet, the radio is off, and over the years we've added a few things that they've all added, you know, some of the people that work in the podcast, one is go to the bathroom, I know it sounds stupid, if you have to pee, go to go pee, because a lot of times you have that happen where you think you don't have to, and then not only do you have to, but you're like, oh, really, and then we take our glasses and cellphones, you don't have to do this, but we like it, because I notice people that have glasses that take them off, now they have a, I say, go clean them with alcohol, I have like a spray bottle, we'll just take the same towel, pass it around, clean our cellphones, I'll put them over, and then we put the hot towel on our face, I say, if you're done before everybody else and you take the hot towel, if you're face, look around the room, see where everybody else is at. We'll end this, sometimes everyone has their washcloth off, but there's one person with still leaning back on their face, let that person be there, and when everyone's done, I'll break the silence, and everybody puts it on their face, you don't have to say take a deep breath, you will, the heat forces you to take a deep breath in, you will just do it, no one has to tell you, and let it out, and then the last thing I say is, and now here comes the other part, that was the spiritual part of cleansing, spiritually, literally wipe the fill off your hands, everyone takes it because it's still hot, take it off down your both arms, both hands, and then I walk around, collecting them, and I throw them into the basket, and what I always tell myself after I do that is it's it's weird that I do it, and then I'm sort of aggressive with myself, well, I go, oh what, were you just going to sit down and plow food into your mouth, because that's so cliche, oh don't take food for granted, we all take it for granted, including me, is that what you're going to do? Oh here's the day I'm doing this, now we come home, and then we cook food, everyone sit down, we just start plowing food in their mouth, no no, you weren't going to do that, were you, and I'm able to go, I thought about it, but no, I'm going to stop, stop, stop, stop, stop, and we're going to do this hot towel thing, and when it's done, we're going to cherish each other, this is a big deal, tang out with your friends and have dinner, we're just hanging out without dinner, and we're not just going to start plowing food into our mouth, when it happens to be when we do it before dinner, and we're going to stop, and we're going to, this is something we take for granted, but we're not going to, and every time when we eat, it's like wow, now we like doing it, just for nothing, we're just hanging out at the house, we're like in the middle of nothing, we can be six people hanging out, we're like hey you want to do hot washcloss, it's always amazing, it's always amazing. So for a lot of people, especially when they get into meditation, they need to have somebody guide them through because their thoughts are so chaotic, but to have, so sometimes, you know, a teacher might even have you focus on your breath, but then to have something like a washcloth, which kind of, and the heat and the entire experience of it, I think, does, I've only done it a couple times, but it's certainly, you can almost feel it when you're talking about it, that this is something that would be like, an amazing experience. And if you're trying to get anybody into a yoga, and I have, I have not taken the process to that, but if you were trying to get anyone to do meditation or yoga, this would be the first experience to go, I'm going to tell you, give you a smidge of what it feels like to clear your head a little, the easiest way, because to me, that would be the easiest way. And if that's intriguing to know if they go, wow, that felt good, hey, that might feel good, and that's all they ever do, but if there's any way to talk someone into doing meditation or yoga, the hot washcloth would be the first thing you'd want to tell them to do. And because if they really go, wow, I did was shut up for a minute, wow, that felt really good. And then maybe if they, then that would be the path that I'm taking it to another level if they wanted to. Have any of these mindfulness practices, whether it be like that hot, hot type treatment or minimalism spilled into the work that you do in terms of, I imagine there's an element native to stand-up comedy or any kind of creative form that is about curation. That's about, hey, let's just throw a bunch of shit at the wall, see what sticks, and then it's going to be the process of eliminating the shit, finding the good stuff and seeing where it goes. I've always been a process, has the, have these mindfulness practices helped at all? In my stand-up, probably indirectly it's had to, but nothing, nothing to direct in my stand-up. I mean, except that I'm the same way backstage at comedy clubs, I create a atmosphere, but I've always, I've always done that. I always, uh, transform my hotel rooms to a, to a tranquil state, but that's about, but I always did that. You know, always, uh, I have ways of making my hotel room just seem like, just very, and it's very easy. And it really involves, I always bring, I, I use stick candles for what it's worth. Now, I'm not, I used to be, like, I would light, find a party, light, like, 50 candles all over the place. And there's no doubt that looks, can look amazing, but maybe it had to do with a little bit of the minimalization, not only use stick candles, you know what stick candles are tapered candles, to longer candles. The reason I like those is because the wax melts away from the wick, that way, that's why the flame is always so much bigger, because it's always a really big flame on a stick candle. Now, like, at my house, I'll have three, three or four. That's it. And when you walk into someone's house and it's dark, and there's one on the dining room table, there's the fire pit of the dining room table, there's one in the kitchen, and there's any, any sitting area, and then the dining, and then in the living room, I have one on the coffee table, people congregate around it, they'll congregate around a stick candle, more than just a regular candle, and I do that on the hotel, I bring a few stick candles, and I will create a living room area in a hotel, but the few chairs that are there, even if it means I steal a few from the lobby and create a circle, put a candle in it, that, and I bring gels, and you know what gels are, they're like, gels are like, they come in a sheet, they're about like two feet by two feet, you make a color gel, color gel, and they put them, and I have little cups that I'll like, they can scotch tape, and I throw them over the bulb. Now I'm using blue, so I have like, just the gels can be cracked and shoved in your bag, and they still go over the light bulb, and they'll make the room like a cool color. So I'll put a few gels around my room, it doesn't take a lot, some people go, oh my good, you travel with gels, I go, it takes me no time, you know, just gel a few lights, and then light a candle, put on some really cool music, have a real dark and swanky, people come back to smoke pot, and the room, and it feels really good, and I just started adding this, and it's crazy, the Christmas lights. I started with white, but it was too bright, so now I bring blue for some reason, blue, literally just bunch them around the base of a lamp, and the first it looks like up, but when it's dark, and they're just there, so I'll have like just maybe two, six foot strands of Christmas lights, the blue strand, you know, blue over there, blue over there, dark in the room. I love that, because if you're traveling a lot, that can be a drain, and to have, you know, a little, almost sanctuary, some peacefulness, when you go back to the hotel room, it doesn't feel sterile. No, and if you're in a nice hotel, it makes it nicer, if you're in a, you know, maybe it's like, you know, I don't even mean, at this point of my career, I'm not staying in super aids, but you could be at the Marriott Courtyard, and they're not the most soul-filled rooms in the world, the Marriott Courtyard, you have a little kitchen, it's nice, but then you walk in, it doesn't just make it a little better, that's my favorite thing to say, it's not a little better, people, other comedians that are staying three doors now come into my room, and they're like, this crazy, and whenever anybody goes, hey, do you have any of those gels? I go, oh, I love it, I'm like, yes, most people don't ask for it, here you go, I'll give someone a row of Christmas lights, I'll be like, if that's, my friend said, that's been in my back for the last year, I use it every room I go into. So in that sense, your question was, did it spill into my comedy, you know, maybe just the atmosphere is backstage or the hotel? I don't think in my literal act, except I do talk about, you know what, maybe it has, I started talking about, like, I know this sounds crazy, but like, you know, whatever it is, if grilled cheese sandwiches aren't your thing, maybe it's peanut butter and jelly, so if you're listening to this right now in your thing, and I actually don't like grilled cheese, is it doesn't matter, there's something you like that will be appropriate, so like grilled cheese sandwiches are a nickel, and they are as good as lobster, I talk about this in my act now, good, there's good as lobster, let's not make pretend, well, they're close, no, no, if a grilled cheese sandwich was the same price as lobster, and from a little kid, you always knew, like, can I get a grill, no, you can't get grilled cheese sandwiches, they're too expensive, you would have the reverence form that people have for lobster, expensive food, does that make sense? So when I tell the audience, I'll be like, I know everyone's sitting here, and yeah, yeah, we got it, grilled cheese sandwiches are great, but you don't treat them great, you don't eat, you know what needs lobster while they're watching TV, you know what I mean, like, just putting it in their mouth, or just, oh, I am, they're put because it's lobster, so when you're, but, and I always say it's our casket at the audience, I go, oh, please tell me, you're not deciding what's worth celebrating by the market cost, are you, because I started to, and that's a shit life, well, why would we set the table nice for grilled cheese sandwiches? They're affordable, does that sound like who you want to be, will decide how much it cost before we sell it? And I, that's what, so I tell people, like, if you're going to eat grilled cheese sandwiches, set the table, do what you would do for lobster, turn the lights down light a candle, whatever you, it's like, they're just as good, not just like some bullshit phrase, like grilled cheese sandwiches, they're crunchy, they're cheesy, they're food, they're candy, they're everything. Well, I did it this week with peanut butter and jelly. I love peanut butter and jelly, and I realize everybody loves it, but it's, it's better than you think it is. So this week, we had people over and I had like, I bought this stuff, it's fluffy peanut butter, and if you've never had it, you'll be addicted to it, bought a few types of bread. Fluffy peanut butter. Yeah. It's fluffy peanut butter, it's, where do you get it? They used to have it at vans, now I can only get it at target, but it's whipped peanut butter. Not creamy, creamy, you can get it anywhere, it's whipped, so it's easier to spread, it's a little bit. Is it a spread? And even though part of the charm of a peanut butter and jelly, it's just some of the peanut butter getting caught in the roof of your mouth, I get it, who gives a shit, it's better. Then we made peanut butter and jelly sandwich with toast, we made peanut butter and jelly sandwich with waffles, we, some people toasted their peanut butter and jelly sandwich, some people didn't, but we made one or two each, and we all sat down at the table. And I go like, treat it like it's $500, and someone goes, oh, you never had a peanut butter and jelly sandwich, well they're $500, but oh my god, the cold jelly in the creamy fluffy peanut butter and the crunch of the bread, oh, once you eat one, you'll wish you could afford to have one every day, eat it like that, make pretend that it's, and then you will not be disappointed, you'll take one bite into it, you'll be like, wow, and then try to eat them with that, even though they're a nickel, they're a nickel, it's really about appreciating what you have, right? Which sounds cliche, but yeah, like why are we not treating these? And I'm not saying every time you have to eat a grilled cheese sandwich or a peanut butter and jelly, it could be like that, but why not sometimes? You don't have to celebrate it because it's absurdly expensive. I feel like we're often like overstimulated, like every, even I find myself, certainly falling into this where it's like, uh, while I'm going to eat lunch, I better queue something up on Netflix, so I can watch something while I eat, and it's like you have to always be doing two or three things at once. I'm catching myself with that. Yeah. I try to be in the better end of it. I don't ever shit on technology because technology can lead us to good spirituality, you know, technology does not have to be all, but like, you know, but so when I say, I hope this is sort of talking about your talking about when, you know, some people go, let's have a no cell phone night. For me, that doesn't involve no cell phones at the table. Now, I want them in their pockets. I don't want them on the table because they look ugly, everyone's cell phones all over the table. And I ask, look, we're on the honor system, and I always say this half, I'm kidding in the way that I say it, but all my friends know me, I go, we're on the honor system. I just don't want me to, me to, looking at tweets, tweets, emails, Instagram, tweets, email, Instagram. I'm asking people not to do that, but to me, the most spiritual night does not mean putting yourself on a way because sometimes having the recorder on there to be able to have an idea and just say it into your phone clears your head. And so for me to have no one to be able to have their cell phone, just for me, some people maybe it is. Leave your cell phone in the car, everyone leave them over in the kitchen, that's what you want, that's great. But for me, I didn't want that because I know for a lot of times that recorder helps people be more in the moment, be able to turn to their, hey, don't forget tomorrow to do this, or here's a funny idea. Maybe it involves showing people pictures on your cell phone. Well, that, do I have problem with people passing around photo albums? That's what it's phone is today, as long as it's using the phone to make it a better evening, you know, not just looking at our Instagrams, not just, you know, pulling back. So that's what no cell phone night means to me. It means don't use your phone to just get away, but if it means using it, and there may be taking a picture of everyone or that, that's what I mean. But you're not just scrolling. If I see someone over in the corner and I'll be like, hey, they'll do it to me sometimes. And I don't mind. They'll do it to me. They always think I'm going to be offended because I'm the one implementing these rules. But I've had people go, Todd, I go, thank you. Thank you. Meaning, I'm not above it. I'm not above it. Using my phone to interact, I'm using it to just pull back. Yeah, this is definitely a new thing. It's something that we're all learning how to bring into our lives and not let it overrun. Right. It's very easy to criticize people, but everybody's looking down at their phones. But it's like, I mean, we're all prey to it. We all, I mean, at least most of us who are connected who have smartphones, which is, I would say probably 90% of people living in America, if probably more, we have to rethink the way that we're using it, especially when we're with other people. But also when we were by ourselves, especially if we want to be productive and if we're ambitious, if we have things that we want to achieve in life and we have certain goals that we want to accomplish, you can't just be consuming all this time. And the only thing bad about, you know, let's call it social media technology, you're in control of, including me. So I don't think it just has to be bad. That's why when people go, oh, with the month, hey, I've talked about YouTube before. We are sitting around watching music from the 70s, from the 60s, from the 40s, and then commenting on it because of modern technology, it can be a beautiful thing. And the thing, you know, and the clutter that you can get rid of because of, you know, way we can store things now. So I don't, I think that, and the phone, like, look, the phone can give you your freedom. The, anything bad about the phone, and I get it, there is the bad side of maybe a phone sometimes. Or, well, mainly, the bad part can be controlled by you, like getting off your phone when you go through a checkout stand, talk to the person. Of course, that's a bad habit that you have with the phone that you want to get rid of. But I think that technology can help us. I mean, I, I talked to my brother and my mom more now with the, with the phone. And the last, whatever, since I've had my iPhone, whatever, 15 years or whatever, 20 years, then I used to. The being traffic, and being able to have an hour conversation with my brother or my mom, that's valuable time to be able to go from the airport and get a car home to my house. But then I've cleared up 15 things literally, seven through a text. Oh, that's great idea. Let's do up Monday. Boom, done. Clear as opposed to going into my house, especially when I was in a relationship and having to go to listen to my messages or deal with things. So the phone can, if you use it properly, it can enhance life amazingly with just a little bit of discipline where it's negative, but I do not want to be one of those people. All the problem today is, oh, stop, no, no, you're in control of the bad part of that. You're the only, you're a matter of fact, I like to, you're the only bad part of that. You're the only bad part of that. You're the bad part of that. The part that takes a little self-control that you won't implement and you want to blame it on the technology. I mean, I'm making absurd analogy. That's like going the problem with light bulbs, are you can do heroin on them? I just learned that someone had missing light bulbs when they're roommate in college and they found out that they use light bulbs to do her, well, that's not the light bulbs. Well, that's, you know, a shitty analogy, but you get what I mean. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, it's, it is very easy to cast the blame. But I think, yeah, I think far too little people are willing to just take responsibility and say, you know what, maybe I do have a problem with looking at my phone, what can I do to fix it? Right. And then utilize it for all the great things it can exactly, totally. You know, my, my picture, I, I print out every year a photo album and now that I know that I'm going to do it, you know that one of the things in that photo album would just be obviously literal pictures that I've taken throughout that one year, but, and then some of it would be pictures of items that we talked about that I would get rid of. And some of them now I know their tweets, the tweet that inspires me or makes me laugh for a text from a friend that, wow, I'm going to really appreciate seeing that two years later. And we're, we're, we'll send you a funny text. And you see how much it means to even two years later, pick up one of my photo albums from two years ago. And then, wow, and then once you see that, oh, like that really, then you do more of it. Now I'm constantly taking screenshots of texts and tweets. So every year I print out this book, that's because of modern technology, a book that the pictures won't fall out of and you put them in the sleigh slide a minute, it's on the page, the photo and there's pictures and there's items that I had wanted to get rid of that remind me of the item more like I say now tweets or text or in this book that's all because of modern technology and that book is on my coffee table and people look at it. That's, that's technology, you know, just putting out a good old fashion photo album. You did mention something that reminded me about a recent album that you and Blake Wex are created 12 years of voicemails from Todd Glass to Blake Wex there. One of my favorite things, but also a, I think, an example of when to hold on to things and when holding on to things actually can be meaningful. Yeah, well, that, that, that, that, the fact that Blake had saved all those was because that a lot of people told me, oh, I'm saving your voicemails on, but then they go, you know, yo, yo, yo, yo, I thought I had them, but I didn't, but he came over my house, he had mentioned that he was saving them. And I think I wanted to still be true in the CD that there was a period when I knew that he was saving them. But I mentioned that, I go, I know you're saving these now. Thanks for ruining my best part of my day was leaving your messages. Now I'm worried that you're going to save them and then I might be bombing. Thanks for ruining that, but it didn't because I wanted it to be in the present. And then he came over my house one day and he had them and right listening to those. Some of them were mostly just silly, but sometimes there were some poignant things. I remember when he broke up with his girlfriend, I had some words of wisdom for him because I knew it really crushed them and also just some other, you know, what were some other things that were on there? Oh, I have the day after Trump won. Some of them are very short, some of them are very short, literally I go, oh my God, Blake. I go, this is worse than 9-11. And put a beep in there, even though there's no beep in one. That's a bigger day, you can see. Because it's the point of home. It's the point of home. Yeah. But those things, him saving those, that was, you know, that was like, you're right, that was something worth holding onto and now it's on a CD available and iTunes. Yeah, it's really, it's clever, but I also, I do like the idea of holding onto those messages, whether it's from like family or friends, like I always thought it would be great to record podcasts with my family, not to release. But just to have that conversation recorded, audio video, whatever, probably audio would be better because like, I don't know if my parents would be that would be good with all the camera stuff, but it's nice to be able to have those, they're really memories that you're holding onto. Right. You know, you're saying that is going to make me follow through with this. I thought, you know, when my dad died, I was 24, I had one voice mail message from him. I did have, they had voice, I didn't have an answering machine at that time. There was already voice mail, which was like a big deal, they didn't have to. And I had one from him and, you know, you're 24, I didn't realize how much I would want it when I was older and somehow it got misplaced. But I have a message from my mom, I did save, it's in my phone and it's on my hard drive at home. But I thought about, if I don't have my mom or my podcast, I'm going to regret that for the rest of my life. And so I haven't told her that for that reason, but I said, I'm trying to get her and her husband, Steve, to come out and visit me and then will they're out there, I definitely want her to come into the studio. Some of it is, I'm afraid the story is she's going to have, like everyone on my podcast will love it because there's stuff they don't know about me. And I'm willing to, for go, whatever it might be, it's nothing horrendous, but it's embarrassing probably. You know, what did I do when I was a little, how little was I when my mom knew, oh, I know who, I'm starting to form who I am, like, what was I like? So I'm definitely want to have my mom, oh, my podcast and talk to her, that would be up to two hours. That would be that forever. Yeah, you can look back at it because I mean a lot of times, it's nice to be able to go back and listen to a voicemail that's short and quicky, but to be able to look back at something that's long form, that's video footage or whatever. I think it definitely, it feels you with good feelings. Yeah, it does. And I did it with my brother in his wife when I was home at their house in Newtown Square about less Thanksgiving. I turned on just my phone and we didn't have a, I didn't have a podcast, but I go, hey, there's no podcast today, but I'm going to, I'm here with my brother in his wife and you want to talk to them for a little while and we just made like a 40 minute thing into my phone and I did end it up, you know, releasing it as a podcast that we, is a, what I call a no show show and even that, it's like really interesting and fun to talk to them. Well, Todd, thank you so much for doing this podcast. I'm a big fan of stand up, everything that you do, the podcast is hilarious. I really appreciate you being on the show. Do you have any final words and where should we send people? Well, final words again, thank you because, you know, like when Blake told me, you're from Phil, where are you from and Philly? I'm from Jersey. I went to Temple for a couple of years and I'm friends with a lot of the comedians from Philly. Right. You know, over the years, I'm, because I was telling him, I mean, I was going off. I really like the documentary and it made my life better, you know, and I know I said that up front, but I'll repeat it. Like it really, you know, I mean, it just really made my life better, a lot better in my cleaner head. So I really appreciate that and it's fun to sit down. I could talk to you for another three hours. Yeah, really good. I wish I had nowhere to be. So thank you for that. I definitely appreciate that. I mean, that's a huge deal. What it, what it, I mean, you're, you have influenced my way of life just tremendously. It's amazing. It is amazing. You know, all from a documentary that I thought, you know, I wasn't even sure about one of the watch, you know, and my friend goes, you want to monitor, yeah, you'll easily, but with a few monsters to help you declutter, because other than that, it wouldn't help me that much. I was so weird though that I asked that literally, I go, does it have any monsters or something? Right. So thank you for that. And then last words, you know, I got my Netflix special, which is on iTunes, which is on Netflix, obviously right now, just dropped a few months ago. And my podcast, the tag last show, and, you know, everything else is good. Awesome, man. Thanks for doing this. Thank you. Matt, Matt, Matt, so I am literally half an hour away from your house. And I realized something. You asked me, did any of the minimal of the minimalizing crossover into my career? The essence of what you asked. And I realized, of course, I gave you a shitty answer, because it absolutely has. Since I did my Netflix special, and I started utilizing the band, I really wanted to just do that on the road, travel with a band, and travel with a tech person, and make it some, you know, crazy stand-up show that would be different than anything I've ever done before. Once I started minimalizing and getting rid of crap, I didn't need it really made me able to focus on doing that show and bringing that show on the road. So it directly has affected me in a really, really positive way, I don't know, maybe I didn't really need to call you. And I'm going to sell my leg, I realized I don't need them anymore. All right, that's your f***.
