# Ground Up 018 - The Future w/ Jordan Lejuwaan
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0KV5DHJhlDk
Jordan Leejiuan is the CTO & Co-Founder of Futurism, a media site dedicated to the latest news and videos on the science and technology that are shaping the future of humanity. We talk about building an audience, future technology, universal basic income & psychedelic drugs.

Jordan's Twitter: https://twitter.com/jlejuwaan
Jordan's Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/jetlej/

http://www.mattdavella.com
**Keywords:** 
**Date:** 2017-07-22

## Transcript
 As much as I try to stay present, my mind inevitably finds itself fixated on the future. I ask myself lots of questions about the future. What am I going to have for lunch? What city should I settle down in? Where do I want to be five years from now? What will my currently non-existent children's future look like? I'm constantly making predictions and spinning up alternate realities. Maybe the one where I got that job at college humor or one which I chose to stay in that shitty relationship. There is a certain amount of it that's useless thoughts puttering around in my mind, but then there's the side that's productive. There's a place for the future that's filled with excitement, creativity, and wonder. A place where politics don't pull us apart. A world that's much brighter than the one we live in today. That is if the robots and zombies don't destroy us first. This is episode 18 of The Ground Up Show. As it starts. I guess today I totally screwed it up up. I told you this is new. This is a new set up. I totally mess it up. It's not just redo everything. I guess today is Jordan La Sever은. That's the boy. He's a kid. He's the co-founder and CTO of Futurism, a media company that reaches over 5.5 million people in Facebook. They cover the breakthrough technologies and scientific discoveries that will shape humanity's future. Their mission is to empower their readers and to drive the development of those technologies towards maximizing human potential. I took that right from you guys website. It's a lofty goal. So I want to talk with Jordan about how he got started. His path to get here and how maybe all of us can maximize. Our human potential. Welcome to the show. Thanks. That's quite the intro. I'm trying to play with this thing as I was saying to you. The live recording. It's just very tough to do everything yourself. I'll tell you what my mom thinks later. Yeah. Is she going to listen to this? Okay. She's like you're going to be on a podcast. That's amazing. Two of my biggest fan. I got a big shout out to two of my biggest fans. Lynn and Bill Pitting. My girlfriend's parents. I live in Sydney, Australia. And I was just, we were talking to them on the car right down to my brothers this weekend. And they were saying how they listened to every episode. Which is amazing. And then I'm back chucking in my mind. If I said anything offensive or wrong. I'm like, now I got to be careful about what I say on the show. Cool man. So thanks for being here. Tell me a little bit about what you do right now. And I'm curious why futurism, why this project, why right now. So right now my sole project is futurism. And I'm working on it for two years. It's why I moved to New York. And I'm CTO. So I do a technical thing there. But as anyone at futurism will tell you, we do a lot of stuff. It's almost like four companies in one at this point. But how I got here was. Like to make a long story short. I dropped it to college in 2009. And ever since I've been starting companies and trying things out. And trying to figure out the one thing that I could work. I focused all of my efforts on to make the biggest possible impact on mankind. And first, I thought that was really about like personal development, Meditation and psychedelics and consciousness and just making yourself the best person possible. And helping others do the same. So I started a website called High Existence that was all about that stuff. All about my experiences meditating for the first time on a bathroom stall in the dorms at USC. And I worked on that for a few years. And then the mission kind of changed. And I was like, okay, this is really important. And I've really, I made an impact on this space. But what's next? Like, how can I even further refine when I'm working on. And then started a sustainable community up in Montreal. And thought that sustainability and communal living was like it. And like everything. And this is how we're going to save the planet. And I'm still really amped up on sustainability and communal living. But while I was there, I became fascinated with just technology overall. And the reason being that technology is one of those things that can kind of force change, can force positive change. I mean, media and people meditating and everything is fantastic. But at the end of the day, if someone has a view that disagreees with climate change, like things that are actually happening, something that can kind of force the hand is technology. Like a prime example of this is making solar energy cheaper than burning gas or coal. Something like that where it makes a choice that should be obvious, but for some reason not obvious in our world, the cheaper, more efficient, simpler option. So I want to go kind of back a little bit here a little bit more about your background. And so how early do you think we should start? Like when does your story start? Is it in college? In the bathroom? Or is it like in diapers? Like at what point do you think, did you always want to, were you always entrepreneurial? Is that always something that you had a drive to do? No. Prior to college, I was like super academic, thought college was like it. And had, you know, zero period, four years in high school, and got all straight days and studied for the SAT and all that. And then started doing things differently in college. So yeah, two thousand nine's about when it got interesting. When you started doing drugs? Yeah. That's pretty much it. Is that it? What was it? We either was the psychedelics that kind of switched your thinking. Yeah, definitely. They played a huge part. I started smoking weed when I was in junior year of high school, really loved it. And that just kind of got me started thinking differently. And then it got even more intense when I started experimenting with doing mushrooms in particular and also some LSD and like random things DMT, ketamine in college. Yeah, especially magic mushrooms, which are probably my, the most influential teacher that I've had to this day. So what were some of those first experiences that you had with it? I've certainly heard a lot about people like Sam Harris talking about psychedelics and how they can trigger change, Steve Jobs using psychedelics and mushrooms. I guess what was that first trip like? Were you like just terrified? Going into it or were it like excited? No, not at all. Well, actually my first mushroom trip wasn't that interesting. I kind of thought it was just going to be like weed, but like ten times crazier. And then that's that wasn't at all. You know, it's like a totally different realm of experience. But the way I would describe the psychedelic experience, I mean, especially as it pertains to LSD and mushrooms, is that you go through life and you see a bunch of things and you learn and you get older. And you start to develop these filters in the world. Things that are no longer, you develop kind of like a rule set. Like a mindset and you kind of, this way that you view the world. And this is really helpful because if you are amazed by every single butterfly that flew by, you wouldn't get very much done. So we've built up these filters, but it's really great to have kind of a reset everyone's in a while. And that's exactly what mushrooms does, is that it gives you a six to eight hour period where all those filters are totally gone and you're looking at the world a new, like from the perspective of a child. And that allows you to really re-evaluate all these beliefs that you've built up over the last 18, 20, whatever, how many years. And re-evaluate how you want to see the world and what's important to you. So that's like probably the peak of what mushrooms could do, right? Like I've done mushrooms once before. I did it like two years ago. And it was, I do think it's one of those things, and I'm not telling everybody to go right now and do it, but you have to experience it to really understand. No, not everybody. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. My little brother's sister's like stay away from that for now, at least. Like obviously you need to do it when you're ready when it's appropriate for you, when you're actually stable, because if you're unstable, it's probably not a good time. 100% get into any of these. Yes. Psychedelic drugs. So how often do you do these kinds of psychedelics, do you still do them quite a bit? Just kind of give me an idea of it. And maybe even start from your original use. Okay, first. I'd say now I do them less so than I ever had before, and feel like feeling like less of a need. And I kind of, it's like an heaven flow. Now it's probably maybe every three months or so. Yeah. Whereas back in college, it was like maybe once a month, like maybe more who knows. It's certainly not a drug that you feel like you have. Like you don't like obviously get it out. I don't think you get addicted to you. Not at all. I mean, I'm sure that there are some people out there, but it's such an intense experience. It's not, it takes a lot out of you. It's like it's, yeah, it's a lot. So I've, yeah, I've never done it and like felt the desire or the need to do it. Anytime soon after. And you might even say like, well, I'm not going to do that for a while. It's like one of those things. Right. Yeah. And so you're talking about these kind of experiences that change your thought process and how you look at the world. I don't know if I had that. And you would know. Yeah. Yeah. That's actually a really good point. Like in, like I wouldn't know if I had that. Um, I would say that like the experience in the moment was amazing. And it's certainly, um, I think, uh, got me to think differently. At least in the short term, but it certainly wasn't like a, uh, something that sustained itself. And I would say that I probably, it probably matters when you do something like this. Like it wasn't at a point where I was in college. And I was starting to change my views and outlook on the world. I had done a lot of that before like in college already. This was like a couple of years outside of college that I did it. Um, So what would some of the major shifts do you remember, like specifically, what were the things that you changed your mind on and realized at that point? Remember, one comes to mind. Um, it was actually one of my first bad trips where, let's see, I was in San Francisco. I decided to take a, uh, last minute trip up to San Fran after deciding to drop out with a few college friends. And we took, a solid amount of mushrooms, and we were up on this, like a mountain somewhere in the middle, and not like a mountain, like a hill in the middle of SF. Like rent in the middle of the city, but it was like this gorgeous green thing. And the sun was coming down. And it was golden and beautiful. And it were all just like on cloud nine. oh my gosh, this is going to be such an amazing day. And then like 10 minutes go by. And all of a sudden, it's really dark and really cold and really windy. And we're in like, you know, California costume from SoCal. So we're like, oh shoot, it's cold. So we all went going to like a Salvation Army and taking up some clothes to get warm. And then like after we kind of realized that we look like homeless, because we were on streams. We were not able to pick like good, matching like normal people clothing. They would pick weird things. Yeah. So we're like kind of feeling homeless. Like we don't know where we're going. This is before I had an iPhone. So like I don't, we don't know where we're going at all. And then like, I think an hour and a half in we're like really not on a good place. And ended up at this like this church comically enough. There's like church where we're kind of taking shelter. A little bit because we knew no one would be there. And it was so comical to have like on this, this like mental breakdown at a church. But I just remember like, not being in control of my mind and thinking like really negative dark thoughts. And thinking that wow, this is like such a different headspace. I've never been in something like this before. And thinking like, maybe this is what it's like to have mental illness. Where there's just things coming in all the time. And it's so intense. You can't control it. And thinking like, oh my gosh, if this was my day-to-day life, I can't even imagine that. So even just that understanding to see like what your mind could be like. You know, and also having this like new, amazing empathy for people that are dealing with mental illness. Like it'd be pretty hard to understand that without doing psychedelics or having some kind of like mental break. Right. So there's a moment of empathy there, where you can actually be in somebody else's shoes for a minute. Totally. And so you can continue through college. You're experimenting with drugs. But you're also getting straight A's at the same time. Oh, that was after I stopped going class. That was okay. So you dropped out. You dropped out of college. So I kind of half dropped out. So after the first semester, I went home. I was pretty unhappy with the whole educational experience. Happy with the or unhappy with the social scene at USC. And found a book on my dad's bookshelf that was called The New Psycho Cybernetics by Dr. Maxwell Malts. And it was like a pretty perfect introduction to the whole self improvement realm. It was kind of like a scientific approach to positive thinking. And that got me down the whole rabbit hole of like meditation and like the whole idea of like following your passion and you know like we only live this life once and all those beautiful things. So I came back and got like really, really drunk one night. It's like a lot of substance related by Piffney's like us. And woke up more hungover than I'd like ever been before. And for some reason in that really hungover state, I had this moment of clarity of like, this isn't what I want. I don't know what I want. I have no idea what it is, but I know it's not this. So I'm going to do not this and then see what else comes. I think the hardest thing is that point where you are skeptical and cynical. At least me, I don't know if you experienced the same thing but where I'm very skeptical of the whole self-help scene and like just any book that's related to like you can do it and power positive thinking and all this stuff. I remember being at a point where I was very skeptical of all that stuff. And even so my friends are talking about this book the game by Neil Strauss. Oh yeah. And then I was like, so check this out. During that motion trip, I was with Neil Strauss's nephew. Oh fuck up. Michael. Michael. Michael. Michael. Just a funny. Yeah. So my friends were talking about this book, the game and I was like I was like that is so corny like come on. That's so come on pick and up girls. You're going to read books about how to pick up girls and then it's like I see it on the dining room table and I'm like, hmm, pick it up and just start to inflex me. Yeah. Exactly. That was not good with girls in college. And then I just start reading it and it's a story and it pulled me in and I was like, oh, this is really interesting. So this is a pretty captivating book from the beginning. Telling this story of this guy who just never been good with women, he was in his late 40s, balding and then he went on this radical transformation of going into the secret, the secret society of pickup artists, people that are calculated and figure out how to speak and how to communicate with women. But the apart from just giving me some basic understandings of social interaction with women, it helped me and motivated me to want to start to pick up self-help books. It started to bring the guard down a little bit. Did you have that guard up before you picked up that book? No, not at all. He didn't have any exposure to it whatsoever. I think I'm more on the opposite side of you where I'm more like naive and like, yeah, I'll try anything once. So I opened up or I read that book and like, yeah, there was no like skepticism whatsoever. This is it. This is amazing. And then I think that's something that's really important because people don't read much anymore. And I think that is the fact that to look out and seek out books. And I think there's something about the act of reading that's different and more stimulating than the act of watching a movie or even a documentary. What were some of those books that kind of inspired you early on from that first one that started to change your thinking? I'd say the biggest one. Well, there's two Zen and the art of happiness. Really simple book, really short. But it's pretty much give very, very basic logic as to why you should just be happy all the time. That one was great. And then the one that had a much larger impact on me was called Conversations with God. This one's really interesting. So for this one, you kind of have to take it with a grain of salt. So the author Neil Dunnawalsh was this like Christian guy. He was like a long time author and he was like maybe 45. And he had never achieved success. He was like divorced and poor and unhappy. So he sat down one day and just started writing out his all of his anger and his questions to God. He was like the Christian God for him. And for some reason that day he started like hearing answers back. And so that book is supposed to be his like actual conversation with God and like whatever voices coming to us had to write answers back. So you know, take that for what it is. And the answers are just profound. Like they just made so much sense to me. And they answered a lot of the questions that I had had about life in the nature of reality. In different ways and I had ever heard before. And that book really shaped a lot of the way that I view the world now today. Are these books that you come back to and read? That one I've read three times. Yeah, it's not like a once a year thing, but yeah. Yeah, it's funny because it is also so important when these books come to you. Because similar to that was the power of now. Everyone says that. I got it like that. Yeah. I got the power now. Like because that's maybe you were ahead of the game. I don't know if the power now was out at that time. But it just didn't read it. It would have been recommended to me. I'd already like cover that stuff pretty deeply. Right. Because it's it's the ideas. It's it's it's it's real and it's the truth within these books. Not necessarily the books or the author themselves. That help us say like, oh, that's that's it. That's like that just makes so much sense to me. And that's now one of these books like the power of now. I remember reading it on the plane ride to start filming minimalism, which is my first documentary. And like at any time when I'm feeling like my life's a little bit out of control or I'm approaching something that I feel like I'm going to fail or I'm just have so much doubt about. I tend to go back to that book because I feel like reading it is comforting and it's to know that like you can if you just stay in the present then and you know even from that opening monologue it's like it's tough because we do tend to think about the future and we do tend to think about the past and then at what point do we or we can tent in the present and and happy here. Do you find yourself meditating a lot? Absolutely. How often is it a practice that you? Yeah, for me it's morning walks. That's my favorite type of meditation. It's my preferred way because I'm never really super comfortable sitting down so I find it hard to get into like a really deep meditative state unless I'm lying down or walking. And also I think walking is nice because it provides like a slight distraction. So you can it like it kind of puts you on the precipice like kind of way we're back and forth between being super, super present and distraction and kind of leaves a window for ideas to come in that doesn't happen for me as well. We'll just see the meditation. So how do you walk me through it and how does walking meditation work for you? For me I started out with gratitude. So I think it's just just a great way to start your day and start meditation kind of get the serotonin going and realize why you're here again. So just you know even stating like maybe ten things that I'm thankful for and then after that I'll do a long stretch of just not thinking. Maybe focusing on the feeling of my feet touching the floor and getting very very present and then after I'm like satisfactorily present then I'll start posing questions just you know to the air pretty much. Questions that I have about things that are happening in my life right now or just you know things I want answers to whatever it is and then we'll pose a question and then kind of like start thinking through it so now and then you know a random answer will come through it. Oh yeah definitely right that down on my phone really quick and then step back into it. What do you think your life would be like without that without those meditation? Substantially worse. Yeah. In what ways? Just the number of really impactful ideas and it's like solutions to issues that have come through those walks I'm not sure where I'd be today without those ideas. These like your day to day what should I have for lunch or are these the big questions about like what do I want at a life? What do I want to give? Yeah it's everything between I haven't tried. What do I want to have for lunch? I'm sure I can't really get answered. Yeah exactly. Everything from like hey you know like I had to fight with my girlfriend last night like you know how should I respond to this or like all the way to you know is this the job I should be doing or like what do I want to do with my life? Who am I? So on that path towards currently the present day and futurism when you left school what happened after that like did you live at home with your parents? Yeah I was at my mom's place in my dad's place for about two years while they worked on high existence. I was pretty much just learning how to code. I didn't study computer engineering or computer science in college. I was just learning HTML and CSS as I went along to make the website a little prettier. And then eventually became like a full fledged coder which is what I do or like it's like my trade now I suppose. Yeah so like it wasn't like an overnight successor like a dropout then I launched this company. It was amazing. The travel the world like that had not happened. It was two years of being at home. Going back up to college like maybe every two or three weeks and it's like part of my friends and then go home and a pond or five made the right decision because I was looking at Google Analytics at the website traffic it's seeing like 20 people on a day and being like alright yeah alright but not there yet. You know you put in the time and you know what your work will grow yeah and about I think like a yeah about two years after I dropped out stumble upon just sort of raining traffic on the website. Few articles got picked up in a big way and it ramps up pretty quickly from zero traffic to like a couple and a thousand a month eventually after like 3.5 million a month and then I had a big website. That's got to be crazy. It was crazy. It was crazy. Because that's the thing and that's what I even think about in this podcast and what I try to encourage other people to do is I think most people just give up before that point. That's two years of working on something with like 10 to what maybe a hundred hits a day like never really seeing anything big. What kept you going through those two years. Well one I didn't I was never going to go back. That's pretty stubborn. I still remember that that's not what I wanted so like I'm just going to do the thing that's in front of me. And then too just having faith in small things. You know like you get like one email from a reader being like hey this article is super impactful and that keeps you going for like another month. It is this little thing that kind of keep pushing you forward in a little ways and it was fucking fun. Yeah I was learning how to code which I would love to do and doing all these things that I'd never done before. And all the time I was learning about all these fascinating topics that I was writing about. So yeah it was fun. Yeah it wasn't work. Yeah I think that's the one thing that I'm grateful for too is that very similar story right after college I moved. Well I technically moved to in with my sister and Philadelphia and tried to start like living like an adult realizing very quickly that I couldn't pay rent like getting a couple hundred dollars in freelance video work and doing weddings on the weekends every once in a while wasn't going to pay the bills in six months once my student loan started rolling in I definitely wasn't going to pay that off so I moved home with my parents. I just kept working and because I liked it because I really enjoyed it and it was exciting and obviously there are points during that time where you find yourself like not feeling so hot like not feeling so great. You're literally in your parents' basement. You're like, it's kind of sucks. Like all my friends are like in the real world or have jobs and have apartments and nice cars and all this stuff and I was like I don't have that. So there was an amount of discontent there in that moment. Did you find yourself in this similar situation where it's kind of opened yourself back and forth where you're like, oh man I should get a job but no like I really I think this is the right thing for me to do. Yeah yeah absolutely. I don't think it was ever a serious consideration like going back or getting a normal job. Yeah. I was pretty hell bent on making it work but yeah definitely nights of doubt for sure. What were the websites or the, what kind of, I guess it's like the, your big break, right? Like people sharing it and getting the word out there about your site. Well do you remember what the, I'm sure you did. Yeah it was pretty much all stumble upon. There was two articles. It was a stumble upon. Are they so around? They are but it's not very good anymore. Not very good anymore. When I was in college stumble upon was the shit I was fucking awesome. Yeah. Two articles that got really big. One was me explaining how the double slit experiment works. Quantum physics stuff. Google it if you haven't heard of it. It's fascinating. And then the other one was an article I wrote before the time of listicles if you can remember that far back. It was called 50 live secrets and tips. And that's the one that like pretty much everyone who knows what high existence found it through. Wow. Yeah. What is it? 50 live secrets and tips. Yeah. Even today you kind of click on those though. Like you know I see like yeah maybe they'll be one I never heard before. Yeah. And then no one had ever done something like that. So it got like just hammered with traffic. Yeah that's funny because now that's that's basically what buzz feed and all these websites are now. It's just like the list and it's kind of taken off a live zone. That was one of the first ones. Definitely in the self improvement realm. Yeah. Life tips. It was one of the, for sure, one of the first of those. So you were there in the beginning of the self development. What is it like? Yeah. I saw design. Yeah. Last time was design blogging. Yeah. So you were like kind of there in the beginning. Did you witness it? And I know early on. I was talking to Colin Wright who I don't know if you know him. He has a blog called Exile Lifestyles and like very much blogs were the social network before social networks existed. So a lot of people did cross posting and shared each other's blogs. And all of us did you have those kind of relationships with people that you built over and what did you see in the beginning of this movement? So I actually didn't do a lot of cross posting. I was pretty much like heads down. It wasn't very social. I was just like learning how to code and not really like reaching out. Like I had a few people reach out to me who I'm still good friends with today. Like a filter lay who started the field good lifestyle. Like way back one, maybe a year after I started high existence. But yeah, it was interesting because before high existence, there was only a few like big players in the web for self improvement. The one that was really big for me was Steve Pavlina Pavlina. Yeah, yeah. For your smart people. Exactly. For your smart people. Yeah. So there was a lot. There was more for adults. I think. Some of the kind of like older guys who had somehow transferred over and done web. But for people in my age, what the time there was nothing. What year is this? 2009. 2009. 2009. Yeah, that was it. That was the beginning because Josh and Ryan from the minimalist they I think they started in 2009. Is that when all the blogging started? It was like 2008 or so. Yeah. I think it was a little earlier. Maybe like 2006 was the earliest. Like Zen Habits was around. Yeah. My voice was big. Yeah. Literally like invented minimalism. Like at least the work. He was the first one that started using the word. And he's the... Have you ever met him? No. I still don't know how to pronounce his last name. No idea. But Bouta. I'm almost sure. I'm almost positive. I've worked with him a bunch. I never asked him. I just hear other people. I'm like every time somebody says it, I'm like, okay. Don't forget that. I forget it. I'm almost positive. That's it. But Bouta. You know, when you're reading a book and then you see somebody's name and it's just a really weird spelling and then you're just like, all right, that's now just an image. Like, it's not actually a word. You can't pronounce it. You never do. But then you're just like, okay, thing and then you keep going. But then you have to say it in public and you kind of think that you know how to pronounce it and then you realize five seconds before in your head. You have no idea how to pronounce it. I was like the intro of the show. When you told me your name before we started... I was pronounced your name before we started and I still fucked it up. I'm not trusting you on Bouta. I know. Yeah. I went neither. Leo's amazing though. But so there's like an element right to like he produced. He writes amazing work and he's obviously done it a lot. And he's perfected over a period of time. Just like you did with your site in the beginning. It's just you're working out for two years. You're slowly getting better over time. Like there's an element that like if you don't actually get better. Like is it inevitable that people are going to get better at this stuff? Or like something. Yeah. I really look better. I don't know if we're making a big. Yeah. But now like if I started a blog. Kind of like now if I started a podcast. Like what would you do that? The ship is sailing. I think a little bit on the whole podcast thing or at least podcasting 2.0. But it is difficult to... It's not guaranteed obviously. But if you just keep working at something. Like say if I do this podcast for five years. Like it's going to grow. Sure. I'm going to get better. But is it actually going to be something that's sustainable? I don't think I can do something truly different. That's just not out there. Which is harder and harder to do. Because you were doing something different at the time. But then what about futurism? Because futurism is... I guess every major news site has a section called like technology or future that covers these topics. They do not. Oh, so this was... So this is two years ago, right? Two and a half, three years ago. And they didn't have those. It wasn't time. It hasn't focused yet. Everyone now is like all writing about futur tech. You know, the big names all have the category on their own page. But yeah, it was definitely newer. You have the clothing line that you started as well. Was that an offshoot of the original blog that you had? No. That was wild as up in Montreal. I just wanted to try out launching a Kickstarter. Because it was like... Oh, that was sort of... It was 2013. So it was like pretty early in Kickstarter. Things were blown up there. It's kind of like the crypto space now. And I just wanted to try something. Yeah. So yeah, tried launching, clothing company. Praise 72,000 to make the first batch of shirts. Like just like 10 designs that I had source from. 10 different artists gave the artist 20% of whatever sales they got. And are you a part of them? Or did you sell it off or what? And I still own both. So kind of the trend so far has been. I do something to like lose interest or find something else. And then find someone who's more passionate about that than I am. Or probably maybe ever was. And then train them to run it. That's how hard you guys are since he's still going. That's got to be hard to give up your baby, right? No, no, no, no. It wasn't hard for you. No. That would be really hard for me. Well, you don't look like a new baby. You know, it's like... Yeah. But then three months in, you're like... Put it up for adoption. Oh, gosh, I shouldn't be a parent. Yeah. Watch out. I don't know. You're like train somebody else to take over. This is your new husband. Let's use it. Let's find another metaphor. Yeah, yeah. But so it wasn't hard for you. That just came natural. No, not at all. I don't know if it's that I get bored easily or just keep finding things that are more in line with what I actually am and what I want to do. But it had to never happen usually like two to enough years into something where I'm like, okay, I know what the next thing is. Like, I've learned a lot from this. This is really awesome. But I have now further refined what my passion is and I'm ready to jump into it. So how did futures and come about then? What was who came up with the idea and how did the company form? That was my co-founder and the original founder was Alex Clocus. So him and I have been best friends for a while. And we were living together in Connecticut at some like random house that is that own like there's this whole story associated with this. But we were working at another company. Fairly interesting one was called Habit. The idea was that you could bet money on developing better habits. Habit with BET. Creating incentives for people to keep their habits going. Yeah, which no one's ever solved. The idea was that you could say join a group of 50 people that want to start waking up early. And you could say, I'm going to bet a hundred bucks that I'm going to do that. I'm going to wake up every day by six or seven a.m. for 30 days. And we'd send you a text message at six a.m. And you'd have to reply. And if you replied in time that I would like to check you off for the day. And if you succeeded at doing it for the entire month, and you would split the money lost by those that failed. Is there gambling laws to get around there? So actually, I know I'm very knowledgeable about gambling laws. And it wasn't gambling because it was totally within your power to win. As long as it's not based on luck whatsoever, then you're fine. Because it's within your ability to choose who you get to six a.m. You're not rolling the dice anyway. So as long as you consider that like a sport in a way, right? Totally similar to sports. Yeah, it's even less of the sports because it's not really competitive. It's just you. You guys were working on this company, didn't work out. And then working on that decided that, and then we went for a walk one day and decided that I really wanted to start something that I would want to work on for the next 10 years. Not like in the two years. I kind of wanted to break the pattern. And him and I were other co-founder like, yeah, you're right. Like, maybe let's figure out something else. And meanwhile, Alex has started a personal blog called Suterra with my then girlfriend. She was only working on it for maybe two weeks or something. Then last interest. But he kept going. I moved to Portland with the girlfriend. He moved to New York. Kept working on futurism. And, you know, kept calling me from New York. I mean, like, hey, dude, like this getting bigger. Like, we just hit this. We just got on the front page or read it. Like, this is growing. Like, you should come. We should move to New York. And like, I can't do it. Like, I just moved to Portland. Because I had already dragged my girlfriend to Connecticut to work on Habit with you. Like, I can't just get up and leave again. Eventually, that relationship ended. And almost simultaneously, he got funding for futurism. And I was like, oh, wow, this is like legit. Okay. So I picked up and moved to New York. And been working on futurism with him ever since. I think that's such a good point, though, to say, what do I want to work on for the next 10 years? Because a lot of time. And I don't think it's wrong to say, what do I want to work on for the next six months or 12 months? And sometimes you have smaller projects. And that's totally fine. But when you're thinking about the big projects, you're like, if I could work on this for the next 10 years, would I be happy five 10 years down the road still working on this thing? Or something that I want to build over a long period of time? I think that will help people kind of gain an alignment on their values and what they actually want to pursue. So there are a lot of companies that just fund media companies like this? No. It's a guy. No, it's a guy. It's actually our third go founder. He met Alex at a meetup. This story of futurism is extremely serendipitous. Like, there's so many happenstance things that happened. That might as well tell it. Yeah. What happened was, so we're in the house. Alex, I designed the initial website. And Alex had kind of like inherited this infographic on Reddit called this week in science from this guy named Hashem. Hashem had been doing it on Reddit and getting the front page for like six months or so. It was like one of the most popular pieces of content on Reddit every single week, every week front page. And then Hashem was going back to school didn't have time for this. And so he, you know, I think it had been talking to Alex already. And he offered us to let Alex take it over. And of course, it was like, hell, yes, I'll do that. Like, 5,000 uploads on Reddit. Yeah. So then we designed like a new version of it. And then like eventually started like backing back linking to Futurism from it. And that's how the Futurism brand was built was on the back of this infographic. And then kind of like the same time Alex had been attending this meetup in New York City. That was for Futurists. And the meetup hosts same thing is like retiring. And it's like looking for someone to take over the meetup. And Alex is like, oh, yeah, I live in New York. Definitely I'll do that. So he starts commuting from Connecticut to host this meetup. Even though he's like free enough, pretty new to this space. And then at one of those meetups, he eventually meets Dan Catera, who's now our now co-founder. And Dan and a good friend of his like where the initial seed investors for Futurism. That's what the part of chance and luck. And like you never, you can't predict that, but you have to be ready for it when it comes. So like you bust your ass and you have to be prepared when you get these moments of say and an investor or somebody wants to collaborate on a project with you. You have to be ready. Right. That's how it happened with minimalism where it was for me. I had gotten enough work that I was ready to take a risk. Like I had, I was conservative enough with my money and my savings. I was like, all right, I could take three months off and just work on a project for free and uping two years working on a project for free. But I was able to do that because I had worked my ass off before I got to that point. So you come to New York and you start working on this project. You're kind of using all these skills that you had developed before to bring it into Futurism. How does the site and the community grow from there? So it's three dudes in office above a bagel smith. Which bagel smith? The one right here. Oh really? Like literally a book away. Yeah. That book is amazing. I know. It's so good. Yeah. If you know what I said, hello to Carmen. If you see you there. Okay. Say Jordan or Puerto Rico says hi. Oh no, she's free. Is she the one that's like, that you have to do. No, probably not the register. She like helps you with your bagel or I know Carmen. I'm positive. Oh damn it. That's okay. What's your go to bagel at the bagel smith? So she makes a special one where she carves out like the bread. So you can put more into it. You know? And then she'll do like, it's, you know, whatever. It's like a special thing she makes. But it's the salmon cream cheese, like avocado, like a multiple cream cheese. I don't know. I don't know if she does. Unbelievable. You know, I don't know. I like more of a conservative spread. I don't want like a, like a huge, I don't know. I don't want more cream cheese. I don't know. It's not an everyday thing. That's like, that's when you feel and good. When you get something to celebrate. Yeah. Big traffic day. That was actually, I just recently saw a story. This might have been like actually this is probably when we moved in. But somebody was like robbed from there. Like somebody climbed up the, the back. Fire escape. Oh, I was in the office when that happened. What? They came in and asked us like, we knew anything about it. Oh, no way. Yeah. I thought those were apartments. There's actually like an office space. Did you turn it off like an apartment? It's like an office space. It's pretty much an apartment. But they're running into those office space. Oh, man. This is like the hyper startup mode. Yeah. Yeah. That's so cool, man. I can't believe you were right here. Because we moved about, there's about two and a half years ago. I guess we first moved in. So that must have been when you guys were over there. Yeah. So that's, so you're like crazy startup mode. Going to the bagel Smith. How does it grow from there? I guess. And kind of whatever some of those early wins. So I think that number one thing, Futurism is then really well. The entire time is higher, amazing people. That are really passionate about the space. Super hard working. And like, just really believe in mission of Futurism. So now we've scaled from those initial three people to 17 people in the office. And I don't even know 30. Between 30 and 45 people abroad, the number fluctuates so much. I can't keep track. So just an amazing, amazing group of people. Each person is just hyper-skilled at their, their nation in the company. But I would say one of the major early wins is we brought in a woman named Jolene Creighton. She has started a community called from course to quiz ours. And Alex is amazing at this stuff. I realize it's like the third time I'm even mentioning it in this podcast. I've been doing this. But Jolene and started this community and her partner was kind of like going back to school. And she had a lot of college debt and like was a scientist first and foremost, not a business woman. Didn't really know how to monetize and was looking to kind of just, you know, join something else or sell from course to quiz ours or whatever it was. Alex somehow got wind of this by just being a friend of Jolene on on Facebook. And eventually we like acquired from course to quiz ours and merge their Facebook following, which is at the time I think was like 2.7 million in ours, which at the time was like maybe 80,000 something. So we went from like 80,000 fans to like, you know, almost 3 million fans. So that was like, that was like huge. I was like on par with him clawing that infographic. Yeah. So we went from like small media company to legitimate media company, pretty much overnight for, you know, not too much. And then we also got Jolene who's like today just like this fucking rock star, writer editor at features and that still handles all of our editorial. So then I imagine at that point you guys can move out of the apartment on top of a pickle Smith. Nope. Still were there for like another year. So we only moved, I think last December to a more now more like legitimate office. Oh, it's cool. It's cool. But it's obviously continued to grow quite rapidly since then, like almost doubling over that time. What do you account that for? Let's see. I have another big thing was we got on the like captioned, like shortly in a 60 second captioned videos on Facebook trend really early on over any other like science publications. Did you want some more whiskey? Oh, yeah. Sounds great. Cool. So the videos that you've seen a billion times on Facebook. They're, you know, Facebook mute videos by default. So they'll be a video and they'll have like captions come in that explain like what you're saying. Like this new hoverboard does this. Yeah. Yeah. Like they're like half of the videos you see on Facebook now are those. So we are one of them. And then the CNN's and all of them are doing it now to go to their website. Everybody's doing it. Yeah. So it's, yeah. We got like a bunch of lucky breaks and like getting into certain friends early. This is a big one. And that's still to this day is like a major driver of new likes and you know followers on Facebook, which is the major driver of traffic to our website. So it's, it's kind of this like blend between written content and video content. We had talked about this when we met. It was part like a month or two ago that you were saying how video is going to be so important in the future of obviously a lot of these media companies. I guess I'm curious because so I frequently in a couple news sites. It's kind of hard not to. I just kind of pick a few of them and go to them every once in a while. MSNBC is one of them and they're different from any other of the mainstream media news organizations. I feel like the online it's all video on their their at least their mobile site. It's like that's all they're trying to do is get you to watch a video and I feel like I don't want to do that. Maybe that's because politics are different. But I guess why do you think video is going to be more is it more important than than the written articles or is it just growing compared to it? Yeah, I think it's growing. It seems like the trend. I mean, there's still going to be like the New York Times, the amazing long-form content. But I think the trend is more towards like, you know, the shortest most concise article possible that still has quality content because we have so much going on our lives. You don't have time to read like a long news article that has fluff and intros and altros and all that shit. So I think it's like the written content is kind of trending down to like really short articles. And then on the flip side on video video is still like captivating enough to for us to like stop what we're doing and actually watch it. So I think that's why written content isn't you know, it's not very visually interesting. It's it's hard and hard for people to read books nowadays, but people are still watching videos are still watching movies because it is that visually interesting. Right. So that's why like we have to capture people's attention and video does that. Once you do get somebody to start watching a video, I think it's probably the trust that you build with them. They're like, oh, they make amazing shit and like they rarely have videos that I wouldn't want to watch. It's probably people that are on their commute, say if they're going on the subway where they can actually watch something or on a train. They can actually pull up a video and watch it. It's probably going to get more and more so it's funny. My it reminds me of my buddy Billy Disney who I had on the show. He actually started was one of the the first people to start the video at the verge. And then but like when you think about it like the verge was pretty early on like all they wanted to do in the beginning was just the cell phone reviews. And then he was like now we should like try to like you know find stories to focus on and then they started joining some of the journalists to actually film the written stories that they were doing to accompany it. And then it just took off from there and like vice was was around at that point and there it was starting to grow. But now it's it's everywhere like everybody's making video content and it's actually. There's a whole format of like the short form doc story telling which is huge now online that wasn't just a couple years ago. So like it is growing and I just wonder how big it's going to grow and I wonder if it's. I don't know if it's a way that you could you create something that's a media company that was just focused on videos. Oh yeah, that's the big conversation that's happening right now. I just wrote an article yesterday about like you know all the companies that say they're just pivoting to the video. That's like a phrase right now on the media company. Everybody else. Yeah. Love pivoting love video. They love. They love pivoting to the video. Yeah. I mean if I think I think if I was going to start a media company today versus three years ago, I would just do video too. Oh shit. So how do you do that? And it's obviously you got to be in like a big crew of internal video people right? Absolutely. And then I'm curious about the skills that you see that are important because like when you're talking about the text and the video, you need animators. So you're going to start a media company from scratch. How does it? How does it look? I would get it. And I'm going to take this. I see it. Go ahead. See if we can get some funding for it. I would hire as many full stack video people as possible. And like full stack on in an engineering sense is like someone who can do the front end in the back end. They can do everything that just one engineer that can build an entire app. Sure. On the video side, it's someone that can shoot like it conscript. Shoot at it. And like, you know, possibly even share after that. There's more and more of those people today. Right. And that's that was me when I, I mean, it still is me, but it's like when I started out. See, that's the problem. If people are going to join a large production company or take the traditional route is they're going to be a PA. And then in these big production companies. And these big films and commercials. You tend to get designated role. You're on the camera department or you're in, you're in the grip department. And you cannot cross and go across these two different or three. There's probably 10, 15 different departments on a film set. When I got started out, it was the DSLR. Do it yourself filmmaker. You buy the camera. You own all of the equipment. You figure out like I'm literally doing. And it did like local TV commercial spots for hardware stores and for Verizon wireless retail stores. But not like Verizon wasn't paying me. It was like the chain retailer was paying me. But I would do these interviews where it would be two cameras. And I'd be monitoring the audio. And I'd be actually doing the interviews and asking people the questions and trying to think about what do I want to ask them next. While also monitoring both video and audio at the same time. And then taking all that back and then editing it and cutting a 30 second spot, 40 second spot. Understanding how to tell a story. I don't, I think there's more and more people that are like that. And like today, there's more than there's ever been. But I still personally, I would love to find more people like that. I could hire to bring on to shoots I do. I find it hard to find those people. Oh yeah. Like in the, on the engineering side, they call a full second engineer's unicorn. Sure. Yeah. I have where that unicorn. Yeah. They're hard to find. But higher in demand. And now, you know, the equipment and the software are so fantastic that it's even possible to be that person. Because the more and more you're in a space, the more you start to look at the small details. Because you get the big stuff figured out pretty quickly. And then it's like, how do we make this incrementally better? How do we, like you said, before differentiator sells from other people? How do you, how do you do something different? That's a great question. Because it's like everything has been done, right? No, not at all. I mean, the world's like shifting and judging new shits coming out. Like, we have VR now. Yeah. Oh my gosh. Like, have you done a lot of VR stuff? So we haven't created VR stuff. We have a headset in our office that we always show people that are happy hours. And like, anyone that comes in and we try to VR. And what is, which VR is this? Yeah. Is it pretty amazing because I haven't actually haven't done it. You really? I've only done the paper ones. Oh, no, no, no. That's like a game boy versus a PlayStation 3. Oh, really? Sort of God. No shit. Because you got to have the controllers. You have like something in your hand. You can see your hands. That adds a hungry layer of like, You might have to come by your office before I move. We're having a happier on Friday. You go, come by. Oh, shit. Oh, what time? I'm like six. Oh, actually, maybe I can do it. Like, I might be able to do it. Like six to like nine. Yeah. I'm going to the cabin in the woods this weekend. It's my last, yes. My last, my second or last weekend in New York. Yeah. What's the future of it then, I guess? Like, where does it go? So it's so early right now. You know, it's, I think Oculus Rift is funded on Kickstarter. Like, 2012? No. Maybe it's maybe even later. It might have been 2014. Like, it's not been around for a long time. And this is the first iteration. So it's like, if you think on video games, if you think back for like the, you know, like the Super Nintendo versus what we have today, like if you apply that same scale of getting better to VR, like this is just like just the beginning. And when you put a headset on right now, that's not the paper. Not even the Samsung gear. That's not good enough. You're out there. Try a vibe or an Oculus. You're, you're there. You have all three of these. It's not like that. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah. So you have these, you have enough cues. Like you basically need like two cues. Two sensory cues to tell your brain that it's real. So you have like, you know, the visual cue, if you turn your head to the left, then you like, you know, the thing you're saying moves the left. Same thing with the audio, you know, it shifts. I mean, you only move. And then even better if you have your hands and you, with the controllers, and you kind of see your hands. The more evidence that your brain has, what you're looking at is real, the more it believes it's real. So the experience that I always show people for the first time is called Richie's Plank Experience. And this is a super basic app. But I think is the best, like, initial demo of what VR can do. You start off at the foot of a skyscraper. You turn around. There's an open elevator. And you seven to the elevator. And then there's always a saw homo moment where you have to click on the elevator buttons to like go up and people kind of ask as they're doing it. Like, oh, what do I do next? And then they hit the button. They're like, oh, shit. Like, there's feedback at rumbles in such a way that it makes it feel like you hit a button and then the elevator goes close and you go up for like, you know, 15 seconds or something. And you have this like looming sense that you're getting really high, really high. And then. It's like the matrix. It's like that one scene of the matrix. It's like a jump. Yeah. Totally. So the elevator doors open. And then there's like a thin wooden plank that extends from the edge of the elevator out above the skyline, right? And you're super high up in this, like, kind of New York-esque skyline. And then you have me next to you being like, okay, walk out on the plank. And everyone's just like, I know it's not real. Yeah. But my brain is freaking out. Wow. You know, if you think about the reptilian brain, it's like, okay, I know this isn't real, but like, just in case it is, I'm gonna input a ton of fear just like, as if it was actually happening. So I'd say like half the people, you know, can walk out, but they can't jump. And then the other half are like, bold enough. And you can jump and you can actually fall like all the way down. Yeah. Yeah. When you hit the ground, you actually die in real life. Yeah. That's insane. You're gonna live without the ground. Yeah. I gotta ask. So you're talking about all these centuries your brain telling you that it's real. Have you ever done VR on Shrooms? No. I haven't. Oh, is it something you want to do? Yeah. Yeah. You used to have to, I don't know if you could go on Shrooms in the office. I might not be the best working environment. Oh, for sure. This is Rachel. Maybe. I know we can. It's fine. Maybe I'll be pretty happy. Yeah. Maybe I'll tell you. Yeah. Yeah. So you were saying, what are the sensors? It's like, because it's the audio of the visual. And then once you get the hands involved, that's three different planes that kind of take it to the next level. Yeah. Like, we don't have, you know, smell and taste yet. But, you know, working on it. That was an idea that I feel like I had when I was a kid when I was like, they could just pump smells into the movie theaters. And they probably tried to do that. But that's what I was like. Oh, there is, there's like a 40, theater in New York. You'll pay like $40 for a movie. And apparently it's all one smell. With the smell. It seems like one movie. Yeah. It's just like fart. My friend said it wasn't a good smell. It wasn't a good smell. That's so creepy. Oh, it was a King Kong. You saw it. I thought it was a little like a King Kong. Yeah. It's not like a basement. Like, most movie theaters that I go to around New York are like, smell like a basement. Anyone. Yeah. So, okay. So we're thinking about the future of VR. Like, I think obviously the sports games, that's fun, right? That's tough though. Because then it's like you're playing baseball. You swing, you hit the ball. You run. What do you do? You run in place. They're working on this. So there are prototypes with treadmills. Now, actually working, totally working prototypes with treadmills. That are predictive. They know exactly where you're running. So they'll kind of like, they're, they're 360 treadmills. They can move in any direction. And they'll move in the direction of the opposite direction of where you're running. So you stand effectively standing place. But even that's not perfect. Because I don't know if you've ever like, thinking about like running at a treadmill blindfolded. You know? Yeah. It's slower. It's not like moving like you're running. Yeah. But even still not perfect. Yeah. There's one where you're kind of like leaning on these, like a bar. I guess it gets a circular bar. And then you're kind of like walking in place. Like you wear socks and the surface is really slick. So you can kind of like walk in place. But no one's really figured it out. And the thing that's really exciting is like pretty much like the matrix where eventually we figure out the brain. And then we can you know make like make this real. What do you mean? No, I mean like like figuring out the nervous system, plugging directly into the nervous system. And like jacking into the brain's visual and audio systems. And actually putting you into another reality. Very exact same thing. No way. Don't you? Why not? I mean why not? Like you say that about anything. Why? Yeah. I mean everything's going to be a figure out at some point. It's really like killer cells. I sure. I think it's because we don't that that doesn't happen. Well, we have another investor. His name is Brian Johnson. He sort of brain tree payments, which was bought by. Or which bought Venmo and then was bought by PayPal. And he's taking all that money and he started a company called Colonel. And his soul mission is to like figure out the brain and allow us to, you know, enhance our brain through invasive chips in the brain. So enhancing our cognitive speed, our random access memory, our hard drive space, so to speak. And yeah, the eventual goal that would be to have, you know, a direct input output like plug into the brain. And Elon Musk doing the same thing. I was just like the Elon Musk super villain shit that's going on right now. Yeah, but Elon's the man. Yeah. He's not a super villain. He's incredible. He's incredible. Are you going to, would you, I mean, you're in New York. So getting a Tesla 3 probably wouldn't be. Yeah, unfortunately. No, no cars here. Man, but that's like, I want that shit. That's cool. Yeah. The office that pre-order one is pretty stoked. Oh, really? Yeah, because I mean, they're, they're rolling out sooner than expected. I think this is the thing that and, and going back to that opening statement. It's like, there's a lot of excitement about the future. I thought today, and maybe it's just, I'm hyped up on this conversation. But there's more excitement about the future than there is kind of the gloom and doom that that often pervades, especially when you talk about climate change and a lot of the stuff in the political climate. You're pretty, are you optimistic about the office? Oh, always. Yeah. Hi, I've brought them as potentially to a fault. Yeah, but yeah, I think all the problems we've created can be solved. I think that now we seem to focus on better using our resources as a human species and kind of coalescing and thinking about ourselves as one species so we can sell these problems. Instead of, you know, like, we have way bigger problems in, like, country to country here. Like, we have climate changes. You know, that's all you need to say. Really, like, we need to figure this shit out. Another great example of technology kind of forcing the hand is that now we have, you know, over in Google, and like, every other fucking company on the earth, trying to figure out child-driving cars, which will make the demand for the, for a car market, so much smaller. And instead of having, you'll probably have, like, one tenth of the amount of cars, because instead of, like, a bunch of cars sitting around not driving it all, you'll have self-driving cars that are constantly in movement picking people up. So just, just, just, right there, it's like, technology is saying, actually, we're going to have, like, one tenth of the amount of cars. We're going to do some manufacturing of automobiles by, like, you know, yeah, one tenth. And my, I thought Tesla said, or not Tesla. Elon Musk said that traffic will get worse with self-driving cars. Can you say that? Yeah, I'm pretty sure. I could look it up. Let me look it up. I would be really curious to hear his reasoning for that. I think it's because, um, the only of ever disagree with Elon, but Elon, myself driving car traffic worse. Let's see if that's too big of a, I think you know that. Self-driving cars will actually make it worse by making vehicle traffic more affordable. So I guess that's his point. Because, since you don't need a driver in the car, like, think about an Uber. If you're going to take it Uber, um, across the city, it may cost five dollars now, but without the person that's going to cost, like, 50 cents. Right. Some more and more cars are going to be moving around. All the people that were on the subways may, it's cheaper to take a car. But then, if you have all this, people can cars. I think that's a really good point in the return. When we have a mixture of human drivers and robotic drivers on the road. But when we eventually have, like, glitches high pathetic that, I don't know, when this is going to happen, but 100% self-driving cars on the road, and they're all talking to each other. I think it's like, hey, you're going here, and this person's in a big hurry. He versus me, I'm going here, and they can all, you know, use, in very intense machine learning driven algorithms to determine the best route the most efficient way. I can't imagine the traffic will be worse. And I think, also, long-term, we'd have to probably redesign the road systems to fit that. Maybe. Right. Because, like, the current infrastructure and the current roads, weren't even designed for what they're used for today. Like, they were designed for short commutes, not these, like, long distances, 150 miles. But that's one of those things that's like, but this is what's great about capitalism. And this is what, like, this is that balance between small government and, I mean, big government is that it's not a perfect system. Like, capitalism isn't perfect. Like, there are people that perhaps get left behind. But it's the only system that works. Like, there's really, there's not many other ways to go about it in terms, especially in terms of technology, right, and developing technologies for future. I think it's, it's the best system we've come with so far. Also, that much. Yeah. Yeah. Is there any theories about the future systems or no? Yeah, I'm a big fan of universal basic income. Yeah, that's actually, that's a good point. It's actually contrary. That's almost like that aspect of socialism or bigger government. You can also say it's like, a fantastic upgraded capitalism, though. An upgrade to capitalism. And how so? Because I think capitalism, like, success of capitalism, is a lot of it hinges on the ability for people to come up with new ideas and create companies and create innovative things like push humanity forward. And that's like, that's like one of the primary functions of basic income. As it provides us, is saving that such that, let's say you have a great idea. You want to start a podcast, but like, you know, you haven't never done a podcast before. You have this thing to fall back on, say $1,000 a month, like the average suggestion for basic income. You can live on while you, you know, figure out how to set up microphones and figure out like what guests you want to do. You want to speak to you. Yeah, so it provides us, saving that. So people can take the time off from these things and be creative and learn and build the things that they actually want to do. And build the things that they actually want to work on. What is the evidence for that? It's only been kind of tested in small communities, right? Because obviously somebody that was on the right that would set, they would say that. What about so people are just going to have an income. It's just going to actually not encourage them to work hard to make a living, to create and innovate. So that's a really important thing to note about basic income is that it's the basic part. Yeah. It's $1,000 a month in New York is not, I mean, you couldn't do anything. Yeah, here. That's my alcohol budget. I do a lot. Hence the whiskey. Yeah. I mean, in middle America, you probably have a better center of living, definitely. But even still, you're, you're going to be far below the center of living of your neighbor. And us being humans, we're going to want the same level or more of the neighbor. They're still that incentive. It's very much like the basic basics. So you can still get by on top ramen and pay rent and send your kids to the daycare. Maybe not even that. Like $1,000 a month is nothing. No, yeah. It's just that you're not on the street. Yeah. And you have your basic needs taken care of. That's it. You still have, you totally have the same incentive you do now. The only thing is you won't be on the street and you can take time off when, like, shit happens. If you get, um, if you, like, I don't know get sick or something or if you have a kid or a kid or if you want to take time off and think, um, or if you want to start a new company, you have this thing that enables you to live. So there's going to be people that naturally don't use that money wisely. This is not like food stamps, right? You're not actually saying you have to spend this money on such and such. It's just giving them a blank $1,000 check. Yeah. So two things on that. Yeah. So a number, like, one of the top arguments that people have against basic income is that, especially poor people are going to take this money and spend it on drugs and alcohol and prostitutes and like gambling, whatever else. And there's been a number of studies that are proven this completely false. There's one. I believe it was in New York and they gave these homeless guys. I'm forgetting numbers. It's been so long. But something like, let's say $20,000. Maybe $30,000. And they tracked out these guys. Spend this money over the course of however many years it took them to spend all of it. And they didn't dictate how they spent it. They didn't say they'd be repercussions for how they spent it. Let us know what you spend it on. That's it. There's that's no strings attached whatsoever. And they tracked them over the course a few years. And there was something like 80% of them after two years were in homes. We're in relationships and had solid jobs. And I think the big difference there is that when you give a homeless guy five bucks on the street, he doesn't have a way out. He can't start a job. He can't go, like, you know, put it down payment on a rental or anything like that. That's just enough for him to like get something today. Pretty much. And like if that was happening to me, I'm like, yeah, maybe I'll get a beer instead of a sandwich, or like instead of like saving up for something because it's such an incremental amount. But if you give me like $1,000 a month and I know I'm going to have that going forward no matter what, I'm going to start thinking about the future and what kind of build with this. It's a totally different thing. And then the other flip side of that is that you be eye universal as you can come is actually a substantially better system. That we have now with Social Security because Social Security is actually a disincentive for people that are unemployed to work. Because let's say you're on Social Security now. You get maybe $800 a month to do nothing at all with no limits. You can get that for as long as you can fill up the paperwork. And when you get a job, let's say you get a job and you're working full time and you're making minimum wage. So you make like, you know, $12, $14 a month. You're making an incremental amount more for working full time. versus doing nothing at all. Sometimes you can even make less with a job than you would on Social Security. So your incentive to work is it's negative. Where does the money come from? Because Social Security writes the third question. Yeah, okay. So the first thing you can do is cut out all existing Social Security programs, food stamps, Social Security in general, Medicare. Like, I mean, you can, it's, it's very good to debate as to what you should keep and what you should cut. But cutting all those takes a huge chunk out of it. I think the number is $2.8 trillion for UBI. Don't quote me on that. It's 30 last of whiskey. However, so that brings it down to a amount that's manageable. And then you talk about things like doing carbon taxes, which, you know, solves the sustainability problem. We've been talking about, with cutting our military spending, which is substantial. And I would say unwarranted. I mean, like defending our country, which I would say, like, I just, not as big a problem as we think it is. And we start stopping waving the big stick. People will stop throwing tiny sticks at us. That compared to the, the problem of making sure that every single American is taking care of. Well, let me make the super simple. Yeah, one way to fund that very simply is a 40% tax across all, all classes. Mm-hmm. That's it. 40% flat tax. That's it. That provides enough money for whiskey income. I feel it. Yeah. Why wouldn't that work? Good question. So I guess if somebody, but if somebody's low income earning, then they're getting hurt more. So they're getting, but they're getting something that basic income. Getting UBI. So let's say they're getting $12,000 a year. So that's, that's cutting into, I mean, if you're making nothing, then you're just getting $12,000. I've moved upward from there. Hmm. What are the, the challenges? This is massive. And this is one of those things that's like, maybe we test. This is kind of like the legalizing of weed. Um, it's like maybe we test it in a few states. But like also the inevitability and this is the main driver of this conversation. The fact that a lot of jobs are going to be lost. And there's, there's no way around it. We need to figure out a way for people to actually be able to get their basic necessities met, right? Um, when is it, when is this happening? And like it seems, it's like it's kind of quicker than anybody. Um, so amazingly is becoming a pretty popular topic of conversation. Like the average person has like seen an article about it. Maybe remember what it was. Which is cool. Futures and writes it by that all the time were big fans. Um, and the Nordic countries, those lovely Europeans, are attempting to pass bills that would do some kind of experiment. I mean, they're already doing some form of it. Um, because they have way better systems of social security than we do. Um, but that so some country is going to pass it at some point, which is going to be an amazing experiment to show how it works in a large scale. And judging by the experiments that have been on a small scale, which are numerous, um, I don't know if it's over 100, but, you know, many, many experiments. Everything from small communities in India is Africa to cities in the US and Canada, like everything. And they've all been positive. There's, I've been trying to find bad arguments against UBI for a long time. I've been asking people, I've been asking, saying, on podcasts, email me anything. Do you think is a really good argument to get this against this? Let me know, because I can't find them. Um, let's see where I was going. Where was it going at this? Uh, so I, all right. So I think that either a country will pass it and the evidence will be still overwhelming. The other countries will start to experiment with it as well. And, or, on the flip side, um, it will be something that is forced through technological unemployment. So we have a big trends right now. Uh, robotics, self-driving cars, AI, things that are going to dec, or, and three things are going to, to decimate industries and, like, even more than decimate. That, interesting fact, decimate means to bring down to a tenth of what it was before. I, um, whereas I think it's going to be more, is going to take it down to zero. Um, so we have, uh, the most popular occupation in the US is, uh, truck drivers. And we already have three or four companies that are, like, on the cusp of launching self-driving trucks. So what happens to those millions of truck drivers? What do they do? Well, they don't have a job anymore. They're not educated. Um, they're probably older. So they're not going to buy to school. They're kind of like, it's kind of like too late in the game to teach an old dog new tricks. Um, it's not a fantastic job market, especially for those that are unskilled. They, there, there's not really options for those people. Um, so that just adds to the amount of unemployment. And if you go back to the great depression, um, it wasn't, like, 50 or 60% unemployment. It was, like, 24% unemployment, um, which is achievable. If you combine, um, self-driving cars, taking out, uh, truck drivers and taxi drivers and, like, every driver and, uh, like, deliverymen, all that. And then you have 3D printing, destroying the manufacturing industry. And then you have AI taking out jobs left and right, like customer service or, like, even, like, uh, people lawyers and coders, things that are generally considered to be, um, experienced required positions are not safe. And even if they're safe in the near term 5 to 10 years, they're definitely not safe in 20 years or 25 years, 50 years. Let's, let me, let's go out 50 years. Like, the job market as it stands is not, there's just not going to be as many jobs. And people, like, conservatives often will say, okay, but technology is also creating jobs. But that's not true. It's creating jobs, but it's, it's on a much smaller scale. Like, the, uh, billion dollar companies of today are run by, you know, several hundred people versus tens of, or hundreds of thousands of people of yesterday. Because technology is able, as enabling the average person to do so much more than the, the person of 10 or 20 years ago. This is, this is, like, a problem that's not going to go away. So either we figure out UBI is a great solution, um, in, you know, in the meantime, or it, we get to 25% unemployment. There's massive civil unrest, and it's forced to pass because what the fuck else do you do. Right. There's, there's an outrage, there's a demand for it. There's no other way to go about it than to, um, have a universal basic income. And think about this, one of the most, I mean, I think most people that consider this to be capitalist, we have, um, the, the recession, um, in, in reason history. And what does the government do? A stimulus package. Hmm. What does that sound like? Oh, let's, let's send it and check to every American. Oh, yeah. That sounds a whole lot like UBI. Yeah. Um, so from a capitalist perspective, you can also look at it like that. It's just like an annual stimulus package. So you give people, so they can inject money back into the economy. This is the biggest problem. This is the, this is the more, the most pressing problem that we're facing over the next few years. It's, like, just like that in climate change. I think this is something that's the kind of, like, a root problem that solves a lot of the other problems. Because if you think about, like, how many iron signs we've missed out on because they were stuck working a shit dead in job. And they really wanted to, like, they're like, conscurious about this whole, like, theory of relativity, but they really need to make money for their family. Yeah. You know, like, how many geniuses have you missed out on how many amazing companies? Like, and if you really think about it, there's, you know, a small, a very, very small percentage of the population is creating things. That are really drastically changing things. Elon Musk is a fantastic example of that. And, like, just, you know, what if he just never got out of that, that fast food job? Yeah. You know? Ice cream truck. We have. All right, podcast is over. We have a nice comparison of it. Yeah, we do. Yeah. Yeah. It's like, it's really coming in that, that, that's it. I hope you guys are enjoying this. Yeah. This is the background music. There's some years. Yeah. Yeah. That's one of my cues right there. Um, that it's literally right outside. I think someone's ordering ice cream. Yeah. So this come, yeah. I've got ice cream sandwiches if you want. Yeah. It's funny because I feel like some of these podcasts could be, like, 12 hours long. If you really are trying to, like, delve into something, but it's nice to at least give people who haven't heard about any of the stuff. A little bit of a primer. One thing that we do on this show is called quick questions. You want to get into quick questions? Oh, yeah. That sounds great. What's that? Oh, yeah. So that ice cream trucker here? Yeah. This is, um, I just started adding music cues. And I fucking love it. Isn't this it? It's so good. Yeah. So my question is a game where I asked quick questions, but you can take as much time as you want. We've only got about 10 minutes left on this show. Um, so feel free to, to give as much information as you want. This is the best, this is the best music cue that I've come up with. Um, do you record this from an elevator? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So actually, well, real quick. First question. Um. I'm trying, my big goal on this show is to interview the rock. Oh, okay. The president of 2020. President of the rock. Yeah. I fingers crossed, man. Although I better get that interview before he runs for president, because then I'll be absolutely screwed. Yeah. Um. The rock. What the rock. Oh, come on. Quick questions. What the rock. So many reasons. Um, he is the people's champion. Right. Yeah. He's a great president. We were just literally watching Natalie and I were watching his old, like, wrestling videos. It's just so fun to watch. But to know that he went from where he was to being one of the biggest movie stars of all time. He's amazing. What he does is incredible. But through all that, it's like, whether you like what he does or not, he just seems like a really good dude. And he seems like a guy that you could share whiskey over and you'd be like, like, you'd have a good time. So I'm like, I want to learn about his story. Um, but also I think he just be somebody fun to hang out with. My question to you is, how do you think I should go about getting the rock on the podcast? Oh, that's a great, great question. Ooh. Yeah. It's okay. You're going to cut out all my brains for a week. Yeah. I think I'm going to get an answer for you though. I think first I'd figure out what he wants right now, right? I think he's like, he's a cheat everything. He has a huge HBO show raised like the new, he's like on the new entourage, basically. And if he isn't fact trying to run for political office, I bet it's new for him, which is a good thing for you, because he doesn't know exactly what you need to do, which like become, you know, like a presidential candidate. Like if you get off from something that I think with, with like legitimize him, like some kind of platform to make him look like less of a movie. Maybe sorry, more of a legitimate political candidate. Ooh. That's good because I think the only appeal to doing a show with me, with only having that 10,000 viewers across all my episodes, is that it is like, like, you're going to, oh my, like that's going to be a story in of itself. The rock goes on, there's nobody's podcast. That's the story. That's the story. The people's got it. The people's got it. Yeah, yeah, the people's got it. That's good. You're like, let him put you in a headlock. Yeah. I was like, I was telling my buddy this. I was like, I really want to, like I see that potentially the show could eventually become more of like a TV show type format, where it's a hybrid of a podcast and actually a little bit immersive, where I kind of joined my guests along for a day, like a day in the life, but then also we sit down after where it's to talk about life. Very up in the air right now, but I'm like, back a plan there where I go to the gym with the rock. And my buddy's like, my buddy's like, you just want to go to the gym with the rock. That's how big it is. That's how big it is. Oh yeah, that's the whole reason why I started this podcast. Yeah. And the other thing that seems to work a little for people is that they just they just offer to do something for free. Yeah. You know, it's like, hey, you want to get into this like industry, just like conduct someone that you like in the space and say, hey, I'll like, oh, we're 20 hours week free for you. And they're like, oh, okay, sure. Yeah, why not? Yeah, the only thing that they're doing something for free for the rock doesn't really help him because anything he wants he could buy. But I think of reaching him in a whatever unique idea. Yeah. You know what we can do. Like hey, I'm going to shoot a documentary about you in this specific light. Yeah. Which you have that background. That's actually another one of my big, big, lofty dream ideas is to do a documentary with the rock. I'm not like an obsessed with the rock. I don't want you to get the wrong idea. You have a fan website. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I used to actually when I first got into like the internet and shit, it was limp biscuit. And my brother had a Pokemon fan website. Yeah, the top, he was in the top five Pokemon websites. Wow. Yeah, it's pretty big. I mean, do you know the origin of the name, limp biscuit? Yeah. Actually, it was in there. It was in like a recent episode of Silicon Valley. That's what it was. Yeah. It heard it. Oh my god. Yeah. That's disgusting. Could you explain to everybody what a limp biscuit is. Of course you imagine it. You're just like, yeah. Yeah. It's a horrible lie. It's one of the worst things to imagine. Natalie's parents are listening. So we unfortunately. We can't delve into what a limp biscuit is. Google it. Yeah. Just Google it. Or don't. Just don't image Google. Yeah. That would be bad. All right. Let's get into at least like two questions here. I can ask you some of the, some of my favorites here. All right. What one skill should everyone learn or most people learn today that will come in handy 10 years down the road? So hard to say because all your skills are going to be automated by robots. Maybe just writing well, like writing all in kind of a Hemingway way, like a minimalist way. There's a fantastic book called The Elements of Style that is just a super thin book that you could read that will drastically increase the skill of your writing to make it more simple and clear and everything else. Because it doesn't seem like that's going away. And it kind of applies to the way that you explain yourself in person too. What's your favorite thing? Like the favorite object and I can actual physical thing that you own. Yeah. I really like my electric controlled lifx light bulb. It's lifx. It's did by far the best like a lex controlled light bulb doesn't require a hub. And what it allows you to do is use the app on your iPhone or whatever. And you can choose a color like choose like a you know shifting like it goes between orange and red over and over like goes rainbow. And you can connect that to a can any command that you want. So I can say like turn my night light and then it turns on like this nice like yellowish. You know like low like you. Do you have a sexy time version of that? I do. I do. No, like that was the intention is like turn on the sexy time. But that's what you do. Better name for it. My girlfriend's name is Katia. And so I was trying to say like Katia. I thought I thought you could do like say I think you say Katia's here and he would do a certain color. Turns out you have to say turn on and then something. But it works. Yeah, so now if I say turn on Katia. Then it turns just like this nice eight of purple. It's like your favorite color. So yeah, I really like that. That's great. All right. So I got one more question here. And like on we were talking about reading earlier and how reading is. I don't know people should don't value it. I don't think as much as they should. So what one thing should people start reading before they go to bed tonight? I mean, the I think the number one thing like going back to you behind. I really do think that's like a pancia that could really change everything. And I think it's important to be informed on that. So the I think the article that I read is a. And I think it's the economic forum. I can I perform. It's an article by Scott Santons. Who is the most prolific author of UBI on the web. I believe he's like really big on medium. But it's I think it's I can. And that's his like best article amongst maybe, you know, 25 or 50 articles on UBI that really explains why it's required and and what it's going to do. So I would read that. Great. Oh, that's nice. All on music is very minimal. Yeah. Makes you think. Oh, that's kind of cool. That's nice. I like this. Incorporating music like into the middle of segments and you should like when someone says really something really insightful. Like I was Santa. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Just making do a cheesy radio show. Exactly. Jordan. Thanks so much for coming on the show. This was this was really great. I learned a lot. Thanks for coming on. My pleasure.
