# The Ultimate Minimalist Meal Prep
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0nK1trRuq7c
Go to http://squarespace.com for a free trial, and when you’re ready to launch, go to http://squarespace.com/mattdavella to save 10% off your first purchase of a website or domain. Thanks to Squarespace for sponsoring this video.

Go follow Kevin for great recipes:  http://instagram.com/fitmencook
Also if you know what's good:  https://www.whatsmattcooking.com/

🙊 Here are the goods I mention in this video:
(Some are affiliate links. All are my genuine recommendations)
Recipe from this video:  https://fitmencook.com/chicken-fried-rice/
Meal Prep Containers:  https://amzn.to/35g5NJ7

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** meal prep, healthy meal prep, how to meal prep, meal prep for the week, meal prep ideas, meal prep recipes, meal prep for beginners, weekly meal prep, meal planning, minimalist, ultimate meal prep, meal prep healthy, meal prepping, minimalist meal planning, Kevin Curry, Matt D'Avella, FitMenCook, minimalist meal prep, fried rice meal prep, 
**Date:** 2020-04-29

## Transcript
 Welcome back to What's Matt Kooten with your host Matt. Hey, thank you. Thank you. Oh my god. Please stop Jim. You're too much. Hey, guys. Welcome back to What's Matt cooking. I'm your host Matt. And today we have a truly delicious meal. Butter Chicken with BuzzModdy Rice. You can see right there on the package. It says that it's authentic. This episode is brought to you by my friends at Square Space, but we'll talk about them later. Step 1. Remove tray from the box. Next, for step 2, put the tray in the microwave. And finally, step 3, remove from the microwave and eat. If you want to get more recipes, you can go to What's Matt cooking.com. Thanks so much for watching, and I'll see you guys next time. Okay, so maybe I'm not that good around the kitchen. But I do understand the value of cooking from home. And truth be told, I do have three solid meals under my belt. If you count pancakes as a meal. As many of us are adapting our diets to living and working from home, there's one thing that remains obvious. Either you plan out your meals for the week, or you face the insatiable urge to rummage through your fridge, or pantry, snacking all day long. If you want to save time, money, and eat healthier, you might want to think about meal prep. And so with my lack of experience in the kitchen, and to get the most out of meal prep, I knew I had to ask an expert for help. Kevin, what up, man? Thanks so much for being here. This video is filmed over two months ago before lockdown in California. Please don't get upset right in the comments. Order your governor that I'm filing. Say it one word. I only left the house a handful of times for essentials. And yes, I do consider ice cream essential. Thank you for having me. Back, bro. That's my friend Kevin Curry, also known online as Fitmen Cook. Kevin Curry. Kevin Curry. Every day home cooking out, but a million followers. He's got a passion for creating healthy meals with a kick. His specialty, meal prep. I invited Kevin over to get his advice on how to better meal prep, and to also challenge him to make me the simplest meal prep recipe he could think of. So the brief was to create a minimalist meal prep, right? Uh, what meal did you choose for us today? So I thought about it and I think I'm going to choose fried rice. It's one of the most minimal ones out there. It's just five ingredients and it's customizable. It's really affordable and takes just maybe about 15-20 minutes to make. And that's important because when you select a meal prep recipe, have something that you can make really quickly. So that way mid week if you want to make it again and swapping something else, you can do that and guess what? No food waste and it's food that you actually want to eat as variety. So before Kevin came over, I went grocery shopping. I messed up the brief a little bit and got fresh veggies. Obviously, totally fine to make this recipes with fresh veggies. But to keep things simple and to speed up the cooking time, Kevin recommends using a bag of frozen carrots and peas. Kevin also recommends eco-friendly meal prep containers that I picked up. There's a link in the description if you're interested in getting them. The recipe, as Kevin mentioned, includes just five ingredients. Eggs, scallions, day-old rice because... Because it gets really nice and crispy. If you use fresh rice, it can get really soggy. A bag of frozen carrots and peas and chicken. I think one of the interesting challenges here for you is going to be cooking in a minimalist kitchen. I'll tell you, I've got a pan. I've got a knife. Oh my god. You just have one thing of each thing? Yeah, pretty much. I've got one pot. So let's just see how we navigate through this. I'm going to do what I do good, which is just stay behind a camera. Okay. You do what you do. Sweet. Let's get to it. So first up, we need to prepare all of our ingredients by cutting up our vegetables and our protein. This is so satisfying. You know, when you're looking at the minimal recipes, I don't really count things that you're probably going to have already. You can set up your pantry for your fridge. So garlic is one thing that you should definitely have. Mmm, look at that flavor. Mmm. And that, this is a really sharp knife, man. I actually sharpen it before you came. Oh, you did. It's like the butter. I'm not going to get cold out and having to throw a knife. Not today. Alright, so let's take off the top here. I like to just pull out this chicken breast. So what are some of the mistakes that people make when they are in your apartment? I think the biggest one and the most common one is that people do way too much. And they see the Instagram photos of people in their entire counter. It's filled up with all these containers of food and being like, yeah, I'm prepared for the week. And they know darn well that by Friday or actually Thursday or Wednesday they're throwing that food away because they're tired of it. So the number one thing is don't prep too much because that's going to lead to food waste. We're going to take off the skin too. That's so we can save a little bit on the calories. Are you going to eat that? Yeah. You eat cold chicken skin. Yeah, man. I got to give you a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit of a bit. After we're done prepping, we're ready to cook. I've offered Kevin my microwave, but for some reason he declined. And we're going to keep the heat just a little bit lower than usual. So I'm going to spray in a bit of coconut oil. You're free to use just regular oil. I'm going to add in some garlic. And this is the part where you want to add in some of the aromatic. So the green onion. There we go. As soon as you hear that sound, just start stirring. And this will look different if you actually pour in some oil rather than using the spray. Now when we cook with too much oil, we burn out all the nutrients in the food too. So that's food. You also don't want. And then here, when you add the rice, you can boost it up just a little bit to medium a little bit between medium and medium high. We want to toast the rice and we get all that fragrance before from the garlic and the onions. We want this to just get in the use inside of it. We want to cook this long too for about two to three minutes. I mean, it's obviously a very short recipe. But while you're in it, it's just constant moving with the pan. Yeah, constant movement, especially with this type of skillet because it's stainless steel. And we're not using a lot of oil. So it has a tendency to go ahead and stick. And that's why you want to really watch the heat of the skillet too. Next, we are going to add in our chicken. You don't have to wait for it to be cold either. You can actually buy it fresh when it's already hot and chop it up and put it in here. I'm going to drop the heat just a little bit because we're going to add in some eggs. Just make a hole right here in the skillet. If you need to, only if you need to, you can spray it a little bit more. And what we're going to do is we're going to crack in some eggs too. Scramble this up right here in the middle of the skillet. And then just go ahead and just move everything together. We can scrape the bottom on the skillet. Get all of that because that is really goodness too. We're going to add in some frozen peas. And then our fresh carrots, a little bit more of the green onion. And then as you're folding everything together, don't worry about the peas because they will fall out under the heat of the rice. And as it's cooking, just add in some flavor. Get your soy sauce or your minos. And what? This hasn't even been 15 minutes yet. That's why it's such an easy one to do midweek if you want something else. Or if you just want a fresh batch of it. I'm going to take this off the heat. Here's what I'm looking for. Sesame oil. This is a great add-on. This is going to make everything this really like super sexy. And a little bit more of the green onion. And then some toasted sesame. Now remember, this stuff is not required so I don't know if you're going to write me. That's not five ingredients. That's not it. We know. And I know. So there you go. Oh, simple recipe. Beautiful. Less than 20 minutes. Less than 15 technically. I'm going to go and let you go ahead and go first. You're going to be the best actor in the world now. Oh my god. Amazing thing ever. I'm going to eat this every day. Now this tastes phenomenal. But no matter how good something tastes, like you said, if you do overdue it and you do it too much, you might not finish that 7th or 8th meal prep that you made. So I love that you can just add some variety to the top of the protein. You can swap out the carrots for some bell peppers. You can swap out the protein. Get some shrimp, some tofu. Be that someone is plant based. And that right there is how to make a versatile minimalist affordable, quick family friendly, multi-purpose meal prep. If you want to get the recipe and try it for yourself, I've left a link down in the description below. Dude, thank you so much for coming. This was a whole lot of fun. I really appreciate it. I learned a lot. I love just finding these simple ideas and recipes that help us live a healthier life. So I appreciate it. I appreciate it. Thank you, bro. Hey, friends. It's Matt from What's Matt Cooking. When we want to build a website for our brand What's Matt Cooking, we knew exactly where to go. Squarespace. Create beautiful websites using their templates. Right out of the box. Use their blogging tools. Connect your social media accounts. And customize your message to fit your brand. Go to squarespace.com for a free trial. And when you're ready to launch, go to squarespace.com slash Matthew Vella to save 10% off your first purchase of a website or domain. Thank you guys so much for watching this video. I so appreciate you. And I'll see you next time.
