# Ground Up 021 - The Last Episode in Brooklyn w/ Jesse Earle
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=0TjCJ5TbqwY
http://www.groundupshow.com

Goodbye, Brooklyn! In this last episode in NYC I hang with my long-time friend, Jesse Earle. He's a programmer, start-up founder and button-pusher.

Jesse on IG: http://www.instagram.com/littlebigberry
His company: https://www.pineapplemetrics.com/

For more about this podcast go to http://www.groundupshow.com
**Keywords:** 
**Date:** 2017-08-23

## Transcript
 I, um, I don't listen to much Joe Rogan. I, you know, I wouldn't even say I used to. I was a Tim Ferriss, it's probably more, I listen to him more. Uh, free economics. Good. Malcolm Gladwell's podcast is really good. That's more informational, I suppose. Kind of, it's kind of more like free economics. It's stories, really. I see. Right. Okay. I like this guy had nine fingers and he was able to change the world. Right. What was the missing finger? How did the missing finger help him? I'm just going to, I'm just going to play the music and I'll just start the show. It's going to be like the beginning of the show. Right. And then it's going to, the beat's going to drop episode 21 ground up show. So as I mentioned before this show, I didn't, I don't have anything prep for your intro. I wanted to troll so bad during the intro. Did you follow you, you were like sucking on your logic? I think that's good enough. Jesse Earl. Good friend since like middle school. That's like, since like yesterday. Since yesterday. Yeah, yeah, yeah, we just met on the street. I was like, got to get this guy on the podcast. Web developer, what is the technical speak of your web development knowledge? And start up founder. Uh, so no longer sweat. So now it's pineapple metrics. But yeah, it's a good idea. I bet you came up with that because you're not going to work. That's all Kevin. But your name is, your, your other company name is Little Big Barry. Little Big Barry. Yeah. You got something with the fruit. I have a fetish for fruit. Yeah. Welcome. My world. Yeah. Hydro. Hydro. Hydro bananas. Hydro. So, uh, okay. So yeah, well, you can tell me a little bit about the technical stuff because I know that I actually do have a few web developers that follow the show. So yeah. Yeah. Uh, well, so. Yeah. So we started this company. Um, pineapple metrics. I met Kevin at our mutual good friend, Christa's wedding. And this motherfucker asked me like, Oh, you do I was awesome. Yeah. One of work for free for me for the next two years. Yeah. And here I am. But yeah. So so the original idea and so to bring it back to sweat, the original idea was to basically put tracking beacons on, um, on weights and it would sink with your phone. You'd just download the app and you could, you know, lift without having to record anything because it would just autumn, you know, automatically record it. And again, it's like these little beacons. You attach them to the weight. You lift them. Everybody's right now. The fitness tracking is really, really popular. Nice. Sure. Everybody's trying to get into it. You got fit bits. Um, and it's taken off mostly with the running and the biking. Yeah. Walking. But it's a lot easier to track. Yeah. But then there's been nothing done for these complex movements. Sure. Or part of weightlifting. Sure. And we filled that up. Because like the technology does it. Because it is actually really complicated. Yeah. Um, so then we moved on to another thing called, uh, I've got that one was called. But it was basically tracking the location of shopping carts as they move through a. That's right. A store. This as in the industry, we call this a pivot. Right. It's a pivot. Yeah. And yeah. So we pivoted. And that was also extremely difficult. And a lot of, um, a lot of people that we, you know, Morton Williams and, you know, just a bunch of these, uh, Mercedes. I mean, we kind of, you know, we talked to all the New York City base grocery. Yes. Yeah. Correct. And, um, they, they saw. They understood how it could be a positive effect. But it was just like, ah, do we really need this? Like, we know that we put the beer in the meat and the milk in the back corner of the store. We know that everybody's going to kind of, you know, migrate there. Because that's where everybody goes. Mm-hmm. And they're going to migrate back. But it's like, well, what do you like to know? Like where people are kind of standing and it's kind of like, when you go on Amazon and you have something in your carpet, you don't buy it. It's like, we kind of provide that in real life. Um, but yeah, it just, it didn't really, it didn't pan out. It was extremely expensive. Um, you know, we were 3D printing baskets to put these sensors in. Really? Yeah. Oh, yeah. I didn't realize you guys were going, oh, yeah. That route with it. Yeah. And it just, I don't know. It, it failed. Um, so now, and it's, it's kind of amazing. Because it's, it's kind of amazing that this doesn't exist. Because like, honestly, it's kind of like, I don't want to say dumb. But, you know, it's a little, it's a little dumb. It's simple. Let's say simple. Let's say simple. Yeah. There you go. Um, yeah. It's basically, you put a survey on a counter. Yeah. And you ask one question. And that's it. And that's it. And it just sits there. And it's like, how was your service today? What was a speed today? Do you like chocolate or strawberry? Um, do you know, do you like vanilla or simple? Yeah. It's very simple. But the, the one guy made a million dollars selling the pet rock. You're right. Exactly. Yeah. Exactly. Jump to conclusions. Yeah. Yeah. At the end of a checkout aisle at like a, or to beat, I mean, it's, we haven't really figured this out yet. But we're getting a huge response rate. So if you look at something like Starbucks, you can kind of figure out that they get about 400 customers a day. So the customers that we're working with. We're getting something like in, I think it was six weeks. We got 10,000 responses or something like that. And these are responses that, you know, these owners of these companies would never get. So surprising that people are actually leaving that feedback. Well, because it's so simple. So, you know, if you, if you go to an eye hop drunk one night, right? And they like circle. It's a deal. It's a deal. Like when else do you go to eye hop? Yeah. And, you know, they circle like, hey, if you had a really great experience, go to this website and fill out this survey, and you could $15,000 or whatever it is. Well, for us, it's just like, it's just there. And you just tap the button and, you know, how was your experience? What was this speed? Do you like chocolate or straw? I mean, it's, it's very simple. Yeah. And it's just feedback that you would never get. So yeah, that's what we're trying to do. So you're in a few different test stores and, Correct. And starting to get some of this feedback. Correct. And now I assume the big challenges. What do you do with this data? And how do you actually help these companies? Exactly. So we're actually wondering, is it actually more important? Is it less important, the fact that we're collecting this data? And more important that we are analyzing the data ourselves and giving insights to the companies ourselves. So do we become more of a consultant at that point? Mm-hmm. So that's what we're trying to work out. I think what's good about this and what's interesting and something I never thought of. But everybody's seems to always try to chase something like VR. And even in a lot of ways, like sweat was this kind of technology. That's not out yet, but you're trying to get to it first. Right. But maybe there is places in the market that are untouched. And there's a way to use current technology. You shouldn't provide a service or an experience that hasn't yet been provided. That's just missing. Yeah. And we're trying to figure that out, too. Do we want to put these things on the counter while you're checking out? Especially when someone's behind you, do you really want to... Maybe we want to put it next to... If it's a coffee shop, maybe we want to put it next to the milk and the sugar and all that on your way out. Next to the toilet next to the bathroom. And the toilet in the bathroom. Maybe in the bathroom. That's the same. That's the same. I can't work. I'm sorry. Yeah. Maybe we're taking this off track. Maybe not the bathroom. How was your shit? Yeah. This is called brainstorming. This is how it's done. Shitstorming. Shitstorming. That's really exciting though. It's great to see that like sure. You're starting to get a response and you're starting to... That's the hardest thing I think is to actually gain trust of a company and enough that they would be willing to bring... Let you bring... Yeah. It's extremely difficult. And you have companies where... You have multiple points of leadership where one is like... I don't like the aesthetic of this. And the other piece of the leadership is like, well, I really want to collect this data. So it's very hard to sort of navigate that sort of thing. Yeah. Exactly. I can see myself even on the side of the aesthetics. Right. Who wants an iPad in front of their cast register, right? Yeah. Especially the coffee shop. It's already cluttered enough. So we're like contending with those sort of issues. Maybe we put a, you know, a small phone or something. Maybe we make it smaller. Maybe we, again, mount it on the garbage. But now that's a whole different set of challenges. Because now we have to run power to it. We have to bolt it to the wall. Like, like, it's a lot of, there's a lot of physical. Like, when it's purely designing a digital product. And you have Jesse Earl. To do everything for free. Yeah. You're good. But when you actually have to weld and you're in 50 hundred stores. Sure. Plus, then you have to figure out how do we actually practically do this with a team of two people. Yeah. And also, like, one of, one of the other things too is, you know, if we want to update the app that's actually in the store. And imagine there's 270 stores. How do you do that? How do you go about that? How do you do this without having to have someone onsite updating this thing? I mean, it's an extremely difficult and challenging task. And, you know, so we're using, what are we using? Simple MDM. I think it's what they're called. So we use it. They were the easiest one. But you look at the other company. The Jamf is another one. I think that's what Apple uses directly. They're affiliated with it. They aren't actually horrible experience. Like, you can't even begin to use their product unless you email them. And then they'll have a sales guy talk to you. And then maybe they'll allow you to use their product. I mean, it's insane. And I guess it's because they're so deeply entrenched with Apple. It's like, do they really care? Because they're doing all this MDM stuff. So MDM is a mobile device management. So it's basically like, if I want to deploy a new version of my app and do it automatically. Like, not through the app store, not through someone touching the screen or anything like that. I just want to deploy it remotely myself. They are the ones that can help me facilitate doing this. Right. So it sounds like you guys have a lot of challenges yet to navigate. It sounds like you're also at a point where you can see this thing through. For a little while. Of course. I mean, it's not like, because those two pivots happen over two years or so. Yeah. But not how long have you been on this current. Probably the past. I want to, I guess, this past year. So since January. And this is something that I just talked about in two episodes ago with writer Carol. He developed. It's called. I got it around here somewhere. This system called the bullet journal. I don't know if you've heard of it. But it's an analog way to lay out and organize your journals. And it's like amazing in terms of the structure to it. I guess he didn't realize it was a good idea until he started showing, like, one of his friends. And I'm like, holy shit. Like, my journal is just insanely cluttered and it's all over the place. But we were just a physical product or digital. So it is a physical product is it here? But it's a physical? Nope. I've actually got it here. Okay. This is the bullet journal. And he actually told me before we started the show. He said, I just want to know, like, we can if you want to. But generally, I've done these podcasts before. And since it's mostly audio and like, even on the video, I wouldn't go to show the actual journal. Sure. He's like, I can't really describe it. Because it's like, it's more, it's visual. It's more visual than anything. So if I try to describe it, it's simply like, yes. So the first page is just numbers one to ten. It's not really interesting. But basically it's like a moleskin journal looks like it. And then you open it up and it's got, Which is always aesthetically pleasing that sort of. Yeah. I think that that he's a product designer. Right. He's also like a simple living advocate. He's got a TED talk called, how to lead an intentional life. But so I guess there's like, it's just that he turned it into a formula after he found out that people liked it. So you actually have an index in the beginning of it. And you don't actually need to buy one of the bullet journals. You can go to the bullet journal.com. And then they have, yeah, they show you how to do it. And you know. But then it's like, here's the index. So then when you come back later on. Right. Oh, what it's on. This is my favorite. Isn't it the best. The ones with the dots? What does that call? That's cool. I don't know. But I did it when we did designers. I got these papers for. I mean, it was like, yeah. It just looks dope. Yeah. It's just cool. And then I think there's this, like some other stuff in here to help you. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I'm going to figure it out. Anyway, it's not really, this, this story is in about the bullet journal, but more show about our conversation about like the death setcode and the dip. And it's essentially. It's, you know, Seth Gauden. He's like, I know the name. Yeah. He's like, I know the name. Yeah. He's like, I know the name. Yeah. The godfather is of modern marketing and, in the marketing. He's a first book permission marketing. It came out in the early 2000s, I want to say. Okay. And it was this, the whole concept of, you know, it was very prevalent. The idea of spamming people, especially email was new. So it was like, you get an email. You send them something. And very similar to the analog of just, you know, snail mail, sending people, unsolicited. Kind of what, I mean, that's something I should say. She's now, right? Yeah. Yeah. So it happens now. Yeah. Yeah. But the hell. And you know what I was wondering, is like, who is giving my information out? Somebody selling my shit? Yeah. Well, spectrum only started sending me, after I filed my business with the little big. I get a lot of the business stuff, too. Yeah. It's so annoying. So it's like, whether it was signed up, I don't know, how they got our address. But maybe it's in some public directory or something. Right. Right. So Seth Gauden came out with permission marketing. And it was this idea that you have to first get permission from somebody. They have to opt in and say, I want to hear from you. And then from there, you can send me stuff. And if I had some point to change my mind and say, hey, I don't want to hear anything from you anymore. If I unsubscribe, then you have to stop. Right. That's how the relationship could go. Otherwise, you're abusing the relationship. Right. So he's, he's just a brilliant guy. He's got a blog now. He's got like Seth's blog. Right. But it's just these really pithy, short blog posts. But they're always like to the point and make you think outside the box a little bit. He has a book called The Dip. And it's all about this idea. And it's basically like a hill that goes up. This line that goes up. And that's when everything's going great. You're designing the logo. Sure. You're doing your your PHP or whatever you guys do. You guys do. And the numbers. No. You're JavaScript. And then. And then. So then you got to say, job a scripts. Yeah. You're JavaScript. I said, you just didn't hear. Right. I definitely know that makes you sound like an idiot. Yeah. Yeah. Just lost the audience right there. So it's going up because it's exciting. It's fun. You're doing everything that you love to do. Right. And then there gets a point where it's not fun anymore. You're not seeing any results. You're not getting any success. And then you fall into the dip. Yeah. And that's where most businesses die. Yeah. And he argues. So Vince Lombardi's got this quote about like. Quitters and how I quitters never win. I don't know what the the saying is. Vince Lombardi or my mother. Yeah. That's like it. So he said. So basically like and in our culture, quitters are seen as this this this terrible thing. Sure. And he made the point that a lot of times quitting is the best thing you can do. And maybe that idea was a terrible idea. And that's why it's not working. But you do have to know. You do have to know when. Sure. And this is what Ryder said whether the idea was bad or if you had a bad day. Right. And sometimes you have a bad day. You had a bad week. Sure. And then you can push through it. But eventually you can come out the other side. And if you work hard enough. And if the idea actually is good enough. Yeah. There's been a lot of this. I mean. And that's where you pivot. Like. Yeah. That have. I've started a lot of stuff that's. That's just died. I'm surprised. I'm actually going to surprise this podcast. It's still going to be honest. Like I never expected it. Well, if you enjoy. I mean, it's just conversations with people. I mean, that sounds. Here's what I'll say, though. You don't realize how challenging something can be until you're in it. Sure. And a lot of times. Oh, it's easy to speak into a microphone, right? Yeah. And then. But like the setup that went into this is one thing. And then like getting the mics and all that stuff is one. I like setting up is one of their setting up. But then to find the people that you want to interview and like my roll of decks is not that big. Sure. I mean, I'm talking to you. No. No. My roll decks isn't that big. So I have to reach out to a lot of people and find friends of friends and see who wants it to come on the show. Right. And that required. And you don't necessarily have this sort of prestige yet. Not at all. No. I mean, the minimalism stuff helps a little bit. But I'm not reaching out to well known people. And I wouldn't be able to get well known people at this point. Unless they saw minimalism. Then I think that would help because I've certainly met some people that are like well known that I'm like, Oh, if I wanted to, I could probably ask them to be on the show. But the challenge is having a conversation with you like we've had millions of conversations. This is like feels great. It's comfortable. Sure. But when you're having conversations with people that you've just met, they've just come in this door in this apartment. Right. Five ten minutes ago, that's a real challenge to make them feel comfortable. First of all. And then to be able to stimulate the conversation, lead it in the right way. And maybe there's an element there that they're definitely is where I'm still learning and figuring out the best way to let a conversation naturally flow. Sure. Do you do do the warm-up thing too with them as well? Yeah. Like where we were just hanging on the show and talking. Yeah. Yeah. Come downstairs, put headphones over there. Yeah. Let's go. Let's do it. I wanted to, I want to like, but then some of that natural conversation. Sure. Kind of goes away, which was great to have. I see. Right. It's almost like it would be good if we just went right into it. Right. But at the same time, podcasting is definitely, there's a different element to it than actually having an actual conversation. Right. Sure. Especially if it's something with somebody new. Right. So that's all that to say that I am surprised. Like I always knew I wanted to keep going with the podcast and keep making episodes. But I just didn't know if I would continue to do it because I have quit with many other stuff early on and started projects and then let them die off. Right. There's a common theme. There's a name for it. I think it's called like podcast fatigue and most people don't get to 20 episodes. And that's the number. There's like a number there. And what number am I? This is 21. Yeah. So you broke it. Yeah. So that this to me is a big milestone to get to it. It's a 21. Joe Rogan's coming up to like a thousand. I mean, it's amazing. It's amazing. It's unbelievable. Well, he's done in podcasting. This is when I started to, you look at Joe Rogan's podcast. Yeah. He just talks to people. He just has conversations. Yeah, it's great. And he also challenged. I mean, he's he challenges people. Yeah. What do you mean when you say that? Yeah. What? Why do you think that? I mean, but also in a way that I think is welcoming. And that it's not necessarily sure. Sure. He's not out to get like a gotcha. Right. Yeah. But he's out to actually understand and learn for sure. Sure. And if your saying is not making sense, he's going to call you on it. Right. Right. But not. And like you're saying, not in a negative way. I guess. I mean, I heard when he had Steven Crowder on. It was. I we watched the first part of it, like 30 minutes. But then I could tell there was some attention. There was very it was very contentious because he's like, well, what do you mean by that? And that's kind of, you know, that's why I think he's so awesome to listen to. It can be a little bit cringe worthy because it's. If I was having a conversation with someone and calling them out like that, I might feel a little uncomfortable. To to the point of what he's been able to build and accomplish. Sure. Is it seems simple on the surface. He made a podcast. You ever see some of his early podcasts? No. No. I looked it up recently and it's just live. Like episode one or two. Yeah, episode one or two. Yeah. It's not. There's no microphones. It's just a computer and he's doing a live stream. He's like, we're up. Is this us? And it's just a him and his friend. Just shoot. Like Jay. Brother or something like that. I don't know who it was. But it was just him and his buddy. And they were just they weren't even like there was no format. And like for the first 10 minute. I didn't even watch past 10 minutes because they weren't even like talking about anything. I was just looking at a camera and then having idle conversation. Sure. But I always thought I looked at his show and was like, I could do that. I tend to do that a lot. And I think I did it more so when I was younger. Like I do that. Like you watch a documentary film. I could do that. I could make that. Yep. Then do it. They go out there and actually try to make it because I don't think it's as easy as most people. And it never is. Yeah. Yeah. To have that kind of longevity to be able to learn to leading up to a thousand. And that's just everything. Yeah. I can make Facebook. Yeah. Could you could you support a billion users? Yeah. Could you do it? And would you want to? Would you want to? Would you want to? Would you want to? That responsibility. Right. That political sway. I mean that's insane. Do I want that? No. No. I want to hang out. Never. Yeah. That's what I wanted to. I want to spout stupid shit and like have somebody who's much smarter than me. Correct me. Yeah. That's like that. Yeah. Here's the thing. And here's the thing about like hosting a podcast and starting to put my voice out. Sure. And this is part of my life. I guess is the fact that I always have a lot of doubt. But there are really brilliant people like Sam Harris and Jordan Peterson who are like, they, you say a word and they're like, got you fam. And then they'll just talk for like an hour. Yeah. They're like super interesting. And it's almost edited. The way that they speak is so well put that you would take me to write that shit over 24 hours to be able to be that good. So part of me is like, I have a lot of doubt. And then I'm like fuck. I'm not that. Yeah. I'm just a regular guy. Right. That talk shit and gets corrected. Right. So I mean, this is actually really interesting that you're bringing that up. So my friend Caitlin. Again, the smartest person I think I've ever met. She's just absolutely incredible. Her. Shout out to Caitlin. You want to get a last name in there? Does she have a blog? No. She didn't. She's smart for a vlog. Yeah. She doesn't have a Facebook. She doesn't have any of that. And she's one of the smartest people I've ever met. I wish her opinions were. Were more public. Why isn't, you should encourage her to. I do. I mean, well, she, she would be an amazing comic. She would be an amazing. Yeah. Podcast. I mean, she would be an amazing girlfriend. But, but you're saying that she's, she's really intelligent. Yeah. So, so when she listens to Jordan Peterson, she's like, that guy's a fucking idiot. Oh, really? Yeah, like, just a complete fucking idiot. He doesn't know what the hell he's talking about. I've read literally every book that he's quoting and he is completely misquoting. Oh, everything that they're saying. I mean, it's just the perspective that she provides me is so interesting. And it's so analytical to how I feel when I listen to Jordan Peterson, I'm like, oh, this guy is awesome. Like, this is great. And then she provides a sort of, you know what, when I, sorry, when I listen to Jordan Peterson though, it's different than Sam Harris. Sam Harris, I think he can speak on our level in terms of, I can understand where he's going. Jordan Peterson sometimes has a way of figure. Like, it's almost like he's figuring out and processing his thoughts while he's talking. Oh, he's trying to be sure. Yeah, sure. He's kind of going down a rabbit hole where somebody asks a question. And then all of a sudden, you're talking about like, like, astrophysics and you're like, how the hell do we get there? Right, right, right, right. It's meaning of life. And then I think Sam Harris has a way of staying on point. Okay. Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. Yeah, at least what I've seen. Yeah, no, that makes a lot of sense. It's a misunderstanding. So the one thing that Jordan does is he attacks what he calls postmodernism. Sure. And I don't know the argument. I was literally fighting with her today about this all day. But, but she's basically, she's basically saying that he equates or he, uh, straw man's postmodernism and kind of like broadly brushes this term postmodernism across, you know, anything that he doesn't like. And she's like, well, yeah, you can do that. And it's actually kind of ironic because the way he's using postmodernism is not the definition of postmodernism. And postmodernism is all about not using the definitions of things. So he's kind of in proxy being a postmodernist through it. So it's a very interesting weird. The postmodern thing, my sister Michelle. Right. God bless her soul. She was in a cult called in Latinx. And we all told her, well, I don't know if we told her to do her phase that she was in a cult when she was in it. I mean, I didn't really call it a cult to be honest. It was a spiritual organization she was in. And obviously any time somebody's really excited about something they want to tell all their friends about it. And sometimes it's, um, it is a cult. It's actually a cult. Yeah, yeah. And you know, there's no way to know it until you're acting until you're in it. But now that this organization has been pulled in a part, people that have were in it openly say, oh, like, laugh. Oh, really? We weren't a cult. Yeah. Oh, I didn't know that. Is it a documentary on it now? Like, everybody is saying, like, yeah, we were in a cult. Michelle says that she admits that she was in a cult. But their whole thing was, but it's not like a 70s cult where they're like kidnapping. Yeah. But one of the big things about this organization was that they would always call out postmodernists. And the cult would. The cult would. And Michelle would always, oh, my God. Like she, like, in a condescending way. Right. Like Matt, that that is so postmodern. That is so postmodern. It's so interesting. You're blanketing everything. Like you're, you're making judgments without actually thinking through it. It's just such a postmodern view to look like it. And then I can't think of the actual, well, things. But that, that it would bring it up. Wow. All the, all the time. Oh, that's so interesting. And do we, what should we get a definition of postmodernism? Maybe I'll look it up. Yeah. We don't get it. We don't get it. Do Google postmodern philosophy. So postmodern is also an art movement. And it's still similar. But postmodern philosophy. I mean, we could do. Or, or do postmodern. I mean, it's, it's in there. There's art. Postmodernism is difficult to define. Is that, like, but that's kind of killing point. It's like, it's a broad brush. Because to define it would be to violate the postmodernist premise that no definite terms boundaries or absolute truths exist. Right. In this article, the term postmodernism will remain vague. That's like, what do you, right now? That was a postmodernism. But it's the second thing that pops up. Let me see if we can get a, just go to postmodern.com. And then it's like the second or third sentence. And then you'll get like a kind of juicy definition. Yeah, this is good. Because this is, there's a, the Wikipedia is always a trusted source. Yeah. Postmodern philosophy is a philosophical direction, which is critical of certain foundational assumptions of Western philosophy. And especially of the 18th century Enlightenment. It emphasizes the importance of the John Locke. Right. Yeah. It emphasizes the importance of power relationships, personalized, personalization, and discourse in the construction of truth and worldview. Postmodernists deny that any objective reality exists and deny that there are objective moral values. And that's where it's like, it gets a little weird. For me, for me at least. That's where the philosophy kind of breaks down for you. I wouldn't say it breaks down, but it's, it's a little weird to say that. Like, I don't know. But, but, you know, it could be because of the structure that I was brought up. And right, the American, the Americanism, the, the sort of, Puritan work ethic that I was, I was, I was. Puritans. You know the Puritan work ethic, right? You know the Puritan work ethic, right? No. Oh, God. You gotta look that out. Catholic. Is that different? Puritanism. This is like the pilgrims in there. In the end, so yes. So the Puritan work ethic is basically, he does not work. He who does not work does not eat. Yes. So it should be. No. But I don't know if anybody, even like conservatives, I don't think, believe that. I mean, to, to an extent, but they. And what is a conservative, too? Like, what does that even mean? Oh, now we're getting real postmodern. No. No. It's not one. It's how do you define a conservative? It's how Wikipedia are our trusted source. Yeah. How Wikipedia would define that as someone that wants to maintain the status quo or the tradition in which we live. Conservation. Conservation. Yeah. You're, you're conserving the culture that we live in now. Why do you think? And we talk a lot about politics. Sure. And do we even really know what we're talking about? That's what we talk about a lot is that we don't really know if we're talking about is actually, because a lot of it's like, comes from the gut. Yeah. Exactly. And what that. That's not changes. You're going to leave change. Sure. Why do you think? Because in our group, in our friendship group, we talk about, so we have a group of friends that we've got a messenger chat and we've been friends in real life since like kindergarten. We continue some pretty heavy conversations. But always in like kind of a light manner. Of course. Always in like a meme joking way. Right. But we're able to kind of throw out some pretty unpopular opinions and talk about, or we sort of fucked up or problematic. Yeah. Exactly. We say some fucked up shit in that thread. Right. That outside of it probably wouldn't be PC wouldn't be. Yeah. Yeah. That's where I've got out there. Yeah. Absolutely. Yeah. But because it helps you to explore these ideas that otherwise nobody else would want to talk about. But why do you think that when we can't have these. And we're safely each other. We know that we don't. Yeah. Because we know our intentions. Right. Our intentions are maybe not pure. I don't think any of us are pure. Yeah. But our intentions are good. And we hope the best for people. We want the best outcome for children. Sure. Our friends and our family. Sure. And like our country. And you know. Like you don't want to. None. Yeah. And we do want the best for our country. Yeah. We want the best for. For those around us. And I think if we were ever presented with any sort of fact that. We would immediately jump on anything that told us to think, Hey, this is an amazing ideology. And it's going to help a bunch of people. Like we would of course we would jump. Absolutely. Yeah. We're not animals. We're assholes. Yeah. Exactly. So with all this talk about politics. Politics is taken over the media and culture. And in a way that I don't think we've ever seen in our lives. I think it's also taken over religion to be honest. I think it's the new religion. The new religion is if you're right or left. Right. I mean, actually, and you look at Trump really didn't talk much about religion. No. Yeah. It's very one side. So here's the thing. With all this talk, there's a segment that I wanted to bring up. And it's called What's the Rockman Up to? Is this real? Is this real segment? Is this the first time I've done this segment? Oh my god. I was going to do it the past two and it just didn't feel right. I'm leaving. I'm leaving. He's out. Yeah. Is this a good song? All right. It's so good, Matt. It's so good. Thank you. Thanks, Jesse. So what's the rockman up to? I don't know if you know if you've been keeping up with the podcast. I heard you had problematic thoughts about the rock. No. That's not it. It's all come on. Why? Get out of here. No. My thing. You like the rock. Anybody who watches a show knows that my big goal, my big stretch goal is to get the rock in that chair. I want to interview the rock on this podcast. And it's been a long road. And he hasn't returned my phone calls yet. It's been tough, but I'm working on it. But anyway, the rock made the news this week in a big way. And according to the federal election committee, record records, a campaign committee has been formed called Run the Rock 2020 in attempt to make America rock again. I mean, the problem is I looked into this, the story made like front pages all over the place, but it was just some guy in like North Carolina that decided to open it up in the rock and nothing to do with it. But that's not to say that the rock hasn't talked about this in the past. I'm one of your posts about being president. How real was that? The idea of me being president one day has become a legit thing to some people. And if it is a overwhelming positive strong, we want you to run for president. And if I felt that I can step up to the plate and become a tremendous leader and make a real difference and make change, I would do it. Is that amazing? It's incredible. It's incredible. If the rock, he obviously, like from that answer, like it's pretty obvious that this guy sees the potential. Sure. To run president. But he's also humble. I mean, he does he know that he can. Yeah. I think what really and almost in the case like Trump as well. Right. It's when a person like that is in office. Like if the rock becomes president. Sure. It's more so about the people around him. He's more of a symbol. And there's no way that he's really going to understand the policy and know the implications of said policy. Sure, but I think that's, honestly, I think that's what makes it good. Not to make it town. I think that's what makes it good leader. I was going to say manager. But I think that's what makes it good leader. It's someone who inspires people. I mean, and also kind of blocks them from the bullshit. Yeah. You know what? You let people sort of, he's humble man. He's a humble guy. Don't. I'm a big rock fan. I know you are. I'm a big rock fan. We've been watching Natalie and I have been watching old rock videos. And not them. His old wrestling videos. Not them. Yeah. Can you smell it? Yeah. The rock is cooking? No. No, I know. I was making a joke. Not like rock music. Oh, rock music. Well, you know that old song may he's a part of? Oh. Can you smell it? Oh, of course. No. It doesn't matter. All right. This is going to sound like I'm obsessed with the rock. You are. But the rock has. I love the rock. I think he's like, if anybody would know about it, it would be you. The rock's got a. The rock's got an app. Okay. Well, you told me about this. It's called the rock clock. And I think this is going to be also like an odd thing for the sponsor. No, I wish. Fuck. If he was paying me. I would just get him on the podcast. So the great thing about this app is that they have all these great alarms. Right. So is this a miracle morning, too? This isn't now. This is different. But do you use it for the miracle morning? I don't know. The thing is that the app is kind of tough. It doesn't really totally integrate with your. Your iPad. You have to like leave your schedule. You have to like leave the. You've got to smell the rock. It's cooked. Yeah. It's funny. You say that. So here. You wait. You just listen to some of this shit. Good morning. Sunshine. Yeah. That's what the rock just said. When you. I don't get you. Yeah. Get you. Can't do it. You know. This is. This is. This is. This is. There's. Yeah. Listen. There's. It's. It's. Wait. Another proof. This message. It's. It's. It's. It's. It's. I want to save some for future episodes. The rockers. He's like a meme. But you can't keep. But you don't hate it. Now he's like actually like you actually support him. Yeah. Because I think he's a good guy. You got to be careful with the. Your logic. Because it's like. Can you hear the popping? Yeah. Yeah. But yeah. No. I think the rock shouldn't. Show respect for. Well, here's the for a documentarian that has a document. On the net on the net on the net on the net flex. It's tough. There's going to be a lot of challenges to actually getting the rock on the show. I think the first is. I wouldn't want to jump right into it. Right. Like say if I got the rocks phone number. Right. You know what I mean? That would be a huge breakthrough in this development. Right. But I don't think I would want to act on that right away. I don't want to run out there and give him a call because then he's going to block my number really quick. And then I'm never going to get a hold of it. Right. You got to play cool. So it's like how do I. You're back to dating. You're back to dating. It is like dating. If there was an app and it was like tender. But it was just the rock. Right. Right. Right. But I need to figure out a way. Like how can I appeal to. How can I add value to the rock? And and you know what? Maybe if he is running for president. This is a way for him to speak with the people. If he's the people's champ. This is a way for him. And that's one way that it could add value. But I. That's not a pitch. That's not like a rock. A rock. Do an interview because a thousand other people want you on their podcasts as well. What makes mind different? Luckily he's going to listen to this one. Luckily. Yeah. This might be the one. But I think it's it's finding some people that are close to him. And I think it's talking. It's it's stalk them and then just wait in the bushes. Right. Pounce them. Right. Cut their skin off their face. That's what I was thinking. The skin on my face. And pretend you're that. Yeah. Yeah. And then the rock is separated. Maybe you can be his wife. See, this is how you know. I don't actually stalk the rock. I don't know if he's married. I think he is. But I think he is kids. But somebody told me recently that he really loves his kids. Says who. I don't know why that was. Who's in it? Fuck. I don't even know why that was. I don't even know. He really loves his kid. Let's not talk about my father. Yeah. You know what? The only thing is better than a snow dad. No. The only thing worse than a snow dad. How does it go? You said I'm just going to say no. I watched Jack from snow dad. No dad. Because that's what I have. Yeah. Something like that. No. But he's. It's a bit of an alcohol. Yeah. Apple doesn't starve. For our firmness step tree. So I'm glad to have you on the show now. Because this is my last episode. Literally before ever. This desk tomorrow morning. I'm going to break it apart. And you're going to get a Travis Bayes with a bunch of beer. My stains on it. Basically my brother-in-law. They're like really in love. They've been. Yeah. They've been here for like seven years. I think six years. Seven years. How old is your? How old is she? Megan. Yeah. Who knows? Right. She's like four years younger than me. Okay. 26. Nice. Yes. I should know my siblings birthday. I just want to make this be clear. Because I think people who have 1,400 siblings. Yeah. It's like 300. No. You have 300. I have six brothers and sisters. And so just to be clear. I don't know all their birthday. Just to be clear. I am an asshole. It's hard to keep track about. Well, their ages change every year. So it's really hard to keep on. Right. Right. Yeah. That's a hard one. Well, we didn't talk about yet is your story. That's what this shows about. It's about people's houses. Innovation. Motivation. Yeah. Not necessarily motivation. Inspiration. Right. When do you first get into programming? I was basically I was talking to my body. Zach. Western. Imagine a gorilla with sideburns. You've got Zach West. Yeah. So he's at Bloomsburg and he's doing information security. Was it cyber security? Cyber security. Yeah. And involving a lot of programming. And he thinks that you may actually like this. Of course. Yeah. I mean, the next day I went to the library. I bought a book. It was Python learning, learning Python through gaming or something like that. And I started looking for IT jobs because I knew it would be a very difficult fault for me to go into a programming job when I had no programming experience. Obviously. But I wanted to get sort of, you know, next to it. So I luckily got this job at Chromosol in North Brunswick. I went to Rockers. So it's a new Brunswick with Brunswick right there. And I didn't do my job. So instead what I did was I was like essentially automating things. When you're in IT, basically what you're doing is you're replacing printer cartridges and fixing shit. Yeah. It's a bunch of bullshit. But I would kind of slack off. But the thing is, what I would do is I would wind up, you know, talking to these scientists and like, what do you want automated? And these people would spend these people. These scientists would spend three days on this thing in which they were importing thing into an Excel document from a access document. And if anybody's familiar with this, in access database is a kind of a crappy microsoft database. So yeah. So I decided, like, yeah, I'm not automated for you. And so it took a 25 hour process and it reduced it to seconds. Wow. Yeah. And through that, I got that experience. And then I started working for Rutgers directly with their enterprise systems and Apple. Enterprise systems and application services. I forget. Basically, I wrote their undergraduate admissions application. And that's really where I started to learn. I think it's really funny that you wrote their undergraduate application. And you didn't graduate. I didn't graduate. No. No. I didn't graduate. Not only didn't I not graduate, but like that year that I wrote that, I ran out of funding for it. So I was writing the software in which people would, you know, sign up to go to this school. And I didn't, not only did I not go to this school, like they kind of kicked me out. But I couldn't afford it. They kicked you out. They kicked you out. They said, if you're not going to pay, then you should probably go. Right. But they kept me on it. But the biggest thing was, I had the most amazing mentor. I had somebody that was, it was using, it was a framework called Dojo. He didn't give a shit with the language was. He gave a shit about writing really good quality. He wanted to make a really quality product. And he sort of put that on me. And so he, he created the architecture, the framework. And it was, it was really incredible that that is my first exposure to this language that was kind of. Poop pood about and and just like poop pood. Poop pood says it. But you know, it's a shitty language. It's, it's gross. All you, you're a web program. It's very stigmatized. And this person actually provided a framework in which I could learn. But I think there's, there's probably part of that story. That's a little bit missing is, is when you got that first book. Did you kind of, because I know you were talking about this working at Right Aid, where you're just spending any spare minute you have. Reading and learning programming. And this is something from the very beginning that connected with you. And you really enjoyed the process of learning it. And to this day, something that you still deeply enjoy. I still deeply enjoy. Yeah. I mean. So what was it about? Like, so reading that book is like, when you're in the book, like. It just clicked right away or I feel like, because it's funny, you think about today and how people learn programming. Right. And you have all these amazing websites and classes. And schools that help you understand programming and they game a fire. And they do all this stuff to make it so easy. And for people who maybe should never be programmers, can at least start to understand and learn it. You're reading. Which I think is a good thing. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. You're reading out of a textbook about how to learn, how to code. Sure. How does that actually stick with you? And why does it stick? I don't know. It's challenging. It's fun. You're always learning. I don't know. I don't know. I don't have a really good response to it. But I think indulging in it because you think it's going to make you money is possibly a good thing. Yeah. I was looking at your face. I was like, I know where he's going with this. I know he's going to say that. Yeah. It's not the right course. But I do understand what you mean. Sure. I don't encourage people very much so that when you're just getting started out, you need to make money. I don't think you should do anything in moral. I don't think you should bend your moral compass to make money. I don't think that you should think if you're a filmmaker, you should start doing porn. If that's not something that morally suits you. I gave room in there for people who morally have nothing important. I think people should understand the importance of making money early on from either their art or their work or whatever they're passionate about, whatever their life's focus is because that is going to lead them down a path. Hopefully, if they have the right guidance and the right people steering them in the right direction and supporting them, that they can both do something that they love, get paid for it, and actually positively impact other people around them. Because I think all three of those things are important. I think the positive impact in helping and contributing is the one that's the most difficult to get to. And I was certainly fulfilled and happy doing freelance film work and making weddings and doing all these videos. I was making money. I was paying down my debt and I did really enjoy what I was doing. And minimalism was hard for you, right? Like that sucks. Yeah, right. Yeah, but I think that's another story, but that's also a balance of like minimalism was a project where I was like, now I can contribute. And this was an evolution from the whole time. No, no, no, no. That's the diving into a big project. It's something that you're familiar with. When you dive into a big project, it sucks. It sucks. It's the worst. But it's the best. It's like a relationship. I love it. But I hate it. I love it. But I hate it. Because you start the project. And everything's great. Everything's great. Yeah, you're excited. Like that first phone call or whatever, the first meeting you have. And you're like, this is great. Let's do this. I'm so excited about it. I'm ready to go. For me and for most people. I would say doubts are to creep in. Because usually when you say, let's do the project, you're not getting into the actual work in the next day. It takes a couple of weeks or months, whatever until you actually get into the project. We had decided that this was something worth pursuing. It was something that we all wanted to make and go in on. But we didn't realize what it would take to put it all together. And you don't, I think. Nobody ever really knows what it's going to take. And I don't think you can stop. I think one of the biggest things and the best things that I ever did and something that you're experiencing now with your partner Kevin. Is that you need people to partner with to push you because I don't think I think you can only do so much. Hey, can I quote an African proverb? Yeah, go ahead. Go ahead. Do you remember it? Yeah, I remember it. It's my quote. I got it. It's your quote. It's my quote that I use. I think there's an African proverb that says, You go fast alone. But you go far together. I did this. This is actually. This is the last episode ladies and gentlemen. This is the last episode of minimalism. The documentary about the podcast. We, this was like actually at the premiere of minimalism. I had all my friends come out and support me. It was great. And then we even Alex. Yeah, you and Alex came out. Mr. Military, Mr. Bombsquad. God love Alex. So we have this this screening. It's the first screening ever. We have 500 people come out to see the film. It was sold out crowd. It was amazing. It was unbelievable to be there. And to experience that my first screening ever. And then there's a Q and A afterwards. And Josh and Martin from the minimalist have their podcasts. And I'm a guest in the podcast. And then I decided to. Well, somebody asked a question. And then I felt that relevant. We were talking about the struggles of the film. And I'd pull out this African proverb out of my back pocket. I didn't hear the laughter. But from what I'm told afterwards is my entire row of family and friends. Just starting to having laughing after I spoused this African proverb. Because they know. That's never been the African. He's never been closed to Africa. What did is like, since when did he learn African Proverbs? And it was like, I just like Googled. Interesting quotes.com. I got to say though. I think the rest of the crowd was into it because they don't know who I am. And I think if anything, it taught me that you can get away with a lot. This is the only way we could possibly end this episode because I feel like Jesse is not willing to answer my question for the second time. So the problem was that I looked over at my recording device. And it's when I went to stop it. It's a card full. So at this point, I have no idea where our conversation was cut off. It was probably a good thing that it was cut off halfway through. Because we went on some crazy shit. But I just want to say, Jesse, thanks for being on the show. Thanks for being a good friend. And thanks for being my last episode here in Brooklyn. Thanks for being amazing Matthew. Jesse, thanks for coming on. Thank you.
