# Investing in Yourself // Ground Up 068
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1KQGULjBhLg
Subscribe to Caleb 👉 https://youtube.com/calebwojcik

Caleb Wojcik is a Filmmaker & YouTuber that shows his audience how to make better videos. On this episode we cover...

1. Transparency (especially when creating & making money online).
2. Why it might be a good idea to invest money in yourself when you barely have any.
3. How Caleb left his job to build a six figure filmmaking business.
4. The best financial advice he's ever received.

If you’ve been enjoying the podcast leave a review on iTunes or share your favorite episode with a friend.

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** 
**Date:** 2018-07-11

## Transcript
 Welcome back to the ground-up show. My name is Matt Diavella and today I'm sitting down to speak with filmmaker and YouTuber Caleb Wajik. On this episode we discussed transparency especially when it's related to talking about money and how you're making money online. Why it might be a good idea to invest money in yourself especially early on when you don't have much money to spend period. We also break down how he was able to leave his job to pursue a six-figure filmmaking business and the myth of job security. I think you guys are going to really enjoy listening to this podcast. I hope you like it and let's get right to it. This is Caleb. Do we start out with zombie apocalypse or Hitler joke? Do you have a preference? Maybe zombie apocalypse. How about Nazi. You're probably Nazi zombies on what game was that? I think it was a call duty game or something yeah. Did you ever play it or? I played Modern Warfare one the first one but I didn't really play zombie mode. I played plants for zombies though. I played plants versus zombies as well. Yeah. I used to play that at my desk at my day job because I was so bored. Oh my god. I'm my iPod Touch. That. Did you enjoy that game? I felt like for me it was a little bit. It's kind of like cheesy. Yeah. It's so easy. It's not like there. Do you see the mindless? Yeah. Yeah. I guess that's what you were looking for. Similar to the desktop. Yeah. You were looking for something easy and mindless to distract you from easy and mindless work. Yeah. Do you still play video games or not much anymore? I get really addicted to video games. Like when I was in college I played War the Warcraft and Halo and Tar Hero till I was the best or till I beat everything. So I just I don't really do it much anymore. Occasionally all my friends will be playing something and I'll hop in and play Starcraft 2 or Jabbo 3 or something years ago but I used him as an escape before and I don't really feel the need to escape in that way anymore. And so now I use movies and film as my escape from work. Not really video games anymore. I used to do the Halo Parties when I was in high school and I remember talking to a girl and I was like yeah, me and my friends are going to do a Halo Partie night. She's like Halo. Like what kind of drug is that? I was like it's a pretty wild drug. I don't think you're ready for it. The nerdyest like sweatiest body odor kind of like a bunch of dudes in a basement. Yeah, it's not that romantic of a drug but that was fun. I really enjoyed those times as like a kid just kind of not having you know not having a job not having any like real responsibilities and being able to just play video games in the middle of the night. I can't do it as much anymore but it was just fun times. You used to do that as well? Oh for sure. Yeah I used to have 15 people over my mom's basement and be able to bring TVs and chairs and Xboxes and just play Halo and do that for 10 hours on a weekend or at least play poker a lot in high school and play poker too. Yeah in person and then online until it was illegal. Did you watch Rounders? Oh yeah. Yeah Rounders I think is what like spawned an entire generation of gamblers. Yeah then ESPN capitalized on it by showing poker on TV and pretending it was a sport and everything. Yeah that's true. I totally forgot about that ESPN. It's funny because I could see a lot of people looking at poker. I mean like that's the most boring thing in the world to watch but when you kind of understand the game there's so much like and like also when you get to watch it and see what cards people have and see what's going on in their hands. It's a strategy. Yeah my roommate and college other than going to class we would just sit in our dorm and play poker like four tables six tables a time on our multiple screens and we thought we were awesome but you know we were winning hundreds of dollars. It wasn't a lot of money but I remember I got so mad I lost like a hundred dollars or before a test one time when I should have been starting for the test and I was like what am I doing with my life? Why am I playing poker on the internet? This is not worth it. I should be focusing on my education or building perfect resume or whatever so I just kind of stopped playing poker at that point. I kind of miss it a little bit. I don't know. There isn't excitement to it and there's also like a camaraderie to it when you have like six to eight people over and you're hanging out. It's a lot of fun and you know I don't have that in my life anymore like it'll be more intimate like it might be just going out to coffee or lunch with somebody which is great but I feel like there's something that's kind of fun about that dynamic of bringing together like six to eight people to just have a quiet game together. And that's a weird thing that happens when you go from high school to college to graduating and on to doing whatever you're in this immediate proximity with the same people every day whether you're in a dorm or you're going to classes or whatever and then when you graduate and you go to a desk job or you move to another city and you're an entrepreneur whatever you end up doing you only get these one-on-one interactions these small group things you don't get the same friends every day all the time and that's something I really missed after college but now with the internet I feel like I have it and I friends all over the country so when I travel I get to see people or I just stay in touch with people or Skype or something like that but I need to do these things called masterminds too, right? Is that an online thing or an in-person? It started online first. It was every week four to seven people get on a call, check in, what are you working on this week? Would you or were you supposed to do last week? That's sort of thing but now it's just kind of progressed into in-person once or twice a year and it's a two to three day thing we rent a cool house and a cool place that none of us have really ever been to and during that time everyone gets a one-hour hot seat where they talk about what they're struggling with and what they're working towards and getting feedback on things and then everyone also gets a segment at the end of the weekend so after you've heard everyone like sharing what they want to say then we do this thing where we pretend like that person's out there and we talk about them and so we came up with this idea because I am always interested in what people think about me. I always thought about this in high school or college like I was always worried like oh we're so-and-so think about me or like this other thing but it can also be really interesting to talk about someone like they're not there when they're there. It's awkward at first. We're so used to it that when I explain to other people if they think it's a little weird but we're so used to it that we can literally pretend like that person's out there and talk amongst the group or like what we would do if we were them and what we think that they're struggling with and what we wouldn't tell them to their face like Brian smells really bad like we gotta usually it's a business really. You try to make it this way and it's all someone appropriate and relevant to helping that person on their journey and then so we call that unsolicited advice and then that person can you know kind of do a rubble so they we like welcome them back to the group and then they can ask for clarification or something like that and at the very end of the weekend we do a what I wish for you which is just it's more like a kumbaya thing like we don't actually play guitars in a circle around campfire but it's that kind of I wish for you to you know embrace this thing you're trying to do or to avoid this thing that's given you trouble or what have you so it's kind of those three things the hot seat unsolicited advice and then what I wish for you. What kind of an impact has this these kind of little mini retreats intimate retreats had on your life as well as the people that have done it and would you recommend like is this something that other people should be trying to organize themselves. Oh yeah for sure I think it's been extremely instrumental in my growth and the decisions I made the pivots I've made in my business from working for other people to working for myself and trying to build all things I want to build and having a group of people that are either similar age to you or similar amount of experience or even are building completely different companies like I have some people in the group that are building software companies and some people that are authors that write books and I'm a filmmakers and I do a lot of client work so it's all a little different but we're investigating each other and we know years of history and we know the patterns that all of us kind of get into that allow you to like kind of jab that person or like help them get back on track because you've seen the same pattern as opposed to when you go to coffee with someone that you've only met once and you ask for advice they're probably just going to be optimistic about what you could do but it's like it's like dating a group of people or having a bunch of spouses that know you so well that they probably give you better advice and give yourself. Yeah I mean we will answer some questions even later on from Instagram people have questions inspiring filmmakers and those that are trying to build something for themselves freelancers and we do our best to provide advice and to help steer them in the right direction and I truly think it's helpful and I think in a lot of ways these kinds of content that is regularly consumed will help you on your path but I still think that there is going to be that missing gap if you're not actually meeting and connecting with people online whether it's a mentor or somebody that's on a mutual journey as yourself. Yeah I mean I got my first master mind in 2011 and people come and go I've left and joined different ones but this one that I'm in right now that we only meet in person we don't meet virtually at all we've done about five in person retreats over three or four years and that is something that I look forward to every year and I come to it prepared with what I'm struggling with or what I want to get out of it kind of like when I attend a conference at the same same thing kind of goes to your mind it's like who are potential people there that I want to connect with who do I want to work with that's a company that's at a conference I I'm pretty planned about when I attended event but you also plan for serendipity of not planning what you're doing every night or not like trying to only see a list people and like introduce yourself and try to play that game I try to invest in the people that are at my current level or peers and that's what's led to these master mind groups that's led to potentially I work for some of the people in my master mind group I get other clients through that so it's just really helped build my network by not working in a silo not staying at home not avoiding events not avoiding traveling to conferences because conferences are expensive you got the travel you got the ticket you got all that kind of stuff but if I wouldn't have invested in attending things like that then I wouldn't have my network I wouldn't even have a lot of my clients right I loved what you said just about connecting with people who are on that same journey as you or at that same point as you because a lot of times people just want to connect with those who have achieved success or who have been in the game for a very long time and for me I'm like I don't most of the time I don't enjoy those conversations and those kind of connections as with people who are going through the same things I'm going through and that we can but oh yeah yeah that didn't work I'm having a hard time you know maybe creating this kind of video or this kind of Instagram video doesn't seem to be resonating as well as this and it's like there's a lot more that you can learn I think from the people that are doing it at the same time as you then those who are so far removed from it if you think about somebody who's a good guitarist who's been playing for years and is just incredibly talented sometimes it's harder to teach that like for that person to teach a beginner than it is for somebody who's only been playing guitar for three months because they're closer to that experience they understand what it's like to not know and to to be in a place of vulnerability yeah and when I'm at an event and I I'm meeting someone new for the first time I'm always trying to think of how I can provide someone else value because I feel like at conferences where there's a lot of big names there they give a talk and people stand in line and they like meet and greet and they like are trying to get an autograph or they're trying to get a picture or they're trying to take from this person so when I'm in an event I'm trying to figure out how I can give to this person so if I'm an AB for an example which is a conference that a lot of filmmaker people go to or people work in TV or YouTube and stuff and there's a lot of gear companies there and I've tried to build connections that a lot of gear companies to get free stuff to reviews that sort of thing so if I know of a company that they might be interested in meeting I'll be like hey do you want to go meet so and so at this booth and I'll walk them over there do the introduction I do the same thing with oh if you met this person or what kind of person are you looking to meet at other conferences and that is then I'm always trying to give to somebody never trying to take from someone in my first interaction with them because to me that puts you I was saying this lesson I dinner it puts you at the fan level and not at the peer level ever so immediately someone can tell if you're trying to take or give to them and it happens across every platform whether it's reaching out through an email a direct message on Instagram where you're meeting them in person you're asking for a photo it's like if you are it depends what your your intentions are and what your goals are out of that meeting if you're truly just a fan in a consumer of content like you know sure yeah ask for photo whatever I would also say if you truly do respect that person you know and it's somebody who's well known who's getting this a lot maybe just try to strike up a conversation and thank them for the work they've done I just had Colin and some here on the podcast and they were talking about an experience where they met Casey nice that for the first time and they were so excited to talk with him and but the whole time they were just talking about themselves and almost trying to validate validate their own careers and what they had done and they're like oh yeah like you know we're doing this we're doing this and he's like wow that's really cool you know congrats on all your success and then all right see it by and then they just felt so empty they're like shit we screw that up why didn't we just thank him for all the work he's done and I think that's good advice for anybody who's meeting somebody who they are inspired by it's yeah don't approach it as your a fan per se approach it as you know hey thank you so much for the value you know what you've created I got a lot of value out of it and try not to like ask for something yeah because even like if you are offering a compliment you are adding value you're like making that person feel good about the work that they do and I think a lot of times we just get so caught up and excited in those moments that we're not really thinking how we're gonna feel after them yeah I mean if someone's to take a picture with me or with whoever that's great if they want an autograph I don't think I've ever given an autograph before but and I also don't expect you to give me a gift or something but there is a fine line between just respecting that that's a person or that's not an idol or something and when you don't think of people that way you think of them as other humans that I think people are street each other better right I mean you've had a chance to work with a lot of people who are well known whether you're interviewing them or working with them with their clients and at some point I guess does it kind of take away this almost mysterious or that we sometimes give to creators online and people who have a voice online whether they're into famous or whatever is a kind of seeing them as oh they're just people they're just normal guys and girls that are making stuff and you know their days are just as boring as mine yeah when I was growing up I always looked at athletes that way that they were major celebrities and their life must be so awesome and they make so much money and then when I was in college I did some sports broadcast internship stuff where I would go in the locker rooms of professional sporting events after the game of like Detroit Tigers or just right red wings and it kind of broke that for me where I saw them and they were just like they were done with their job for the night they had to do the interview and it's the same kind of thing with the people that I work with now that might have a bunch of followers on the internet but they're goofy people too they joke around they like star wars they like beatbox or whatever and so it's beatbox that I tell me no that's what I mean that's why he's a beatboxer yeah and my wife my wife laughs about all the time because we'll be with Pat somewhere random at an airport wherever and someone will walk up it's a fan and that's great like he is a big podcast audience and big audience on the internet and to my wife it's funny it's like Pat's just like everybody else he's just a regular guy and I think that's part of what helped him grow his audience and I think that people resonate with that a lot but for me I don't really get that kind of like star struck around people at all I think this leads to something that I wanted to talk about we can we look online today we see a lot of people who are now instafamous or influencers they have large followings many of them it kind of many of them we can honestly say is undeserved like there's just a lot of pretty people men or women who that's they're they just have they're just pretty and they have high quality photos on Instagram and maybe they go to cool places they have this really you know and and to their credit there is obviously something there where they are putting out beautiful imagery but there's almost an attitude to these people and I've experienced it you know and even reaching out to some people for interviews and there's a certain tone almost you get to a certain level where you get in a certain amount of subscribers or a certain amount of followers and now you're in a different class and you do not speak with people who have 5000 subscribers or whatever and it's like how do you view that and have you seen that in some people online I've seen it from afar most of people I interact with on a day-to-day basis or get to work with aren't like that probably because I would choose not to work with people like that but I think it's it is tough because you do get inundated with more people asking for your attention so you do have to have some sort of filter you have to have some sort of filter that's like okay this is an opportunity I would pursue this one isn't but it's hard to do that with just people that you meet all the time so I mean you probably do with client stuff too though where you have people that come to you and they want to work together and they're budgets like $300 and you're like I'm sorry I can't do that for you but that carries over to followers and stuff like that too so if you're treating the business interactions that way that's kind of hard to navigate between like is this one I should take and is this one not but I do think people get a little bit bigger headed than they need to because they have a bunch of subscribers or followers but they don't really do anything or don't provide value in the way that other people that have jobs provide value if you're just in like an entertainment look at me kind of sense yeah I think it's kind of like the hot girl filter where if you're going to approach a very attractive woman to talk to her who gets approached all of the time a lot of people like and and maybe she shuts you down or she's ignored you or she's like sorry no thank you you got to put yourself in this person shoes who's getting hit on approached all of the time and both of you are you and I are in relationships so we're not hitting on women but like you can put yourself in that you're going to say both of us are hot women so it's like that too so we we get it all the time and it's it's really it's hard to keep rejecting people but put yourself in that person shoes and like that could be exhausting and draining and so I do see that side of it where if you have lots of followers of course you can't reply to every message and nor should you if you're getting a thousand emails a day like that is overwhelming and you probably have better things to do with your time unfortunately that's just what happens when things scale out of your control that said I think that there's a tech bonus to it and there's I think there is something though like apart from just how people act or or treat you and you met they message you back but it's almost like I don't know the instability is almost like a thing where there's almost no value that they're adding I don't think a lot of people are thinking about like what can I provide because a lot of these people may be pushing out an image that is detrimental to other people's well being when we see somebody traveling all around the world every photos incredible we're comparing ourselves to these people so they might think it's helping people feel good or happy but it's actually making them feel worse but themselves is that kind of you're in a way it's just like advertising it's just like marketing messages that we see in a lot of ways it's it's coming from your own filter so if you're not happy with yourself that's you know what I mean it's almost like is that that person's problem if they're putting a beautiful photos I don't know it's more of a question than an answer you know don't have to hear what other people think like in the comments around Twitter or whatever to do this to this end of people that are just internet famous and I think it it's similar to money where if you have more money it doesn't solve your problems it just solves your money problems I think that's I think Josh says that nonetheless he said that on a podcast recently and it's like if you get more followers it's not going to make you better of a person it's just going to amplify who you are whether you are at the top of YouTube and you do stuff that's controversial or you're on Instagram what have you I think that it's just going to amplify the person you really are and if that's a disingenuous person or someone that isn't providing actual value to the world they just they just have a lot of followers and they get to have people do sponsor posts and that's all they do then that's who they are. Yeah and I mean I guess to the the side of it that's not so Debbie Downer where it's like oh the world is lost like all these people are just into famous and are like aren't adding any value it is it really touches on the world we live in and the fact that there are so many different characters and different people and people who have different interests and values and maybe it's not such a bad thing maybe that's actually what separates you well you know maybe somebody else is over here and they are talking about something that's more material and nature and jewelry whatever it is maybe they're passionate about it maybe they're not but then you can add something else to the conversation you can bring something else to the table. Yeah and I think why I'm concerned about it is the generation behind us of people that are inspired to have their career be a YouTube celebrity or to be Instagram famous and they don't know why other than they see other people that have that and they look happy and they get to do all these cool things and go to all these different places and so they think that that subscriber count is what they need or they need more followers when really it's it's something else that they want yeah to to be happy and I was at Vid Summit last year and Gary Vaynerchuk was doing some Q&A a kid came up I think he's probably 11 or 12 years old and Gary asked him what he wanted like why were you why are you doing YouTube and he's like I really want 300 subscribers and Gary was like why like I can get you 300 subscribers like that and by the time the kid sat down from asking his question he had 300 subscribers because Gary is like what's your channel and everyone the room followed me he's like okay if 300 subscribers now what do you want and so it's like thinking beyond the number because the number will always just keep growing and if you as you've had your like success and the hockey stick recently of you were saying a few months ago you read a few thousand subscribers now you have six figures of subscribers on YouTube but internally that's not changing anything and that's a that's a wonderful barometer to have to not have the number be changing the kind of stuff you make if possible the kind of lifestyle you have the kind of people you want to meet and interact with I know it's opening doors perhaps to be like oh this person is of this value and I get that too because when I reached out to gear companies I wanted to do a review about this piece of equipment they'd be like your channel's not big enough and that hurts it's like screw you like I could do a really good job but for them they need the reach if they're going to give you something for free or they're going to pay to promote something then they got a they got to get the reach but if you can do what you want to do until you get to whatever number you want to get to and then keep doing it I think that's really powerful because I think people get to a certain level of subscribers and then they feel like they have to change they're like oh and I have always people expecting this from me or what I used to make I think you just use that as opportunity to now make what you really wanted to make in the beginning you're always going to get to that place if you're if you're working hard towards your goals and you know uh I although I would say that your goal shouldn't be a hundred k subscribers or whatever it is in the first place but for me it was even um you know I wanted to be able to make make it as a freelancer that was my first big thing it was like if I could make a living and I didn't have a number in mind it was just like if I could pay the bills and make videos dream come true I got it now what make a feature length documentary about something I care about got it now and then I realized oh okay you know as much as like I enjoyed the the the journey and everything that I was going through at the time you're always going to be asking that question now what uh maybe the better thing to do is like you said before you get to the goal figure out what that now what is figure out it's yeah there may be a practical like okay I want to work on this kind of project or do this kind of thing and that's going to change as you evolve and as you create bigger and bigger projects or more exciting projects but understanding what's motivating the underworkings of that I think that's important it's to ask now what before you get there yeah everyone talks about the ira glass quote about creativity and making what you really want to make and the gap between oh I I know quality I know this is how good of a film I want to make or I want to take photos of this good or make music that's as good as this person but your your taste is different than your actual skill level and everyone talks about that but this gap between what you actually want to be doing and what do you have to do to get there so you said full length feature for example you couldn't do that right away you had to work your way to that and it's hard to back up all the different steps of everything that you need to do to get to where you want to go or who you have to work with and to plan it all out and everything but at least knowing the direction you're heading in at least knowing I want to go to New York or I want to go to LA versus getting in the car and not knowing like the car and the direction you want to head in and you're just driving and you're like well figure it out if I do it long enough yeah and and saying like oh what do I enjoy doing today was was learning how to shoot video or take photos was that fun did I enjoy that process then maybe that's something that you should continue to explore last night we were talking about transparency online but how do you view being transparent online especially like we were talking about a lot of these finance bloggers or writers people share their financial reports and to me there might be a line where again you don't want people to be feeling shitty because maybe you are doing so well like it's easy to share your financial report when you're making $30,000 a year but then when you're making $400,000 a month or you're making these crazy sales I could see where it would be detrimental to the people that are seeing because they automatically as humans default setting compare yourself to other people where does transparency work online and where does it maybe hurt where I first interacted with it was with debt and debt in general is just an embarrassing topic that people don't talk about and when people were talking about how they got out of debt I mean Dave Ramsey does all this stuff but I was following like JD Roth and Trent Ham of the simple dollar and a bunch other personal finance bloggers like 10 years ago and that is an embarrassing thing but to talk about it and to share how they got out of debt and how they progressed through it is an inspiring thing for someone else that's in debt and on the other side of making money it can be an inspiring thing to see exactly how someone is making money on the internet or how they're making money through affiliate income or course launches or advertising on their website or the YouTube channel or what have you so knowing how it's actually done can be inspirational enough for someone to learn how to do it and then Dave can start to do it so if people hadn't been sharing on the internet how they made money I wouldn't have known the different ways I could have made money or I maybe wouldn't have been inspired to quit my job because I didn't know that it was even possible so with the debt and with the early smaller amounts of money it is a little bit more achievable and inspiring for people but I do agree that it can get out of control so you're sharing millions of dollars or what have you that's not as inspiring it doesn't seem attainable but if you go back far enough to when it was a little bit more attainable or they were first starting there's probably more lessons in that when they were making a few thousand a month or maybe 10 thousand month but not hundreds of thousands of dollars right where that's one thing as a creator or somebody that's you know pushing content out you can change your approach where in the beginning maybe you can be totally transparent and show all these reports because there are lots of lessons to learn from that and then maybe once you get to a certain level you may decide oh it's probably actually going to be hurting people more than it's going to be helping so maybe I won't do these monthly financial reports I used to post my net worth every single month when I was a personal fan's blogger for what reason I don't know but I felt like that was what I needed to do I needed to share the progress but it helped me accountable to myself because I didn't want that to go down so maybe I wouldn't buy something that month because I didn't want my blog post next month that'd be worse than it was the month before and so it had that effect on me but I eventually stopped doing that because I stopped talking to personal finance and I would be super transparent about my business now as much as people want to ask me about it but I'm not super front up front about it because I don't want it to intimidate people too much or be like oh I make six figures like there's how you can do it and I don't want to be the sleazy internet person that's bragging about how much they make or anything like that but in private conversations or if someone emailed me and asked me like I'm happy to share how I make money or how much money I make and maybe I just need to be a little bit more transparent with it too on my YouTube channel or to my email list. The one thing I liked about the transparency conversation was also talking with your audience about how you make money and who's paying you and how much is coming from sponsors and so yeah this is this is a so box that I could get on for yeah so there are a lot of people that make money in ways that isn't very transparent to the people that consume what is they they make and legally federal trade commission wise FTC you have to say that something is advertising or you have to say that something was provided by someone and on Instagram now you know they have that thing on the post right into their name where it's usually location is you know like paid sponsorship buy and you legally are supposed to do that if someone gives you money and it's just a gray area on the internet right now of how people make money they do advertising that's a little bit more clear because it's an ad read or you see a logo or something like that but in other ways it's not so clear people don't disclose stuff and it kind of just wrote me the wrong way to watch a video and know that they're getting paid to make it but they're not really disclosing it and so I at least can control what I do and so I am super upfront if I bought a piece of equipment I say that like I bought this with my own money and I often do that or I'll rent a camera to review it I rented can and see 200 for a few hundred dollars or panasonic EVA one for a few hundred dollars from like lens protocol or something because I wanted to rent it and that was the only way to get my hands on it and that comes out of my pocket but companies do send me stuff so if I get something alone from being age I disclose that if I get something sent to me from a company I disclose that and I haven't been paid to make a video yet from a company but if I did I would disclose that and I personally would kind of want to go as far as saying how much I got paid to like it influences the viewer of what they think of what you're saying because if you're reviewing something and it's positive and you got paid to do it it's this weird limbo of where where your opinion comes from yeah what are your overall thoughts on advertising today it seems like sponsorships have kind of run wild where everybody's just grasping you know I see a lot of people kind of that's like some of their main advice for like people who are like content creators on their eyes and just kind of making stuff and it's like yeah like so this is how you get your first sponsorship deal this is how you like you find somebody to pay you to you know plug their product or whatever and it seems like almost they're not they're not focusing on the the important thing they're just focusing on what's the quickest way that I can make money out of this thing which is kind of a tough position to be in when you're just trying to find brands to pay you money to make content it's like maybe they're missing a dot there that they need to connect in terms of like focusing on making great shit first I mean I've I've sold a text link on my website like eight years ago for 50 bucks and I was like why did I do that I don't think it's there anymore I would hope it's not there anymore but just for some turn that someone to rank for an SEO and why did I do that and at that point it was just I wanted to make money from the thing that I was working on in the side I wanted to validate that this thing could do what I wanted to do and it's easier from the other side to be like oh I have enough money I can say no to these things but when you're trying to build that thing to be your full-time thing it's a little bit harder to be like sorry I won't take a thousand dollars to do this Instagram post but to me when I see stuff that doesn't relate at all if it's clothing or something that's just not related to the content that they are already making or what they're already sharing it turns me off honestly it's weird I don't I don't like it I understand being a creator that you have to pay the bills you you have to pay for the equipment you have to food and have a roof over your head but it just gets it gets weird for me so I've been really hesitant about wanting to incorporate sponsored things or advertising too much in my stuff yeah I think the best path for these people and we're talking about filmmakers photographers musicians like there's these are arts that people pay for that you can find clients I've really been client work is one of the best ways to get into it for me it was very very much a practical approach where I'm like I graduated with a lot of debt and a lot of student loan debt and I had to figure out a way to pay those bills and I didn't want to live at my parents house for five years after graduating I knew I was going to have to put in a couple of years but I got I got to start hustling making some money and if my first step was build an audience to eventually you know turn that into a way to monetize I feel like it's such an uphill battle that doing that within a couple years and it's also the chances of that working out are kind of you have it's a long game you got to play that long game with it and not expect that you're going to be able to pay off your student loans and you know move out of your parents house within a couple years so for me it was like all right how can I start making money today weddings for months with you know there's so much it's very easy I don't it's not that easy but it's easy enough and it's way easier to get that kind of money than it is to get those sponsorship deals or building an audience first because you have to have a very large audience to be able to make legitimate money online on YouTube you got to be getting millions of views to be able to pay the bills so is that I want to talk about your your story a little bit too but do you agree with that kind of approach where maybe that's the way to go go freelance and then transition into this thing because I know you're in the middle of that transition as well yeah I think that the numbers game is a hard one to play when you're talking advertising or sponsored you just have to have very large audiences even if you're in a niche space of something that's very specific you still have to be close to the middle or top of the people in that to even make anywhere near enough and the amount of time that you might spend to chase hundred dollars two hundred dollars here there it's probably not worth it and so it'd be much more worth it to find yeah clients or keep your full-time job and not sell out early to to advertising in that sort of thing until you reach the level where you could offer something in a different way and and even when you said monetize like that word of like oh I want to monetize my audience to me it always comes down to what are you selling because if you're selling advertising your audience is there the people you're selling you're selling their attention to crest or whoever else wants to run this kind of a property by crest or toothpaste yeah so you're selling them yeah versus you're selling something to your audience and that's that's a different relationship and yes when people go to YouTube they're used to seeing ads before videos they don't really connect that you are selling their attention and that adds there I personally when I go to YouTube and I see a ad I got into blame YouTube I don't really blame the channel but it's the channel or the person's choice whether there's an ad before my video a hundred percent yeah so I think YouTube is an interesting thing where you don't really get the blame as the creator as the channel but for a podcast if there's an ad on there like I know for sure that the podcast chose to put that there yeah the person read the ad or whatever it was yeah or the episode starts with five to ten minutes of ads and the closes with a few more minutes and I'm just like come on and everyone skips on like so what it's going on here like what why is that okay yeah why is it okay and like why are people paying so much money for those ads when a lot of people are skipping them and because in a lot of ways we're trying to put many podcasts or conversations like this and when you start a conversation imagine if I were to actually read the ad before we even sorry the middle yeah it's a disruption and it in an a distraction from the actual conversation it feels like billboards at an NHL game or when they project like an ad on the soccer field now or it's just like I understand that that's how the machine works that's how professional sports work that's how television works is episodes are 22 minutes long because there's eight minutes of ads for the half hour times like that's how I think TV channels get paid that's how shows get made but I think there's a lot of interesting platforms out there now like Netflix pay them monthly they do whatever they want they spend all their money and they make all these cool shows and there's no ads it's it's a more direct connection and I think with I think with platforms like patreon like now you can sponsor YouTube channels and pay five dollars a month to get more still think that's a little weird because YouTube's always been a free platform but I think we're getting closer to the direct connection between a creator and the person consuming whatever that is and they're not being a middle person that has to be involved like an advertiser like a sponsor for that connection to happen right now we live in a world where that's the easiest way for people to monetize and I do not blame people who knows maybe I'll do it in the future but we're hoping that we can get to a point where even patreon and these other platforms just become more of the new norm right now there's not that direct connection it's like when you the economy and the transaction economy just it just feels more natural to give somebody a dollar and get an apple but then when you have to give somebody somebody somebody gives you an apple and then you give them a dollar every once in a while like it just you know what I mean the direct connection isn't there hopefully we work towards it and and fix this problem yeah because it does feel a little broken it does feel a little like just shady in a way of just like I have to make money by doing this thing so that this other company will pay me but then I gotta give you and then I gotta give you extra stuff through patreon to like inspire you to want to pay me that's usually what happens more junk more distractions right I gotta give you another AMA episode every month you know to the people on the patreon have incentive to actually do it and then it's like what what is going on here it's it's it's not working but anyway uh hopefully that will fix that it's not gonna and it will fix it well fix it maybe maybe a listener will come up with a solution um you you graduated in the middle of the global financial crisis right around that luckily a couple months before the recession a couple months before so you were able to actually get a job yeah tell me about that experience so in college I just worked on having a really good resume I just really wanted a job like I really wanted to have security I wanted to have a good paycheck I wanted to pay off my student loans on a path my debt pretty quickly and I graduated in May of 2018 got a job at the Boeing company moved out to see I was eight to those eight sorry yeah and a few months into that just huge layoffs at the company I had spreadsheets that showed the people that had to be laid off at the factory I worked out and I was in charge of going into the meetings and sitting there with all the managers and being like okay so how many people can you let go of in three months too okay that's got to be five so if you can go figure that out and come back and I didn't say it like that but that was kind of my role in this in this job and that was a few months after college I just saw that you know it corporate life's not for me I got to kind of take care of myself and so I survived the layoffs I stuck in that job for a little bit longer but the whole time on the side I was reading books about entrepreneurship and just trying to figure out what I was going to do that wasn't going to be a dust job and how did you know when you were ready to make that transition because that's a huge transition was it and it was at the unsubility of this environment where you're like well nobody's really got a guaranteed shot at it a lot of people there's almost a myth of job security where people feel like I have a job therefore I have this safety net and I'm always going to have a paycheck when in reality the only kind of security you can have is to be incredibly talented and valuable to the economy. Yeah I would say that people that have a job where they have a regular paycheck like at any time they don't have control of that they aren't the ones that could turn it on or turn it off and I saw that at the company I worked at I saw people that were there for 20 or 30 years get laid off have to go home and have to find another job or do whatever so I always assumed that that was way safer than being an entrepreneur than running your own business and back to what you just said I think having the skill set, having that work of people that's way safer than being on on paper on a resume with a bunch of diplomas having a job. How did you make the job so how did you go from nine to five to a freelance life? So I slow and steady I found a job working for one other person. It was an online entrepreneur, a blogger, a famous corporate bar, ran a website called Think Traffic and so I went from a company of 140,000 people to a company of two and that's where I learned a lot about the world of internet business, growing an audience, podcasting, making videos, all that kind of stuff and through working with him I got to meet a lot of people that were doing that and that was kind of how I learned. So I didn't just quit my job, take the leap, no plan. I kind of sidesteped to working for a mentor and I didn't know that eventually I would leave working for him but that whole time I was learning I was kind of seeing how people did this stuff. And you left Boeing and you started making a ton more money. No, no. I took a big pay cut. I lost my 401k, I lost my health insurance, started paying 1,000 month for Cobra health insurance and I took a huge pay cut. It was not financially a good decision at the time, right after getting married. I think sometimes you have to make these decisions though that are either lateral movements where like I'm going to work at this company and I'm not going to be getting paid the same amount of money but I'm in a role that's going to be closer to the direction where I want to head or you can even take a step back like that where you're leaving the workforce entirely and you're getting paid a fraction of what you used to be getting paid especially when you take an account all these extra things that jobs sometimes provide like health insurance and whatnot. So that's a huge shift and a huge risk. How did you manage it? How did you manage to leave your job not making as much money and also having all these other expenses you need to cover? That's a challenging thing to navigate. Yeah, I was just rereading Stephen Press feels turning pro and there he talks about these two kind of salaries that you have. You have the tangible salary of your paycheck, your benefits, all that kind of stuff and then you have the psychological salary and to me that was my commute to my desk job sitting under fluorescent lights looking at spreadsheets being really bored and so I would rather have the freedom of flexibility to work from wherever I wanted doing cool stuff with learning new skills, meeting new people that were doing what I eventually wanted to do and that was worth more than the money than the benefits and so it's hard when you try to explain that to your parents and they're like so you went to college for four years and you got a good job making more money than we make in a cool city across the country and you're going to work for a blogger. How is this going to work? But luckily my parents have always trusted in me and they were okay with it once I explained what a blogger did to make money on the internet. It's different, it's a little bit of a different world back then. It's not as today that's kind of almost what a lot of people aspire to and even parents. I think are a little bit more in tune but at this time it was that's a little bit more of a risky decision because it's a little bit unknown where this whole thing is heading. Yeah but it's just a matter of there were other things I valued more than money at that point. I paid off my debt and I was willing to take a risk. And even at that time you started to invest in yourself even when you maybe didn't have the money to spend like spending $500 to go to a conference. I was like talking about some of those experiences and it might be hard to recommend somebody who's only got that that only has $500 to maybe spend that on something that's potentially life changing but in a lot of ways it's almost it means way more to that person. Yeah it's just like I can't recommend that someone spend tens of thousands of dollars on a red camera or something like that or you invest a bunch of money and whatever the thing is you really want or the event you really want to go to or a city you want to visit to meet a certain person but sometimes those monetary investments they they legitimize that you're really committed to something. So not that I recommend that someone go into debt to do that but I did like we invested in cameras when my wife started her wedding photography business and that not only legitimized her to clients and to the people she worked with but internally how serious she was about doing that. And so attending conferences that people were at doing what I wanted to be doing and investing money in that and taking time off work to go do that it's something that I'd recommend the people do. There's a couple ways you can do it I mean you could do low thresholds in terms of monetary cost where maybe it's buying a book. Yeah I think like you always always or library yeah library you can do a library but I think everybody should have $10 to spend on a book and maybe that might even be a little bit for me at least if we were talking about this too where it's like we will go out and spend $100 on a dinner but then we're like candy at the movies it's like I don't know it's a little bit more expensive here maybe we should buy candy before we get here and it's like but the $10 for a book is even though that's not a lot for me it actually is enough for me to be like I need to read this book now. Yeah it's called it being penny smart and dollar dumb you're like oh like this gas station is like four cents cheaper so I'm gonna like drive and like have to turn left on this intersection it's like to just get gas and go home like it's not a big deal but then all spend thousands of dollars on lighting for my for my client work or something and that's an investment so maybe that's a little different but still thinking through yeah like what financial decisions really make sense and really make a difference and if going to a conference meeting people buying a piece of equipment for the kind of art you do or to to progress you further or that's going to school for some people because they need that degree they need that certification to move on in the next level I think it's willing to you should be willing to take some of those risks sometimes. What's the best financial advice that you've received? Not live beyond your means and then try not to have lifestyle creep because lifestyle creep is probably the biggest thing that puts people in trouble and that's when you make more money so most people as they get older they start to make more money and if you can live like you lived when you're in college or shortly thereafter for as long as possible you're just gonna have this gap of money to play with whether that's to save a retirement to pay off your debt or to bring you closer to the life you want to live or career you want to have so that's probably the biggest one for me was I was super frugal that when I had my day job right at a college and that allowed me to pay off $30,000 a debt and I know you very similarly you try to live within your means and be minimalist as much as possible and that enables you to open up the freedom to then do what you want to do. Yeah and I think that was the biggest thing is understanding the where you want to go and what that freedom will give you because it wasn't just paying off debt so I could buy a car or buy a house or whatever it was paying off my debt so I'd have the freedom to make the choices that I wanted to make and I could have risk your decisions or I could travel the world it just opens yourself up so much but you see so many people I saw so many friends just make more and more money and like hundreds of thousands of dollars like making a couple of my friends making over $150,000 a year and that's not like revenue that's like what they're making and they have all these benefits and a bonus and everything on top of that and they have no money and I'm just thinking how the hell do you have no money where is all your money you're you're not paying off any of your debt um how is that possible yeah I think creep is the word right where it just creeps up on you and you just slowly start to make these decisions without even thinking about it. Yeah and I do this with my business it's also really easy when you have a business or you have this thing you're working towards and you're like oh this is a right off or I'm investing in myself and so you can get into that trap of just spending and spending and spending and that's usually where it comes from it's not that people have a money making problem they have a money spending problem and so it's really important to to track it I used to track everything that I spent when I was at my day job line by line if I bought food if I bought anything I would spreadsheet like entered all that now it's more automated and I have accountent and stuff but but just seeing your spending habits that really helps with the lifestyle creep and you know choosing choosing a partner choosing a life partner a spouse a boyfriend girlfriend that values some of the same things you do like that that's really important too because that's where a lot of it can come from is the expectation of external parties and not you know internally what do you really want and what do you really value like I drive I drive a car that I've had for 10 years it's 2004 Toyota is almost 300,000 miles on it and I I had so much camera gear and equipment and I value that stuff because it helps me do my work I don't really value the car that drives me there and so I spend a lot of money on that stuff and we have insurance that has to cover that stuff that's more important than my car insurance with the car because my car is not worth much and so it's just like where do you value what do you value and how do you value it I put a lot of we spend a lot of money on where we live because we work from home so versus if we didn't work from home we could spend less money and it's just those are the types of things you have to do the math on so I don't have a nice car but I have a nice camera and that isn't asset that helps me make money versus something that's just a payment you got to start today like it's it's you can never be sometime in the future you need to take responsibility for your finances yeah and I've I've had plenty of lifestyle creep in where I live I grew up in rural Michigan I now live in Southern California and it's way more expensive we organic food so we like spent a lot of money on that we live in a nice place I have a nice equipment for my job and so I've plenty of lifestyle creep and it wasn't like it was only because I made good decisions out of college to get a good job pay off my debt invest in retirement put money in a 401k put money in a Roth IRA and then when times got tough I could take money out of my Roth if I wanted to to like like I don't have any clients this month like I need to bridge that gap and is because of past decisions financially that enabled me the freedom to do what I wanted to do and to keep going versus having to revert back to a dust job you've built a really successful freelance filmmaking business you kind of stumbled into filmmaking there how did you start to get clients and and how would you recommend people get clients today I want to say specifically clients that are doing things that are exciting and you find interesting you've had the chance to like you said you were a Pat Flynn Corbett bar people who are doing inspiring things to have large audiences where you can create content and videos that are going to be seen by a lot of people and influence a lot of people in a lot of ways I think that those are the ideal clients to shoot for you know there's certainly clients that aren't as desirable that don't give you as much creative control over what you're putting into it so how do you get great clients as freelance filmmaker but really just a freelancer to me it's really come down to knowing people in person and that's come from attending events that go in conferences meeting people in person and then having the reputation of what you do to kind of back that up so I stumbled into it a little bit because when I was working with Corbett at Fizzle we were doing a lot of video training and we were making a lot of video content and that was where I really got into the technical part of how to make videos but then everyone in this sphere of you know internet business and entrepreneurship and that sort of thing that's where I became known as was like the video person and I also started to brand myself as that so I made up the name DIY video guy and then that was kind of my personal brand on the side of teaching people how to make videos so that when I met someone they knew that my thing was video so I think it's a combination of having the thing like what do you want to be known for and then you have to meet lots of people that are potential clients and so I went to three to four conferences a year that these people were going to be at and I built the network and I invested in people at my peer level and I didn't try to go meet the a-listers like we were talking about earlier and reaching out to people directly was another way that I got clients was like hey I want to work with you do you have any video stuff that you need just super hands off not try to be super pushy but emailing people that I had already had a personal connection with like I would say 80 to 90 percent of my clients over the past three and a half years I met personally and the first time I met them wasn't just to like do to work together it was building building friends and building friends that run cool businesses was kind of how I did it do ask for referrals like if there's certain people you're working with you like ask them if they know anybody who might be interested in hiring a filmmaker a couple times what it's never really led to anything it's it's more just showing up doing a good job for people and your name will just kind of get spread and that's that's probably not very good advice to hear because if you're not doing work now that you want to be doing then it's really hard to even start but I mean I started the same way a lot of people do if they make videos for free they make videos for like the first wedding video I shot I was attending the wedding I filmed it and then when my wife had wedding photography clients or other people reached out I could be like hey I made this wedding film they don't need to know you did it for free so it's that kind of thing you kind of like build your real and you got to do all this things and then you do work that's not for your real it's just it's just for the meal and you don't show that work and you just kind of slowly go from there and keep reinvesting the money into building your skills and training or the equipment you need and going to events was the biggest thing just meeting people that were potential clients right I think the reinvesting is huge too that was from the very beginning the first hundred dollars I ever made I put in the headphones I was like which is hilarious because headphones don't like make you make a better video they might make you edit a little better but it wasn't like a let like it was like an editing thing which I think that was not as much actually because it was because I was running around oh so during recording filming yeah over the years and I actually use it for everything but versus like the earbuds and your ears while you're filming when you're at that point I'm like recording doing everything and I still actually recommend like like actually what's been great about your journey too is that you've you've got a full-time editor now which is amazing and like for somebody who's a filmmaker that's probably like the first thing that you would want to do because that's the majority of the work is in the editing but you stayed relatively small and you've been able to have a great margin of profit like at least 50% of every video is is or at least project is is profit which I think is what most people should be aiming for like if you're if you're a margin and a lot of people some of my friends who they put everything they have into their videos and they only have a 10% profit margin on a video 15% like sometimes smaller and I'm like come on what are they spending on the money on other people to help or rent a statement or shoot in a music video they're getting dollars they're getting their paying for big crews are paying this others just no budget for it my mentality is well if they don't have a budget for it then we're not making the video you're not taking the project and I understand some people get into a trap where they are working these low budget projects and they they need it to pay the bills but I think that's where we can take these financial practices and make sure your bills aren't as big you know maybe like cut expenses as low as you can so you don't have to just grind yourself out because you're never going to get out of that yeah and like I find clients that can pay the prices that I want to charge too is another tip of if you want to only make $500 a video then go knock on local business doors like that's those of the that's going to be what they can pay you know few hundred dollars if you want the kind of clients that can pay you what you want to charge you gotta go get them you gotta find them they might not be in your city you might have to fly to them you might only find them on the internet and you just kind of have to do that research to know to know where they're going to be do you have advice for people who are looking to set up a retainer I think that that's one thing that helped me on so much early on was finding maybe two or three retain clients over the years but it's like not just having a one-off project because getting clients is very tough but having recurring clients makes your life so much easier you're you know a lot of people think the only way that you can increase your income is by getting more clients but the easiest way is actually to get old clients clients you already have to pay for more work so what advice do we have for people who are looking to set up a retainer yeah retainers are really strong thing to have because they are just a nice baseline to have for when you have ebs and flows in your business and so you don't have to chase as many clients sometimes or you can say no to ones that aren't the best fit or going to waste your time or enough money but to actually get them I never would pitch that as the first thing so I would definitely work with someone the first time and then it has to be someone that depending on what you do or make has that ongoing need and has the want to keep doing work and so right now I have just one retainer but I also have a lot of repeat clients so repeat clients are kind of like retainers that are just unofficial but I think that the best way to get them is to approach them with the plan like show up and be like these are all the things we could do for this price are you willing to work together and obviously has to be at some it has to be someone that's at a level that they can basically hire somebody sometimes or a part-time person to get to the point of being able to pay for a retainer to pay hundreds or thousands of dollars a month it's like hiring employees so you have to you know put yourself in their shoes like are you are they even going to be able to afford this but you just have to think of enough things that you could do that would help them and then the bottom of that pitch or conversation or page should be what they could then make from that or how they would save money and so like my retainer right now maybe charges more than if they hired a video person but I also have an editor and I have more capabilities that they get from from paying my company a retainer than if they hired one person so it just kind of has to be a really good match and you have to be able to legitimize what you can do for them right what kind of value can give them and what are they getting out of it like are they getting some kind of return on the investment when your for retainers or otherwise most projects are they project based or hourly rate based don't charge hourly yeah any more have you at you did in the beginning um a little bit for some editing work I used to but it just doesn't make sense to do it that way I don't really like to charge hourly I don't think it incentivizes us to work efficiently I don't think that it's fair for them to not really know how much it's going to cost the only the only thing that I right now charge hourly is I have a motion graphics person that I work with and to be fair to him I have no idea how long a certain motion graphics things going to take if it takes longer I don't want him to feel like he's not getting paid what he should be paid so that's the only thing I really charge hourly for and that's to one of my contractors I never do it to my to my clients I always do project based and it can hurt you sometimes to not know how much work something's going to be but that's where it comes to doing really good research asking the right questions before you do proposals for how much is going to cost I mean you know you know this stuff of doing a project and then being like okay I need to update my contract because I'm not doing that again it's this I there was 20 revisions and I didn't like it clarified how many revisions they were going to be yeah or I ended up paying a bunch of luggage fees because my equipment was too much so I put that my content and like yeah there's all these things yeah exactly and then you start to you learn from those experiences and those aren't that painful to learn those lessons and that's why it's always you should be charging way more than you think that the project's going to cost even on a hourly rate if you're like oh I want to make $50 an hour on this like you should probably be charging which would give you a $75 an hour return because there's always going to be extra expenses there's always going to be more time and also you got to think about all the extra time that you're working on sending emails back and forth getting on the phone and that's why we don't charge hourly because I don't think anybody would enjoy that knowing every time they pick up the phone it's kind of like that you know penny smart dollar dumb you know the client would be thinking oh this is costing money right now to be on the phone with this person when around of course every time you get on the phone with somebody they're providing an expertise it's just under a project rate yeah and one thing I do with my proposals is I list out all of the things that we do and I try to break down where the money goes or which things cost a certain amount so pre-production I'll list out all the different things we'll do for pre-production like if you have a script we'll review the script we're going to load in the teleprompter we're going to pack all our gear we're going to schedule the shoot date we might find the location and scout it out and like all that stuff put a price on it production day there's going to be it's going to be this this many hours this many people price it out editing we're going to do that these videos they're going to be approximately this long it's going to take us this long this price like equipment like line by line by line once I started doing that I felt more justified in being able to charge more because then I could see oh well that's going to take a bunch of time that's going to take a bunch of time like this equipment takes this much money to rent and we're going to edit it for a couple weeks and so it justifies it more instead of them seeing $10,000 or $20,000 and not really yeah and you have to be ready for that client to ask you why is it cost as much okay this is why and it's good to explain and you can just say like yeah the director feed for the days $4,000 right like you can have a high rate at somebody who's you know a creative person in the industry dp's you see that like a dp rate might range from $250 a day to $15,000 for a day depending on how much experience they have how good they are how much how many projects they've done in the past so those things can vary and that's where you can kind of start to increase your rate depending on how how much end of man you are because it's really that's that's what the economy is and a free market is is like yeah you can charge anything you want and that person can choose not to work with you if it's too expensive yeah it's hard to it's also hard to like get the price from them and like who's going to say the number first sometimes I love that game but but you should know you should be able to know roughly how much someone's going to charge or want to pay and you know I go back and forth on whether one of your first interactions with them should be budget related or not you know if in the the survey of like hey tell me about the project and that sort of thing like give me a ballpark budget because that can pigeonhole you into something low or or you know or scared him away or scare them away but you also don't want to be on the phone with people that only have two hundred dollars so there is some yeah what I do in those situations is I got into a habit of never giving a price never giving the ballpark figure like sorry you know like I I just need to write this all out like we're saying create a list of like what's this going to cost and realistically that doesn't take a very long time and but it does take a pause and and one of the main reasons is that I know on the phone I'm not going to be as confident with my price and say fifty thousand dollars and like that's it boom that's the price of what this is going to cost I'd be like it's much easier than it would be like fifty thousand like it my voice just changes and gets like very sensitive but yeah and it's also like I wouldn't even put it in the email I just threw fresh books I would create like an estimate and it would just be like you know maybe even a couple line items production post production but pretty vague or royalty free music costs maybe just a couple line items and then fifty thousand dollars and then that to me I can be like oh it attaches the estimate let me know if you have any questions or thoughts or whatever and then that point you know they can say oh you know that's way out of a budget sorry we don't think that okay well maybe we could do this maybe we could do a half day instead of that if you want to right there's you have to be willing to have that conversation and you have to be able to make sure that first time that you show them the price of what this is going to cost you kind of you do it in the right way yeah I like having it further down I don't feel like it's sneaky to be like oh put the price at the end I do feel like it gives you the opportunity to justify it though you can you can explain what the process is going to be some of your experience you could show some of your work you can explain all the line items of like pre-production filming editing all the different steps then they see the big number I don't want to be like that's gonna be about fifty thousand dollars and they block at it right they don't know what's goes into it yeah and then I I will caveat that to say that there have been times when I get an email from somebody who's like asking to work with me and I just I can just tell you can tell from the email this person has five hundred dollars to spend and that's it and in which case I would say you know projects usually start I mean I take thousand dollars or whatever but it's a it really varies depending on projects so once we get on the phone we can talk about it and that will scare away a lot of people which will save you so much time yeah the starting yet is something that you can save time from I know some people put that right by their contact form oh actually yeah what I would do even in the form is like what's your budget and like start you know 10,000 to 20,000 dollars is the first budget range and then people build okay yeah and then they have to select one so if they're messaging me they're choosing the 10 to 20 they're not you know just so they already know they have to go in and actually kind of agree to it um any more thoughts on freelancing I got a we have some questions here that I want to answer from Instagram but I want to make sure that I we cover there's anything that we didn't talk about freelancing I mean the biggest thing for me is knowing the kind of company you want to build and so initially I thought I wanted a full production company I thought I wanted the 10 people like the atomless agor of sandwich video has and they do like the product explainer videos and they have motion graphics people and their producers and they have all the like they have the crew they can do all the stuff and they can hire contractors but I found that I wanted it to just be me I wanted to be lean I wanted to be nimble I do have an editor that I work with and he helps with some other stuff as well like helping me shoot sometimes but I think you need to know what kind of company you want because that's going to determine the math that's going to determine how much you can charge how many clients you need that sort of thing and so I know the size of the company I want and the kind of work I want to do that determines what I can charge hmm yeah I love that the mentality of starting small and staying small I think by our nature we have this more motion right to like to build to grow to whatever and like there are ways to grow both as a person and as a company without scaling up in size and getting more employees yeah and to me it was staying lean enables me to say no to the clients that I don't want but when you have payroll when you have a 10% profit margin you've got to be always saying yes you've got to be always doing always doing the work and and you can also take better care of the clients you have rather than chasing the new project and I see that a lot with larger agencies where they care more about landing a new project than they do about the ones that are already paying them and to me that just seems so backwards so why don't you care about the people that you know I have become a lot of times you're working so close to these people they become friends you know they're the clients but you're also you build this intimate relationship with them and all of a sudden you're going to be like well I can't spend as much time working on that project or maybe we're going to cut corners here because we really need to you know get and I'll lay on the next one yeah land the next one exactly yeah all right great let's go as a great instead of great great let's go into Instagram questions I got a question here from Dirage Maki how do you make meaningful content without constant access to interesting subject matter in other words what is the least amount of stuff you need to make an interesting film or video while still being able to tell a story obviously I could sit in front of a camera and talk but I'm wondering about ways to create a narrative without using my face in it I should have had a photo there just for clarification so you can see their face no I don't have it no I think that that is something that that is a struggle a lot of people have for doing creative work maybe not being in a creative location or they want to make content about certain things that they don't have or they only have their phone and those types of limitations are definitely real I would say that there are a lot of resources out there that you can use to tell whatever you want to tell you can pull there's plenty of free music archives out there there's free photo archives there's film archives from from the US government that you can access you know that are public that you can just pull stuff from that's not copyright anymore and maybe get creative with stuff you know there's a lot of there's like World War II documentaries and all that stuff is public domain that you can use to tell the story you want to tell maybe you're not interested in World War II but maybe there are ways that graphically you could show stuff or do the Casey nice step top down draw on a piece of paper with a marker and tell the story that way and I think not having all the resources all the year all the equipment living in the exact spot you know that gives you more opportunities for creativity the the constraints lead to that yeah and that's one thing that you see with a lot of designers is that the constraints help them create so if they're dealing with if they're creating an Instagram post and it's just or say somebody's creating an app you have this screen you have this finite amount of space that you can fill and that dramatically changes how you're going to be creating this versus an iPad app versus a desktop website it radically changes how you're creating all of a sudden now buttons have to be a certain size with their visible all of a sudden you you have to cut out 90% of the content that you might add in otherwise and I think the same thing happens if you are say a video creator living in a shitty apartment with no natural light you have to find different ways to get creative with your videos and there's no reason why you can't create a low budget approach like buying a light from home depot and figuring out ways to get creative like you said marker you get they know a marker and get some poster board you can create some really cool things stop animation you like the one thing that I did was my Brooklyn apartment wasn't that great for filming and I didn't have a great set up for it so even for the intro of this podcast it was all like how do I just go really micro with it and shoot really close up shots of like coffee being poured and grinds of coffee because I didn't have a beautiful studio or a beautiful kitchen to film these shots in so it makes you get more creative and a lot of times we see that final thing we're like oh that's cool that was his vision and it was like kind of but really it was mostly like I was dealing with the constraints that I had in that situation yeah having a happy environment to film it is a restraint it helps you just choose what you're going to show and photography and filmmaking it's it's about cropping it's like cropping out the distractions and framing stuff that's beautiful and that's why I love seeing behind the scenes photos because you know you don't see any of that stuff you don't see the 30 people standing behind the camera and set and everything like that it's in movies you just focused on what they what they put in the front and dude look at the podcast like what we're doing right here this this is not the ideal situation like I would love to have a separate studio or a room where I could just put all this stuff up leave it up this is in my dining room and it's the least ideal scenario to have to break up and set down every single episode but I'm not making any money from this right now like this is very much building from the ground up so like we have to good name playing thank you yeah I was like should I do it should I do it I'm going into it I'm saying it and then you know it it's for now this is working and it's helping me to build it and people want to see that they want to see I mean picture yourself like successful in five years at what you're doing having audience or how making a living doing what you want to do being able to look back at the very beginning you know when you you're in that shitty apartment making those videos like that's going to be really cool to be for people to be able to say and for you to look on yeah that's one of the last things I would say to him is go scroll back through whoever you think now has everything that you want and go to their first videos and see what they did and see how creative they got and Marcus Brownlee MKBHD is someone that I I watch a lot of this stuff on YouTube and he's progressed a lot over the last 10 years thousand videos millions of subscribers and now he's a studio space and he has whatever equipment he could want and people helping him and that sort of thing but I remember one thing he said was used to film in the bedroom of his apartment when he was in college and he built like a huge audience doing that making videos and similar styles and at one point he said I think I filmed in every direction possible with every possible thing behind it every lens like like the phone pointing and like you just when you have constraints you find a new way to point the camera you find a new way to light it and that is going to push your creativity a little bit more Valerie from the Netherlands I'm a freelance videographer and I was wondering if you have any tips for backing up footage to make sure you don't lose important data so I always make sure I have three copies of things you freak I only do two you only do two yeah so why three three won't I'm working on it once once it's delivered to is enough for me so when I film if I use a camera if possible I'll do dual memory cards to like see 100 so that's two copies and then anytime I'm moving this stuff so if I'm transporting you can all the original cards oh no okay no so this is like from capture but like anytime I'm moving the equipment so I'm going for one location the other I will take one out put it in my pocket and so even if the camera gets stolen I always have a copy so I'm like always keeping track that way when possible but once it's on a computer I I make a second copy now I have a raid system before it was just like one hard drive other hard drive and then a third one that I send to my editor so that's the third copy but even for my wife's wedding photography just two hard drives plug and drink Peter all the time I use a app called carbon copy cloner it's always making sure that those are the same and then I have a third one that I plug in like every week or so and then I either lock that up or I put it at another physical location so I'm really like concerned about that I would never want to lose footage but then once I deliver stuff and stuff's finished then I have a version of it in the cloud that I've used to deliver them via Dropbox or frame.io or something like that and then my two local copies are fine at that point. Yeah I actually with it depends if it's a big project I will do the third copy I'm working on a new doc now so and like we we spent a lot of money on the like one show that we filmed it was Josh and Ryan from the minimalist giving a talk downtown 300 people came we filmed it with five cameras we spent a lot of money on the space on the lights on the crew it was a lot invested into that one day and I was like all right we need to make sure like that it's crazy to think about it right all the planning months of planning up to this project we shoot it it was just one day that moment and now we have these car everything is now on a hard drive and we obviously back it up on the very same day so we have two copies and then I went and made a third copy gave it to Josh buried it in a hole in some of the somewhere in Montana and no but I gave it to Josh because like separate location is important because if somebody breaks into the apartment or if the apartment burns down or would you know you have to make sure that that footage is secure and definitely during the middle of a project especially a big one I'll say three copies is is important like if it's if you can't if you don't have enough money to pay the person back the money that they spent on it make sure there's three backup copies if you're like well it's like a really small project and maybe it's like not that big of a deal to have three but always have at least one that was a two copies is one and one copy is none oh yeah that's the that's the the back up saying I guess yeah I actually I'm going to have to relish into what you just said about backing up because I feel like you have a better system than I do in terms of doing that but I feel like any as long as you're keeping it backed up that's step number one CKC also known as Chris from Boston how do you put effort and passion into a project when nobody is watching noticing or buying that's the best time to put effort and passion into it because because it doesn't matter like you do it for you and then when you have an audience when you have people paying attention then maybe you'll keep doing it for you and you won't do it for that and everyone starts somewhere everyone uploads their first video or takes their first photo and posts on the internet or gets their first follower writes their first blog post or book or what have you and so you should start whatever it is you want to do because you want to do it not because other people are going to like it or favorite it or share it so I think that's a strong place to be in mentally it's a frustrating place to be in when you post something and it gets five views or gets ten readers but the goal is that you'll look back at that time and be like I still made what I wanted to make and I'm still doing that and if I have way more people paying attention yeah you have it's just it's part of the process if you want to be able to be successful in a given field you have to keep doing it and you have to get through that part that painful experience of of creating without people watching or giving you feedback and it's a little bit numbing I would say in the beginning but you get used to that feeling very quickly and like you're just like well I decided I'm going to do an episode a week or a video a week and that's what I'm committed to doing and I'm going to keep doing that and then if you have that kind of consistency not only are you getting better you're starting to build up a little bit of an audience people start coming back and then you create something and you also you don't need an audience of a million people you know you just need an audience of the right people yeah in the history of the world except for the last 10 years let's say whatever you made creatively was really hard to get anyone to pay attention to because they're okay even if there was the internet there weren't platforms like YouTube like Instagram like no one would have seen it anyway like I was just watching if you seen the Spielberg documentary and HBO no no yeah like he used to make movies when he was a kid you know real real like film movies just for fun and no one watched those he watched them he made them when he was a kid because he wanted to make them and then eventually now millions of people watch his stuff and I think that's a problem now with the expectation of I can't make something if all these people aren't going to watch it yeah do that's so true I feel the same way like that's when I started I started making like VHS my parents VHS tape and I was just like we'd make stop motion videos or we'd make you know horror films and it wasn't because we wanted to put it on YouTube to get a bunch of views there was no YouTube we just thought it was fun it was just fun to create something and you have to find that love in the beginning and if you don't have that maybe you're in it for the wrong reason and like we were talking about with Jason like the number always is moving so you can be excited about 10 views but you're going to want a hundred you're going to want a thousand you're going to want 10 million so you never should be doing it for the number because it's just going to keep moving further away from you a couple more questions Hugo Bravo what a cool name that's a dope name do you have any advice for people trying to grow their social media awareness and build an audience on Instagram and YouTube in 2018 pick something specific and stick to it that would be what I would recommend to people it's hard to be a generalist and to have people pay attention to you or to just vlog your life or try to be entertaining or what have you especially on a YouTube on an Instagram to just take photos of your life and to grow from zero to a thousand or however many you think would help you break through I think you got to pick something you got to be like I want to be known for taking unique food photos of like just bananas or like you don't have to get that specific good we just started somebody's business yeah banana gram banana gram that's great actually hate banana grams that game it's like it's like scrabble and you like poor molot my siblings have played it but I've never played it yeah I've seen it around isn't it like this is not sponsored by the other guys it should be god damn it we've got to stop giving people free promotion I think that was a very good promotion you know I hate the game but I have a gram yeah but okay so it's focus on something so pick your thing focus on it so on YouTube I focused on video equipment reviews and it was like very focused and I've grown my audience to 30 thousand or whatever and it's probably just a people a bunch of people that like video and photo gear and maybe they have aspirations to do filmmaking or be a photographer but like if I would have just shown my short films that made no sense or like we're just zombies eating each other or something like that's not going to grow an audience so on YouTube specifically to grow from zero to something you kind of have to bring an existing audience that you've already built somewhere else to your videos or you need to make stuff that's going to rank and search and be suggested in other people's videos or through those YouTube's to say okay for Instagram since I don't have a huge following there I don't know how much of my advice I would take but from what I've seen from other people it's being really specific you know being a food photographer or travel or sunsets or whatever the thing is then people will search for that thing and they'll come to expect that from you and you'll find people that have that interest so I would say get specific yeah and I think see I think about what kind of content you like to consume what resonates with you what do you enjoy what kind of videos do you watch all the way through see what's also doing well like I would actually see that on some YouTube videos or I'm like what the fuck like this person is just talking for 10 minutes in this video and they're not even that interesting and it's got 500,000 views I'm like is that why you started doing notice yeah yeah that's it I'm like oh shit I don't have to be interesting this is easy but it was like there were that's a reason why I did a couple of videos that were just direct messages I was like oh shit I could do that I could you know that's a good way to supplement some income I'm not in a wish a way to supplement some videos where I'm like I'm trying to make consistent videos we can't put all of our energy there's certain videos we're going to put all of our energy into and just knock it out of the park and then there's some videos that were like I just have this idea that I want to share in a very simple format and I saw that format and I was like the other people did it and I'm like oh I could do that that that being easy way to make additional videos that may also add value and also help me build an audience and they worked pretty well so see what other people are doing but then also don't just copy them you know like there's enough minimalist blogs out there that you probably aren't going to be able to find something specifically within that niche that will resonate if you love doing it go ahead you know sing your heart out and write about minimalism but if you're trying to build an audience you I think have to find a way in which you can approach a topic and a completely different way yeah definitely um okay so this is my last question for you and then we'll wrap the podcast up if you could go back to college graduation what would you do differently what advice would you give to yourself at that age I would have listened to what I really wanted to do a little bit more because I spent years working a job that I thought I should have been working to make money I thought I needed to make a little life that I was supposed to to live um I would have taken more risks because at that age at 21 at 18 at 31 like I am now risks are less risky because you have less responsibility you have less money you have less less family that sounds more but you have fewer penalized in your family potentially yeah that kind of thing so you have you don't have the mortgage you don't have all the things and you can live minimally you're used to living in a 7 foot by 10 foot box with one other person in your dorm room so there's just less risks uh there's less things that happen when you take risks at that age so that's what I would say I would say go do what you want to do like if you want to travel go travel if you want to make videos make videos if you want to go back to school go back to school and you're you're going to regret majorly if you don't do some of those things and so when you can think of what am I going to regret not doing maybe that's what you should be doing I love that that's a great point to end this podcast on do not live life with regrets that's it thank you so much for coming on the podcast appreciate you being here man yeah thanks for having me all right so I am a very bad host and I did not give Caleb an opportunity to give his plug at the end I totally forgot so I'm going to do that right I would definitely recommend subscribing to his YouTube channel the best way to find it is just to google his name it's Caleb Wajik so that's c-a-l-e-b-w-o-j-c-i-k also Calebwojik.com thanks for listening see you next week
