# My Morning Workout Routine
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3PrCie6lvY8
Visit https://audible.com/mattdavella or text mattdavella to 500-500 to get a 30 day trial with 1 free audiobook and unlimited access to each month's collection of Audible Originals. Thanks to Audible for sponsoring this video.

🙊 Here are the goods I mention in this video:
Moderate Resistance Band (Blue):  https://shop.barrys.com/collections/barrys-at-home/products/resistance-band-blue
Heavy Resistance Band (Purple): https://shop.barrys.com/collections/barrys-at-home/products/resistance-band-purple
Foam Roller: https://shop.barrys.com/collections/barrys-at-home/products/foam-roller-small
Yoga Mat: https://shop.lululemon.com/p/mens-and-womens-accessories/The-Reversible-Un-Mat/_/prod6750167?color=3327&sz=ONESIZE

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** 
**Date:** 2020-04-23

## Transcript
 Hey guys, it's Matt and today I want to share with you my new 20 minute morning workout routine and something I've been working on over the past couple weeks, excited to share it with you. Let's get into it. So in the past I've had a dedicated gym regimen most of the time going five days a week, but since lockdown I've done my best to try to adapt that to an at-home routine. I've stuck with strength training exercises that replicate some of the exact exercises I do with my typical weight training. I did experiment with a lot of the Instagram workout routine videos and they did have me build up a sweat, but they weren't really my style. And one and two and one and two and lift your leg. Lift your leg in and I'll go like, oh my god, I can't go, put the down, go, put the down, stand up, stand up, so I primarily try to focus on the things that I really enjoy out of a workout. I think it's some gear to get me started, including a yoga mat, a foam roller, and two resistance bands. You can probably get by with just one moderate band, which in this case is the blue one, but I got two because I wasn't really sure what the resistance would be. The only other piece of gear that I might add to this list is a pull-up bar, though I think my current setup will for sure get me through the next couple of months. As always I include all the links to everything I mentioned in this video in the description. So first let's talk about motivation. This is probably one of the biggest things you're going to struggle with, as you start to adapt to an at-home workout routine. I know that's definitely true of myself. I found that one big change I've made is to prioritize my workouts in the morning. So 7am, 8am, that's when I'm doing these workouts, before I come up with all these excuses later on in the day, before I'm too tired to want to even pull out that yoga mat and start my workout. The second thing which I've already mentioned on this channel a few times before is following the two-day rule. Especially important now that I'm working out from home, because I just don't feel as inspired lately, and so I will come up with more excuses and I will push off my workouts. But following the two-day rule, I allow myself to skip one day, I don't allow myself to skip two days. So this just allows me to continue to build that momentum with each workout and worst-case scenario I'm working out every other day, which is actually still pretty good. This video is sponsored by my friends at Audible. At the end of the video I'm going to share with you an audiobook that's really helped bring a lot of perspective when it comes to motivation, so stick around at the end to check that out. Alright, so I split these workouts into three different days. On day one, I work out biceps, back, and shoulders. On day two, I work out triceps, and chest, and on day three, I work out legs. So let's get started with day one. Alright, so the first muscle we're going to work today is the most important muscle in the human body, the bicep. And we're going to use the bicep curls to start. So putting one or two feet on the resistance band, keeping your elbows tucked in, we're going to bring these resistance bands up. So we'll probably just knock out like three or four hundred of these and we'll be good. The key to all strength training is pushing yourself to failure. With the resistance band, this can be a little bit tricky, but there are a few different ways to get there. You can use a thicker band, shorter slack on the band, you can double the bands up, or you can just do much slower reps. Truthfully, I don't worry too much about the exact number of reps that I get in, I'm more concerned with trying to reach failure. Alright, I'm going to. I typically do three to four sets per exercise depending on how I'm feeling. Now my rest time in between sets and exercises is typically one to two minutes. I go by my own personal feeling. If you need more discipline, you might want to go with a more calculated approach. Alright, so the next exercise targets all three muscles for the day. It's going to be your biceps, shoulders, as well as your back. It looks weird. You're going to laugh at me, but it actually works really well. Let's call these the floppies. So basically hold the band just like this in front of your chest and you stretch it all the way back and activate your back. Just as important as bringing yourself to the point of failure is doing slow, controlled reps. This will make sure that you get the most out of your workout without injuring yourself. Next up, we're going to do some standing shoulder flies. So again, putting one foot or two feet on the band, I actually find that even the moderate resistance is a bit too much for me to get good form on these shoulder flies. So sometimes I even bend my legs just a little bit so the resistance isn't too much. And bringing it all the way up. You can also swing your hands forward and up to target a different part of your shoulder. So the next workout is reverse bicep curls. And these are basically the same thing as your typical bicep curls, but you want to switch your wrists around to the other side. And again, slow and steady reps. 1,000. All right. So normally after my reverse bicep curls, I finish up the workout with some crunches. So let's do those. All right. So this is the new foam roller that I got. I typically rely on the ones at the gym, but as you know, can't go there. This is actually better than any one that I've used at the gym before. It is really, really firm. This thing really is super painful to use. So it's not for the faint of heart, but I definitely recommend it for those people who have a lot of tension and tightness in their backs and need to get those knots busted out. This has been fantastic tool. All right. Let's get to day two. Okay. We're working out triceps and chest. And for me, that always begins with push ups. I usually do four to six sets of push ups, varying the width of my arms to target my chest, both my chest and my triceps, or just my triceps. All right. So I think the one thing, actually the two things that people get wrong when they do push ups is one, they don't fully extend their arms. They kind of have caught their arms, and two is they don't have great posture with their back either. But it's really in the sky or it's concave and dipping towards the ground. The idea is to have a really straight back when you're doing push ups. After that, I do dips on my bench here, slow controlled reps to failure, three sets, and we're done. All right, so we're going to do another tricep workout here. This one is very similar, target's very similar muscle group and a similar workout, but using the resistance band, I find that it's a different kind of tension and a different kind of difficulty. So it's a little bit silly, but you want to put the resistance bands underneath your ankles, letting your ankles hold them down. Coming back behind, and then pulling up, trying to keep the elbows in, you don't want the elbows to go out, you want the elbows to stay in nice and tight, yes, many reps as you can. If you guys can't tell already, I'm filming all of these workouts in one day, so that's why I'm fucking exhausted. And the last exercise I do is a reverse tricep curl. I hold the resistance band against my couch and yank back on the band with my other hand. This isolates a part of the tricep that doesn't get as much of a workout with those past two exercises. As always, I finish up with some crunches, phone rolling, winsing an agony, and we're off the day three. Day three is for legs. I start off with three sets of lunges, and I take these reps to failure, getting my knee as close to the yoga mat as possible without touching it. Sometimes I touch it. Then I do one leg deadlift to target my hamstring. Again, around three sets to failure, you can increase the difficulty here by holding a weight in your hand. I don't have any weights, so I just try to focus on slowing down my ribs and going to failure. And after that, I finish up by hammering out a bunch of squats to failure. So when it comes to leg day, it's a little bit more free form for me than the other days where the regimen is a little bit tighter. I basically just do as many of these squats and one leg deadlifts as I can, pushing myself the failure, pushing myself to the point where I'm just exhausted tired and don't want to do it anymore. And that's usually when I call it quits. I finish up day three with a bunch of crunches, foam rolling, and writhing an agony. If you're somebody who struggles with motivation and self-discipline, I highly recommend listening to a great audio book by David Goggins called Can't Heart Me. Master your mind and to fire the odds. History of transformation is unreal. The audio book details his story from poverty, depression, and poor health, into an elite navy seal and ultra endurance athlete. It's absolutely inspiring. As a very slow reader, audible allows me to read tons of audio books each year. Listen to audio books while you're at home or while you're at home or maybe while you're at home. Start listening with a 30-day audible trial. Choose one audio book and two audible originals absolutely free. Visit audible.com slash Matt Divella or text Matt Divella to 500. The links are in the description below. Alright guys, that does it for this week's video. Thank you so much for watching. Hope you got some tips that help you build your own workout routine from home. Good luck and I'll see you next week. Alright, bye.
