# Ground Up 030 - Building Your Tribe w/ Jess Lizama
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=41dcDEajLTU
http://www.groundupshow.com

Jess Lizama is a YouTuber & blogger that shares her experiences in lifestyle design, travel & cooking. We chat about how to build an audience today, the importance of sleep, how she maintains her early morning routine & much more.

Find our more about Jess here:  http://www.jesslizama.com
Subscribe to her YouTube Channel:  https://www.youtube.com/exoticjess

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** groundup, film, filmmaking, podcast, directing, contentcreator, self help, groundupshow, mattdavella, jess lizama, youtube, youtuber, 
**Date:** 2017-10-25

## Transcript
 When I was pushing paper for 9 hours, going into work at 8, getting off by 6, being home by 7, in bed by 9, it was so routine, it was so mundane that you lose your drive and then that's when you, like, you fall into depression and you start to question who you are, like, am I falling my dream? Am I, do I feel fulfilled? Am I happy? Welcome back to The Ground Up Show. My name is Matt Diavella and that voice you just heard was Jess Lizama. Jess is a YouTuber and blogger that talks about her experiences and lifestyle design, cooking, relationships. In our conversation, we talk about how to build an audience today, the importance of sleep, how to maintain early morning routines and much, much more. This is Ground Up episode, Number 3. Jess, welcome to The Show. Thanks for having me. That was a really good intro music. Do you like it? I was jamming. I was like, yeah, I feel like I want to start the show off on the right note. I want to get some energy going. There's a lot I want to talk about. I know I'm excited. I did some deep digging into your YouTube past and it goes back far. Yeah, since 2009, back, did you see the exotic dress days? I did. I was like, I need to watch the very first one. I got to start. And this is just like your embarrassed now. Yeah, the exotic just days were different days from today. I just love seeing the progression. I love seeing just somebody starting something and not totally thinking everything through and just kind of posting. And all right, I'm going to give better. I'm just going to make start now and then I'm going to get better. But like, it's amazing how far you've come since then. Thank you. Yes. In 2009, I was doing the sketch comedies. And my friend Steve, he said it best. He's like, this is looks like blues clues for adults. If you can imagine what that was like, everything was green screen and I was kind of making fun of relationships in life and I was playing every character. So I was myself on a date and I'd be myself the date and the waiter or the theater people patrons. So yeah, that was, I should pull those down and bear. I'm kind of embarrassed by them. But I then rebranded because I'm a mom and mom brands did not want to work with me because I was exotic, just exotic, like a flower, not like a dancer. But yeah, so I had to rebrand and I started doing mom type content and travel logs and totally move my content over. I want to go back into that stuff and talk about your journey. Okay. But first for people who aren't familiar with some of the work you do, what kind of content do you make, what kind of videos do you make these days? So these days, I'm doing vlogs, video blogs and I blog also. So I started my website about four years ago and I kind of umbrella the lifestyle genre. So it's health and lifestyle, it's beauty, it's fitness, it's foodie, it's mom's stuff, it's everything. But done in a way that's very true to me which is if I'm going to do beauty videos, I'm going to make fun of them and I'm going to do it in five minutes because it should not take you longer than five minutes to get ready in the morning. In my personal opinion, I don't have enough time. So yeah, those are the kind of videos that I do. That's great because it does seem like people will take themselves a little bit too seriously. Before YouTube, before you ever posted a video, what was your life like? Single mom, my daughter, I was 16 when I had my daughter cringe, she's going to be 20 next month. So I was doing the whole single mom thing, living with my best friend from college at the time. Going through a breakup and trying to like find my way out of that and the way that I did that was through comedy. I was going to college because I wanted to be a pharmacist, like straight up living every Asian dream, making my parents very proud. And then I started doing YouTube and it took off very quickly because I collabed with people like totally sketch and Shane Dawson and I did the Collabs in the days where they actually worked the way that they're supposed to in that like they really drive to whatever that you're doing. I feel like Collabs now, they're harder on YouTube just because the space is so saturated. But that's how I really built. That's how I really built my YouTube career. Was I collabed every weekend and then finally just eventually moved my daughter and I from Fresno 2 Los Angeles, after a year. Okay, so you weren't in LA at that time? No, I was in Fresno still going to school. When you say put that first video up, what was YouTube like? What was the internet like? This is 2009. Oh man, it was so different. So on YouTube back in 2009, you weren't even a partner yet. You had to apply to become a YouTube partner to get AdSense placed against your content. So it took me like two months to get my application in and get proved before I had ads put on my content. And so doing the very first video, I was working with my friend Drew. He was a videographer, editor, photographer. And we went through the first video, put it up, just in the hopes that people would find it funny. And it really took off. It's like my number one video. It's the cop one. Oh wow. So embarrassing. But yeah, I mean, I was using my angles literally to get people there and then they would stay for the content. Well, that was a big thing of YouTube, especially in the early days. And I'm curious about how it's changed since then. But it's the thumbnail, the title, the description that you have, all these things, kind of pull people in. And it seemed more important back then. And honestly, it hasn't changed. I would think it would, and it would advance somehow. But still, I still go back and I review my metrics on my videos. And the ones that do the best have the poppyest thumbnail, the most catching title and the tags are all in line. So now there's places like vidIQ. I do use that site. No. So you can plug in what you think you want your title to be. And it will pull in everything from YouTube that's being highly searched. And then tell you SEO wise what you should title your video as. Yeah, this is one of those things that for a long time. And I've only been doing creating original content like this for about less than a year. But in the beginning, it was, I would label a name all my podcasts by the person who I was interviewing. And then I had a bunch of people suggest I should probably be a little bit more descriptive, a little bit more catchy. And I think I was resistant to do that because I was worried. I would be clickbaity. I would be sensational. And I wouldn't be true and authentic to myself. And what I want to get across. But there certainly is a lot that's very important about making sure people see your stuff. You don't want to just work really hard on something. Put it out there. All right, let's not even label it. Let's have no name on this YouTube video. Nobody's going to watch it. It's the discoverability, right? So it's like I want to stay authentic. And I don't want that clickbait. But I also want people who would otherwise not see my video. See my video. Because then they'll fall in love with the content. They'll come back. And then there you've built your core audience. You're your tribe. Right. So I think you have to play the game a little bit. And it's all about how you present yourself online. And I want to get into this later to a little bit deeper. It's just the whole branding and how we position ourselves. But once you get into it, that's when it really gets important. And if you're still giving clickbaity type content and information, once you're like five minutes into a video, then that's probably not a good look. Right, not a good look. It's not, it's not cute. But I feel like once you do build out that tribe, that core audience who comes back no matter what you talk about or how you do things, then you can really talk about whatever it is that you want to talk about. And you don't have to play the game anymore. I would still stick to bright thumbnails and tags and titles, but the content can be whatever you want it to be. So in the beginning of doing, when I transitioned my content, I would talk about beauty things that I didn't necessarily want to talk about. But I talked about them in the way that felt true to me. And then they would catch on and then beauty videos started to do better and better, because people realized that it wasn't just a beauty video. It was done and spoken in my voice. You talk about building your tribe. How long did it take to build your tribe? And obviously in the beginning, you are attracting some riff raf in there. It's some like really inappropriate YouTube comments. And then how does your tribe build and evolve with you? I attracted some stragglers for sure. I feel like that happens when you gain audience from anyone else. You get that cross-attuation of them. But for me, it took like a good year for people to start defending me in the comments. So if someone said something inappropriate, they would boot them out and I wouldn't have to do the whole block and delete thing. I still have to do that sometimes. But through changing my content, that also changed my audience. So it's ever changing. It depends. Right now I'm at 50-50, so 50% of my audience is male and 50% of my audience is female. But for a long time, it was like 80% male. And that's because the exotic chest days, very cleavey, comedy-based. So I'm proud of my audience now and they're my tribe. As you started to create content, how did the content start to change? Because in the beginning, it seemed like it was more sketchy and then it became more focused on relationships and giving real practical advice for people to follow. Yeah, I feel like my content changed as I changed as a person. So I was going through a breakup and I wanted to make fun of that because that was the way I was giving myself therapy. And now it's more focused about being married, being a mom, having two puppies traveling, goals that I want long-term because that's why I am and that's where I'm at right now. So I feel like a big part of my audience is also, I mean, I'm right between that 18 and 35 of your old range. But a big part of my audience is my daughter's age. So I just think about the things that I talk about with her and the things that I want to teach her. And I kind of use my platform as quote unquote, mamalazama moments where I take a topic like, I got married while you shouldn't. And I talk about it because this is, you know, not my first time at the radio. I've been married and divorced before. So it's just me going through everything I've been through in life and using that to give people insight. Was it hard in the beginning to have a true voice that felt true to yourself? Absolutely. And I feel like I still struggle with that because now that it's a business, you know, and you've turned your passion into your business. And this is your livelihood. You take on you, you team up with brands who want to change you. I mean, they don't want to change you, but they want to have their voice interjected into yours. So it's really staying true, the way that I stay on brand is I don't team up with brands that don't genuinely support. And so, but it is difficult. When someone says I want to throw money at you, of course, your initial reaction is be like, give me all the money. Yeah. But then you have to realize long term. You can't go for the cash grab. You can, because it's not going to, well, I think you're probably going to start isolating your audience, right? Which is the worst. They're not going to be happy if they feel like you're just peddling something or selling out. So you obviously have to be very careful and very aware of every time that you would help promote or push a product. You had built your audience pretty quickly. It sounds like in the beginning. And then you had the YouTube monetization coming in. At that time, YouTube monetization itself has changed a lot. And some videos get demonetized. How successful were you early on with that? And were you able to actually make a sustaining income to provide for yourself and your daughter? So it was funny, because back then I wasn't on a weekly schedule. Still, I'm not the whole like, be persistent, be consistent. I still struggle with that myself. Because we're constantly hemorrhaging content. But early on, when the CPM would be like $6.90, you uploaded right then and there. Four videos, if you could. And I made a pretty good living. I was able to support myself and my daughter on just doing YouTube. And then from that, you align yourself with brands that you stand behind. And then you just increase your overall income. And then it now, this is your career. Did you have anybody that helped you any mentors that you went to in those days? Or was this all trial by fire? It was trial by fire. Although I feel like no one does it alone. You know, we all start from zero subscribers. And it really was me doing these collaborative videos with people who aligned with my audience and the things that I was talking about in size-wise and then just us kind of exchanging content for content. It does seem really daunting, especially in say 2017 to imagine somebody who was starting a Twitter account, Facebook account, Instagram, from scratch. I mean, most of us don't start from scratch. We have our family and friends that are close by which actually I think sometimes makes it harder. Because I'm like, ah, do I want to put this out and only share it with my family and friends? And like, what are they going to think in me? Are they going to make fun of me? Sometimes it's easier to really be yourself online when you don't have all your family and friends watching. And you can just, you can just speak your mind. But yeah, imagine somebody who's trying to do that today. What advice would you give them? What do you think that they should do to start to develop something worth watching? I've had a lot of audience members ask me how to start a YouTube channel. And it comes back to like the top five things, right? It's like, know what your passion is. Build out your niche and then stay true to your brand because being authentic is everything. And then at the other two, which is being consistent and persistent. So I think if you're in it for the money, it's not going to work. But if you follow your passion and you're very specific, even one up that and being expert in that niche. So say you want to do fitness, but even you are a personal trainer or a nutritionist. So now you have cloud and people contrast to you. And you're not just someone just throwing something against the wall and saying, hey, this is what I think in this, what I do. It's worked for me. Hopefully it works for you. I think that there's something to be said about that. Yeah, I think that's actually a great point. Is the cloud cloud's important, but you don't need to have any awards to have it. You can just really do the research. And if you're really into fitness, take some courses, learn about it, read some books and really immerse yourself in that knowledge. So you can say that you're an expert in something. Education is key because no matter what you want your passion to be, if you're educated about it and you can share that with people like that's what keeps them coming back. People are addicted to personality. Of all the videos that I've ever done, it's the things that I talk about with me being a single mom and what it was like being a teen mom and Joe and I are in our relationship and our family life that does the best. It performs the best because at the end of the day they're there to see you and how they can relate to you as a person. I have trouble with the education side of things because I'm either in work mode or I'm in consume mode. I'm either in create or consume. So I can spend an entire day editing podcasts, working on a film, side projects, and that's all that I do for 10 hours. Or I could spend 10 hours listening to podcasts, watching Netflix specials and documentaries and learning and educating. I have a really hard time bringing both these together to put the pause on one to move to the next how does that look like in your life? I feel like I'm I'm aligning with what you're saying. I also either create or consume. It's really hard to consume as a creator though too. You know as a YouTuber content creator influencer when I started that wasn't even a thing. So I would watch my friends videos and now the space is so saturated. There's so many YouTubers. It's like how do I know what's good? How do I know who I want to watch? I want to follow and there's no more YouTube homepage. Now the narrative is they give you what they think you are going to see based on your watch history. So as somebody who I'm thinking long-gevity wise career wise, where do I want to be in five years? Do I want to be on YouTube? It's getting in that suggested videos on the lower right hand corner and the way that you do that is through the algorithm which is ever changing and the algorithm right now is on watch time so if they can stay to the end and then you know you keep popping up in the suggested videos the better that's that's great. So go through I go through my uploaded videos. I see where people are clicking off and then that's when I drop in an annotation. Hmm that's really clever. Keep them on your channel. Put it in a playlist. Yeah that is um I think it's it's the extra thought that goes into it and I think for somebody that's just starting out that's probably not the most important thing. Like when I think about when I started uploading videos and making content it like I probably would have just been too distracted and it was a little bit overwhelming to even understand the interface. How do I even change the title of a video? How do I do this and that? But eventually as you get more and more experience and you check those boxes off I feel like that's like the next step to be able to really understand how your audience interacts. You know say if you have a newsletter and you're sending out emails and your click through rate is like 20% on one email and 70% on the other try to figure out why and then I think it probably I would hope it comes down to it's not adding enough value but it obviously could come down to it's just not being presented in the right way. And you're completely right it also is how can I ramp up engagement and taking those cues from your audience to see when they're most engaged and the topics that engage them and that they want to hear you talk about or see you talk about yeah it's it's tricky but I think if you start off with a passion part and it doesn't even necessarily have to be the education expert look at annotations look at the metrics part but just being passionate about something and sticking to what's true to you I think that's what people are most attracted to. YouTube has changed a lot and when you you got in the game in 2009 a little bit easier to cut through the clutter you know more than 10 years later close to 10 years later it's radically different and the platform might be different I guess yeah what would you suggest would you suggest somebody you start a YouTube channel or do you think maybe this you go straight to Instagram or start with a blog. I think Instagram's easiest just because it's just an app on your phone you can upload a photo you can interact with that having to follow someone you don't even have to upload anything to your own profile to interact with someone whereas YouTube it's a little more labor intensive but I don't regret it at all I highly encourage everyone to take their passion and put it in shirt with a world but it is that thing where it's like there's always a platform coming up every day so you're saying that you know the fast feet of content in like Snapchat I'm I used to be on Snapchat all the time I still use it I could still consume by it but since Instagram now has the Instagram stories that's just another element that it keeps me on that platform it's so different when now it's become your business things I think about. Do you get help from your daughter who's in college to she give you like you go to her and say hey what what are the kids doing because I find myself doing this with my younger siblings for sure. Absolutely crazy kids what you guys do you days she actually helps style my shoots and if I have something going live on an Instagram story she helps do that because now you can add all those filters and stickers and polls and so she keeps it easy on the eye because she keeps telling me mom it's all about you know people's attention span is so short and so you just want them to look at it consume it interact with it move on so it has to be fast like fast consumption but to like the highest impacted yeah I think that that's true especially for new audiences but I think that we're starting to develop an appetite for longer form content I hope so and I think that's partly with the podcasts you know people can actually listen to an hour hour and a half conversation and I think when I think back to my parents day like you know they would listen to AM talk radio and as a kid of it this is crazy maybe it's because we're getting older and now we're like we could actually sit down and our attention span is settled a little bit more when you're you know if you're going 18 to 25 year olds if that's who you're talking do you probably got to pull them in with a little bit more content yeah content like right to the point and not going on too much but I feel like the older I get I enjoy hearing an authentic conversation and then almost feeling as if I could be a part of that conversation me too and I feel like you're right it is platform specific so your audience on Instagram may consume quickly whereas your audience on your blog and your YouTube channel whereas it favors longer form content anything over 10 minutes does the best and that's the content they promote or a podcast they do want long form content which is great we have a finite amount of time in the day to make the stuff we want to make to post across all social accounts you know there's probably besides the main Twitter Instagram Facebook Snapchat there's probably another 20 that we could be on that are really popular and doing well and have thriving communities but you can't do everything you can't make every piece of content you want you can't interview everybody you want how do you you know split up your time how do you split up your time during the day and and what are the things that you need to focus on that are the most important to get your job done for me it's taking those cues from my audience so which platform are they interacting the most on and for me personally that's YouTube Instagram Facebook and Twitter so those are the four platforms that I focus the most of my time on and when I release something to YouTube I will be very specific on which platform that I post how I post that I will speak that platform's language quote unquote so Twitter's post will be different from how I share it on Facebook from how I share it on Instagram so it's just like taking that one content and sharing it across the ones that do the best but in a way that's authentic to that audience do you do the cropping of the videos and adjusting in that way as well I do and that's really difficult I feel like at some point you just need a team yeah I was talking about that with Joe where it's like you especially to do the sketches and to be consistent and you want to make two to three videos a week you really need a team to make it happen especially if you're not making money because it's hard when you're not making money and obviously that's kind of counterintuitive because if you have a team then you're spending money but it's very hard to to keep things going especially for people if you have a full-time job like that transition to me I'm fascinated with and I think it's probably the hardest to pull off I agree and I feel like once you like let's say because I what I did start YouTube when I had a full-time job and I was going to school and I was a mom so it was just doing it as a passion side project that turned into this is now my career and the more time that I give to it trust me I get so frustrated sometimes because I'm like there's no more content that I can give the internet's without me feeling like I'm not fulfilled so it's playing that balance and finding it really like fine tuning what I want to do and how I'm going to talk about it that's not so invasive that I've lost who I am and what I want to do just because I'm trying to be topical for the sake of content so you can't just turn it out you cannot you will burn out pretty quickly I imagine if if you do ever have a point like that where you were just trying to fill quota mat every day every day I'm like oh man what am I going to talk about today that they're going to be interested in that I want to talk about but for me coming back to the video blogging is the easiest thing for me because it's just talking to a camera the way that I'm talking to you now and taking a topic that's relevant to the day or whatever I'm feeling I just shot out I'm doing October where you vlog every day in October haven't started yet but I'm going to and I just take a topic that something my daughter has asked about and for she and I we talk about motivation a lot we talk about comparison on Instagram and social media and how your kids are so you know they're they're it makes an impression on them and so it those are the things I talk about like how you should not compare your household to somebody else's highlight real very important so just me taking a topic like that and talking about it that makes me feel fulfilled as a creator and it keeps me on track with content everybody saying you have to make as much content as you can give the people what they want but I think people leave out the point where it's you have to create meaningful content you need to create content that fulfills you that you're proud of and can stand outside as well as making content that's going to help people and actually inspire people to change or to think about their life in a different way and I think that's what makes you stand out you know like that's my whole brand ethos is I'm going to be true to me I'm going to talk about the things that have happened to me and the people that I love and if it can help someone because man have I been through the ringer but haven't we all we're all going through some shit everyone's going through sludge and we're just trying to make it out okay because there's no handbook to life and how to succeed in life how to be okay and so I just try to take that into what I'm doing and be like okay I may be stressed out that I have a deadline but this is my work now and I can't complain I love what I do make it so that it helps me but it also helps the people that I'm watching take a topic do you have daily rituals that help you to to keep that in focus I do I do have a daily ritual and it's funny that you call it a ritual because I never even thought of it like that I always can I always refer to things as schedules but this is a ritual um get up in the morning and have a tall glass of room temperature water with lemon very specific right yeah can you explain that I read somewhere that if you have room temperature water with a whole squeeze like lemon juice from a whole squeeze lemon it introduce that first into your body as soon as you wake up that it really it flushes out the toxins it boosts your metabolism it gets your digestive system going it brebs you up that it's better than coffee and then I'll do boot camp class that's my time to get back time to wake up between 6 and 7 a.m every day and I'm habitual so I'm a creature of habit doesn't matter if I go to bed at 5 a.m. I'm up by 6 or 7 I go to my boot camp class come home have a shake and then I try to meditate but for me meditating isn't what most people think of when they think of meditation for me it's just sitting by myself and trying to calm myself down while looking through my planner I know that's bizarre right look at your planner and that's a stress relief but I put stickers in the planner I like block out my day on the planner and then somehow some way that's some form of meditation for me that calms me before I like head on are you very well organized yes it sounds like you are with the stickers and but it's analog as well do you have the stuff digitally of calendar where you keep stuff organized I probably have like five calendars and that's so weird because the cow do I buy one on my phone I have one hanging up above my desk I have one on my desk top which is in Google and then I have the planner I am living in like the 80s worth someone asked me for lunch I'm like I gotta go home to get my planner because I'm not sure if I'm available that day but for me getting out everything that's in my head and just putting it on to the planner and kind of organizing it that way doesn't make me feel so overwhelmed because then you can tackle one thing at a time and physically cross it off the list you know it's a good feeling so good yeah I love that feeling I'll do like on my two do lists Natalie was making fun of me because like there was just one day where I wrote like brush teeth I was like trying to put together all right this is what I'm gonna do in the morning I'm gonna do this this this this this this and then like she was making she's like get a job you can't put brush teeth on a but woke up like wake up yeah wake up I put wake up on my to do list yeah all right so you wake up every day six to seven a.m. was that habit that was hard to build have you always been an early riser I feel like my whole thought process on getting up early and starting the day early all really change within the last five years I don't know what that is I don't know if that was me hitting 30 and I'm like hi need more time or if that just was me feeling the urgency to get more things done but it was really easy to do I think once I put myself on autopilot alarm goes off I don't even think about how tired I am I just literally roll out of bed put on my gym clothes brush my teeth pop in my eyes contacts and head off the door and then once you're out you don't regret that I've never regretted getting out the door early it's the regret getting out of bed late yeah it's not the worst when you feel like you've just wasted your entire day yes that's the hardest thing in the beginning when you're you first being an entrepreneur and say you start you've started to gain some momentum and you're making some money and you now have the freedom to wake up whenever you want you will probably for a while enjoy the sleeping in until 11 or 12 and not working until maybe 6pm or 5pm just being very lazy and every once in a while I fall back into that not that often but eventually you realize especially as you mature and you start to if you have a family and you understand that you want to make time for the relationships in your life most people are on that nine to five schedule so you probably should as well like getting to bed at the same time as your significant other or waking up a little bit early so that way you can wrap up work early to spend time with your family is really important for a lot of things in life routine is the enemy but for me having some sort of routine every day kind of keeps me sane because I don't know what's going to happen in that day and you're right we're our own bosses so who's going to get us up in the morning who's going to make sure we reach that deadline who's going to make sure we go to the meeting you have to be so self-motivated and or human I wake up and there are some days where I'm like draw the blinds there are some days where I make the bed just so they don't get back in it like the reality is you're going to have your highs in your lows you're going to have really great months and you're going to have really shit months and that's it all comes with being your own boss it all comes with fat fester famine you know you have amazing months where you're getting tons of work and then some of their slow really got a grind and you got a hustle but at the end of the day at the end of the year I'm like I got a lot of accomplished today I did so much this year and then that's what drives you you're addicted to the results much like working out you said that there is some bad things in routine what do you think is bad about routine I think when something becomes to routine okay specifically in relationships I think nothing should be routine in relationships um in those kinds of things but in your day I think when I was pushing paper for nine hours going into work at eight getting off by six being home by seven in bed by nine it was so routine it was so mundane that you almost you lose your drive and then that's when you like you've fallen to depression and you start to question who you are like am I falling my dream am I do I feel fulfilled am I happy um so that's when you have to break the routine in relationships with Joe all the time show when I've used to both work from home and to break our routine we were not allowed to have date night at home because it's like having date night at the work at the work space you know um so we would always anytime Friday night comes we hit the town and break the routine even if it's one thing a day where you're like I have a routine in the morning for myself that whole morning ritual that you're talking about that's great because in that will break up every other routine that you have that isn't so exciting I think that's the one nice thing about having work that you really enjoy and that's fulfilling is that and also that it changes over time and what you're doing today might not be what you're doing tomorrow especially if you're an entrepreneur business owner you know today I might be doing my taxes and then tomorrow I might be shooting a video and then I could be editing and it does break up them and not any but it is the routine I I guess is often there where it's like this is work time and this is relaxing time I think the relationship advice that's tough and that's certainly a challenge is to how do we not make our relationships mundane and how do we not fall into the same routine especially you know when you're with somebody 10 15 years how do you how do you continue to kind of remove yourself from that routine and how do you make things interesting and exciting like when say you're first dating someone so Joan I've been together for seven years we actually got engaged after five years six years and then got married a year later but for us it's that we don't we try not to go to the same place twice and we try not to talk about work more than 10 minutes yes I want to know about your day I love you so much tell me about your day but then it has to stop otherwise you're taking work home right and you don't want to stress about work you don't want to stress about money as an entrepreneur you do that all day anyway because if truth be told you're starting off and you're self-funded then you're wondering how am I going to make this passion my thing where it's paying me and now this is my career so for us it's it's team building skills so taking a dance class you know learning how to scuba dive together doing things that make you both grow together because now you know about you know so much about the other person after a certain about you can know everything about someone in six months so then honeymoon's over and what else can we have talk about like what's there and it's about breaking up that routine and doing something that's team building skills I don't think necessarily in relationships everybody needs to have the same interests but they need to have the openness to be interested in each others absolutely say that three times I think I think I actually worded that pretty well but yeah so like I may not be into dancing but if not only really wants to go all right yeah okay but it's shot because at the end of the day you're going to have fun with her because it's not about you not liking the dancing it's you doing something with her and you're going to see her glow and laugh and have fun and then by the end of it you know that you're flirting and you're having fun and that's what you lose in a relationship that you've been in for so long is the courting stage and the do we still flirt do we still laugh do we still play can we still have a good time and not be the people who don't talk to each other for four hours that it dinner table that's the relationship killer and if you're let alone gonna be married to this person and you're in it for life then you're in trouble the one thing I noticed from watching videos of you guys you do a lot of the family stuff you Joe your daughter's current yes and when you guys are together you don't get easily offended is that because the cameras on or do you just generally not get offended by jokes and you like you know that the intention is that it's playful and it's just you're just messing around it's so funny you say that because I was just talking to my daughter current about that um because just as you could get easily offended by something you're significant other someone in your family says to you I feel like that's on the daily right so it's all you're correct it's all about the intention what is someone's intention behind that and that goes for everything it's like I was in a meeting and someone looked at me the wrong way well was there intention maybe they were just getting out of a yarn and I just caught them on the tail end of that and I also don't get easily offended I'm on the I did not get easily offended it's got to help I think that's one of the most important things in a relationship is just to be able to laugh and and poke fun on each other and not take life too seriously passive aggressiveness is one of the hardest things to tweez out in a relationship and to understand when you're doing it as well as when they're it's always easier to see when they're doing it but when you're doing it it's just like your ego is overriding your entire system and you're not even in control how do you approach those situations how do you know to be more mindful when you're you may not being be you might not be the best version of yourself I am a constant work in progress Joe is the calmest person ever I'm the that heat I'm the fire on the heat I get riled up very easily I genuinely like I just I'm sensitive not to things I don't take things but I'm just sensitive to situations so if I see that he's bothered then I'm bothered but definitely he's not easily riled I'm easily riled so for me to be the best he does bring out the best version of myself and promote happiness and and rainbows and unicorns because he's very calming and we just have two very different upbringings so his family is calm and my family is fire so anytime there's a conversation and someone had a different opinion they would just yell at you so I just think now if someone's having a different conversation you just yell at them and Joe tries to bring me back down to earth and he's like you're here I'm gonna need to bring it to here but he doesn't in a way that's not offensive he knows that I'm sensitive to that and he says it in a way that kind of like takes me out of seeing red and I'm like okay it's just a conversation yeah I guess life is all about balance and it's all about pulling yourself back in when you kind of get off track how do you keep the balance in your life throughout the throughout the day from between work and relationships and experiencing new things it's really hard for me to do that being self-aware though is a huge thing for me so if I feel myself getting irritated about something I really have to be an adult and I have to be like okay why am I so irritated right now and I have to tell you 90% of the time when I'm driving on a lay streets I'm listening to classical really are country music I love country music but classical music and country music keep me calm and sane because if you think about it a lot of things in life are all around patience so if I can be patient about this one thing and just let this person in even if they're having a bad day I don't know what they're going through and they cut me off I could react it so differently if my head space wasn't if it was there if I could be just as angry as they are because I'm in that head space then you're just creating now this is road rage which I'm really good at by the way I was gonna say you said then that because people like the beep around here and I like everybody beeps at you and then I just like I want to be like why did you do that like I didn't do anything wrong I'm obeying the traffic law it was a yellow light so I stopped you didn't even know how many times of y'all the strangers oh my god I'm 14 not a good look for me yeah and so yeah I feel like the balance from y'all so too is just you were saying earlier just having morning rituals I revisit that sometimes multiple times throughout the day even if it's just taking a few deep breaths and being like okay I'm centered I can go about my day and then referring back to my calendar and just getting things done feeling accomplished for me feeling accomplished even if that's just going get groceries or doing laundry and knocking that off the list I feel really good yeah I'm curious about what your days look like now in terms of you said you were editing working on a project this morning like was that you editing what do you have other people that help you out do you collaborate with people how do you work with brands I'm gonna know like the full picture of what work looks like today for you full transparency sure I don't have an editor so Joe will film an edit for me if I have a big brand deal and I want to be beautiful and sharp looking a cinematographer like that's what he does I don't have that I just want to be the talent just put me in front of the camera let me do my thing and then give me the final product on most days like today the brand I was doing I had to edit in a couple of talking points that I had missed so on the daily it's creating content for my blog for my YouTube channel it's editing all of my own stuff it's in its promotion a big part of it is promoting all of the work that I do and then moving on to the next thing because it's daily everything is daily instagram's daily youtube's daily I do notice the Instagram stories you you kill it on that that's you get pretty good engagement on that compared to the other stuff you do or is it yeah and but it's every day I mean you're very consistent with it and it's actually inspiring just to just to see that routine that you're like going to the gym again today and it's just like crushing it every day like slow down you're making us look bad can I tell you half of that mean sharing with the world that I'm going to the gym is for me because it's holding me accountable right like if I don't tell everyone that I'm going what what's going to make me do it I guy have to the daily if I can tell the audience and I'm going hey guys hey friends I'm going to work out maybe they'll want to do it too and also it holds me accountable because I do I go every day because it's also a huge form of stress relief just throwing heavy things around and slamming in on the ground like and then getting back to the daily grind really helps me you do this before you were saying you you knew your workout pretty much first thing in the morning you don't you check emails and stuff before you hit the gym you might kind of poke around a little bit and see what's happened in today I do but have you ever got lost in an email and then you're like oh there's my day like it's two o'clock yeah it like happens you go on the internet you forget why you even like turn the computer on and yet you're lost for an entire day how did I get here you got to be really careful you do and I sometimes like the worst is sleeping near your phone and I need to stop doing this I need to have your phone in the kitchen charging I'll wake up at 3 a.m. for whatever reason and can't fall back asleep I'll just fall into an Instagram black hole and then before you know it I'm like I know everything about this person's life and I'm like who am I I'm just stopping right now go to sleep yeah it's yeah especially say if you wake up in the middle of the night there is an urge sometimes if you're not feeling tired to pick up your phone and just kind of poke around and see who like did anybody like this post that I put before I went to bed and it's really going to screw up your entire night sleep I obviously started doing sleep cycle which actually is against the whole phone next to the bed thing because the phone actually tracks your your sleep and how well how good your sleep has been like REM cycle yeah like it'll track it and it'll show it actually is based on the microphone which is the creepiest part is that like it listens to you and I'm pretty sure if they wanted to they could just like tap into people's phones and listen to what they say it actually records when you snore too and you can listen to yourself snoring what I'm really excited about I know it sounds creepy yeah but Natalie I've never talked about this on the podcast but sometimes she talks in in her sleep and it gets really weird and scary and there's actually this one night that I'll never forget we we went out drinking so I think this had you know something to do with it we both went to bed we were pretty drunk and then three four hours later she wakes up and she starts yelling at me to get out of the bed and she's yelling at me that I'm sweating and that I'm the vice president she thought I was the vice president of the United States of America and she said get out of bed you're the vice president why are you sweating why are you sweating and she's just screaming at me and I was thinking and then I was kind of the lyrics because she just woke me up with this so I thought that I was the vice president and I'm in it there and then so I was trying to get her to relax like it's okay it's okay I'm the vice president and then when it hit when we realized what we were doing we just were laughing for like five minutes straight and we couldn't get out of it I was like I wish that that system was recording at that time because if I had that recording it'd be like the greatest thing I'd ever create but I'm hoping this is the weird thing to hope for but I hope she has some crazy like rants that she goes on in the middle of the night and we can record it with sleep cycle and then I'll put it on the podcast so that's what you use now to track your sleep and record her conversations in your snoring exactly it's been a week now that we both been doing it we're like competing and it's actually interesting to see and this is something that's difficult sleep is so important like it's been Ariana Huffington just wrote a book about sleep a lot of people are talking about it because especially in America it's like the hustle it's the grind it's you know no sleep I'll sleep when I'm dead yeah I love sleep sleep as the best I just need to you need to make sure you have time for it the one factor is when you're in a relationship it's a little bit harder to get good quality sleep and we were looking at our sleep cycles we both set them up on each side of our beds and it like when I wake up at 530 Natalie sleeps for probably another hour and a half after that but she always wakes up when I wake up like she'll be fully awake and then she'll go back into REM sleep but that is a challenge when to balance is like yeah I want to sleep with you but you're I would get way better sleep if I was in my own bed right now and that's what I was going to ask you is it because you're a light sleeper or she's a light sleeper because I can sleep through I use to think that I couldn't but I can sleep through anything and Joseph pretty hard sleeper too but if he gets up in the night to use the bathroom I definitely find myself like one eye and then going back to sleep so that does disturb my REM cycle I think it's more of the getting out of bed like even if I'm stirring around in bed and I'm on my phone she like I think it's comfortable knowing I'm there and then if I leave and get out of bed it's maybe it's going to touch my things because like where'd you go? Well do you guys go to bed at the same time? We do yeah we do. Yeah it honestly I used to Natalie was talking to her co-workers and she was saying a lot of them were amazed at how early we go to bed because everybody goes to bed 11 12 1 a.m. And I remember when I used to go to bed at 1 a.m. it was before Natalie and I lived together and then she would wake up early for work so I started going to bed early as well like 930 p.m. what time are you going to bed? We go to bed between I mean Joe can be asleep on the couch at 8 and I'm like nudging and I'm just like a dad thing I remember my dad like would not stay awake throughout the day at all you just like pass out in the middle of every TV show every movie. He does is pretty easily after nudging but like hey old guy it's 8 p.m. like let's watch something and then go to bed at 10 we try to make it to 10 otherwise we just fill him but we try it's very easy to go to bed at 990. I love it I love going to bed at 930. And then you can perk out a bed at 6 a.m. yeah and then I feel really good I feel well rested I got the R.M. sleep um that's when your body heals that's when your muscles rebuild like and also I feel like a big part of our mental health has to deal with sleep and I was reading something about sleeping patterns and I feel like my sleeping pattern is that of a bear that was like one half done was like you just sleep for nine months every year. I'm sleeping right now. It was a bear in that you this could be completely wrong but it was from 10 p.m. to 6 a.m. and then there were some people who were in somniacs and then some people who couldn't fall asleep they go to bed at midnight but they can't really fall asleep until four between four a.m. and seven a.m. is their sweet spot of rem. That sounds awful. I would be horrifying if that was my life. I would not be able to function as a human so I think a big part of it too is knowing your sleep patterns and how you can kind of regulate back to a normal but how do you do that? I think it's the sounds to keeping your room at a good temperature, black curtains, like black out curtains, I'm asked earplugs. Do what you got to do? Yeah there's there's a lot of resources and a lot of tools out there you can get a little Bluetooth speaker and play some birds chirping. Yeah whatever it is I heard the white noise helps a lot. I even turned just the fan on an air conditioner. We love that fan. Magnesium too have you ever done that before bed? No. Just some powdered magnesium and a cup of water really helps you sleep. So what is that? It's magnesium? Like what is that? I'm not sure. Yeah I don't even know. I kind of got stuck on taking melatonin and melatonin and I was like no. I don't want to have to take melatonin to go to bed every night because you build a fat tolerance to it pretty quick. Exactly and I was waking up really groggy and so I stopped doing that and I just thought okay and also two with the workouts in the morning. I feel like I do sleep harder and faster. My head I'm out as soon as my head hits the pillow. I feel the same way about coffee but I can't kick coffee. I just love I love the taste. Yeah. I love the way it makes me feel. I love the smell. Makes me feel warm inside and also it is almost at this point. It's like a Pavlovian response or like ready to work got my coffee and I'm working and it just it just feels like worked to me. I know that's all in my head I could just I could erase that and I could change it for tea or something else that might be healthier. That's your routine. Yeah. Yeah that's part of it. I don't know I keep saying all right I'm going to go cold turkey coffee. No coffee but I just haven't done anything with. Nothing. No I don't know. I was thinking about just all right I'll go to one cup of eggs. I was going to two cups a day for a while. I'll go down to one and then I'll do tea or maybe I'll do half a cup or do a cup. I actually try to do a cup every other day but that didn't work because then I still got the headaches every other day. It's true. But I couldn't focus. I couldn't do any work and I feel like this is probably not the best thing in the world to be that dependent on a substance that you can't work without it. That's me. I really can't get through the day without coffee. I don't know how people do it. Yeah. But it's not like cigarettes. It's not like it's going to kill us right? No they actually say a cup of days healthy for you. That's what I heard but I don't know if I believe that because I can like if I'm getting crazy headaches every other day. Published by a coffee consumer. Yeah exactly. Like don't stop drink. But that's the thing with the research and the studies. John Oliver did an episode on this where it's like every day new research comes out like news reporters love to talk about new study confirms that blah blah blah and it's like all right is that like one specific study of 200 people or are we talking about like a big study of like 10,000 people. That's true. I never think about that when they say studies. I never think about okay well what's your what's your idea? Who are you studying? How many of those people are you studying? Yeah. That's that's very true. But I'm the same live and live by the coffee. Yeah it's good. I'm probably going to just keep drinking coffee for a while now. It's not going to change. Yeah it just tastes too good. Actually my whole intro of this show is like coffee getting ground up like the video intro but so I don't think I can just get rid of coffee. That would just be weird. Also the smell of coffee in toast. Have you ever just smelled the tea together? toast. I don't even think about that. I know it's very bizarre but imagine the smell of brewing coffee which on its own is pretty you fork right? Now add toast toast to the mix. I love toast. I like it. You're like not a gluten you love gluten. I love the gluten. Gluten eater. I love gluten. We just heard a gluten club for gluten lovers. Yeah I love bread bread is the best. Bread is the best. Oh man. So good. Like just toast it. The first time I went to a restaurant and they gave me a basket of bread. I was like this is cool. I'm done like I don't even need a meal. This is great meal. Yeah it was olive garden. I love olive garden. The bread sticks. The bread sticks. I've been to olive garden in a while. I have an either. It's been like five years. My mom like this is I say I'm olive garden Italian because my mom for I was like last Christmas you gave me an olive garden gift card. Wow that means you really love our olive garden. So I guess you probably talk about that as well because it's it's all about relationships, health, wellness, fitness and balance between all of them. What's like your diet look like and what are the what have you heard about the best way to eat? Can I tell you I've spent probably close to $4,000 on Instagram programs. Can you believe what that's a thing? Me. I've done that. Me. Because yeah those ads work. I look at these Instagram models and I'm like she looks amazing. I want to look like that and there's no I've learned through spending all my money that there's no secret. You've got to eat right. You've got to drink lots of water. Take your vitamins. Get your sleep, foam roll and work out every day and it is about portion control because I on the daily consume carbs. I on the daily drink line on you know most days. I on the daily love sweets. I'll have my dessert first even like that's something I'm known for. I'm consuming you know two or three pieces of pizza and not a whole medium one like I used to do but it's just like balance throughout the day. So for me it's I was telling you before I set my alarm for every two and a half hours. It's started like that because I would push through the day and work and forget to eat and now it's more like it's keeping my metabolism going and it's it keeps me so that for the next in the night 12 to 14 hours I'm doing fast I'm fasting and then I do my boot camp fasted cardio. Yeah I think the the main thing to mention there is that you have to create a sustainable lifestyle you could work 10 to 12 hours a day drinking only coffee and having a piece of toast here and there and maybe only eating breakfast and late at night for dinner but not really eating something that's healthy and well it's all out and you could probably do that for a week maybe. You're going to hit a wall though before you're angry. Yeah oh my god you then think about like how that's going to affect your other relationships. Absolutely. Your husband comes home from work then you know you might be more likely to lash out at them because your tolerance is low. Yeah because your tolerance is low. I have a lot of girlfriends who are perpetually dieting and I'm sure we all have friends who are perpetually dieting but it's that thing where it's like we really have to have a good relationship with food and it's so weird because there's so many I don't know any meal plans that I've ever bought or that's been given to me that says to cut out carbs like they all say cut out carbs and for me personally I mean some people can't have gluten but for me that's my fuel like that's what gets me through and it's also comfort food but it is like what is sustainable for you as a lifestyle. I couldn't do greens and I vegan friends and they love it they live by you know eating fresh, eating green and clean and lean for me I can do that two meals out of the day but then the other meal has to be you know pretty pretty big um I think I have to experiment. Yes what's right for your body. It's a balance and you know to live a vegan lifestyle it works for a lot of people. It doesn't work for everybody. Same with vegetarianism I think you have to you should experiment you should try it like a lot of times we it's easy to just hate on somebody because they're vegan or make fun of them and yeah it's fun to make fun of vegans but at the end of the day you should try it like do it for a week see how you feel. I did 30 days yeah I did 30 day vegan challenge and we really did it and it was really difficult for us and through that process I just realized that I need to eat more greens and vegetables and fruits and I love eating those things but I also like I'm not a 100% clean eater so you're completely right it's experimenting and knowing what's right for your body how your body responds and how you can sustain that lifestyle. Listening to your body is a challenge. Oh yeah everybody says listen to your body. Listen what does that mean? Yeah and sometimes I'll have a like it sneaks up on you sometimes where you're like oh shit like what is my stomach feel like this? I was probably because I just had like a two pound steak and it's like my body's trying to digest it. It's rejecting it. How do you listen to your body when it comes to dieting when it comes to you know exercising working how where you don't push yourself too hard or you push yourself just hard enough. I'm pretty obsessive I have in a very obsessive personality so when I was prepping for the wedding I was working out all the time and probably not consuming enough calories and me listening to my body was literally the night before our wedding I was having mac and cheese chips, wine, chocolate I was having it all because I didn't I wasn't practicing that whole balance thing um like like you said there are people who can go and eat clean all the time and they feel great and that works for them for me it didn't so it listening to my body means if I'm feeling tired sleep and if I'm feeling hungry eat and if I'm full stop because that's another thing stress eating um I'm human I do it and so just knowing when I'm full and not being distracted when I'm eating man is that hard. Usually in my life when I add one small change when I start going to the gym more consistently I go five six days a week it's like a domino that changes everything else in my life. Oh yeah. I will start to eat better because I feel better I feel lighter I'll have a protein shake afterwards it kind of all stems from this one activity and then everything ripple effects throughout my day um do you find that as well and I'm curious if there's any one or two things that you do that are really catalyst for the rest of your well-being in your life. Much like what you just said if I can if I work out once a day then that really does jump start me to want to eat better and drink more water and do nice things to treat myself right you know stress is a huge factor so if something gets thrown in my day that just is a wrench in it all then yeah I definitely fall off of my routine and I'll sleep in or um I'll get up and have you know frosted covered Oreos for breakfast or whatever um but keeping to my routine also helps me to keep the balance of the whole getting up and having the room temperature water with the lemon and going working out um like you said it just that kind of snowballs into the rest of my day going smoothly and you kind of want to do better neat better when you're treating yourself better. What do you do when you're feeling stuck? I'm in areas I don't know if that means anything to anyone but apparently I'm true areas form in that I don't really allow myself to have bad days and that kind of sounds weird and robotic and not realistic but I'm human I have bad days. When I find myself having a bad day I kind of don't let it creep into my world like I see you coming and I'm gonna force field you out and so it's a state of mind right and it's an attitude and sometimes my goals are bigger than my bad attitude and I just think I really think I'm very self-aware so if like yesterday I was not being motivated to go to the gym I was really tired I had a huge headache and I just thought okay emotions are fleeting this will this will move on and I just need to go because once I've never regretted it and so that kind of moved me out of that bad space and then I felt so much better my attitude was so much better and so it's just recognizing when I'm starting to feel you know glummy and looking just kind of moving my mind out of that into something better. There's a lot of pressure to do everything now. Fix everything in your life today to create the workout habits to build the audience to create the documentary to do all these things today to start today and it can be overwhelming because there's a lot to be done and we can always improve and every one of these these points I think patience is probably one of the most important things that I have to continue to learn about myself. Do you find yourself to be pretty patient? I'm patient when it comes to other people not patient when it comes to myself so I know that there's deadlines I know I have to create content every day like I know that there's so much that I gotta get it done today but it's also being forgiving of myself and knowing okay that's when the planner comes in I know I just keep coming back this planner but it's knowing that okay of the weekly goals of the monthly goals how can I break them down into daily bite size goals so that when I'm feeling overwhelmed it's just something that I it's just that one thing I have to do cross it off the list and then you know you're working towards the big picture so I think that helps me keep focused because absolutely every day I can fill overwhelmed like there's so much to do and to squeeze in but it's just like sometimes even I will block out hour by hour of the day so from 7 to 8 working out 8 to 9 I'm returning emails 9 to 10 I'm doing nothing but laundry 11 to 12 I take a nap if I want to or meditate or scroll through Instagram so I'm not doing it at 3am but just blocking out time for yourself and then being forgiving if you don't get something done like it's okay. What is the big picture? What keeps you on track? Big picture for me is using my brand to help other people so ideally in five years I would love to just be on my blog vlogging on YouTube about you know volunteering my time like a big part of what Joan I want to do surrounds being philanthropic and you know dedicating our time and resources to helping other people because we are so fortunate to do what we do and live where we live and I feel like you know perception is reality and you everyone anywhere can feel like they're overwhelmed and so it's just stepping back and ideally I would love to just travel the world doing what I do and so that's what keeps me going I just think about traveling I want to travel I want to share my travels with people I want to use my voice I want to share my stories and somehow tie in charities that's great I think that's a great point to move on to quick questions yes oh quick questions is a it's a segment where I ask questions I really got to come up with the tagline or something I got a music thing now I haven't always had this music track but I really got to work on that preparation right I didn't prepare at all what's the simplest advice that's the most important to follow be forgiving of yourself how do you deal with criticism and shitty YouTube comments block and delete okay so block and delete and how do you know and they could be a little bit longer it's a quick question not so quick answers but I do like it to be in a couple sentences so let's say a couple sentences all right so how do you deal with criticism and shitty YouTube comments I have to remember that a lot of them are very young and a lot of people get bored and so they say mean things and it's not necessarily directed to me but a lot of times honestly I block and delete them because I'm petty do you look at a lot of your comments every one of them I respond to every single comment within the first 24 hours so a lot of times out of 50 comments if one is bad it really affects me and so and I don't know why so I try to like okay they don't mean it it's fine or I just block and delete all together or I respond with kindness how do you know into except somebody's criticism and actually make a change I don't know that I know that yet and also not specifically YouTube comments sometimes they might strike the core but oftentimes we might get it from family and friends Joe has given me constructive criticism and I know that every time he means it in a very nice way and it's coming from a healthy space so I try to take them as critiques and apply them to whatever it is that I'm doing but I also know that I'm not perfect and he deals with a lot so his biggest thing is patience and so that's why I say live by patience because I think patience really is key in a lot of situations what one skill have you leveraged in a way that you think others haven't I think talking about topics that are very personal to my heart and to my life I've gotten used to talking about them in a way that is very therapeutic to me but it also helps people because I feel like everyone loves to talk about themselves but if you can remove yourself from that situation and help them through whatever you've been through you can help them move through it too so I think I feel I hope that I've perfect at that what drives you it's knowing that no one else is going to do it for me but my biggest drive is my daughter current he just drive like I want to give her the kind of life that she didn't have when she was little because we really struggled and the kind of life that my parents never gave to my brother and my sister myself oh okay so this is a fun one this is something new that I started doing on the podcast it's I don't know if you noticed but over your shoulder there is a photo of the rock I know that photo oh you do you're well aware of jope at this on Instagram because this was hint he did it he was this for Halloween when you oh no way wow mad respect I was actually thinking about doing that this year so my big goal on the the podcast is to get the rock on the show oh man yeah that's like my stretch goal and it's been a work in progress like he hasn't returned my phone calls but lately I've been employing the secret I'm manifesting my dreams I'm starting a mood board and I think it's actually just going to be that photo 100 times just printed out in different sizes I live by this year yeah so actually I have it in this is this is great look at this oh in my wallet I got the photo as well that's the rock right there in his wallet next to his big card I carry the rock around everywhere I go now I just did this yesterday because I was like I'm getting serious about this and I really want the rock on the show he's you know arguably one of the busiest man on the planet very hard to get hold of very hard to get him to come on to a random guy's podcast but what I want to do because you have more cloud than me you're more important than me let me can I have you look at the cameras and just pitch the rock on coming on Matt's podcast do way and I have to tell you I think you would have a wonderful time here on Matt's podcast because you're going to talk about real things you're going to help people you can use this platform for your voice and you can still talk about your routine where you still work out we watch your videos every day where you work out every day no matter how busy you are no matter what set you're on and I think this is the perfect place for your voice so do it return his phone calls already or we'll have to stock you so that's great I don't know it's going to be hard it's got like a hundred million followers on Instagram it's crazy it's crazy it's an uphill battle but I love the challenge and I think it would be I don't I don't think it's ever been I have to tell you one day when he comes here and he signs that photo on the wall I'm in get to say that I contributed to that absolutely well you're the first one to to give the pitch on camera which is actually I think going to be a big part of it my goal is to replace that photo with a selfie of me in the rock oh that'd be awesome that's been a life size cutout yeah that's the goal so thanks for being a part of that we have two more questions here absolutely name one thing people need to read watch or listen to before they go to bed tonight for right now I'll just say the five level of languages and the four agreements very important and how should people connect with you online very easily to find online I'm just lasama.com or just underscore lasama on all social media nice thank you so much for coming on the podcast thank you for having me that's great thanks for listening to the ground up show if you like this podcast there's something you can do right now to help head on over to iTunes and leave a quick review I print out every single one and I put them up on my mood board above my bed okay that's not true but I still notice and appreciate everyone for more on the ground up show including behind the scenes videos check out groundupshow.com thanks for listening
