# Ground Up 006 - Overcoming the Odds w/ Chris Newhard
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5-7n9ijKELw
http://www.groundupshow.com

Chris Newhard is an award-winning filmmaker and director of photography. He's also one of my closest friends. I sat down with him to talk about his work, some of his early struggles and what it was like working on massive projects with acts like Sia.

This is a new format that I'm going to be sticking with as we move forward. Let me know what you think in the comments! I'd love to hear from you.

Subscribe to this podcast on iTunes:  https://itunes.apple.com/us/podcast/the-ground-up-show/id1203518464?mt=2

More from me:

Website:  https://www.mattdavella.com
Podcast:  https://www.mattdavella.com/podcast
Twitter: https://www.twitter.com/mattdavella
Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/mattdavella
Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/matthewdavella

Opening Song:  Buried  by The Passion HiFi
Intro Song:  Keep Fallin by The Passion HiFi

Thanks for watching! I'm grateful for your support.
**Keywords:** ground up, the ground up show, Matt D'Avella, mattdavella, Chris Newhard, filmmaker, filmmaking, dp, director of photography, sia, podcast, simple living, minimalism, minimalism documentary, documentary, 
**Date:** 2017-03-24

## Transcript
 Being a freelance artist is more about controlling yourself than getting work That's Chris Newhart cinematographer filmmaker and musician his videos have been viewed by millions of people And he's here to share how he got started. I realized then that I was not in control You know we discussed his early struggles When you put it like that all on one sentence. Yeah, it sounds like you're at rock bottom I found that rock bottom's not a bad place when you got friends there how he sets his priorities and his definition of making it You will never make it. There is no it There is only the journey This is the ground up show I have with me an accomplished filmmaker one of my best friends and apparently he's a rock star as well as I saw last night Chris Newhart is on the show. Yes Tell me a little bit what happened last night That was my first time seeing a live show. I've always known that you've been a musician But I haven't actually seen you right we usually you cancel when I invite you Yeah, dude. I'm an old man now. I get to bed really early and I value Netflix and chill It's probably why you're more successful than me. Yeah, it's the balance. What did it like you? I'm gonna play here's a video. I'm gonna play it on my phone here That's you. Oh, you got video. Yeah, man. That looks awesome. Yeah. I'm gonna put it on I'm gonna put it on the podcast. That's cool You're fucking putting everything you have into this. Yeah, I love playing like shows So you know, just to give context. We're in New York City right now and I played a show with some friends and a band that I play guitar And then we played at the Brooklyn bizarre which is to say at the least a very bizarre place. So weird. It's like half Victorian hotel half hipster and then there's also an additional like secret half that's mini golf Yeah, the mini golf is the weirdest part about the old man. That's like really weird. Yeah Well in the basement, I should have taken a photo of it to show it on the podcast, but it's just really gross and weird Yeah, it's like a frat basement. Yeah, but there's mini golf. It is it's kind of it reminds me of like when you go to like A relative's house for a holiday and they're like Matt go to the cupboard and get out the like the crackers And you go to the cupboard and there's shit in there from like 30 years ago And you're like who the hell wants any of this yeah, and then somebody else is like, oh my god Look how good all this stuff is and you're like yeah, yeah, definitely it was seeing you perform on stage from the very first song It was like finding out that one of your best friends is Batman Like you cuz oh my god, I never seen you like that and and seeing you in that position I think it's funny because we've done we've done the corporate videos before yeah more corporate than you then you can Possibly imagine and it's just fun to think that during the day you will be doing this stuff Sure with me and then at night you're going out on stage. It is truly my ultimate you go. Yeah, in a sense and and in not just in A fantasy character way like for fun. Yeah, but in like a sanity way Because and I think you can understand this and relate to this when you have You know a freelancing career as an artist But you're not so much concerned about the art as you are the brand of the art You know, you're not just doing like a one-off thing every seven years Like you have to have consistency and content and a brand and creating a network You're talking about your own personal right like you as Matt Me as Chris and we yeah, we've obviously talked a lot in depth about this and the hundreds of shoots we've done, but You know for me there's a part of it where You know my entire sort of foundation of art Begins You know, I way long ago when I was figuring out how to release my emotions as a kid And I was never very good at like talking I'm still not I'm horrible. Yeah, so I'm doing a podcast very well, but you know, but that the nice thing was being able to play music and You know adding art to music is sort of like, you know, on comedy and together and a ball So you you're able to really express yourself in a lot of different ways. That's really interesting and dude I see so many parallels to filmmaking filmmaking and music in a lot of ways I got into a little bit of guitar in high school and I never really advanced But I can tell you that just playing an instrument in a lot of ways as a meditative is grounding It gets you out of your head. There was a lot of times when I first moved in New York I had a little bit of a dating anxiety so I was just getting into okay cute bit Tinder and this stuff And I'll get really nervous before going out on these dates and I would just play a little bit guitar and it would help to like kind of call my nerves a little bit before I went out Because you know you eventually you were going to fuck about so you're gonna screw it up Yeah, I knew I was gonna mess it up so I was like at least I can just like a tarby You want to enjoy it. Yeah, and but filmmaking is such a similar thing in that you're not talking When generally when you're actually shooting nobody on set is talking sure when you're organizing Beforehand you are but in the very early stages. Yeah, you kind of have you can express yourself without actually talking yeah, and you know It's it's cool because filmmaking Is 100% preparation like if you're not 100% prepared for what you're doing and knowing what you're doing Even if what you're doing is unknown If you're going into an unknown shooting situation a weird lighting situation whatever it may be No, you know being prepared is the key to the success for that obviously so with music There's such There's such a parallel to it and There's such an alternate parallel and I'll explain that the parallel that's sort of in the forefront is you have to be extremely prepared You have to understand your limits where you're good at your strengths and work towards them But like you just mentioned when filmmaking is actually occurring You are quiet and you are letting it happen. You are not really doing much Well when music is happening especially live music anything can happen Right, you know there is such like an anything can happen spark that lives and I can't get rid of that spark Like I'm obsessed with it and so like so literally planned before you go in. Yeah, you have these songs You're doing exactly your set list before you go in yeah, but in the moment the moment the show starts Anything can happen and there's such a greatness and there's such a fear in that like I was telling you last night I couldn't hear anything so You know that's a very odd experience To perform and not know what you're playing Dude, I don't know how you did it. It's kind of like if you're monitor on your camera didn't work You can't you don't know what you're saying you were like well, I mean it's on And I'm recording but I can't see anything. I'm actually recording. You don't know if you're in focus You know if you're in focus. I don't know if I'm in key You don't know if you're playing the right hitting the right thing or hitting the right thing or whatever it may be so like that requires like an unbelievable amount of Spontaneous excitement and fear at the same time and that requires you to kind of like think about from the inside How good you are and to focus on that and it requires you to really push yourself and that's why I love it Because it's literally like you can't be lazy. Yeah, I think What goes along with that as well doing it so many times and and for you performing So many shows for both of us making so many videos and we know that every single shoot we have something is going to go wrong Whether it's a small detail or something huge an interviewey an actor doesn't show up. We've all had those experiences But to to be able to go through those experiences time and again over Hundred over a thousand shoots. Yeah, you become more resilient You become better able to identify those problems even before they happen and to fix them and in the moment be able to Kind of work around these problems and to solve them because Problems are part of the the game and it's part of the fun. Sure. So here's what I want to do. I want to talk about You're real. I got your real here. I prepared some video evidence. Nice. Yeah, so check this out man You released this this is your 2007 real so this is about three years of work dude I was blown away when I saw this. I actually asked people what they liked about my work and how he did and they said They like how everything constantly looks like different colors like there's always A major color and a minor color. Yeah, and I dashed just something I sort of gravitate towards I think So I found the shots I liked but also the ones that really showcased where You know in the color real we were living and how it influences what you look at That's that's interesting just in terms of color when I first started out My idea of how to light a scene would be to have everything every single light be balanced the same way So if everything's daylight or everything's tungsten. Yeah, if you had daylight coming in through the window Yeah, so that's how I started out and that's I don't know. Did you ever have that all the time? Yeah, that's what we thought I think at the beginning you were supposed to do I didn't know how to use lights for The benefit of Unmatched you know like you can use Miss matched bulbs to your benefit not just against yourself, right and Shane for all but told me that and then changed everything That was incredible you did so it's like so talk about some of these in here You've got See a you did her lyric video. That was a huge video. Yeah, how many used it? I won't get 34 35 million some 34 35 million. I haven't looked at it in about a year, but it's it's I mean that was cool. It was like the day it came out by nighttime We had 20,000 views this was crazy. This was her first her like this is the conference thing She released this is the first thing for the music video. Yeah, there was no dancing Maggie at this point and this The hair yeah, yeah, this was this was the rebrand how did the that come about in the shoot the Well bread him Walter Co-directed this with me and he's just like a crazy creative mastermind. He Works at crush management which is a management for Cia panning the disco and a bunch of other big bands and fall out boy stuff like that So he does all their videos. He wanted via May last year for fall out boy and all this stuff Anyway, him and some of the other great people across They were you know, they were working with Cia to rebrand her and somehow the conversation and in the early artwork stages they were doing Photoshoots and they had like a blonde wig and everyone in the photo shoots was wearing this blonde wig Because you know Cia doesn't like the spotlight she does is very like social anxiety She's not into being like the pop star that run around dancing looking like a chimpanzee on crack You know, you can see that and her performance that she likes to just stand there and just focus on delivering Does she have like other people do the performing? Yeah, everybody else moves And she will literally stand there and not look at the crowd for like her whole show Which is crazy. I mean, that's kind of her new thing. I think her whole stick was a little more like a subtle stool and Play my acoustic guitar while I sing or something, but Anyway, I was actually in Berlin When I got the call for this What sucked because I could barely hear anything and at the time I was super interested in Cia because I loved her song Breathe me from like 10 to 12 years because I was like a wonderful song whenever that came out Like something like four or something like that and beautiful song and I hadn't heard anything from her and so long and so you know Brendan's like We have you know not much money Yeah, and music video world. Yeah, that's how it goes We have to rebrand Cia We have to introduce the song. We have to get the lyrics in there and it needs to be so awesome just like the coolest thing that we can think of And you know, I could barely hear anything else in like internet cafe and Berlin visiting friends for a wedding and It was just so tough to like I mean, I think I came home and the day after I came home, which is in total probably about five days when I heard about it when we shot Then we went rain and shooting and we shot in Phoenixville, Pennsylvania and then we shot in Brooklyn, New York And then Maybe one or two pickup shots here and there, but yeah, so I mean, it's just crazy Dude, a big shoot that you got coming out. This is massive for you. Yes, you as a filmmaker I can't talk too much about it. Okay, we don't have to tell the details, but we can but yeah Until this well, I'm gonna release this soon, so you stop me and say no, we can't talk about that Well, it doesn't matter. I'm just saying I can't go into like short plot stuff, but oh, of course. Yeah, that's that's okay You are good friends John McHeaver Tommy Pope Have a new show Tim Butterley show. Yeah, called delco proper and it was a short sketch comedy series that comedy central picked up What do you mean it's a high school reunion? It's a funeral Tommy. It's a definition of ground up Sure, it is a sketch to a web series to a TV short. It started out with like a $500 budget. Yeah, it's like this little thing. Yeah a few thousand bucks and then now to a big budget Yeah, you guys you got a pilot that you're gonna shoot. Yeah. This is your first pilot for a TV show Yeah, and you're shooting it in two months. Yeah, it's insane I mean, it's unbelievable. It's something I waited my whole life to do. Yeah, you know It's on the bucket list and it's happening and I didn't do anything related to make it happen. Oh, yeah You didn't do anything to make it happen. I mean I worked, but like You know this sort of fell into my lap. That's I think that's how it works though See you bust your ass to get to a certain place you develop these skills like look at this is Beautifully shot. I love it. It's one of my favorite things I've ever done This that doesn't come out of nowhere. You know, I mean you worked really hard to get to this point to have the opportunity to be able to be a DP that mean on a constantly they were the hardest shoots I've ever done in my entire life Because every shoot so far for this has been between 18 to 22 hours That's insane. They're they're five six minute episodes So you know The thing is that John McEver taught me and Tim and Like rainy and none and not like their geniuses who like they are so fucking funny and so When you work with people that When they're good at something like when I'm I'm good at shooting stuff like with my camera and I can make things look really nice That doesn't necessarily bring joy That that brings successful accomplishment and execution Just bring joy sometimes. It's not like you look at a shot Well sometimes you and I look at a shot the end of the day and we're like holy shit. This looks awesome. Sure And there's that like euphoria for like I know eight minutes and then we're on to the next thing yeah when you work on something and I know you know this feeling because we did the GE Commercials together when you work on something with these guys When they execute their craft You're you're happy. Yeah, like you become happy. Yeah, and that makes a long ass shoot fine This is actually one of the biggest things. I was just talking to Josh and Ryan I got a new series out that's called making minimalism and we just went back and deconstructed this whole this whole series Or this this whole film and documentary and how did we make it? Yeah, and they were telling me like oh We couldn't have made this without you. You could have made this film by yourself. Yeah, I'm like In a way I certainly could have shot everything and edited everything myself, but First like there's so many things I couldn't have done like in terms of producing it They were able to land all these interviews conduct all these interviews in a way that I never would have been able to That alone Josh brought up a really amazing point was that It's so much more fun to do this with other people. Oh my gosh. You're doing this by yourself. It's very lonely world But to be able to collaborate with people to be able to to go out on the road Or to be able to even if it's a draining 14 to 18 hour day you can't do that without enjoying it. I'm so excited guys and it's you deserve it This is incredible and I can't wait to see it Well, I'm only doing it because because of you anyway, so it's that's you know You were the hook up to me up to them so horseman all the good things in my life come from Matthew That's true actually I got you see it. No, I did so That's that's where you're at now. Yeah, it was a long road to get here. No, God When you're frustrating We'll get to that we'll get to the same of the frustrating times I want to know the moment when did you decide that you wanted to be a filmmaker you know that's actually a Very interesting story because I spent the first 18 years well not 18 probably 16 years From when I was a very small child till I was a freshman in college pursuing Not filmmaking But pursuing you know art and illustration and in all these other cool mediums to work with and very like I'm an artsy guy blah blah blah But you know I didn't necessarily understand what I could do with camera because I never really Fucked with it like it was like I had a video camera my parents had one watch tapes. I did little stuff I was good at editing Because I needed it for projects, but I didn't mean that I wanted to be a filmmaker, you know Yeah But there was a moment in the transition between illustration to filmmaking in 2007 when I made a Short film for my first class at school and it was a little hard film and I didn't know what I was doing. It was literally the first video project of college for filmmaking So there's no scale yet you you know you don't have in your head like oh I did that That was a good project and that was a bad project and this is gonna live in between It was like well this is a video I made That will be judged and not just watched Is that that's the first film movie you ever made really? Yeah, so it's like it was definitely like tough Yeah, the first time you make it. Yeah, you know what you're like. Well, art. What's the sound going to be like what's the music? Gonna be like in all this shit and and at that time I had sort of doing a bunch of different things and editing on the weekends for my uncle for TV shows and just doing like dumb stuff But like when I finally had a moment to like craft a short film something that was mine Like I watched it and we all we all watched it in school and I just like loved it Like I loved it. I loved watching my work and seeing like Holy shit the things that I build like things that matter to me Are actually like they come through in the video and that's weird. I never seen that happen before Right it's always been like a thing I made as a video was always separated from me Because I made videos about shit. I didn't care about Right yeah when you make something you care about things you believe and come out through the video It took me a very long time to where I was I would say the only the the the only significant project to this date that I Poured myself into fully was minimalism Before that and I had done some sketch stuff some stuff for fun But nothing to this degree to where I'm saying I'm actually making a statement here. I'm putting my values and beliefs in here because when I got started out It was was really about building a business and doing client work and a lot of that was Just executing other people's vision and other people's ideas which is important and I think that's a separate skill 100% necessary if you want to get started out as a filmmaker freelance or creative You need to be able to develop those skills early on and we went through a lot of shit and worked with a lot of Crapic clients and a lot of projects that were not fun at all But then to be able to actually create something that you really believe in To me it was a game changer and it's why we're here today. It's why we're doing this podcast is because I realized there was something a spark that that lit from that yeah that shoot that I was like wow Okay, like it's literally a Like a source of happiness You know, it's not just work at that point Yes, and you will work harder than you have ever done on client projects absolutely You will put what like 12 hours plus that that's what CO was for me. That's what The short films I've made that are like mine or it's me. That's what you know Delco is to me. That's what design disruptors was to me like it was these projects that like Wow, I'm working It's some of the happiest moments that I've ever had So So you want to keep working to maintain that to make you're like this this feeling is Great these experiences They are somewhat fleeting and they're not always there They're no because there are tough times that go along with it So it's like you take two steps forward one step back three steps forward two steps back It's kind of like a race right every time you work you're like running in a race or you're driving in like a race in the sense of like You win that race and you're like that felt so fucking good It looked great sounds great people liked it I liked it. I had a good time making it whatever that shit is that's that feeling then you lose You do a project that coming last place coming last place. It may be successful visually It may be awesome to watch for the client But the content you just don't care about right or it's a disaster shoot all together and something goes terribly wrong And you don't finish the project. Yeah, you don't finish the race. You don't even yeah You don't finish it or like you have three people you need to remember I don't know. I've never not finished a project. I could say that I don't know if have you is ever ever been a project where you definitely have had some projects Well, I can't say never because like personal project sure I've started personal projects and yeah, but like if it's somebody's paying me to do it if it's a client project I've never not completed a project. I don't know if I've ever Let the client unsatisfying and I mean there's a huge difference in like abandoning something and just going well This is what we have yeah, you know, and I've had a lot of cases where You know like in my early days doing corporate shoots at you know a company like They they can if you're not putting your heart into it and being truthful and honest with your clients they can tell And there were times where clients called that company out and I worked at that company So I was obviously a face of that company and that sucks when You're a part of something and you have somebody who doesn't like your product and because it's art a part of you was in that product So the client saying I don't like this and it's because of things you have done that you thought were good That is tough and at that point you have to separate yourself from it Do what they need to enjoy and finish the product and then fucking move on yeah because you can't sit on the door Just do another project that's better to make up for it You touched on an important point here and this is something I noticed about you Is that you do not Stay silent you don't keep your mouth shut very often Like there have been times on shoots when when you'll be my DP and I will be worried because either It's a client or somebody else that's giving us a hard time and not being cooperative and I just see you bite in your lip. You just kind of sit back behind the camera. You're like I'm not going to say anything This is match you. I'm not going to screw this out But I know for you personally. I'm sure you come across as many times where You do speak up. So where is that line to be drawn because somebody pays you to make a video and It's their money. It's their video You do have to execute and make them happy and execute on their vision because that's what they're paying you to do But they're also paying you for your expertise and your experience and your vision. Yes So where do you draw the line and how do you deal with clients in terms of Letting them know I think you're making a huge mistake. Oh, man. This is a doozy. This is gonna be a long one Okay, so You know me very well, probably better than like 95% of my life Because you know me across several parts of my life. You know me at my best And you know me at my worst and you've seen a lot of my worst and because it's a lot of it's been the last five six years So the thing is when you work for yourself and you're not a business man because I'm not a business man I have to do business, but by nature like I think about the art first more than the deal And like that's probably why I'm like where I'm at my life where I'm doing good shit But like I don't own a nice ass house and all this stuff because I'm always like you're less focused on business Yeah, you are like if you get a budget of $30,000 you put $29,000 in to the shoot Because I want everything I do to just be like this great thing Yeah, and I'm not the guy that books the $30,000 video and keeps 15 for himself Yeah, because you know I have I'm empathetic to my friends getting work and the empathetic to You know like wanting to travel and experience culture changes and I've had a lot of friends and family pass away in the last couple years Like a lot and Life is short, so I've really had to be like okay like what matters money not so much Good deals yes, but money not so much money will always come and so you know regarding the line where it's drawn it's tough when you work for yourself You can make the decisions on what you will and will not do that's up to you The client says I'd like revision ABC you could in theory say no here's why They better be good reasons, but because you're not satisfied in the client at that point, but there's definitely a line where I mean, I obviously we can't bring up anything specific, but like the No, I mean, I mean even with like your own I had this last week. I had this conversation last week With a client a gigantic client in Philadelphia You're starting to get details my friend. It's okay when you have a client that talks a lot But they're not saying much. They're just kind of saying key buzzwords. Yes, the other yes And they're so caught up in it. They don't even know what they want, but they know what they need to end up with And they need to end up with a cool video That's got a cool narrative or cool narrative with your storyline. Yeah, and it's like well the storyline is this and they're like So how do we approach that and you're like we we don't really approach it. I mean we just we do it You know yeah, so anyway, I actually got myself into a little bit of a hop-box last week on the phone A large conversation took place. We're on the fifth iteration of a video And over a one-year period of editing. Well, I'm still waiting on the balance of the invoice like that's a frustrating aspect And when you're at the fifth iteration and they bring up maybe we go back to iteration one and we bring that stuff back and you're like So I just wasted weeks all the yeah Is what you're saying, right? So if I create a version a then version b then version c and you go Wait, go back to version a and I'm like but you already told me you didn't like version a why are we going back to it? Let's just make version d because they realize that you were actually right and the right when I'm like fighting for things So that that's tough When I work for myself versus when I work for you like other people like when I work for you The appearance of who I am and how I come across is far more important to me when I work for other people Because I know it's like to have crew or to have an employee or to have somebody working for you or under you And they're just a fucking jerk off Like they don't realize the common sense of that stuff like To say please and thank you At a client's office to not wear like a flamboyant yellow shirt with a giant logo on to wear sweat pants to wear sweat pants Wear sweat pants to a shoot To be unnamed who the guy that wears sweat pants don't be that guy I wear sweat sweat. They're trendy for when you go to the club Not even I don't maybe I don't go to clubs enough, baby I feel like we're doing it. I've never been to a club Walk up in the club with the sweat pants on Where the skinny sweat keep the sweat pants at home. No, I know I completely agree with you And I think that there's there's a balance there in terms of when you talk when you don't and yeah, you're able to do You're representing yourself when you own your own business and you can do whatever you want You can say whatever you want But you can't sacrifice somebody else's relationships and somebody else's clients Yeah, that's an observation. It completely inappropriate and this time. I mean, I'm allowed mouth I would say what I believe in. I'm a justice hog If somebody feels or somebody's talking down to somebody else Sure, I lose my mind. I could say early on it was definitely much more difficult sure and when you're working on lower budgets You don't have nightmare clients more so than you ever do with big budget stuff But I want to basically just bedside manner, you know Yeah, just be a good person people just how do you deliver the good news? How do you deliver the bad news? Yeah Whatever it is that's super important So I'm not good at delivery bad news. You're not now. Yeah, I'm like. Yeah, right. This is the way it is Which is cool because this is why it needs to be Supported and like well listen I've got some bad news. You're like it's more fun So the law of new hard so the right so there is obviously Murphy's law We've kind of rebranded it as the law of new hard because whatever can go wrong in your life seems to go wrong Yeah Tell me about some of the early struggles as as a filmmaker and what were Like we were talking about before you certainly have these moments where you take steps forward and you feel like you're progressing in the right way But everybody has setbacks Do you remember one or two of those setbacks early on that was kind of a turning point for you? Hmm I mean I say hmm because not in the sense of I'm thinking like Which like what would that be but I mean there's like 14 of them so like Trying to choose she is what's what I want to talk about. I think the one thing that it really stand out to me is Probably getting fired Like at a holiday like the night before Thanksgiving Like that sucked, you know, but that was so necessary and the way I think the difference between Bad luck and the law of new hard which we call that it it's a joke, but it's Like a reoccurring joke because it literally always happens But never seen somebody that so much bad shit happens to it's unbelievable the thing about it is There is always a good thing about it. Yeah, so no matter how bad the situation something good crazy It happens as my mom says I fall into a bag of shit and I smell like roses Yeah, it's because it's how you act in that moment when all this shit is happening to you how do you approach it? How you move forward. She's like I've never seen anyone with the the worst best luck and the best worst luck at the same time You know, so when I got fires 2012 I was preparing for my first big documentary my big shindig my minimalism, you know in Africa Fucking raised you know thirty five thousand dollars for people that didn't care about me turns out and Spent six weeks in another country Living fucking horribly and Getting horrendously sick literally to this day. Yes, that still affects my life What happened four years in there? Well, I got a parasite my stomach and I didn't know because I never had one before and I'm dumb I don't go to the doctors at often So like when something's wrong. I'm like oh self a fix it a figure it out I'll deconstruct my symptoms and I'll work backwards Which is like the dumbest fucking thing you can do when you're sick But when you're like a thick-headed like mut like me. I'm like, oh, I got to figure it out I'll take care of myself. Don't nobody help me right now like the arm's first step So anyway, it was like months of me just feeling horrible and throwing up like four times a week and just being like I guess this is my life and my mom was like no, what the fuck is wrong with you like we're figuring this out And then we ended up getting all these tests and Make you shit in a cop and it's just like insane and I was like I hate all this and Eventually it went away, but it did damage did a lot of damage in my stomach, but you know right before Going to Africa and that was in 2013 in February right before going Was the hardest fall I've ever been through as a filmmaker because I had no money I had no time because I was spending all my time fundraising and preparing for this literally like Once I leave I can't come back There is no like oh, maybe next week will be better. I'll go home and sleep it off. It was like a six week shoot straight through in another fucking country so that was like It's just me like no PA's no like nothing no friend in this country Yeah, and you know you and I just Friendship we know when you have an ally on set no matter how bad it is you're okay Because you can be like I'm losing my mind because of this and they'll go all right Well, let me take care of that when I realized that how close we had gotten was it was a shoot where everything was going wrong The mics weren't working we're getting all this feedback and like you told me later that day You knew I was getting upset because I didn't say anything I just get very quiet. I never even noticed that about myself and you're like yeah Yeah, whenever you get upset you just don't say anything you just kind of muttering Puttering around like yeah, I know you yeah, and then but then to have people like that that really genuinely know you and you don't have to even say anything for them to understand You get quiet on set. I know I have to do more work. Yeah, you're like. I'm gonna step it up. I'm gonna take care I gotta make sure that he feels good right now. Like I know that I know that with all the people I work with that are very very close to me As a person and not just as a worker Because frankly there's been times where I've done shoots for people. I'm not close with and the producers in a horrible mood I don't give a fuck about them To be honest sometimes like I just don't They don't treat me like a friend they don't take care of me They don't treat me like an equal. I'm just a guy with a camera and I could have been anybody that died But I don't think it's that way with like the four or five people I work with we were over John He doesn't care about work He cares about friendship and that's what his work. So yeah, he's amazing and when I work with you like You know you always are like I'm gonna make you breakfast and I'm gonna do this and like treat me like Fucking awesome and that makes me just want to go away over the top for you and Joe Graves and other great Example somebody that will like literally climb a fucking building if you say I want to light on the top of it And we'll figure out a way to make sure what you want happens. You know those core allies if you don't have them your work suffers So I didn't have an ally yeah in this at all But anyway, I got fired, you know, I Thanksgiving time from the company that was working for And I your income stream just money disappears gone and I'd spend all my money prepping for the doc And so now I'm going into Christmas before I leave for Africa $0 to my name I was like I think by near I was like a negative 3,000 bucks or something like that on my account and all like I don't even know what to do like this is horrible But then I realized that I now have the time to do anything and I want And if what I want is to work Is that's a lot different than what I want is to make money So that like changed my whole perspective because while and I'm sure anybody's been unemployed will get this when you were let go without And it's almost like a It becomes personal when your friends with the person who lets go of you It's very like you know like a resentment a bitterness that's sort of there and then that's sort of that bitterness turns into like Hot coals They sit at the bottom and inside it and they just burn and they keep that burning because you kind of want to prove them Prood something to them whatever may be and that's why people have like you know Daddy issues and they got a Tree god is terribly because their dad was a dick. Yeah, you know way there's an element of that that's that's good If it sparks the fire and it gets you going to get you motivated in the beginning But it's not sustainable way to create It's horrible for work to move forward. Yeah, makes you so fucking like you're better you're brickhead Yeah, like you have one motive and it's to prove somebody proved to somebody you're they fucked up It's harder when it's a person it's easier when it's a company like being turned down by I got turned down twice by college humor once for an internship once for a job You know the job was first and that was like well, maybe I can get an internship and I got turned down from both of them I got turned down from like these big wedding companies like early on I was like trying I think was Bella pictures or one of these company I was just manufactured wedding likes crazy and they turned me down or college is turning you down and and getting those rejections are kind of I would actually save them. I printed out a few of them when I was in college So then I could look at them and be like all right. I'm gonna prove these people wrong It's a little bit harder when it's a person, but so tell me a little bit about that then then you're going out to shoot this this film It's a this is kind of a turning point for you to be able to Make this like that I realized then that I was not in control you know like Being a freelance artist is more about controlling yourself than getting work It's so important to put boundaries and limits on yourself on Both the positive and the negative how often you go out for a drink with friends how often you're spending money at On clothes or you know Do you need to get a $2,000 couch where will the $400 one work because there may not be much work coming up? Who knows? It's the future can't tell so for me It's also about controlling the emotional range and where I'm willing to let myself go Like in negative space like how long am I going to linger on something that has happened and You know to be honest like every four months. There's like a thing There's always a thing every time I mean I fall into a manhole. Yeah, I mean 2016 alone I had a car accident that was really bad I had On September 11th coming to see you my car was stolen with all my gear and it then I fell into a manhole like two weeks later whatever the hell that was You know I took on a nice apartment in a relationship with somebody and immediately ended the relationship and tripled my own red somehow You know like just When you put it like that all on one sentence yeah, it sounds like you're at rock bottom always I've been up But here's the thing I found that rock bottoms not a bad place when you got friends there So you know when you I started been living at rock bottom for a while I've become like the king pin of rock bottom You know because it's it's funny because like You have to just laugh at it. You literally have to fucking laugh at some of the things that go wrong in your life Because if you don't you're gonna wall it with it and so when I See my friends and they're like hey Chris is good to see I'm like oh hello awesome like we're hanging out And they're like so what's the new terrible thing that's happened and it's like that's kind of a shitty thing The size somebody yeah because you're like I'm assuming your life is terrible. What's that? Why based on historics of the last three years every time we hung out a horrible thing has happened to you You know and sometimes it's like is it storytelling? Is it Things actually happening or is it you know like I've had all my shit stolen three times You know like all my gear. This is a third time. It's happened You know my cars get broken into stolen Whatever the fucks out. I remember everybody's got problems, but like the stuff that happens to me They're always like There was a boy once who did this and This is the lesson the more out the end of the story is blank and I'm just the guy that lives the examples There's gotta be like a Truman show thing going on Yeah, somebody narrating over my life like let's watch him eat. Yeah, and now he's gonna get terribly sick You know But you know but it's how you you you've come through and it's it's simultaneously while all these horrible things have happened to you You were making some of the best work you've ever done in your life and some of the most exciting projects that you've ever worked on in your life Yeah, I think there's a lot to learn from like the old the old artists You know like you have like Van Gogh who Created like There will never be a time when humans are alive and Van Gogh is not important Moving for the rest of the world like forever He will always be one of the top painters of all time no matter how many millions of amazing painters come out. There's never gonna be another one like him But he was fucking miserable Like horrendously depressed and miserable and he Just created the most beautiful things, you know having like was a fantastic writer But like would like fucking stand at his window drinking all day Hardly depressed drinking like bottles and bottles of whiskey And he would just write these books that everyone loved you know like it's it's very interesting how like When you are against the wall you find The clearest way out and Sometimes that's like clouded when you're not when you're back. It's not against the wall Let me see here. So do you remember the first time that you got Pade to make a video or Even maybe your first client because I know you had some jobs early on with MTV and others so Who is your first client? How did you get him? My first client was a wedding my first freelance a hundred percent not like a friend given me it like a video like it was like me getting booked for my work Was a wedding and it was a Jehovah's Witness wedding and that like it's fucking terrible Is it like yeah, well first of all It was for like no money. I charge him $300 for their wedding I do I will tell you the first wedding I did was $300 as well. Yeah, and it was what did you shoot it on? Yeah, it was like HVX 200. Okay, mine was Did I might have shot my own like a Sony handy cam? Yeah, but it was very similar. Yeah, yours is a little bit better for sure Well, I was in college Oh, you know, I was like a soft more maybe. Yeah, maybe it was a junior in college 300 dollars dude if you if you if you did that I thought that was so much money. Yeah, it's it's it's infinite money at that time It was like $12 for tapes Is that guy? Well, that's 5% of my budget and I read it from school and I sold the whole wedding to these people based on the fact that I was going to rent this dope camera from school I was like, yo, they shot Clover field on it and did they shoot probably two or three other movies? Yeah, Steve Bobby uses this camera You know a Jehovah's Witness wedding is very different because they sit in recliners When they get married This is a comfortable wedding. It sounds like they proceeded and They get to the front and they sit down and like aren't chairs like No way and then people like talk in a podium and then what that's relatively normal. It was very different than like It was very normal, but it was very different vibe It's a pretty much just a it's a Christian wedding with lounge chairs which recliners Yeah, I don't know but I honestly I hated it like you don't like it weird and I was really Wasn't a bad move because you know when you rent equipment from school You have to check it You have to I mean when you rent equipment period you have to check it before you Take it home and I didn't at all I grabbed it and left and there were no batteries whatsoever in the whole case So it's just what did you do? I sat in the back of the church plugs into the wall and I zoom all the way No, you did it. I did it It was horrible. Did you eat these absolutely same shot? Just all from one angle. It was like I'm gonna just document this thing I'm not actually gonna you know now it's a big thing. I did not do anything I wanted to do Yeah, and that was so So limiting and frustrating and so frustrating So embarrassing they they I think they hated that sure That was I paid through it dollars. You know that was the thing you're going to say so you know I was like a 20 year old they hired in school They paid $300 for wedding video how upset can you be? It's not good You get what you pay for yeah Bring up the weddings is a really good point because this is something that I tell aspiring filmmaker is there any it kind of creative That in the very beginning you don't have to love Every single thing you do Yes, you have to get paid you have to be able to to build up a business and sustain yourself And like you were saying you could certainly scale back on your expenses You can you know practice some aspects of minimalism to help you with your finances But doing weddings doing bar mitzvah intro videos corporate videos I've done like a bunch of those they create the foundation of who you are to yeah, and also like getting experience because yeah You suck back then do it. I've done 40 50 weddings. Yeah, and I'm so much better having done those And if I didn't and especially because that's very early on and you learn a lot about how to shoot and how to frame and how to do all these things that you wouldn't Why wouldn't otherwise be it teaches you how to focus and move at the same time Trim it like when you're shooting dancing or like like when you're walking around with the camera and you're learning the focus This is super technical, but like yeah, that is that specifically I learned From doing weddings and it's it's something we take for granted now now it's natural It's like an extension of your body. You can just like pick up a camera once you learn it Learn it the sway the DSLR sway Yeah, like these kind of subtle movements become really important that's something I want to talk about now is How important and actually you know what would be would be more fun is if I have another thing here I want to show you okay, so we recently worked on Design disruptors. Yeah, oh my god. What what what a project what an incredible project that was such a dream Yeah, great great client. We started. Oh, they're in vision. I love those people. That's like what you want when you're trying to build up a client base Is people who are like here's the idea? Yeah, run with it and that was pretty much it And then they gave feedback and input and we had like people that we collaborated with there But it was very much a collaboration. It was like unlimited resources on limited resources like literally So it started out very small it started out as a 20-minute film about product design and how companies like Facebook Twitter Airbnb though we didn't get those companies early on it was more smaller companies how our companies designing products today that we use Every single day it began with experience in vision and you guys asking companies to be the documentary and it ended with companies asking to be in our documentary. Yeah, that's actually a great point in the beginning It was very hard to get these companies to buy into it, especially big companies like Facebook and Google We couldn't even get that in that conversation go, so we had to prove that we could actually make something that was legitimate and we Started to build this thing and it was very small in the beginning, but then it ballooned to be this massive project Yeah, over the course of two years where it started out with about five interviews We actually ended up with 59 interviews. We filmed with 25 companies Just a massive amount of interviews. I've never done a project quite as big so what I did We learned a lot over this shoot and doing 59 interviews over the course of two years from the very first one to the last one dramatically different so what I've done I've got the first one of the last. This is every interview Gonna be playing back to back four seconds for each interview and I actually flipped them so they're on the same side So it's a little bit easier to track, but I want to kind of go through this and See where he looks rough Yeah, right you can see some of these things were like wow man. What were we thinking yeah? With that day was tough because we were having audio issues out the wazio Yeah, we were That one was good. Yeah, like you know what's funny is that I see it's kind of that step forward You see a couple interviews were like wow we actually killed that we know that I think the thing with these is a lot of times it's based on circumstance yeah the location we're shooting is so big that If it's a shitty location if we're put in some side closet somewhere then it's gonna be more difficult to turn into something nice Like that looks really great. Look at a hair light. You see the thing up. Oh, my love has an interview It's nice the thing that for me when I look at it is the thing about it for me was listening to other people suggestions when I shouldn't And that's when my my bullheadedness is very great for what I do is when there's times when it's important to listen And there's and there's times where it's really important to know exactly what the fuck you're doing and tell everybody what to do Here was where we started to change things yeah, and dude you can just see these interviews are so much more dynamic Yeah, look at the the the shape on the face Yeah, there's a consistency now from here on out that we didn't have before yeah, we had to develop Tell me about this what we had done differently. Well, we had to decide like the first Like it's half of the film and then we did overhead by the remainder Remainer the like you should sort of like learn as you go, but kind of keep a theme And when you're making a video like at all times you're just like Tetris like building anything you can make better You can okay, we didn't do this last time. We'll do the system and that's like really hard to maintain consistency Especially when you're growing getting better in that two years I did Delco. I did Probably about 15 music videos. I did probably 30 corporate videos and That changed a lot of things massive learning experience so like by the year two of this You know, it wasn't necessarily about lighting these people It was about creating the characters that they were who and like that making them look like these fucking Gods of design you know what I'll say is that in the beginning We were so much a product of our circumstance and our environment yeah We would go into a room and we're like well, this is what we got if it was a great location to shoot We got a great interview and it looked great, but by the end of it. Oh my god We it didn't matter if we were put in the closet we would be able to yeah We had a just just just when we put our foot down I'll do this one. It was like a vacant office of everything in the background. It's often we added like we that's a A little bicycle all these props everything we put in there. We put that poster up on the wall Yeah, we put this little this like side re redesigned the interior of where we went to moving forward We did that almost every single time yeah, and I don't think people really notice like the small details My god, you an important pick up hard every single frame Every single element on the screen and I think that's like becomes important as you get better. Yeah, is that? It's no longer about the big things You start to those things just sorry the background. You already got that that's like boom What is it? I think there's in the details. Yeah, people will say is it important is it like on minimalism? I went through and I did sound effects for every single frame There's a flag flapping all right. Let me go find a sound effect for flag sure you know how long that took me It was literally two-week straight of mean doing nothing but sound design because that's not my main I'm sure somebody who's like better at sound is on the me can do this and then I have a library They have a library they can pull up and whatever, but I'm going on YouTube and I'm downloading Yeah, flag flapping sound effects and I'm putting it on here and then somebody asked me Like is that necessary is it important to you and I'm like I think it is I think it is more necessary than anything That people really because if you give up on that one detail you're giving up on a thousand other and The bringing all of these tiny details together. That's what makes your film or your project distinctly you Sure, I think that's what made design disruptors when we saw the premiere of it very successful because the sound design was truly incredible Man, they killed it with the sound design Stay back though like was incredible. Oh, that was the fact of it. Yeah, you know them. Well, actually they were at the Master's emotions. Yeah, they've a podcast now, too. That's everybody's talking about that You realize okay, it's important to hire people that are way better than you at specific things sure and it's going to just elevate and bring the quality of your project up so much So just phenomenal dude just where we went from in the beginning to It's just phenomenal It's funny in the very beginning. I thought we Were the shit. I thought we were amazing And I think we were pretty good. We've had a lot of experience going into this project But I'm just amazed at what we were able to learn and and it just makes me continue to realize that I'm like not done. I'm not even close to mastering This craft. Yeah, there's so much more yet to learn and this is part of the podcast is like I feel like I want to Share these experiences with other people and I want to learn with other people and learn from people like you who really have different Experiences than I have well the funny thing is you know actually the perspective of that's that's super intriguing is You know ground up right you're talking about the origins the creation of you to get from a to you know might be when you started and z is now yeah But the timeline is ever growing So you're talking about how did you get from the beginning till now And a 10 years now is to be getting let's talk about what you've done since then so like next time you come on the podcast It'll be let's talk about yeah, how have you grown since then and like if you feel like now you're like well I've like grown I'm at my peak whatever it might be But like this is still the origin chapter of like the life of Matt do the ground up show This is the very beginning yeah talking about and this is actually and like 14 documentary Now you're gonna be like remember in that like a couple year period where we did like this Yeah, that was that was yeah, we don't realize it now. We feel like we've come so far Like we're like I read the end of the book But like this is just the end of chapter one of like a 50 chapter book. Yeah, and it's Harry Potter and there's like eight more books I'm so glad you said Harry Potter because I love that yeah, I've actually in two weeks We're going to the Harry Potter live orchestra. I'm so fucking jealous. I was just not there Potter world Oh, really that you hear about the orchestra thing? No, they play a lot. It's a live orchestra that plays the Harry Potter music while it's Screen my girlfriend dies. Oh my god. Yeah, yeah, that's really big and do it too So it'll be good. We just spent a thousand dollars in Harry Potter world. Dude that why what is it? What can you explain what Harry Potter world is? I don't really know. Yeah, okay, so have you seen the movies? We're ready. Yeah, yeah, I've seen most of them. I have okay, so in Orlando in Universal Studios there's two parsers islands of adventure in Universal Studios and they recreated The Hogwarts Castle and put a ride in it and then they recreated the hogs me town And it's like a like I don't know a small town basically of like shops You buy ones robes clothing, but they take a small section and it literally looks like it's in the middle of London They also recreated so dying on alley. Oh, I did try it. Yeah, and like did they have a spank? It's the platform to the train station. Yeah, you take the train You ride the train. That's actually amazing. We wrote it like six times and There's like oh, it's like a ride. It's not just like a train and you're pretend it's like the windows have things going on And like the the doors are frosted glass and behind the frosted glass in between the hallway and the cabinet Like the rooms you're in. There's a small LED screen that plays like Harry Potter walking by and Like that is coming and like it's so cool. It's you know in Orlando Yeah, yeah, we have you have you get custom wand like it's so cool man Harry Potter It's actually a secret nerd for Harry Potter. That's what you see here now now everybody knows You know, okay, so I actually want to I want to piggyback off of the previous conversation we just had with designers Raptors And I want to get your advice. Okay, so You are my guinea pig. This is a transition now. I've done five episodes and I'm just now transitioning into having these conversations and talking with other creators But now this is very video heavy and and that's what I want to be the primary Kind of driving for us. I think that that's probably We're most of the traffic is gonna go is like hey just watch the interview and then we'll see of how this works in terms of putting the podcast out there on iTunes And whatnot, but I want to you being a DP and and us working on so many of these shoots What can we do to improve this look that we have right now these are two test shoes that I did with a conversation with myself Well, they look first of all. They look beautiful and I think this well first of all we got I got to give you credit This was your ideas. We got a big China ball here which is It's do a soft source. You could buy this Yeah, buy this at a production house for $800. I bought it for $40 on Amazon. Yeah, and it's it's incredible It's you know described the kind of lighting well, you know it's a 30-inch ball of light. You see them at IKEA Amazon kind of like the more You know niche modern-esque looking lamps It's just you know this giant soft source of light which You know that's that the way that lighting is it goes back to fashion lighting which is a giant enormous soft light will fill in scars It'll cover up How does it do that? It's just because I see yesterday when I did this test it removed shadow Yeah, because dude I had like three hours of sleep. I've been working really hard I'm making minimalism like 12 to 14 hours a day and I I put it up there I'm probably gonna look like garbage and then I looked at I was like all right. This is not bad I could look like shit like right here. You can barely even tell that I need highlights any That's the problem I'll there's no eyelets right here like specular You know that's tough because that's like You know the only way you'd have an eyelet and there is if you had a light in the shop Which is tough? I like I like this with the light on in the back and then off there Yeah, I actually well because I put some dovetain some you know some black wrap around it It was a little bit too bright before and I actually have a candle behind you now that actually I don't know how that's gonna look but that might create a bit of a little bit of a spotlight back there So I want to say that in terms of like lighting I'm okay with the China ball for now. I'm gonna go simple and then eventually maybe I'll have your advice in terms of bringing It looks like I love you. It looks great, right? And so then what about this light right here? So there's like a hole down here So it's a really bright light on the table. It is a little hot at the table But it's kind of just cool. It's almost like a noir Yeah, it's just gonna say it's like a detective scene Yeah, I'm okay with that because it's you're gonna see it. I mean ultimately if you really want it You could just put it a little bit Yeah, very very easy. I don't think you really need it But then even like a white table But well the white table would reflect a lot up. You wouldn't have any shadow down here Which would be nice. Yeah, I don't like it. I don't even know if I would like that. It might be too I was just going to say however This is a lot more Rustic and nice feeling more comfortable for the people that you're interviewing if I look at a white if there's a white table Any time I'm ever seeing it on a light table. I'll look at the table If I'm looking at you, I don't know this Okay, but I look at you and I do notice the light So I don't know I you know it's a beautiful thing you've done a great job of constructing this You know this whole fucking Adventure of a broken castle In the broken apartment my lane lords yelling downstairs like ten minutes before it Yeah, you start to be up pretty early Yeah It's great because they speak Italian so you don't know if they're actually that's my Italian It's okay, I'm Italian Yeah, but it's funny because you don't you think that they're mad at each other, but in reality they could be like I love you so much But since they're speaking in Italian you can't tell We could revisit this and I'm gonna get your advice as this is the first video podcast Yeah, I did a couple of videos. I was just myself But this is the first time I'm actually bringing somebody else on board and saying hey, let's let's have a conversation Let's see how this goes and yeah, but I think my plan and my strategy is for those people that are watching and listening and and perhaps want to create their own thing I think my strategy behind this is I want to create recurring content for my growing and very small at this time audience and And I want to be able to create video content so my main portal is gonna be YouTube and you have these other channels like iTunes and my website and Twitter and Instagram But I want to build up YouTube first and I want to build up the subscribers there because then once you have a decent following You have some cloud and that way I can go to people who have a large following Sure, I have a really interesting story that I want to hear about their story and how they started from the ground up But they might not do it if I have six subscribers on YouTube. So yeah, I want to build up a little bit of cloud there and to do that I need some content so I'm like all right, this could be fun to do so you're my guinea pig to start this thing out And I think it's gonna be good. I've got a pretty good feeling about this. Yeah. Well, the thing I here's there's several reasons why I agreed to do this one We're friends. We're friends. I'll do anything for you. Sure, but two And this is why I like working with you is and this is important for those of you who are out there who are doing personal projects versus client paid work If you put the energy and the standard Like the high standards of this needs be fucking amazing into your own work as well as client work Which you do and I try to You will be so much more successful in life Like when you really put effort into the things that you don't have to put effort into And that's what makes character and character makes everything well not only Just she's like, I don't know what that what that was wrong with you you're waking up at 630 every day for the past week And I'm working 12 to 14 hour days on my own personal projects and apart from minimalism That's really the first time I put this kind of energy and passion into it I've never known you to work 14 hours on something Yeah, with minimalism I did because it was something yeah, yeah, in terms of our shoots like we'll do a corporate shooting to be three four hours like I don't do long Yeah, I don't like do I need a nap, man. I feel like a nap. It's going to the same one So but what I realized is that This is something that I can actually put myself into and what I realized was for the longest time I've been using My super power I've realized that the filmmaking is really a super power it in terms of like most people Can't do what we do because we put so much time and effort and energy into it To build up these skills, but I've never used that to try to support myself and to bring my own message Sure, I find our people so this is the first time I'm doing you've always used it to benefit others Yeah, which is great and that's obviously how you get paid and how you start out and tell you make money But then to be able to make that shift benefiting yourself and making money I think are a little different for sure You play the different yeah, like you give them spend a whole life making money and not accomplish anything you're totally right So let's do rapid fire some questions. Sure. Let's wrap this up rock and roll How do you get clients? How do I get clients? Obviously people reach out to me. There's correspondence. I get inquiries. I get leads So-and-so, knees of video or High Chris. I watch your work. I really like your stuff. Can we work together? You know, when you're a freelancer choosing your clients is almost more important than getting clients Because you could choose the wrong clients and they will fuck your life up. I have right now Probably two clients that are not good for me that are previous clients from the last couple years. I need to Lose I need to drop them because they're a hassle But to me it's about and again, you know, it kind of comes back full circle to like the people you work with They need to be allies. They need to be people you share vision with you have a good relationship with you trust them Enough to do work for them without getting paid yet or you know, you're gonna invoice someone the project's done But they need to be people, you know, who value what you do What mindset do you need to have to make it? That you will never make it There is no it There is only the journey right there is no time when you reach the end you go well I did it There is just simply a list of goals to get from the beginning of your life to the end of life And you cannot let work be the fullest like you have to I think like to make it is when you are pursuing and enjoying things outside of work And still able to return to work to me that's making it So when I am able to travel take a vacation spent out with my family and Feel good knowing that when I go home there's stuff to do That's that's to me making it. I think the biggest thing for me is How you define success and that that's for me when I got into minimalism it helped me to redefine what success was to me because a lot of times people are Living their life based upon another person's formula and another person's recipe and when you decide No, this is this is how I want to live my life sure everything changes. There was a time to me where success was or making it was working on a video five days a week What practical tool do you use as a freelancer and you know you could pick a film tool but maybe I'm they can more of like A normal thing I utilize in filmmaking yeah if you're making or in terms of your business and like so I might even say Email and like how do you approach using that tool in a way that you think has Leveraged yourself in a way that others haven't been able to this is gonna sound really corny actually but Conversation I'm a huge people person So I spend extra time getting to know people and like analyzing and and Figuring out who they are and That's kind of rare. I learned that from Some of my best friends From when you go like you know for instance Making Design disruptors Right there were times where we had interviews with really high-level people they would come in they'd sit down They'd do their interview and then they'd stay And talk for 45 minutes just hanging out with us people who are very busy very fucking busy people yeah That made me respect the shit out of them and then when they needed something I was willing to do it and you actually Understand how somebody gets to a place like that. Yeah, you don't get to a place like that by being selfish right so when I am Doing business with somebody who needs a video perhaps Or an animation or anything on the media that extra a little bit to get to know them Do they have a family or they perhaps struggling with something one of my favorite producers Then I work with all the time We get along so well because whenever we meet up, we don't talk about work And I know everything she's going through with her family and he struggles with her siblings Her kids her relationships and she's like you know 40 some years old and she cares about me and my relationships And my friends and family and my my financial situation how are you doing with this? That makes it a really good relationship and that makes clients keep coming back when you care about that not just the product Final question What one thing can somebody do today To take a step in the direction to live the life that they they want whether they want to build a business or be a freelance or or Start a build a new habit what can they do today that will make a difference read about it I would say that the best thing you can ever do if you're interested in anything is Find out more information from somebody else about it No matter the the level could be basic beginners to far more advanced But There's obviously like the old saying like we just want to get out there and do it Right, but that's that's like daunting. It's a little scary sometimes if you don't know what you're doing even for me. I'm pursuing A gigantic documentary. I have no idea what I'm doing right now the best thing I ever did was just sit and watch another documentary Or to ask a huge documentary in what would you do? You know so for me it relates with a video thing in a non video world a non film world to put this into Perspective I wanted to do obstacle races I was very intrigued by the commercials by the idea of pushing myself. I'm kind of like this like You know don't be mid 20s Starting to go ball guy, you know like not in a great shape. I got to asthma and I Don't really exercise replace boards or anything so To me they there was an intriguing idea of getting fit Right, I don't know how to do that if I did I'd already be fucking thin and fit I would look way better. However The best thing I could do is talk to people and I've had many conversations with you with other friends like what do you do To get in shape is it how you eat? Is it a routine you're setting for working you know, is it whatever it is and then just emulating them in your own life? Okay, so somebody was like oh I do a lot of push-ups and pull-ups and I was like I don't need to go to a gym to do that. I have a door that has a big hinge on it that I can hang on and I have a floor So maybe I'll try to do 10 pull-ups and 10 push-ups a day. I did that and then within three months I lost 35 pounds wow and you did one of these races and I I'm on my fourth race now Wow and I asked you like four years ago like what do you think of these and you're like well I did the top monitor or whatever and it was cool and I was like You know, I might try that you know, so for me with a huge Getting past the fear of starting into becoming a habit is finding out the habits of those that are better at it than you To me any last words. Yeah. I have a question for you. Yeah for the audience. Sure Do you remember when we first met I do remember when we first met it was at a bachelor party I think we went to a strip club. Yeah, that's true club. It's funny because Did we meet in a limo? Yeah, yeah, we met in a limo. I had just finished screening my film That's right. You had known me through my work. I had done a bunch of wedding videos and you worked for this company that you would actually You would have been a loser for the company hours full-time Sure, and I filmed these weddings and you would edit the weddings. So we kind of knew each other in a in a in a non-direct way You knew my world and stuff like that. Yeah, I'm like, hey, do you have this file from this thing you shot? You'd be like, yes, Chris at this company. Yeah, and then we meet and then it's funny It was just kind of like Sometimes just no instantly you're like, I'm gonna get a good I'm gonna get along with this guy. Yeah, and that's what it was like Because I had an image of you in my head from your dumbass face for photos I'm like, I'd show you guys Yeah, well, you know, you were like college you so at that time you were like super tiny and skinny Yeah, when we first met and you were yeah, I think you were just getting into working out Yeah, believe but you yep. Yeah, I was I waited about 125 pounds throughout college Yeah, you had the shaggy hair and you were doing the global videos and you know and like I was like okay He kind of looked like a chill stoner. Yeah, and then I was like he does good work But is he like you know the skater boy kind of guy is he like a serious about what he does guy And And you were not like that at all in person. I remember that specifically. Yeah, I met you know, I was like, oh, this is a totally different person Yeah, I had this cool It's funny like you're really fucking smart and like good at talking and what I mean Yeah, we can communicate and convert what it's funny And I think that's what you have to look out for in terms of building relationships There are people who you were just gonna instantly connect with and Dude that to me is when I'm most happy Yeah, is when I can have these conversations that we have today where You know nothing else matters, but just and it feels so natural where we can just go back and forth and Well, you were I sat that's what I loved about is that you and I sat at the strip club for like three hours just talking We didn't even know that we could have been anywhere else We got nothing yeah everybody is engaged in these ridiculous and going that's a very interesting word They're just totally like engulfed yeah in the moment like throwing money around and you and I sat and just talked with drinks And I don't think a single female came to our side. No, no, and we were fine with it Yeah, we're busy That's great man, and I'm so glad we could have this conversation today So many years later funny because like you know now we go strip club four nights a week Exactly And from the ground out it started from the ground up, you know Cool brother all right well, thank you so much for doing this show man. I being up the first one. Yeah on this the video version And that's it All right guys thanks listen cut You
