# My New Morning Routine
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5-IggORYVT0
My Simple Habits Course is now enrolling! https://slowgrowth.com/simple-habits
☝️🚀

Sign up to get my short weekly emails on minimalism & habits: https://mattdavella.com/email

🙊 Here are the goods I mention in this video:
Waking Up Podcast by Sam Harris: https://samharris.org/podcasts/192-march-17-2020/
What's Poppin' by Jack Harlow: https://open.spotify.com/track/1jaTQ3nqY3oAAYyCTbIvnM?si=sPeiBFuzT-aaa43knHVfuQ
The Two Day Rule: https://youtu.be/bfLHTLQZ5nc

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** morning routine, my morning routine, routine, morning routine 2020, morning, healthy morning routine, productive morning routine, morning routines, my morning routine 2020, quarantine morning routine, 5am morning routine, matt d'avella, 
**Date:** 2020-03-31

## Transcript
 So now that I spend all my time at home, I've made some big changes to how I start my days. Typically I wake up and pull my phone into bed first thing in the morning. It's a time to catch up on some light reading. Then I head to the bathroom to freshen up. I peace sitting down now. It just makes me feel more stable. Then I wash my hands. After that I make a cup of coffee while catching up on some of my favorite podcasts. I mean, we're going to come out of this as a different nation, a different people, a different, different people. And then I wash my hands again. One mindfulness practice that has really helped me a lot lately is to journal. And finally I wrap up each morning with a pet talk from Natalie. That is everything fine. You want to just get drunk then? It's literally 11 am. And that is my new morning routine. So in all seriousness, I actually have struggled quite a bit over these past few weeks. I wouldn't say that is a complete parody that you saw. A lot of these things are true. I've been consuming too much media. I've been too sedentary. I haven't yet figured out how to bring these habits and routines into my everyday life the way that I typically do. Now the one thing that I've always tried to do on this channel is be open and honest with you guys. Not pretend to be an expert when I'm not trying to pretend like I have my shit together when I don't. And right now I feel like I'm just starting to get my shit together. Over the past couple days, I've been figuring out new ways to create healthy habits, routines and structure. That's really the most important thing I've been trying to figure out. Because when you're at home all day, that leads to different hurdles, different challenges that you have to overcome. And so I wanted to share with you guys some of the things that I've been learning. So I've really started to cut back on the amount of media, especially the amount of news that I consume every day. For the past month or so, as we've been trying to figure out whether or not we need to post a phone and cancel our wedding in Italy, which we inevitably ended up doing, which probably isn't too much of a surprise considering the circumstances, we were just glued in every single day, checking every 15, 20 minutes. And then even after we postponed our wedding, that did not change for me. I just every morning I wake up, looking at my phone, checking it throughout the day. And what I've found was that the more I checked, the more overwhelmed, frustrated and miserable I felt. And while I do think it's important for us to be informed, I think that there is only so much that we could do until we realize, okay, I know enough. I'm doing enough to help. I'm doing my part. There was a great podcast I listened to recently by Sam Harris where he talks about these precautions of washing your hands and social distancing and comparing them to wearing a seatbelt. Once you're motivated, once you understand the utility, none of us have to feel anxiety when we get behind the wheel of a car to motivate us to clip in our seatbelt. That gesture now is an odd amount of activity. And I think the same can be true of a response to a crisis like this. I mean, once you figure out what you should do, well, then you can just do that thing. And all this ambient anxiety can be dialed down. One big turning point for me after two weeks of living in a very messy workspace, having camera gear, cluttered all over the place, was to finally sort my editing desk, getting everything organized, finding a little bit of clarity amongst the chaos. That's dust. That's from Dust. Since Natalie is now working from home as well, we actually set her up a desk right over here so she can work from the office as well, which has been pretty cool. And I finally started to rebuild my work at routine. Now, I personally much prefer to work out at the gym. I've never been somebody who likes working out from home using bodyweight exercises, but obviously considering the circumstances I need to adapt, I'm not willing to sacrifice my health, especially considering this megalon for a few months. So right now, I'm in this process of experimenting. Alrighty, you guys want to see what is on my workout playlist right now. I always start my workout these days with what's popping by Jack Harlow. I feel like I'm late on this one, but it's a really good song. The great thing about these times is that there are so many people online creating work out routines, different things that you can do from home with very limited equipment, and you know being a minimalist, I don't have a whole lot, but it's going well, I mean, it's still very early on for me and working out from home. I still don't love it, there's still a lot for me to figure out, but I think the biggest thing right now, I'm leaning into experimenting, trying a whole bunch of different things, and most importantly, figuring out what I enjoy the most, because if I'm not enjoying it, and if you're not enjoying your workouts, there's no way that you're going to be able to stick through with it. For the record, that is Natalie's coffee, I don't put milk on my coffee, not that there's anything wrong with that, but there's seriously something wrong with that. Coming out of the house, getting some sun, walking around, and getting as many steps in as we can, has been vital for keeping our sanity. It's very easy to get cabin fever when you're staying inside, working from home, working out from home, doing everything from home, so that has given us some peace and solitude. The hiking trails have been just packed, and nobody is giving any amount of social distance, which is really frustrating, and it actually defeats the entire purpose of going on a hike. We're trying to reduce anxiety, and then we just find ourselves stressed out. Like, literally yesterday, we found out that all hiking trails, all beaches are now closed in LA County. So Natalie's telling me it doesn't look good to tie my sweatshirt around my waist. What do you guys think? Look at this. That's hip hop, baby. No oil. That's hip hop. Everybody knows that. I have been using the two-day rule, which many of you guys are familiar with, the two-day rule is when you make sure that you don't break a habit for two days in a row. So you can take multiple days off a week if you need to, but it reduces the amount of time between, say, going to the gym or in this case, working out from home. So you don't lose track, and you don't lose momentum when you really need it. And I find that this is especially important in the very beginning, as you rebuild a habit, it might happen when you come back from vacation to keep that consistency going. Literally doing it every other day, if you have to, every day if you can, and then whenever you need to, take a break. But the two-day rule has helped me out a lot. Would you get? Manage. Manage. That's a whole lot of manage, bro. I was not just man. That's the most fun I've had in a way. If there's anything that I've learned personally through this whole experience is that I needed a little bit of time to adapt and to adjust. And that meant a couple of weeks without working out and it's going to continue to mean a lot of experimenting to find what really works for me. And I definitely encourage you guys to do the same. At this time when there is so much that is out of our control, we need to hold onto those things that we can control. There are ways in which we can help to improve our mental health, our physical health, our relationships. And we need to do everything we can right now to make sure that we're happy, we're sane, and we are there for each other. So let me know down in the comments how you guys have adapted your schedules, routines, and structure during these times. Let me know also what kind of videos and what kind of topics you would like me to cover in the next couple of weeks. I have adjusted my schedule a little bit and pushed some videos back just because they didn't make complete sense given these times. And I'm trying to make content that's relevant right now. So let me know. I'll see you down in the comments. And yeah, that's it. Thanks guys.
