# 4 Rules for Digital Minimalism
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5nemvG_EzqY
Visit http://audible.com/mattdavella or text mattdavella to 500-500 to start your 30-day Audible trial. Choose 1 audiobook and 2 Audible Originals absolutely free. Thanks to Audible for sponsoring this video.

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** digital minimalism, minimalism, digital minimalist, minimalist, digital minimalism phone, digital declutter, 4 rules for digital minimalism, digital, digital minimalism tips, digital detox, how to be a minimalist, minimalist lifestyle, digital decluttering, 
**Date:** 2019-09-24

## Transcript
 So I had an idea to do a seven day digital minimalism experiment over the past couple of months I've been watching and streaming a bit more than I would like spending a bit too much time on email So I thought it'd be helpful to do a bit of a detox to take seven days to set up some rules for my life Now I do this kind of stuff pretty frequently and pretty conscious about my media consumption So I thought it'd be more fun this time around to bring somebody else along for their ride Specifically my fiance Natalie if you haven't seen any of my videos with Nat She's definitely not a minimalist while she's become a more conscious consumer since we started dating She's not at all interested in simple living pairing down and most of all digital minimalism She often spends the first and last hour of each day scrolling through social media on her phone and she hates rules Like every time I suggest a social media detox or that maybe we should get rid of the TV She loses her goddamn mind and that's where the twist comes in now Under normal circumstances, I was suggest talking about this with your partner But I thought what if I actually come up with four digital rules for how we should be living our lives over the next week without any input from Nat to my surprise She agreed under one condition Hey, what's up I'm looking for things to wash. Oh, no No You're bored already. Rule number one no screens in bed Okay, the idea is that we're not like waking up looking at her phone. We're not. That's really the last day That's the way because I mean if it's in the bed when you're probably not gonna use I spend like two and a half hours in the morning Oh my phone until I get out of the way. Number two. This was more for me than for you schedule all email To once daily. Okay. Yeah. That's why it'd be hard for me. Yeah, because you don't have a job lately. It's been like compulsively checking all the time like oh, so we're gonna like check it once Don't we check it once a day. Oh, that's interesting. So you have to actually schedule it to say okay 11 o'clock every day That's when I do email whether it's for an hour or three minutes. So that's the next one Limit social media to 30 minutes daily. Oh my god I did these in an order where I think you'd get more and more upset And the last one here limit all streaming to one day YouTube Netflix See met videos the major hitters video streaming and what are we gonna do? That's a great question And that's what we're gonna find out on this week's episode Hitting into this experiment and based on Natalie's reaction. I felt like maybe I didn't go far enough with these rules But realistically, I just don't think she knows what she's getting into I've talked quite a bit on this channel about the relationship we have with technology and the benefits of limiting Screen time to create a healthier relationship with our devices I've been interested in it for years, but it took me a while to make real changes in my life It really all started with a 30-day social media detox I did last year I've been to that point. I thought social media was a vital part of my life and business I was wrapped up in likes comments in every other form of engagement as mindful as I wanted to be about the time I spent scrolling through social media There was this invisible force that kept me glued to my phone much longer than I'd like to admit When I initially stepped away from my original 30-day social media detox I was genuinely worried I was worried that my business would lose traction that my social network would collapse My friends and relationships would worsen because of it and what I eventually found out was that the exact opposite happened When I abandoned all social media besides scheduling my weekly uploads to YouTube I saw the largest growth in my audience today I was also just happier and more content every day I realized that social media didn't make me feel any more connected than in the past and I'm not the only one that started to see the benefits Over the past couple of years more and more people are seeing the positive results of decluttering in their digital lives I wondered if during the seven-day experiment Natalie would see the same benefits as well All right, so we're just a couple of days into this experiment now and that how are you feeling? I mean, I don't mean to sound obnoxious, but I don't feel like I'm getting any value out of this experiment Beyond proving the lengths that I'll go to support you and your channel. Wow. Thanks, now Just don't want that to be forgotten Okay, so Natalie wasn't really feeling the experiment But these rules really helped me to avoid distractions and stay productive throughout my work day The two that made the biggest difference? Limiting streaming to one day a week and only checking email once a day I will admit that during the first two days I've reflexively typed in gmail.com without even thinking And I quickly aborted my eyes remembering that I wasn't supposed to check email until 11 a.m But I wasn't the only one to break a rule How old are you thinking I'll take us to get to area 51? Oh No phones in bed I am so sorry um that was your phone You don't know this I've used my current bed Why I just I'd had enough you consciously then I'm not gonna like get out of bed Just because I want to quickly say something I have you social media more than half an hour a day Oh my god. I have checked my email several points a day the only rule I haven't broken is the streaming rule I have not streamed wait I take that back I'm honestly not sure how net and I are so compatible She has no respect for rules and hasn't gotten a thing from this experiment as to where I've personally found so many Benefits from embracing digital minimalism I even want so far to write down the four rules on a couple of note cards and tape them to my computer Just so I wouldn't forget and slip back into my old habits Honestly, whatever works for you Natalie might just be the perfect example that the rules don't apply to everyone I don't tie up from it. You know like I speak to people who were like oh you know it's exhausting I'll like I just compare myself to everyone and I can say how that might happen But I don't feel like my digital usage is a trigger for any negative feeling to our look If you are the kind of person who thinks that digital minimalism can help your life I definitely recommend you check out the audio book by Count Newport called digital minimalism using this week's sponsor audible I listen to cows audio book earlier this year and it's cemented just how important it is for us to create a healthy relationship with technology People don't succumb to screens because they're lazy But instead because billions of dollars have been invested to make this outcome inevitable As a crazy slow reader audible allows me to listen to lots of audio books each year I listen to them while doing cardio at the gym and while commuting around L.A. Start listening with a 30-day audible trial choose one audio book and two audible originals Absolutely free visit audible.com slash Matt Diavella or text Matt Diavella to five hundred five hundred If you're on the fence about this whole thing if you're kind of like Natalie and you're you're not really sure If digital minimalism is for you, I still recommend that you listen to this book I think it will question a lot of assumptions you have about your use of technology Especially social media so check it out So it became clear pretty early on that setting up these four rules created a lot of discomfort more so for Nat, but I definitely felt it as well It's so easy to crash on the couch after a long day turn on Netflix and enjoy some passive entertainment and while I don't think there's anything wrong with a little TV I know it doesn't make me feel good if I go overboard with these rules in place instead of instinctively going for the remote We had to get a little bit more creative with our time We played board games red books got out of the house. You're driving really yeah You're looking up food recipes while we're driving We spent time sitting around doing nothing Natalie spent 30 minutes to an hour every day journaling and I learned how to ride one of these things I wouldn't say we had more quality time with each other than what's typical, but it was fun to switch up our routine You ready to go? Yeah, so I've been meaning to do this digital reset for a long time and while not might not have seen a lot of benefits from it It certainly has helped me out a ton in terms of productivity again I mentioned it earlier in the video, but I think that the the single greatest takeaway for me was scheduling email Email is such a track for me I'm constantly waiting for somebody to tell me what my priority should be instead of doing the most important work That I know I should be doing so if you're gonna do anything if you if you take away anything from this video I definitely recommend those were looking to improve their productivity to try to if they can Schedule email throughout the day. This is the one thing that I'm definitely gonna try to bring in in the coming weeks and months And hopefully I don't fall back off the horse again because I've certainly done this before But yeah, I've just gotten a lot from that one single rule and as this experiment comes to a close Even though net had a complete disrespect for the rules. I think we both gained something from it No, I definitely didn't gain anything from this great. Thanks so much for watching really appreciate you guys Checking out this video if you want to try a digital minimalism experiment for yourself Maybe use the four rules I came up with or talk with your partner and see if they can maybe Contribute some rules of their own and hey, I don't care what anybody says about less is more that definitely doesn't apply to mustaches I'm laughing at this Haha
