# Getting Support w/ Brian Bowen Smith
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=66tnzHFSYr0
http://www.groundupshow.com

Brian Bowen Smith talks about the support he had starting out as a photographer. This is an excerpt from my podcast episode with Brian. You can find the whole thing at the link above.
**Keywords:** brian bowen smith, photography, production, behind the scenes, podcast, interview, matt davella, matt d'avella, ground up, the ground up show, ground up podcast, film, filmmaking, 
**Date:** 2018-01-05

## Transcript
 When was it that it started to turn into a profession, where you could actually make money from it? Probably 10 years after that? Wow, so it was 10 years from when you first started. Yeah. What were you doing in between then? Was there, did you have other jobs? You know, living off my wife, doing odd jobs, just anything that would make it work? And we, right around the ninth year mark, we were, we were pretty broke. And like it was to the point where I had to look at her and go, this is not good. You know what I mean? I promised her this good life and we got married and we were expecting our first kid and I'm like man, what, you know, I had that, what am I going to do? Give this up? You know what I told you know, like I'm going to get a job at a restaurant. Like I'll do it and she's like, don't you dare? So give you give up now. I will never forgive you. And I just thought man, that's just like so cool that I have someone that I thought was just must in her mind be going, well, what is this guy doing? You know, because I would get jobs here and there. You know what I mean? Like everyone's in a while, we get a job. Oh gosh, that was great. You know, but not steady enough towards like we're, you know, supporting you. And then, you know, after we had the conversation and I finally got a really great agent and things just started, you know, stacking up one after another. And at first it was like we made enough money this month to cover our mortgage plus, you know, I can take you to dinner. To, oh yeah, we got three months mortgage in the bank. So we can, you know, relax for a little bit. You know, and to eventually, you know, you work your way up to where, you know, you have stability. And you can say, now I'm a working photographer. Mm-hmm. You need that support, though, from the beginning. You do. Even if you're single. Yeah, you need reinforcement. You need to know that, you know, you're not the only one that believes in you. You know, because you need other people to believe in you, to actually start working. If you want to be, you know, in the business part of it, you really do. Yeah, the business part of it, too, is it's definitely, like you said, really challenging to get going. Yep. And that, uh, it's pretty dicey. Early and some people get lucky and then they start getting really great paid gigs, like right out the gate. Um, but like, for me personally, I graduated with a hundred thousand dollars in debt. And then I'm like, yeah, they set you up. Yeah, that's it. You're in the hole. Yeah. And then so then I'm living it home with my parents for a couple years. And I'm just scraping by and it's like one or two projects, one client leads to another. And then eventually it builds up. But you have to be willing to go through some shit to get through. Yeah. You do. And I think that that's the whole thing is that, you know, you can weed out a lot of the people by watching it. Not happen. You're in a mean or, you know, everyone thinks they're so good, but you're not. They're like, I'll even admit myself. I'm like, there are so many people that are better photographers than me. Absolutely. Not that I envy and look, you know, up to. And some of them aren't working. You know what I mean? But you know, it's like, I don't know what to tell you. Like, you got to figure out what is broken in this recipe. It's got to be the business side because of course I thought the same way when I was, I would, there was these people that I idolized that were around my age. And they were doing the same type of film work. And I would literally emulate their work. And I would try to copy it and I'm like, wow, this is really good. And for whatever reason, I was able to actually turn it into a business where others are now working like a nine to five corporate job that they're not filled in. It's like, where is that gap? And like, what did you learn about like the business side of this? My personality. And I think people can see what I work with them. They see that I love this. You know what I mean? I get along with people. I'm in a business that is, you know, revolves around people and being around people. And I think when you really do love it. And I don't, I don't seek fame. I don't seek, you know. Like I said, I'm going to drown in junkie when it comes to like, when someone says, God, that's a grrr. I love that photo you took of me. Oh, can I, can print it in my house? Like to me, that's all I need. I don't need to be like recognized or, you know, someone's, oh, you know, like, you know. You're, you're a big name now. I'm like, I'm not, not really. You know what I mean? Like, I've gained some sort of notoriety, but I don't, that's not really why I do it. Or some people, I see that they want that. They want to be respected. They want that. They want people to know their name. Like, I'm just as much as a celebrity as who I'm shooting. Do you know what I mean? And I just don't care for that. I really honestly, I don't. Everything that I do is, is for myself and, you know, just to help move forward and see how far I can grow. It's going to come with it either way. Like, sometimes it's weird. I'll go somewhere. Oh, my God. I know, and I'm like, shocked. Like, how do you know who I am? You know, like, oh, you're kidding me. And Instagram has been a, you know, crucial role in that as well because and I Instagram, like, I'll Instagram my fat dog. And yeah, I was looking at it. It's like stupid stuff. Like, I'm very personal. That's what Instagram is for for me. It's like, yeah. You want to know me. I know I could put up all my work and make myself look like, you know, the best photographer. You know, it's just, but it's like, it's not interesting to me. Like, you see it already. You see the bill. You know, sometimes it's fun to put up work stuff mixed with what I do in life. And I think for me, it's like my life. And what I get to do now and the people I surround myself by, that's the interesting part about my life. And the fact that I'm just for once in my life, I'm happy. You know what I mean? And I'm happy that I'm doing what I'm doing. And I want people to know and look at that and go, man, this guy's just like me. You know, I want people to know that you can make it, if you want to. And there is a way to get into this industry, or at any industry. Well, you said wedding photographers are, I have a friend that was like, man, I can't, you know, get into, you know, and he started shooting hotels when he went on vacation. Now he's shooting like major, you know, companies and they're flammer on the world. There's shooting hotels and man. It's like, wow, how cool is it? You found that niche on an accident. And he's killing it now. So it's, you never know. I could see that though with the Instagram, and like to each of their own, there are some amazing Instagram photographer accounts that, like every single image is gorgeous. And when you even look at it like in the full stack scrolling down, it's just, it's a beautiful, it's a big, a great Pinterest page. Yeah. But that's what, to me, that's what Pinterest is for. Why? I still enjoy those. And I get why people do that too. And they, you know, I've had people tell me, like you should do a separate account with just your work. So it's not mixed up, you know, and I'm like, I have an agent for that. Go to my website. Yeah. Like, why? Yeah. And I'm like, you know, it's either, if you don't, this is the thing, you don't have to follow. You don't have to like it, because it's my page. You know what I mean? Mm-hmm. So, you know, but that's a whole, you know, like anything that's, you know, it's part of the business, you know, doing work, you know, your agent has something different to say about what you think. You know what I mean? Like, oh, don't put this in my portfolio. Oh, but that's my favorite picture. Yeah, but this is what we're doing. You know, so I have to trust them and let go of things that I, you know, creatively think, oh, that, so it's, you know, there's a lot of things. It's a collaboration. Yeah, the first time I went to an agent and they looked at my book, I'd probably 50, 60 pictures in it. And by the time I left that meeting, I had two. Wow. I'm like, well, if you want to come with us, you need to go do more stuff like this. These are the only two things in your book that I can get you work from. And I'm looking at like, are you crazy? Like, you're just three, four years of what I've tried to create. And, you know, I was bitter for a day or two, but then I realized, man, she's right. And, you know, what else? Who am I to tell someone who's got all these successful photographers that she's representing? I'm like, maybe I should listen.
