# Why you’re so bad at managing your time.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6gi6SZyMGiA
Go to https://squarespace.com/mattdavella to save 10% off your first purchase of a website or domain using code MATTDAVELLA. Thanks to Squarespace for sponsoring this video ✌️

Time management gave rise during the industrial revolution because factory owners wanted workers to live by the clock rather than the sun. And while a lot has changed since those days, much of the advice we receive on time management today stems from those outdated ideas. Instead of trying to manage your time... do this instead.

Hi there 👋 If you're new to my videos my name is Matt D'Avella. I'm a documentary filmmaker, entrepreneur and YouTuber. I've made a couple documentaries for Netflix. I also teach courses on everything from filmmaking to habit change. If you like to nerd out about self-development as much as I do, you can subscribe for weekly videos.

🔗 LINKS
Enroll in my habit's course:  https://slowgrowth.com/simplehabits
Enroll in my YouTube course:  https://slowgrowth.com/masteryoutube
Get my weekly newsletters:  http://slowgrowth.com/newsletter
Follow me on Instagram:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Follow me on Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella

🎬 CREDITS
Directed by Matt D'Avella
Produced by Rochi Zalani & Matt D'Avella
Cinematography by Matt D'Avella
Edited by Matt D'Avella
**Keywords:** Matt D'Avella, matt davella, self-development, creativity, health, wellness, lifestyle design, lifestyle, advice, time management, time, save time, productivity, 
**Date:** 2022-02-21

## Transcript
 When we don't reach our goals, we often blame time. If I'd only had more time, you know, time really slipped away from me. If I just manage my time a little bit better. And so we tell ourselves that we'll get it right next time. And we commit to finally figuring out this whole time management thing. But what if I told you that you were going about it all wrong? And the reason that you're not reaching your goals isn't because of poor time management, but something else entirely. Frederick Winslow Taylor, birth time management during the Industrial Revolution. As you wanted factory workers to learn to live by the clock, rather than by the sun. And today, that approach to productivity has taken on a life of its own. Books, blogs, and social media posts are filled with the next best time management hacks. Including gems like Jeff Bezos and you both have the same 24 hours. If he can get shit done, why can't you? But it doesn't really work like that. It's true that everyone has 24 hours, but everyone doesn't have the same 24 hours. Bezos doesn't have to do his laundry, make dinner, call the plumber, or take his attention seeking dog to the vet. He can outsource all that. Who's dead? He doesn't care about the little guy. It's your daddy. And even if you have enough money to outsource all of these things, the story might still sound familiar to you. You jot down a lengthy, too-do list for the day. You copy the morning routine of the world's most successful people. And you sit down in front of your laptop to tackle your tasks like a YouTube self-help guru. But then the tap starts leaking, your kids need something, Brian accidentally deletes an entire year's of work, and you're totally exhausted by the time 3pm rolls around. You think that you're procrastinating because all 65 items are still on your to-do list, and so you beat yourself up for a wasting time that you could have spent working. And even worse, you think tomorrow will be different. You'll employ a new time management hack you found on Instagram, try a new morning routine, and finally get caught up on all that work and more. Until the same exact thing happens the next day, which gets you thinking someone really needs to have a conversation with Brian. Also, there's probably a more effective way to plan our days, and there is. The problem isn't your lack of effective time management, because time is a fixed resource. However, energy is a different ball game. In 2006, Tony Schwartz and Katherine McCarthy ran an energy management experiment with 106 employees of what Kovia Bank. They took the employees through a curriculum of four modules, body, emotion, mind, and spirit, focusing on strengthening these four dimensions of energy. Then they measured their performance against a control group. In the first three months, the energy aware participant showed a 13% year-over-year increase compared to non-participants, and the participants consistently outperform the control group for the entire year after completing the energy management program. When asked how the program influenced the employees personally, 68% said it had a positive impact on their relationships with clients, and 71% reported a positive impact on their productivity and performance. It turns out that cramming 65 items onto your two-do list and scheduling five meetings in one day might seem like a good idea in theory, but it doesn't account for the reality. You might have enough hours in the day to do all the things that you want to do, but you don't have enough energy. Unlike the predictability of the clock, our energy can swing wildly from one hour to the next, and if you continue to take the advice from factory labor days and apply it to our modern working environment, you're going to only be disappointed, frustrated, and burn out. It's time to stop hunting for time management techniques, and to start managing our energy instead. But first, this week's video is brought to you by Squarespace. Let's say that your productivity guru and you want to build a website to teach people your ways. Well first things first, you need a great domain name, productivitysaveyour.com. It's pretty catchy. Next, you'll want to choose a beautiful template. This one will definitely spread the word. After that, you can easily drag and drop photos, add a logo, include a call to action, and add some quickie copy, all with just a couple clicks. With Squarespace, you can scale your business with detailed analytics, scheduled posts, and e-commerce stores. It's never been easier to build a beautifully designed website and start in listing thousands of people to join your coal room. There's probably a better word than coal. Visit Squarespace.com today for a free trial, and when you're ready to launch, go to squarespace.com slash matdeavela to save 10% of your first purchase of a website or domain. By supporting Squarespace, you're supporting this channel, so thank you, and thanks to Squarespace for sponsoring this video. Alright, so if you want to start managing your energy better, there are four things you need to start doing. First, you need to find your peak performance periods. There's a time of the day when you're naturally more focused. Maybe it's in the quiet mornings before your kids wake up, perhaps it's in the late afternoon laws, or it could be late into the night when the world goes silent. During these hours, your energy seems to be at its maximum, getting into a flowstate is effortless, and tasks that would otherwise cause you a crisis get checked off with ease. Find these hours in the day where your focus is at its peak. When do you tend to get the most quality work done in less time? Keep a productivity journal for a week and take note of when you're feeling most sharp. You can even combine this with a time tracking app like rescue time. To see if you're actually making the most of the periods where you have your optimum energy. And this might change as you age. I became a morning person at 30 years old. Before this time, I'd get most of my work done well into the night. I'd often stay up past 1 a.m. working on projects, and I pulled way too many all nighters than I'd care to admit, although I'd blame that more on my impressive procrastination skills than the fact that I was better working at night. But now I find that the first three hours after I wake up is really my window of peak performance. That's why after I wake up at around 7 or 8 a.m. I try not to let too much get in between my work and myself. The mornings when I overcome resistance and I sit down at my desk as soon as possible are the days where I'm most likely to make significant progress on my projects and towards my big goals. Next find out how much energy a task requires. Your energy isn't constant. It ebs and flows according to how much sleep you've had, how much you've eaten, and the quality of your downtime. Instead of using time management principles to organize your day, organize your tasks by the amount of energy that's needed to complete them. So when I think about my life, there are definitely those items that require little effort, and those that seem to drain my battery way faster. My most energy-depleting tasks include filming, like this, phone calls, meetings, writing, and video editing, and my lower energy tasks include reviewing work, checking emails, replying to messages, and I would even put household chores down at the bottom as well, like making dinner, doing laundry, and cleaning up. You can do this practice yourself by creating a list of the most common tasks you have to do in a week, and then order them from the most training to the least. And then from there you need to figure out how to prioritize your tasks and schedule them into your day. Remember just because something takes up a lot of energy doesn't mean that it's necessarily an important thing you need to do. So during your peak performance periods tackle the tasks that have the biggest crossover between most important and high energy. For me, I do most of my writing, filming, and my video editing in the morning, and then I schedule my administrative items that are a little bit less important and require less energy outside of that peak performance window. This is when I check email, I schedule most of my phone calls, and I do my chores. Even though I could blaze through my chores first thing in the morning, it's just going to be a waste of my limited energy. And then you need to refill your cup regularly. Rest is productive. I repeat, rest is productive. Research has repeatedly proven down time enhances your brain's ability to be more creative and productive and overall just less of an asshole. None of us is built to run non-stop, and as corny as it sounds, you can't pour from an empty cup. It can be challenged to prioritize rest when we live in a culture that glorifies burnout and has done it for so long. And while the tide does seem to be turning, and more people are talking about the importance of mental health and sleep, we still have a long ways to go. When you're always connected through work through your phone, it's a slippery slope from responding to slack messages at midnight to check an email while you're on the toilet. I'm not a business man, I'm a business man. Oh, nope, yep, I'll be right out. Sorry. This is why you need to be disciplined about rest. To do this, you can make both big and small moves in your life. For the small moves, find out what helps you to replenish your energy and make space for those things daily. Maybe it's a morning walk, and afternoon work out session, or 15 minutes of meditation after work. And don't just do these things when you're already feeling burnt out, meditating after you've had a full blown mental breakdown isn't going to solve any of your problems. And then of course, there are the big moves that you can make. If you're currently working a job that doesn't value rest in downtime, if you don't get enough time off, if you don't have a flexible schedule or you can't work from home, it might be time to start looking for a new job. There's only so much that you can do if your boss expects you to be up at all hours of the night checking email or even working while on vacation. This kind of work is unhealthy and unsustainable, and you deserve better. And finally, make flexible to-do lists. As much as you try to implement every productivity technique out there from color-coded calendars to Pomodoro clocks and Hulu Huping to increase focus, yes, apparently that's a thing. Some things are just outside of your control, and your energy is often one of those things. You can do everything right and still wake up feeling with Arjun. You can have the best intentions in the world, but still have difficulty concentrating even during those peak performance hours. Most structured daily plans are great, but they have to leave room for spontaneity and unexpected events. While planning your day, make sure to cut yourself some slack when things don't go according to plan. And I'm mostly saying this because this is advice that I need to hear myself right now. I know personally how frustrating it can be to have your entire day derailed by one thing. Whether you can't log into your online account because the server is down or your printer won't connect your laptop, even though you've tried for two hours and you connected and reconnected it, and then you called customer support and they could in help and then you did literally everything you could possibly think of, but your printer won't connect to your laptop. The point is, you're not perfect, and the sooner that you accept that and add some flexibility into your life, you'll realize that even if you have a shitty day, it doesn't need to affect your well-being or your self-worth. Time management techniques and tactics aren't all that bad. In fact, some of them are really helpful, but until we start to prioritize our work and life around the ups and downs that we face on a daily basis, we will consistently disappoint ourselves. Organizing your life around your energy can help you set more realistic deadlines, tackle complex tasks, and ensure that you don't drain your battery clipping Jeff Bezos' toenails. While we might all have 24 hours in a day, they aren't all the same 24 hours, so we should plan accordingly.
