# Ground Up 001 - Starting The Ground Up Show & My Biggest Mistake as a Filmmaker
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6Iw7X_Qlxug
http://www.groundupshow.com

In this very first episode of Ground Up I talk about the biggest, dumbest, most embarrassing mistake I ever made as a filmmaker. This is part of an on-going series that will evolve to cover new topics.

I'm primarily interested in helping people get something started from the ground up, whether it's building a business or developing a personal habit. I want to encourage and help people live a good life.

More content from me: https://www.mattdavella.com/subscribe

Connect with me on Twitter: https://www.twitter.com/mattdavella

And on Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/mattdavella

Facebook too: https://www.facebook.com/Matt-DAvella-984498801683630/

The gear that made this episode possible:
Camera:  Sony a7sii
Lens:  Canon 24mm 1.4
Monitor:  SmallHD 702 bright
Tripod: Gorillapod SLR Zoom
Audio:  Zoom H6 & Shure SM7B with Cloudlifter
**Keywords:** habit, film, filmmaking, podcast, groundup, groundupshow, grounduppodcast, bts, behindthescenes, sonya7s, canon, a7sii, sonya7sii, mistakes, oops, help, support, mentor, filmmentor, 
**Date:** 2017-02-07

## Transcript
 Hey guys, welcome to the show. This is something new. I'm not sure where to look. I'm not sure what to do with my hands. This is a podcast. This is also a video series. I'm primarily going with the video. I'm trying to play to my strengths. This is a new thing for me. I'm just getting started. But I'm excited. The show is called Ground Up. See that the ground up show, the ground up podcast, whatever you want to call it. It's going to be a hybrid. It's going to be a lot of different things. But what I want to do is talk about how to start something from the ground up. I've met with so many filmmakers, photographers, graphic designers, incredibly talented people. Many filmmakers who are more talented than myself. And for whatever reason, they give up or they do not continue to create films and create art. They perhaps end up in a job. Not all the times, but sometimes in a job that's not fulfilling that they don't like. Now that I've had some a bit of success or at least successes, I define it. I want to be able to help out and give back and give advice to people who are just getting started out. I was reminded of the biggest mistake that I've ever made in my life. And I want to say the biggest mistake that I've ever made as a filmmaker slash camera operator, most embarrassing by far. So this happened. I was living at home with my parents. It was in a transition period for me where I'm trying to get my business off the ground. I'm probably $95,000 in debt. I will take any job that I can get. And I get a gig for a reality show. This will happen often if you're just getting started out. Somebody will come to you. They know that you're a filmmaker or you're a camera operator. And they will ask you, do you have experience with such and such camera? And you will say yes. And you will be lying. And that's what I did. So I'm like really nervous because I literally don't even know where the record button is. I have no idea how to even get started with this camera. So I go to the shoot the next morning and it's a reality show. Like I said, and we are filming this young girl in her mom as they head over to a talent show. And the first thing I will say is that this is when I realize that reality shows were complete bullshit. And you know, everybody says, yeah, reality shows are bullshit. But I don't think they realize the amount to how scripted some of this stuff is. They would literally set up lighting. They will go through and run through alternate endings and give a chance to have a more dramatic ending. Oh, maybe the delivery wasn't good. So let's do something that's not so dramatic. Really completely creating a fictitious storyline to this reality television. Most people understand that. But I think sometimes we still forget how bad it actually. And we don't realize how bad it actually is. I get to the shoot. And there was a DP there. He was like the main camera guy. He had a little bit of a better camera than I did. He was obviously much more experienced than me as a filmmaker and camera operator. So I asked him, I say, hey, can you just can you, you know, I want to make sure my camera settings are all matched up with the ears. Can you just look at mine and make sure it's all good. He looks at it goes through it. He changes a couple things. You have all good. Okay. The producers are in your ear the whole time. They have a little radio and they're telling you zoom in zoom in. And like they, like I don't normally shoot reality show, which is a lot of camera movement. You're going inside a side. You're zooming in, you're pushing in. They kept saying, push in, pushing. And I didn't know if that meant it for me to walk in or for me to zoom in. And I was just very stressed out the whole day. And I kept screwing up and I kept messing up. So I was already like on edge. And then on the second or third scene, the producer, I heard her talking to the other producer and he said, what's wrong with his camera? It looks like the, it's like square or ratio. Like the aspect ratio doesn't seem right. And then they came out and then they, they look at my camera and then the other DP comes up, looks at my camera. And then they're like, he was shooting in the wrong settings the whole time. And then they're just looking at the, and then they just, the producers just put their head down and just shake their head. And they're like, this is, this is not acceptable. This is messed up. And then the DP, like who the guy who was supposed to do the settings for me, he, like I got, he didn't see, he messed, I want to say he messed up. I, I trusted him to do it. Of course, you shouldn't ever blame somebody else or trust somebody else to handle the job for you. But I had to, I had no other choice. I'd never use the camera before shortly after or filming. So this is the fourth scene of the day. It's the last scene that we're shooting. We've been shooting for eight or nine hours. And you know, it's a conserve on battery to conserve on the card that I was shooting on. I kept pausing and clicking record in between takes to make sure that we didn't go over. At one point the producer said to me, during that scene, hey, just want to make, you know, are you pausing and recording during the scenes? And I was again, I just don't, don't even worry about that. Just keep recording. But the thing about habit is that you, it's a habit. It's built in. You, you, after a while, it doesn't matter. You just do it habitually. You hit record, you hit pause, you hit record, you hit pause. So then there was one scene where this all of this woman like loses her shit and she goes crazy. And it's a great television for them. It's this is what they want. They want the crazy shit. And then the producer says, that's perfect. We got it cut. That's a wrap for the day. We're done. And then I looked at my camera and I wasn't recording. I wasn't recording the crazy woman doing her crazy thing. So what do you do in that situation? Do you tell the producer? I should have, I should have told the producer, but I didn't, I didn't tell her because it was just a bad day already. I had done so much stuff wrong. And I was like, you know what, it doesn't even matter anymore. They're never going to hire me again already. If I tell her this, they literally might throw me out the window and fire me right on the spot. So I didn't tell her, I probably, I probably should have, but they found out eventually that that footage was not recorded. That at one point was my most embarrassing failure and my biggest failure as a filmmaker. And for a while, even though I told myself, this is reality TV, I don't care about it. This is not the kind of work that I want to do. It's still stung and it's still hurt that I fucked up so bad, that I messed up so bad that I had let these people down. And you never want to let a client down. No matter whether it's a reality TV show or a small startup company or even a multi-million dollar company, you don't want to let anybody down. And you want to deliver every single time. So it was a bummer, but I have to say, in hindsight, I find it hilarious. This was years ago. This doesn't affect me anymore. That TV show. I don't even know if they were finished it. I didn't keep up with it. I was certainly cut from the credits. So, but these things hurt in the moment. But for the most part, your failures are going to eventually become really good stories in the long run. You made a mistake. You fucked up. It's okay. Laugh about it with your friends and move on. So that's it for this episode. This was the first episode of the podcast. I'm pretty excited about this and pretty excited about doing both the video, both the audio. I'm pretty sure that in the very beginning this is going to be one of the worst things that anybody's ever heard, but it's going to get really good. It's going to get better. And I hope you guys learned some stuff over the time that we do this. Let's keep it going. Let's do this. Let's go. Peace.
