# Landing a Dream Job w/ Gary Vaynerchuk
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6QTJUxOVwlE
Get my podcast 👉 http://groundupshow.com
Babin 👉 http://instagram.com/babin

This is the story of how Tyler Babin took shit into his own hands and made things happen. See how he turned an Uber ride into his dream job with Gary Vaynerchuk.

New videos every week! New podcast every Wednesday!

Subscribe:  https://goo.gl/nzS5ri
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com
Instagram:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella/
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella/

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** gary vaynerchuk, garyvee business, gary vaynerchuck, behind the scenes, creative, creator, creators, documentary, film, filmmaker, filmmaking, freelance, freelance life, freelancer, hustle, jobs, make it happen, create, get started, ground up, make, matt davella, matt d'avella, podcast, podcasting, start, the ground up show, tyler babin, babin, gary vee, vayner media, 
**Date:** 2018-05-25

## Transcript
 I had a guy named Tyler Babin on the podcast today. He's a photographer and filmmaker extremely talented individual and on the show he tells an amazing story. A story about how he got his dream job with Gary Vaynerchuk. If you don't know who Gary V is, he's an entrepreneur, author and motivational speaker with millions of followers online. All right, so I'm not going to waste any more time here. I'm just going to get right into this clip because it covers a lot of the points that I've been trying to make on the podcast as well as on my YouTube channel over the past year. It's all about taking calculated risk creating your own opportunities, knowing when to take that leap and the hustle, the hustle that it takes to make shit happen. So let's get right to that clip. The master plan was getting internship at Vaynerchuk eventually turned that internship into like a staff job, work for a couple of years, meet Gary in the hallway and be like, yo, I want to work directly with you. Like that was in theory how it was going to play out. Instead it was go, I got a graphic design internship, did that for like six or seven months and then there was a freeze on hiring creatives. They were just like, we're going to hold off for a little bit. And so I had been just grinding my face off for like seven months and then I get an email one day and it's like, sorry, we don't have a job for you. See ya. So that was devastating. That was, that was like the one moment where I can be like, yo, New York really punched me in the face and I walked out and like had no idea what was next. I like thought I was going to move back home and like it was like, all right, I'm going to get my desk job, you know. And so I emailed Gary and I was like, yo, I came here because I wanted to say what's up to you and eventually I wanted to work with you. But like, I got to leave. So can I have five minutes to say what's up? That meeting got canceled. But I was like, it's my last day. It has to happen. So if he was jumping in an Uber, I jumped with him and luckily it was like three o'clock in the afternoon. So New York traffic was completely gridlocked and our five minute meeting turned into an hour and then by the end of that pieces were pretty much set in place that I think the next day I was on his team working directly with him. And so it's been two years. All right. Yeah. All right. How did that Uber come down? How did that actually happen? Like were you? Were you like waiting outside for Gary to come out of the office or was that like kind of a little bit part of the plan where it's like, hey, my meeting just canceled, but we can hop in this Uber. So that's basically how it happened. Initially it was like, yo, we're going to risk out of the new for next week. And I was like, I don't know if I won't be here next week. Like it has to happen. And he was like, all right, screw it. You can go and just ride with them. So it was like jumped in the car. I was so prepared for a five minute meeting with Gary. Like I just had everything locked in and then the entire plan is out the fucking window in two minutes. Because I was just like, oh, we actually have to have a conversation now. And I have to like be on my feet. And so I was like nervous, like shaking on the car. And well, everybody's got to plan to get punched in the face. Like right. That's what, yeah, I think Tyson said it. Where it's like you get into the ring. And then all that said, and all bets are off. And you just got to figure out what to fuck you doing. The thing that's amazing, too, is it's like, uh, DRock, uh, the other video guy I'm Gary's team has been there about two years before me. He's in the car with us filming the entire conversation. So our entire meeting is like documented in history. It's amazing. I want to put it out. But I actually just found the footage recently and washed it and I sound so ridiculous. So it was like, oh my, it's too scary. Was it bad? But then so, so you're nervous. That's kind of what I would expect for it to be. Although like, I was like, maybe maybe you just turned it on and I didn't. It's like a little feral in that movie where he blacks out and like, is a, is a, is a great divider. So you're in the, you're in the car and like, you're nervous. But then what is it about that that like inspires Gary to have you come on? I mean, I was pretty audacious because at this point, I'm like, you know, I got, I just put all my chips on the table and so it was literally gotten in the car. I was like, I want to work for you. And he's like, you got to, like, laugh. And he's like, okay, what do you do? You know? And so we just talked for a long time and he asked me like, his, my opinions on what his content was doing and what I think that I could add and what could be changed. And I really had no answer. I was, it was completely like, fake it till you make it just trying to sound as smart as possible. But she fought it. And so walking out of that, he asked me to make a few pieces of content. And so he's like, make like five things of how you would do it if, if you were on the team. And I was like, all right. And so he like kicks me out on 57th street. I run strict with Starbucks, like just grind out for like two hours, email. I wanted it to be like as fast as possible. So it was like, they were pretty sloppy. But I needed to like get something in his inbox. And then a couple days later, I got a call to like HR, which, and it was funny, because I thought this was like the last day of my internship. I was like, cool. It's like the, thanks for coming by, like give me your name badge and all that. And she's like, you know why you're here. And I said, no, she's like, you're starting to get your seems tomorrow. And I was like, shit. That's, I don't feel so good. It was crazy. Dude, that, I love that. I mean, I think the couple of things that obviously you, you know Gary very well and what he would respond to. And it was like, I think just like the initiative and the hustle that you put into that, both just in the meeting and just making that shit happen. Like you made that happen. Yeah. And then two hours later, like I love that. Just like, because some people would just let that opportunity go, or they might like take too long to send an email a week later. Yeah. Like you're like, fuck, I'm gonna do this right now. Like it was, what did you make in those two hours? It was um, like he does a lot of like quote cards for Instagram. So it was four of those where I just like found pictures of him off Google and like slotted them in. Luckily, they had his brand style guide on like the VaynerMedia server. So I had found that earlier and I was like familiar with like the fonts and stuff and I was like cool. So I made like four like very on-brand like quote cards and then one video where I just like ripped an interview off YouTube really quick and like threw some stock footage on top of it with like words flying across the screen. Wow. That's great, man. It had to feel so good. Yeah. So that was the moment of like, I remember walking out of that meeting and like I walked into a stairwell and like just sat down. It was like a scene out of a movie and just sat down was like, wow, like I did it. You know, which it was like that was just the beginning, but but that was a moment where I was like cool. Like I think I'm gonna be okay. The ground up show is a podcast that inspires creatives to make things happen. It's available on your favorite podcasting app. Go to groundup show.com to get all the links.
