# The Casey Neistat Bump
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=79pnRLWwt7E
Full Episode: http://mattdavella.com/049
Behind-the-scenes: http://instagram.com/mattdavella

Sara Dietschy is a filmmaker & podcaster that shares her passion for creating films & exploring the latest in tech. We talk about finding happiness in a $13 salad, how to create engaging content for YouTube & that time Casey Neistat gave her props in a video and she got 40k subscribers in a day.

Find Sara here: http://youtube.com/saradietschy

New videos every week! New podcast every Wednesday!

Subscribe:  https://goo.gl/nzS5ri
Instagram:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella/
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella/

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** sara dietschy, ground up, the ground up show, casey neistat, bump, inspirational, inspire, create, content, meaning, simple living, simplicity, matt davella, Matt D'Avella, film, filmmaking, youtube, creator, 
**Date:** 2018-03-08

## Transcript
 I think it was exactly two years ago. So it was February of 2016. Yeah, so you made a hilarious video kind of doing your version of a casting, a casting knife that vlog and then he ended up shouting it out and calling you out. You went from a place a couple thousand subscribers on YouTube to like close to a hundred thousand. Yeah, so I had a little under four thousand subscribers and I was actually releasing my second season of creative spaces TV which you know is the docu-series that I did and it's actually funny because the first season of creative spaces TV. I kind of used KC2 but he was just starting vlogging and I think he had just hit a million subscribers and male time was something that he was doing like every single week without fail. So I actually went and bought like some really nice moleskin notebooks and I sent it to him like three months before I had even a release creative space TV. And so I was slated to release the first episode ever of creative space TV on my birthday August 11th and it just so happens. It's crazy. On August 11th the video that KC posted was a male time where he opened up my package and he showed my letter and like you can go and find this. I think it's a vlog titled free stuff or something but it's one of the first year of him vlogging and he showed my letter where I was like you inspired me creative space TV, youtube.com slash serity g and I actually got like 200 subscribers from that. So that was actually my first KC shot out. That was a lot of people don't know that. Yeah and that's when I had like 500 subscribers. So you probably just check in every minute. I know Shino is how I was like all KC said my name. Oh my gosh there's notebooks yes and so about almost a year later I was releasing another season of creative space TV and I was like what can I do to like try to get some new eyes on this. So I was like let's try to melt KC for his audience. Because of course I'm such a big fan of him and everything he's done and I'll be that annoying person. It's like I was there since the star. I was a subscriber when he only had like 100,000 subscribers and so I've always been a big fan of him but his filmmaking technique is so unique and there's so many things that you can copy and kind of make fun of and you know and no one had really done like you know a video like a parody exactly and you know I was making a high school was just so many music video parody so it's like this will be easy to sleep on. So I made it and at the very it's like a three minute video me kind of mocking his filmmaking style but at the end I was like KC's a terrific fan of you blah blah and I was like at that time I had probably 3500 subscribers and I knew this video is going to get at least like 500 to 600 views so I'm like if every single person in this video tweets him like hashtag how to KC you know link he has to see this so at the end. Did you have that in the video? Yeah so at the end I was like okay guys let's really get KC to see this and I was like tweet on how to KC in the link of the video and he saw it and it's funny I was actually on a video job like I was so boring it was filming an interview at like the Bible B literally was a game show on like Bible trivia and I was hired to film interviews of like the host and stuff so here I am like two cameras set up and it's the next day and I got a notification of KC and I sat just commenting wow on the video and I was like oh my gosh what is this thing and it's still like at 500 views or wow and it's such a not a comment that you do he's like is it wow it wow I know I know and I was like what does this mean and so right so this is the next day and he commented right before he releases video and so he ended up releasing a video that almost you know a third of the videos just shouting on my channel and basically being awes such a funny video but she actually has this backlog of great content she's what's right with YouTube and so here I am like in a corner at this freaking like Bible B and I'm just like watching this video and just shouting on my channel and like basically my hero saying all these nice things about me I basically got yeah I went from like 4,000 subscribers to 40,000 and one day I I actually delayed posting it and I almost didn't posted it because I didn't like the way I looked in it like no they're the first shot like the lighting was really weird in my apartment and I was just casting the Narnia shadow on myself and I was like oh look good and I almost didn't post it and I was just like you didn't just post it you spent a lot of time on it just post it and it changed my life and there's been a lot of times when I doubted myself when that big breakthrough was like just around the corner
