# Building Your Reputation w/ Brian Bowen Smith
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7KgDqRhSM-s
http://www.groundupshow.com

How to build & grow your reputation as a creative. Brian Bowen Smith & I chat about building your reputation & the lesson's we've learned. This is an excerpt from my podcast episode with Brian. You can find the whole thing at the link above.
**Keywords:** ground up, the ground up show, podcast, brian bowen smith, photography, matt d'avella, matt davella, hard work, self help, interview, conversation, deep work, production, behind the scenes, netflix, minimalism, 
**Date:** 2018-01-04

## Transcript
 Listen, the industry is the industry and when it's flourishing, look what happened in music. We were just talking on the way over about music videos, how many, you know, when there were million dollar videos. Now they're like, give me a 7S and have your buddy shoot it and where do you play them? MTV's not playing any music, you know what I mean? So if that changes and you were a video of music director, photographer, what do you do? You're not going to be doing, you know, car photographers. I imagine that they've suffered immensely when they're like, oh, we'll build all this and post. We don't need to go shoot it anymore. Do you know what I mean? So, you know, the money is not, you know, rolling in like, you know, oh, and the fashion. Give me this huge button, oh, they're like, listen, this is what we got and that's all there is. So if you want to do it, do it. Not will move on. And now there are hundreds and hundreds of photographers that can do it. Do you know what I mean? So, so there is a lot more work and a lot less money for a lot of these jobs. Yeah, that might mean that it's also easier to get in and to start getting paid because you just grab a camera and then you have a couple months experience and you can start shooting, you can start taking video, you can start really producing beautiful work. Yeah. But that's not, you're not. It's also, it's also reputation because let's face it. If they say, listen, we have a cover of magazine, five grand all in, right? And we send it to Annie and Steven and Joe and Jim Bob. If Annie takes it because she wants to work with the client, you know, the celebrity that's on the cover and she's going to do it for five grand. What are the chances of Jim Bob's going to get it? It assumes that it's a reputation and building your, you know, image still plays a big role in that. Because it's not just quality of work and cost. It's about guarantee that like hire you, you're going to, like you've seen my work, you know that I can do it every time you may be paying more money than somebody else. But there's a part of this industry that I just will not be able to get into because of that factor. Well, we know Brian's great, but we can't take a chance because this has to work and we know this guy can deliver every time and you know, and that's part of also getting in and staying in, like, you know, having that reputation of like, I deliver and I deliver every time your money is good with me. There's something, if it was my money, I'd want that too, you know what I mean? And then there's jobs where you can take a chance. People have taken a chance on me and ended up getting in. You know what I mean? But those chances don't come up often because people love security. Do you know what I mean? Or a magazine, like, see magazine who I've, I've started and done 11, 12 other covers and help launch it once someone else took over the magazine, I haven't shot a cover sense. They have their people. They have their things. So you win some, you lose some. Right. I've noticed that, too, with client work, where especially I work with a lot of startups and tech companies and then you get in the door, you build this a relationship and you nurture over two years and you really deliver time and time again and then, you know, new marketing director comes in and then all of a sudden, you know, they might reach out to you, but hey, they're also bringing their relationships and the video guy that they know. Like if you're going to change something and you're coming into somewhere to say, you know, I'm going to, you know, revamp the mag, part of that is we've got to revamp who's shooting it. Otherwise, isn't it the same thing? Mm-hmm. Do you know what I mean? So, you know, that, that just things that happen innately in every industry. People are, you know, heads of companies and all of a sudden, oh, yeah, we sold it and everyone's getting like, oh, but, you know, your boss that hired you doesn't own in anymore, so there's no, say, so, you know, that's just part of life, but, you know, I think with every job, I don't care what it is, you've got to be able to pick yourself up and reinvent yourself and look forward, look forward and say, oh, this could probably happen. So, I'm going to have, start already, start a backup plan. Yeah, I think people probably get a little bit too comfortable, especially when things start to work in a certain way and, like you said with the music videos, you think it's going to last forever. No, it's, it's like a relationship. You know what I mean? You can be married, happily, married, you think, oh, I'm good. Do you know what I mean? You're not. You've always got to respect your wife, treat her and remind her, because if you start ignoring the things that got you in that relationship, your relationship starts to suffer. Do you know what I mean? And work is the same way. I mean, my, I have a relationship with photography. I look at it like that. I treat it like that. And I think that anyone who gets too comfortable in those can, the work is going to suffer. They get too cool for school, look, I got this, like, you know what I mean? You start, oh, if the big job money jobs aren't there on the little ones, I don't need the tries. Let's just get this over with and get on to the important things that's like, now those little ones are so important and don't forget them, because it'll come back and bite you in your ass. 100% and you never know these little jobs, you never know like you shoot this girl and you don't know, you know, whatever it's 200 bucks, I'm going out of pocket, you know, then two later, she's the lead of Star Wars and, you know, she did not have a good experience with you and she hated the pictures. You'll never work with her on the big jobs. She'll just see your name and go, now, like I say terrible, you gotta mean and you might not be, but you didn't show her the respect that she deserved and the little job. So you miss all the big jobs and that's why you have to put everything that you have and to and really have respect for the work that you're putting into it, like whether you're doing weddings or bar mitzvahs, put everything you have into it because it's not only for just that one outcome or maybe they'll come back down their road, it's that you're actually crafting your skill and you're getting better and you're learning how to work with clients. There's so many different things that if you just write it off and say, oh, you know, this is, I look at it like this, I look at every opportunity, such a great one, I'm like, if there's a little magazine that, you know, and they're like, oh, you know, we'd love for you to do it, but there's no way you do it, I'm like, I'll totally do it. And I love to go and do, like, I'm like, I try my hardest to make this like, to blow people away. So everyone that's like, wait, oh, that's cool, this magazine looks great this month. Who did that? And then they see your name and then hopefully they're like, oh, yeah, no wonder, you're going to mean like, that's the little, you know, times you can take advantage and really shine. You know what I mean? It's like, I love, give me a small pond any day. It's like investing in a way, too, right? Absolutely. Everything you do is an investment. It's a great way to put it. Every single thing you do, even even the what you Instagram, everything's an investment. And look at, if you're either care about what you do, you know, and when you're really care about what you do, you would never do anything that you weren't 100% happy to do. And put even when you're not happy, put 100% of the effort to make it good. You know what I mean? I mean, those concepts were like, oh, really? This purple backdrop, because I'm not into it, but I find ways to make it work. When I get hired for work, I'm a tool. It's kind of like, go do what you want. We want your image and you're, no, it's like, here's what we need to do. And this is the color pattern, and this is what we got to do. And sometimes even the celebrities are like, oh, I hate this. You know, and I'm like, well, let's figure out how to make it where you don't hate it. And we have to do it good, you know? And just like them, they're doing it, you know, they're in for a reason, too. So they've got to do it. So let's just, you know, it's a job. Then there's things where it's like, oh, you have full range, do whatever you want. So amazing. Yeah. But there's not every day. Yeah. When do you know when you can push back a little bit? Like, even it, you're like, ah, I don't know about this purple, it's, you know, I voice my opinion. Okay. I definitely voice my opinion. And a lot of times I lose. Yeah. I know that from first hand experience as well. But like, obviously, you have to put it out there, like let them know, hey, I don't know if it's going to work. But then like, they're the ones paying for it, they're your client. So they, you know, I listen to the reasoning and they're like, there's a reason for it. Yeah. You know, it's because this thing that we're doing, the purpose of the color and you know, our viewers and we did research in blah, blah, blah. I'm like, okay. Yeah. Obviously, you know, I can pass. Yeah. If I'm like, no, this is terrible. I don't want me or whoever I'm shooting to go through this. Then I just say, listen, I, you would all respect our paths. Is there a line also with like, like, you were talking about your reputation? If you're like, if this is nothing, because it's, you, you're not saying, oh, you just said, listen, it's just not me. And I, I don't want to do a disservice to you. So I really think that there's someone out there better, you know, for you. So I'm, I'm not passing so much for me as much as for you. Do you know what I mean? Yeah. So, but I, and that's, that doesn't happen often. Very, very rarely. Yeah. Do you know what I mean? Most of the time, it's like, I can make this look cool or just like, I just, let's let's not do it with this thing. Let's do it this way and I'll come up with ideas and, you know, oh, that's fine. They all would love that. Do you know what I mean? Or I'll even show them at the shoot. Like, look, look at this. Same purple, but we did it this way instead and, oh, cool. Yeah. And even if it's rare, saying no and declining work is definitely a luxury that really can only be achieved once you've been in the game for a while, once you've been working for a long time because I feel like in the very beginning, you used to say yes to everything. Okay. I'm like a relationship. Yeah. You know what I mean? Like, if she wants to do so, I mean, sure, I love the zoo. Yeah. I mean, it's depressing. The animals are kids. They're like, why is she going to the zoo? But you go to the zoo and you got in candy, whatever the hell she wants, and you make her happy. Yeah. You're going to mean their sacrifices that you deal with.
