# Why Hollywood Studios are Terrified
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7rfTN3zRH84
http://www.groundupshow.com

The tides are changing in Hollywood and the key is being given to indie filmmakers.

Alex Ferrari is a filmmaker with more than 20 years of experience in the industry. As the founder of IndieFilmHustle.com he helps creatives figure out how to make it & thrive behind the camera. We discuss mindfulness, creating at a high level, building an audience & why the Hollywood Studios are scare shitless of indie filmmakers.

This is an excerpt from episode 029 of The Ground Up Show.
**Keywords:** The Ground Up Show, Matt D’Avella, Film, Filmmaking, Minimalism, A documentary about the important things, podcast, podcasting, how to, self-help, Hollywood, studios, indie film, indie film hustle, director, directing, 
**Date:** 2017-10-20

## Transcript
 What YouTube is showing us, and what streaming is showing us, is that an hour and a half of your time can be taken up by something that costs five bucks or 500 million dollars. At the end of the day, it's the same thing. And that's what scares the shit out of the studio system. Because a guy like URI, shooting this little podcast, could maybe get five million, which would be amazing. But get five million viewers to watch it. That's more than most television shows. And it costs $20 to make. Yeah. You know what I mean? That's the difference. Yeah. You're completely right. Time is time. A presuming content is, if I consume a $300 million piece of content, it's still an hour and a half of my time. The advertisers who want to get their eye, my eye bald on them, it's the same thing. That's why YouTube, these YouTubers have so much power now. Because they realize they're like, oh, well, if I'm going to watch videos, I can produce them for so little. The whole world is changed right now in a way that everyone's still trying to figure out. Because it's changing faster than anyone's figuring it out. So the thing is to try to be a little bit ahead of the curve. Just a little bit ahead of the curve. But when Netflix showed up, that opened the door. Now I am a zone through their hat in the ring. Now who is there? Now apples throwing their hat in the ring. You know, AT&T has their own channel. Everyone's got their own channels now. So now we're, I think there's 450 scripted shows going on right now. That's insane. A year. That's insanity. But look at all the, all the opportunities are enough for filmmakers. This has got to be a huge moment for content creators. It is. And it's not going to get any less. Like it's not like we're going to create less content in the future. It's only going to be more content. But we are going to get to a point. I think that, look, when I was growing up, the cartoons I had were what they were. Transformers were transformers. G had GOs, which G had GOs. And that was pretty much it. You waited for Saturday morning. And that was the end of it. My daughters have instantaneous access. Two millions of hours of entertainment that they would be interested in. Millions of hours. So what's going to happen to their kids? They're going to have billions of hours of content. Because the next 30 years, how much content is going to be created. How many shows are going to be created. And, and some of it will go out of favor. Because it's a big, oh, that's older technology. And when you all watch that, but a lot of it will keep going. You
