# How Much is Enough? // Ground Up 074
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7urjtL-P0ps
Say hi to Jason 👋 https://www.youtube.com/wanderingaimfully

Jason Zook is an entrepreneur and co-founder of Wandering Aimfully, an online community for creative entrepreneurs who are equally interested in earning a sustainable income and crafting an authentic, fulfilling life.

On this episode we question how much is enough and explore the dark side of the hustle.


Contribute & get exclusive content at http://patreon.com/mattdavella

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** jason zook, how much is enough, enough, fulfilling, fulfillment, life, living, sustainable, wandering aimfully, youtube, 
**Date:** 2018-08-22

## Transcript
 Hey guys and welcome back to the ground up show. My name is Matt DiVella and today I'm sitting down to talk with Jason Zuck. Over the years Jason has come up with some genius ideas that have become wildly successful. Like the time he earned over a million dollars wearing t-shirts or when he legally sold his last name to Jason head sets.com. That's he actually did that. But what I like most about Jason it's not his creativity. It's the fact that he can be open and transparent about these experiences and actually talk about the downsides and how they inevitably led to his burnout. What is it all for? Like what is all this hustle actually for? Like what is it getting you to? Because if you get to whatever this arbitrary finish line is that you finally get to, but you're miserable, you're overweight, you're super stressed out, you really resent the thing that you've created because now you all you've done as a work on it and it's not even fun anymore. Like what was the point? On this episode we question how much is enough and explore the dark sides of the hustle? Enjoy the show. Jason, welcome to the podcast. Oh, thanks for having me. It is so nice to have you here. I've been trying to get you in the podcast for a while, but what we live is like too far away. That's the problem. So far, it's like two hours. It'd be like an hour and 30 without traffic because I was in California and you have to complain about traffic. There's always the traffic, though. Yeah. You're gonna. Well, truthfully, I was waiting for you to get to a certain level. Like, that's so good. That's true. Yeah. When I first asked you to come on, it would have been you doing a favor for me. Yeah, yeah. I was like, yeah. No, man. Yeah. You have to have at least a hundred thousand. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. You want to get a hundred thousand on YouTube? You're like, all right, now. We could talk now. I remember when the first episodes came out because we had been introduced before that. I think just through the minimalist and I was like, oh, man. Like, I love the show. Like, it's refreshing to actually see someone take the time to do all of this set up and film and record it. And in person, because so often these things are just through Skype or whatever, and I've done plenty of these and you're just like, ah, just, we'd be so much better for you just with a person and you can talk to them. So the school that we lived, you know, two hours away as opposed to when you started this, you know, you lived a whole different place away that we couldn't have done that together. So yeah, that's true. You have a lot of experience podcasting. Have a good amount. I've definitely put out some podcasts. How many do you've done so much stuff? I have. We're going to talk about all the stuff you've done. Yeah. That's like your website. Yeah. Face and makes stuff or does stuff. Face and does stuff. Face and does stuff. Face and does stuff. Stuff.com. Cool. We just got that plug in real quick. Yeah. It's true. And it got to a point a couple years ago where it was really like hard to define what I was doing because I was just trying to dabble on all different things, making a podcast writing a book, doing the style of these crazy projects before that. And it was just like, what encapsulates all this is like, I just do a lot of stuff. And it's mostly because I'm curious and I'm interested in I like creating things and for some reason and I think this is a recurring theme in my life. The domain had not been purchased that I thought of, which was Jason does stuff.com. And I was like, well, all right. That's now my thing. That's like where all my stuff lives on my own. And so that's great. I tried to get it and that makes videos.com. It was taken. Really. Yeah. Was it? Yeah. A lot of dreams died because the mains are taking. Yeah. It really does. And then you're like, oh, do I go to the dot co or do I go to the dot net? That's all. Dot net. You really could just super dirty. Yeah. Leo about it and then have it's done that. Is he's in have it's done that? Yeah. I'm pretty sure. Yeah. And that's the funny thing. I think we as the people who like buy those URLs in what have you were like, oh, this is such a joke. No, it's like, how big is Leo's audience in sight? And like, it doesn't matter at all. You know, this is like self-limiting beliefs we have of like, oh, I need this great domain of this great thing. It doesn't even matter. It doesn't matter. Does it matter? I don't know. I feel like it matters a little bit, but not a lot. Where does it matter to you? He also started so early. And maybe that's that's, you know, I don't know if that has much to do with it. But I think, yeah, I think it's like maybe like a 10 percent difference or something, right? I think it may give you a little boost, but in the long run, if you're putting out shit on zanabas.net, you know, it was clear that he separated himself with his writing. Yeah. And I just, I mean, I think that's the creators dilemma in a lot of different ways. It's like the things that hold you up are not things that should hold you up. Like you should just buy whatever domain you can, do the thing that you're going to do, make it as good as you can, and then let all that stuff sort of self out. Because you can buy a different domain later, you can change the name like, Jason does stuff as a horrible domain and name to build a business around. Because it means nothing. You don't identify with, you're not like, well, I'm not a Jason, like, I don't, you don't like, what am I doing? I want to care. You know, like, I don't belong here. But it doesn't matter, because the content is interesting or different or unique or good, and it stands out, and then everything else kind of falls in place for you. And then you can just change it, which is what my wife and I are doing, and we're moving in a whole different direction. So, um, exactly. You can always change it. Absolutely. Um, and I feel like I always, I don't, I never, it's hard for me to look at a name that I've created in the past and be like, oh, I'm really like happy with that. I've like had eight different company names for the same company. It just constantly changing where it's like black box films films. Actually, and I think it was productions, and then it went to films, and then it was catalyst, and it started out as Matt Diavella videographer. Yeah. Um, but it's like, I don't know. I'm just, the naming of things is pretty tough. It seems like you take such like a simple straightforward approach to naming things. Yeah. Where it's just, it's the thing that you're doing. Yeah. You know, yeah. I wear your shirt. We're not going to get into that. Yeah. Because that's a long story. It's fine. Because I felt like if I, if I, if I could do that, you were going to just go off. Go on. Go pilot straight into the pilot. No, and it's funny. I think the literal domains, the literal business, it's part of just me going, this is the least important part of this. The most important part is that I do the thing well, and I make the thing as good as I can. So like, don't invest the time with like, what's a cool name? What's it like? That doesn't matter. Like, let me get the thing that can get the job done, and then move forward and create content that actually makes a difference. Or like, really stands out or does something kind of unique. Right. So the podcast started at some point. Yeah. We'll figure out of where to, I started started like when I walked in. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's why there's go pros mounted on the wall. You need to put on that helmet that like we're on. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, but the one thing that I want to talk about, and we talked a little bit about this last night when we were out for dinner and drinks was this idea of like hustle. And there's like, oh, this huge mentality and push and almost like, a movement of young creators to hustle. Like, until they work themselves to the bone, they work themselves dry. They don't get any sleep. I'll sleep when I'm dead. Yeah. And it's one of those things that I think is at a detriment to a lot of people as well being and happiness. Yeah. I think that there is an element of hustle that that is required. And you know, I mean, even in launching your most recent site and project, it's, you know, 10, 12 hours a day. Sometimes working on the weekends. There's a lot of work you've to put in. Yeah. But there's a line you need to draw. So, to start the podcast off, that's the question I want to ask like, how much is enough? How do you know what's enough? And when you should, you know, put the pen down or stop editing. Yeah. I love that word enough. I mean, I think we're probably going to come back to that a lot of this because that's been a huge turning point just in my life of realizing like enough in a lot of different areas. Money, all of the things that you're creating, the time that you spend, you know, the decisions you're making, the things that you're chasing. But specifically for hustle, I mean, I used to be a hustle bro 110%. You know, like, I had a shirt that said hustle. I had probably a coffee mug that said hustle. I championed working 14 hours a day. Like, if you didn't work long enough, you weren't working hard enough. Like, that was the way that I always thought about it. And that's like the Gary V mindset. And that's all these things that you hear and you see on entrepreneur magazine and so and so put in like two years of work and they didn't see their family or whatever. And you start to realize like, and I got this phrase from my wife is like, what is it all for? Like, what is all this hustle actually for? Like, what is it getting you to? Because if you get to whatever this arbitrary finish line is that you finally get to, but you're miserable, you're overweight, you're super stressed out. You really resent the thing that you've created because now you all you've done as a work on it. And it's not even fun anymore. Like, what was the point? And so for me, I realized that like, I went through a phase and we'll talk about the Irish or something. But I made 889 videos daily before YouTube blogging was the thing while hosting a one hour live video show on top of that and running a business where I managed 365 sponsors in a year plus having a life of something like two hours a day of life and then no sleep at all. And I wore it as a badge of honor. Like, I would just tell people, like, this is what you have to do. And I think that, you know, to your question of like, what is that balance? Because I do think you need it to start something. I think you need consistency a ton. Like, consistency is one of the things that will set you apart from anybody else because most people just won't show up. They won't show up and creating things constantly. They won't show up and delivering the thing they said that they're going to sell you or whatever. They won't show up just in continuing to put out their work, right? Like, we all see those people who are like, I'm going to start a vlog and it's like seven episodes and then YouTube channels dead for a year. You're like, oh, cool. That's not a vlog. That's seven episodes of nothing. You know, like, congratulations. You didn't do it. But consistency is where you start to really cut your chops and your skills and the things that you work on. And then what I think is really important and I've found it just really matters to me is understanding like, what's the schedule that works for your life that you want? You know, and not just building this life of like all these hours that you can work, but instead saying, I want to work like four or five hours a day. I want to work maybe like 20 or 30 hours a week. And whatever I get done is enough. And if that's all I can produce, then that's all I'm going to do. And for the most of my life, that's what it is. And for sometimes like now, it's a little bit more because I'm building the new thing and that takes more hours. But super long when you answer, but I just think that there's an Evan flow to it. But you have to be able to say, like, I'm not going to overwork myself just because that's what people say you need to do to be successful because you don't. Right. But there's always going to be more work that needs to be done. And especially as somebody who's say a content creator, if you're creating original content, it's even different from the freelance world. Because when I was a freelancer, I would say I worked a lot less. And I made a lot more money. It's easier to make more money than zero dollars or something. Anything now. But I would just work in like three hours, four hours a day. Sometimes there's a freelancer because I would just get all the work done that I had. And then I could, you know, focus on just my life, my personal life, and my well-being. But say if you're, you know, working as a content creator, you can always produce more videos. You can always do more podcasts. You can fix your website, your design, change your name. There's so many different things that you can do that is how do you put limits on yourself? How do you make sure that you don't just keep going? Because, you know, we, as creators, we love the process and we love a lot of what we do. And like getting into that state of flow. How do you stop that state? Yeah. And I think part of it is you just have to listen to your body at certain times. Like, you really, you really have to be in tune with, hey, you know what? Like, am I starting to feel sick? Or am I starting to feel like I'm not getting a lot of sleep? Or am I starting to feel like I'm sacrificing my actual life to do this thing that I'm doing? And also am I seeing a return that I want to see? Not vanity metrics, right? Because I think that's the thing that drives so many creators and to drove me for a long time. I was like, how can I get more views? How can I get more followers? How can I get more and more more? And all that stuff was really not personally fulfilling. Because what happens? I mean, you know, it's the hedonic treadmill, right? Like, it's just the next level. It's the next level. And it's all these things. Instead of just going, I created what I wanted to create this week. And I think that's really the, when you do this a lot, when you start to put out a lot of content, you start to say, you know what? I want to do three videos a week. And that's what I'm going to do. And whatever it takes to get those three videos done, I'm not going to film three more just because I have more time. Instead, I'm going to enjoy the time that I have the free time that I've afforded myself and just live my life and and kind of enjoy that. And I just think that there's something where every single person has to realize, like, man, yeah, I could work more hours. But I just am not going to because I need to live my life. Like, I need to separate just being in tune to social media all the time and all these different things. And you just step back and go, what am I doing this for? Oh, I'm doing this so that I can work from home. And I can just spend time with my family or I can take trips. I can travel. I can do other things. You know, I do think it is just really interesting how a lot of us lead the nine to five world or you lead the client world. And that's what people think is like, you know, kind of a a prison, if you will. But then you build your own business and you build like this career dungeon around yourself, right? You go from nine to five to nine to nine, right? Like, it's just you wake up and you go to sleep and you work to the entire time before. As opposed to before that, you like, at least came home and had a break for a few hours. And, and I think that that's just something where I think all the lessons that you can possibly learn as an entrepreneur, someone could tell you a hundred times over. But until you do it yourself, you're never going to learn the lesson. So for most people, it's like, you have to find your breaking point or your stopping point of going, yep, that's too much. Now I need to scale back and there's really no other way around that. Like, I could tell you to, I'm blue in the face, like, you're working too much. But you're not going to stop until you realize like, oh, this was too much. Like, it's not scalable. I need to, you know, pull back a little bit. When you say you you create a certain amount of content you want to create or a certain, you know, I guess whatever your plan is for the week where you're going to do. I'm going to do this many blog posts. I'm going to, you know, put this many Instagram posts up. What about when life gets in the way? Where you have travel, you have plans, maybe you didn't plan ahead. Thoughtfully enough, should we grind it out for a short period of time? Or let those things go and just say, you know what, one week without connecting with my audience and making a post, isn't going to be the end of the world. Have you found for you and talking to your audience and doing this, you know, for over 10 years or so, you know, is the audience for giving if you don't contact them for a couple of weeks? Yeah. Well, first of all, it's life shooting on your face. If we're being honest, like, that's what happens. You know, like, those of the moments where you really have to kind of like figure out, can I get this worked on? Or do I actually have to take care of life things or things that are going on? And to answer your question directly, yes, 100% of your audience forgives you. Because you're now being real human. You're a vulnerable person. You're a person who's not bulletproof. You can't just continue to create content all the time. And that creates really the ability. Because then when someone goes, oh, Jason and Matt are normal people. They can't just keep being robots forever and constantly creating this content. They also have to take a break. And I think that those things are just so important. And I think creativity also needs time. It needs space. So you get in these modes where you're constantly creating things whether it's for social media or for blog content or for video or whatever. And the more that you consistently do it and you don't take breaks or you don't have changes. Because I think, like I said, consistency is great in the beginning, but you don't necessarily need it to continue forever. As then you take a break and you come back and guess what? You're super refreshed. And if you really love what you do, this is how I always think about like recharging the creative batteries. Like, I'll take a break for a week from doing something like writing or creating anything. And I'm just, I'm itching to get back to it. And to me, that's the feeling of, I have recharged my creative batteries. Because the first couple of days, I'm just super happy I have a break. But then by the end of it, I'm like, I kind of want to get, you know, I'm going to get back. Like, I'm hungry for it. And I think those are so such necessary things. And for me, that's really been like social media detoxes have been so huge, which we can go into for sure. But that type of stuff. I just think for creating stuff that really matters, you need those breaks and need to be unapologetic when life happens. And those breaks kind of come at you. And you didn't even want to take them. Because those are the moments where you have to go, wait a second, I work for myself. Like, I'm, this is, this is my life. I'm creating all of this. Why am I going to force to get back into it? Like, that's the whole reason why I'm not working for a boss. Because I don't have to go in when I'm sick. Like, we go in when we're sick. When we work for ourselves more than you did when you work for a boss. You know, and it's just doesn't make sense. Yeah. We, we are way harder when ourselves than we are on other people. Yeah. And we're our own worst bosses. Like, anybody who's had a bad boss in their entire life and then works for themselves. Like, we're such worst bosses. Yeah. We're so bad. I think by nature, we are. And we, we tend to be very hard on ourselves. And we're very impatient and just want, you know, we always feel like, got to, got to keep making that stuff even if I put out something that did really well and was successful. I got to do the next thing. I made, I wrote a really great book. I got to write my next great book. You know, it's always what's going to happen next and never stepping back and saying, okay, let me just enjoy this process. And I think that's like the factory settings. Yeah. But we can also reprogram that and we can step back and switch it up. I think one thing that was interesting to see from you was the fact that you did that social media detox for 30 days to like really truly take a step back from it. Yeah. And a lot of it, which is almost unproductive and distracting in a way. So curious about what you learned from that, that experiment. Dude, the social media detox has been probably one of the most enlightening things I've ever done in my life. Because I really strongly believe that social media is the next great addiction. Smoking alcohol, gambling, social media is right up there. Because you get the same response. You get the same dopamine responses when you're liking things, sharing things, whatever people are liking and commenting as you do with drugs and alcohol. And it's been proven through all these studies. But the more important thing to me is it's the same answer when you ask someone like, hey, can you quit Facebook for a week? You're like, of course I can. I just don't want to. That's the same answer for alcohol smoke like all these things. It's the exact same responses. And so for me, I felt in 2014 was the first time I did a 30 day break. Like, I would sit on Facebook for four to six hours a day looking at my message to post and going, what could I post? Do we get a lot of people to like it? That sucks. Like, when you get to that place, like, you're no longer in control of how you're using that platform, that platform is controlling you. And I was like, I have to take the power back in some way from all of these platforms. And so I basically just said, I also really wanted to test at that time, like, my businesses were going through a huge transition. And I was really wanting like, do I need Facebook, or just social media general to have a business? Because I kind of felt like I couldn't do it anymore. I couldn't have a business without social media. And so I took this break. And it was so weird in so many ways. But I did a 30 day journal. So I wasn't like writing live. I would just write them like a journal that I had on my computer. And it was super weird because I had all this time. Like, it was amazing all the moments where I had time. It was also really scary a lot of the things. So like, I would pull a bit of red light the first couple of days. And I would grab it my phone, swipe it open without looking, click where Facebook was. And it wasn't there anymore. And so like, I would tap like three times, just instinctually. And then I would look down and be like, oh, like, I felt gross. Like, I felt almost like, what is going on? And you realize when you remove those things, like, holy crap, that's instinctual. You know, my hand knows where it is without even thinking. It's a involuntary movement. So yeah, removing Facebook, Twitter, YouTube, Instagram, it wasn't very big at the time then. But even now as I still do these twice a year, it is the most clarity of thought during those times. It's like everything recalibrates for me. I get this whole refreshed creativity. It's like I was talking about recharging those batteries. Like, I'm itching to get back to stuff by the end of 30 days. But I'm also really excited because it's like, I've taken control of these platforms. I'm not sitting there staring at them. I'm not letting the news feeds distract me. And I'm actually fully taking a break, not just like 80 to 12 hours out of the day, like, breaking up the time that I use them. Because that's typically what I do now. It's like, no, no, I'm 30 days without completely. And then I can go back and go, yeah, I didn't. It's fine. I missed some stuff. I didn't post things. And guess what? Everybody's still here. You know, nothing really changed. So if we were taking the comparison to the drug and alcohol, I would say then how when you come back, are you able to more mindfully consume alcohol? Right. Like when you come back, I mean, obviously, if you have a true addiction. And that's, obviously, there's, there is a difference where, you know, drugs and alcohol are detrimental. I mean, no, but they're both very bad for your well-being. I strongly believe in, I think we'll start seeing a lot of this. I mean, especially the generation that has grown up only with these things. Like, you and I grew up where if you wanted to hang out with someone, you couldn't just flip up on your phone and search and find people to hang out with on your phone. You know, like, see into their lives, know what they're doing. Like, have a connection with them. We had to, like, write our bikes to each other's houses and be like, hey, man, what are you doing? And, like, find out and do all those things. That doesn't exist for kids growing up now. So I think, like, where we sit right now? Yeah, we probably aren't having the same impact. The social media would have as, like, alcoholism. And certainly I don't want to compare, like, the extremes. Right? Like, someone's addiction to social media is not the same as someone's, like, really addictive thing to alcohol and other things. But it's going to get there because these are things people can't detach from. Their entire self-worth is tied to. So you have, like, so many people that are tying everything of theirs into this. And I was one of these people. This is the only reason why I feel like I can say this. My entire identity was tied to who I was online. And I felt like if I didn't post or I wasn't there, it was, like, I wasn't even doing anything interesting. I wasn't an interesting person. It's like, that is such a messed up thought. And I think that, you know, again, like, we're just at this interesting place where social media therapists are starting to become a thing. Really? Oh, yeah. And I've been saying this for years. Like, I was like, oh, I see this coming. It's starting to be a thing. People need help to break from it. And we're on this cusp where I think in the next couple of years, it's just going to be a huge shift in our society where it's going to be really hard for people to let go. And it's going to be hard people who they don't tire life. They've been on these platforms. So how do we then better use social media after that 30 day detox? Because like the detox is one thing. And that's certainly helpful. And but I imagine once it's very easy to fall right back into the same patterns that you want in. Yeah. And I mean, listen, I want to be clear. Like, I can't speak to the alcoholism and the struggle that people go through with that. I don't have that type of addiction thankfully. And I don't think that many people who are alcoholics want to come back to alcohol and have control it. Although, maybe some do and they want to be functioning, you know, drinkers and whatever, whatever that means. Again, like I have no bearing on that. I just really believe these things are going to be on the same level. But when I come back to it, I then get super intentional about how I use it. So then I go, okay, I check Instagram twice a day. Because man, I would love to scroll through Instagram all day long. Because it's great. It's a curated feat of beautiful things. It's really awesome. It's really interesting. But I don't want it to control my life. I want the time that that's taking up to be creating things of my own to be exploring, experimenting, other things. And so you really do just become intentional. You take that break and then you come back and you go, okay, how do I get back in the driver's seat of using these things? And what does that look like? And for me, after the second time I did a social media talk, that was quitting Facebook completely. So I was like, there's no way. There's no like only check it twice a day. It doesn't happen for me. I couldn't do it. I had it. I just was like three hours all of a sudden we have gone by. And like, well, I just scroll through a thousand people's lives. You know? And then like, I fell bad about myself at the end of it. Both for the guilt of doing it. But then also comparing myself to all these people who were doing amazing things that I wasn't doing. And I just was like, I can't be here anymore. Like, I just can't do it. So I think that control becomes really important. And I would imagine a lot of people who are listening or watching this probably don't feel like they're in control, but they haven't even ever thought of that. You know, it's like, can you take a break? And I wrote that post that journal that I talked about is the highest ranking article that I have that I've ever written last year abroad in almost 200,000 people to my website. It's the number one result if you search social media detox. And I didn't plan for any of that stuff. I just wanted to do this and see what the experiment was. I get emails from people daily, weekly that are like, I could never do this or I tried it and I got like one or two days and I just had to go back. And like, I have the data. Like, I'm seeing these people, these normal people, every day of people who are like, I just can't, I can't stay off of it. It's kind of crazy when you think of that. And that's why I believe I do have a little bit of a say to say, like, to me, this is the next great addiction because I see these people who are emailing and I just like, those are the same words. Those are the same problems. Those are the same sticking points. And I just think of anybody out there, you know, it's feeling that way. It's like, just take a weekend off first. Like, do you not have to go 30 days as it's hard? And then take a week the next time. And then take two weeks and then work yourself out. And you start to see like people, so then I had the other spectrum of people who have done their own 30 to 80 talks and they're like, Jason is just so great. Like, I realized like, I just deleted Instagram. Like, it was, I was only following like Kardashian and like all this stuff. Like, that's not my life. You know, like, I shouldn't be following that stuff. And then they just deleted it. And they're like, now I have more time for my kids. You know, and it's like, that's crazy to think about like, you didn't have time for your kids because you were on Instagram. Like, that's kind of mind blowing. So it's such a, it's such an addiction. When I, I think about like, even I would get into this habit too, or like, I don't watch much TV now, but like, you're watching TV. The commercial comes on first. You pick up your phone and then because you're like, I need something. I need to, there's no lag time. There's no time where we can just sit still in our own thoughts. Yeah. You can't even watch a commercial. Like, we need to constantly be stimulated. Um, and it's kind of scary. See where it's going because these companies are becoming more and more powerful and they're becoming better at understanding how we use it. Like, they're getting so much data on how people use it. And they're also benefiting, um, I mean, a benefit to, to great content, 10 creators, like us, we put stuff out there. Yep. And they will give us more viewership if people watch more of our videos. If people are on our website a little bit longer, our SEO is going to go a little bit higher, which it's kind of a difficult loop to break. Yeah. And you, I think part of that for for us, as content creators, you really have to say, again, like, I'm controlling my use of this platform. So I'm posting three videos per week. I'm not watching 30 videos a day anymore. You know, like, I'm just, I'm here to post. I'm here to share. I'm here to, like, produce things. And then I'm moving on with my life. And the same with using Instagram or whatever. And that's why I use it twice a day because I want to be there. I want to respond to people. Like, I'm not super popular in Instagram. I don't have a big following Instagram. But I do have some. And I like interacting with those people. And that's where they hang out. So I do have to show up there to some degree if I want to stay engaged with the community. And I think that that stuff is kind of important to realize, like, well, okay, do you want to facilitate a community? Do you want to show up and be there with the lines we were talking about that at the internet last night? Like, how much time do you spend responding to things? Like, for me, I respond to everything. But I'm also to a really nice enough level of an audience where I can. I don't want to get to a place where I'm 10x where I am now because then I can't respond to everybody. And then I feel like, you know, not to, I mean, just like a jerk who, like, is too popular to respond to people. Like, I don't want to get to that point. I knew it. That was actually, like, before with my career share project. Like, I couldn't respond to everything. I didn't have enough hours in the day. And it actually made me feel really bad. Like, I didn't feel good being at that point. And it was just something I had to deal with and rest of it. But I was going to say on the, on the, the phone and the pulling out thing, if anybody here wants to challenge themselves, like, such a small thing, the next time you're in any line at all, don't look at your phone. That is how you know that there is some form of addiction to our phones, to social media. Because you'll just sit there and you'll be, like, I just need something to do. You know, like, I feel so uncomfortable. I feel like vulnerable. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You feel like, oh, I'm alone. And I, while I left out my phone, so then people know that I'm just somehow connected, you know, it, I have friends. I have friends. And that's what I think. Yeah. They're all in there. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I know it. And that's what I'll do a lot of times if I'm going to the grocery store. I'll leave my phone at home. Yeah. And the first couple times I did it, I had that, that twitch every time. Like, any time I would go up to the, the counter to, I was waiting in line to order a chicken or fish at the, the counter there. And then I would kind of instinctively go for my phone. And it wasn't there. Yeah. And then I would do the same thing in the line once I got the checkout. And it's, it's a real problem. But like, that does go away. Like, now I don't really flinch for it. If I don't have my phone when I'm, it's, it's a learned behavior, right? Like, you've don't take it on this time to learn that. And you have to take the same time to unlearn it. You know, it's like, getting into debt. Like, you've talked about that. I've gone through similar things. And you didn't get into that debt overnight. So you're not going to get out of it overnight. So you have to work at it. You have to put it in the time. You have to put in the effort to kind of break those cycles. Break that twitch. As you know, you've talked about another episode. And I just think that that to me is those are the things where I just don't, I don't want that stuff anymore to happen in my life. Like, I don't want to feel like I'm not in control of my usage of these things. And so that's why these social media detoxes, man, they've just been so, so helpful for me. When did you decide to follow an untraditional path or, you know, break free from the nine to five world? Yeah. I think I started that before college. Like, I, you know, got a gateway computer, like the cow box. And I remember sitting in, in our like downstairs office that my mom had. And I would like be on the internet playing around. And it just felt like it, it opened up all these doors. And then thinking about it back in like the 1996 days, there weren't many doors to open that time. Like you think about it now. It's, it's so different. But I just remember then thing like, wow, like, I want to be here. Like, I want to, I want to be doing something in this space. This is so unique, so interesting. And then I went to college. And that kind of like just just beaten out of me, just through like the monotony of college and classes and, you know, majors and tests and all this stupid stuff. And so I got a normal job. And I just remember like this is this whole beige existence at that nine to five job. And the job was great. Like I worked for the men's professional tennis organization. I was a graphic designer, like all intents and purposes, fantastic job. It was three-minute commute that could not complain. But I just like beige walls, beige computer, beige desktop, beige mouse. Like everything was beige night. I think just one day I looked around. I was like, what am I doing? You know, like am I going to be here for the next 30 or 40 years? No, like just, that's scared me. And then somehow Seth Gauden's book purple cow, like, got slid across my desk. And it, unfortunately, wasn't like the story book. Like, everything was beige and then purple, you know, like, that's a nice idea. That's what they said to do. I don't think it happened that that closely. But that book, I just remember reading like the first couple pages. And it was like, you know, all these cows were normal. Then you have this purple cow. And that stands out. And I was like, wow, I've felt that way inside for like a long time, especially when the internet kind of came around. But I've never really explored that. And I just, I just had this moment where I was like, there's not going to be a better time in my life. Because eventually I'm going to be married or have kids or what have you. And taking risks where you leave a job that's really nice in a three-minute commute. Like, I'm not going to be able to do that at that point. Or it's going to be much harder. So now is the time to take that risk. And to embrace this feeling. And like, I didn't even know it was going to take me. But that was the first moment where I felt like I need to do something. And it's crazy that Seth's book, the purple cow was like, impetus to do that. Like, I just never even saw that on my radar or anything. Do you even know who he was? Yeah. Seth got incredible. I've talked about him a lot on this page. Oh, I, so I think there's these really fun, like, little linchpin moments in your life, which is funny because one of his books. And I'm sure that's just in there. Sure. But I emailed him after reading that book. I didn't know he was a big deal. I had no idea. And maybe at this time back then, he wasn't nearly what he is now. But I just emailed him. And I was like, I'm so inspired by this book. Like, I think I can do these things. And I think he just wrote back so many symbols. Like, yeah, good luck. Like, it's not going to be easy. But I wish you the best of luck on your journey. Like, you should definitely go for it. And like, that was, I mean, you know, it's like, oh, you know, there was nothing important said. But it just kind of gave me that permission to go. All right. Let's do this. Let's try and do something else. I actually, I emailed Seth Coden as well after everyone has books. Very early. And he wrote back. I'm guessing. Yeah. Yes, it. Thanks, Matt. Yeah. I was like, thanks, Matt. It was two words. But I was like, wow, that's incredible. But like, he's he's known for that. I don't know if he still does it. But for a while, it was he responded to every single email. And for somebody who's like, a best on author of 10 plus books, who gets probably thousands of emails. I mean, and we were, so it's funny because going back to the conversation we had last night about, like, how much do you communicate with people who email you? And I don't like call on people fans because I just think it like belittles people. I think they're just friends or people in the internet. Is that I know that I've, in some small way, had a similar impact on some people who've emailed me. And then like, hey, I saw your Irish literature. I saw this project. I saw that. And it really inspired me. And like, I want to do my own thing. And like, I remember what it felt like to get that email back from Seth Coden. And not to compare myself to Seth Coden at all. But like, that person went on a limb to reach out to me. If I can give them just that like small percentage of a chance, that that gives them the spark to do it. And I've watched it happen. It's been really cool. Like, I had people who read my first book, which is a terrible piece of writing. But it was what it was when I got it out into the world. And they wrote me and they're like, this is so inspiring. I'm going to chase my thing. And like, one guy's like a podcast or who's had a podcast on the top 200 of iTunes since he started. And it was literally for me to my book. He's like, I think I'm going to start a podcast. And it's like, good man started it. And like, that was his start. That was that was it for him. And I think there are so many stories like that where I just feel like, again, getting back to our conversation last night. Like, you were applying to people who were taking the time to be vulnerable. Like, we were to Seth. Like, the thanks mat or the like good luck Jason. It's so simple to him. But it's like the ripple effect to us is enormous. And so if we can do that for other people, even if we don't feel like we can, I think it's just worth showing up for people and trying to do that. Yeah, it's it's it doesn't take a lot to kind of turn somebody's day around. And that's the thing. And like, I think about that a lot where what you do and how you show up in the world has a huge impact on the people around you. And like, just somebody beeping at you, that changes your mood. Like, somebody's behind you honking the horn because it took you two seconds to start driving when the green light turned over. And you're just thinking, like, that's just the whole time you fuck this guy. And then like it just kind of comes home and it's just there. And it's like, you can actually do the opposite effect. And you can do something as simple as sending a short message to somebody. And that can shift their day. And then, you know, in some cases, you can change people's lives. And that's honestly why during that first social media talks, I also created a new morning ritual for myself, which was like, I rolled out a bed, I rolled over and bed, I rolled over and bed to grab my phone, check Facebook, like all the notifications and everything that's what I used to do. Why didn't have that anymore? So I was like, well, what do I do? Like, how do I start my day? And I had this amazing, like, epiphany where, what do I just started with happiness? Instead of all this responding to things, like emails and people's criticisms of things in the world that I'm like now putting on myself first thing in the morning. And it's that same ripple effect. Right? It's the same honk. It's like waking up to a honk every morning. As opposed to, I got up. I made coffee really slowly with no devices. I started reading Calvin and Hobbes every morning because I was obsessed. Yeah. And so I would take like 10 minutes to make coffee in a kind of extra like you did. I read Calvin Hobbes when I was making it. And this was like my new morning ritual. And it was amazing. Because then the rest of the day, I actually felt this like lift. I felt this amazing positivity as opposed to all the reactionary stuff, all the comparison stuff from checking social media or news or whatever. And I just think that if you can kind of create those little moments for yourself, that's so powerful to be able to do that. And to realize like, I'm not going to start with all the criticisms and all the things. I'm going to start with something that makes me feel good. Then I'll go and check the email and all that stuff later, because I need to for work. But yeah, I think there's just a whole difference there. Yeah, I think that goes back to our point about hustle versus enough. And you should start your day with enough. You start your day with something for yourself and not for the not hopping right into the grind and feeling like you just have to output. And of course, there's going to be moments in your life where you have to put in some extra hours where you're heading towards a deadline. And that's totally fine. But I think if you're living your life like that too much, it's very easy to get swept up in it. Yeah. And my wife and I like to think about it as working to live, not living to work. So you start your day, you plan your week, you have your month goals, based around your life first, then you fit business in around it. Like, why are we putting business before life? It doesn't make sense. Like, especially if you don't work in a nine to five anymore, like stop doing that. You don't have to do that anymore. And I think that's just it's a hard mental ship because we're not used to it. It feels uncomfortable. It feels like, well, I should be making more stuff. I should be filming more stuff. It should be creating writing, you know, whatever it is. And it's like, yeah, you could. It's not you should. And so you fit your life in first and then you go, okay, how do I kind of fit this stuff around it? So the first thing that you did was a design boutique, a little design agency would you say of two people? Yeah, I think we call it a design firm. Oh, yeah. It was like it was a firm. Yeah, it was a corporate. Yeah, yeah, we were a, we were a big deal. Yeah. It's two of us. But it was, you know, it was really good. Yeah. Yeah, had a small design company. It was another friend of mine who worked at a nine to five job didn't like it, wanted to get out his beige existence as well. And we basically, like, I looked at him was like, you're such an amazing designer. I feel like my designs because we're like a third of yours. So let me handle kind of trying to get clients or trying to at least manage the people that we get. And I'll give some design kind of criticism or whatnot here and there. And we just started doing that on the side and we built a six month plan together. I remember we literally sat down at this like greasy spoon restaurant one Thursday night and we sat down and we were both like had like papers and stuff and we're like, okay, like six months from now is this date and like we have to get to this amount of money to like make what we're making now. How many clients is that? And we just like kind of planned to list stuff out. And it wasn't like, let's quit our jobs today and do it. It was let's work for six months on the side. Let's see if we actually like work together, let's see if we like doing this test the waters a bit. And that was my first journey escaping the nine to five. And it wasn't just like a cut it and go and hope that everything's going to work out. It was actually kind of save up for a little while, work on the side, see how it worked. And it worked really well. Like we ended up working really well together. I had just randomly started emailing people that I knew and just said, hey, do you need a website? Do you know anybody who needs a website? And those people would then email people they knew. And it's amazing what you get when you ask for things. And that's been a recurring thing for me in my life forever is this phrase you don't get what you don't ask for. As I would just email someone be like, hey, do you know anybody who needs a website? And they were back like, oh, actually like my cousin starting whatever company and yeah, they could use a website, like just send them some information. And all the sudden I had like a $10,000 website client and like whoa, that kind of came out of nowhere. That's amazing. All they did was send one email in this happened. And it was because I was willing to send that email. And then we were willing to send more because you're not always going to have that happen. But yeah, so the design firm was the first thing we did that for about two years. My buddy kept going after we became boutique, by the way, because we hired a third person. I would think it would be the other way around. You would, but you don't know the design. Yeah, not in there. Yeah, just these stupid words. I don't even know we actually did that, but I just like saying it. But yeah, it was it was in that I'll lead you into this next part of the journey easily here. That second year, the beginning of that, I was always talking to the clients. And so they were like, hey, Jason, I'm really happy with the design. We're going to have to have the website, the brand, et cetera. Do you know anything about social media? And so this is like 2007, 2008. And I was like, I mean, I know of it. So I know it exists. And they're like, well, could we use Facebook or Twitter to like help people find our businesses? And I'm like, I don't know. Like, I have a Facebook account with my college roommate created it so that he could meet girls because his college didn't have Facebook and mine did. So he used my email to sign up. And I was like, well, I like, I know 220 blonde girls. Like, that's all I. And I didn't even know where. But I was like, well, let me check. You know, like, anybody who's in client services are like, you're trying to like make people happy. I'm like Googling like, well, I'm on the phone. Like, at the phone in the air and I'm like, hold on. Let me just take a look. And I'm looking these platforms. I'm like, wow, this is kind of amazing. There's all these people on Twitter just sitting here talking. There's all these people on Facebook sitting here talking. Like, there's a lot of attention there that no one's kind of trying to be in front of, where they're already doing on TV and all these other things. And so I don't know why, but I just have this thought one day. I think after like the third or fourth conversation with the client of like, what if there was someone in between the company and the people sitting on social media that could kind of bridge the two together? So it wasn't just a company yelling at people saying, hey, look at our stuff. It was like a person in the middle who's like, hey, this company's kind of cool. Here's their story. Do you want to check them out? And I was like, this intermediary. And it wasn't even me at the time. It was just like, oh, that would be interesting. And then the next kind of cog in that wheel that eventually became I wear shirt was I sit in my closet one day. And I looked at all these stupid shirts that I had hanging up. And I was like, there was a polo logo. There's a busted T's T shirt. There's a Nike logo. Like, I'm wearing all these brands like brand for them. I'm not getting paid for. I paid them to wear these around. Like, could I flip that? Could I be a person who just like, wore a shirt and got paid to wear that shirt? And then talked about these companies. And it was such a ridiculous idea. And I remember I got on April and some Messenger because we're like 2007, 2008 right now. And I just message a bunch of friends who were up and I was like, I just had this weird idea. Like, what if I wore a T shirt for a company and like talked about them on social media? And I'd like four or five people that were awake at the time. This was probably midnight. Like, you're an idiot. Go back to sleep. Like, this is a stupidest thing I've ever heard. Why would anybody pay you? You're nobody. Like, why would anybody do me do this? I was like, wow, got to get some better friends. But I think we've all been there, right? Like, you have a creative idea. And you have all these friends who they don't see what you see. They have fears. They have biases that they're putting on you for their, you know, they wouldn't want to do that thing. And I just, I was stubborn enough. And, you know, I had this design boutique, and a key track of where it wasn't in my mind. Yeah. That was doing well. So I was like, I could afford to lose if I tried this. It wouldn't really matter. And so, yeah, I just started this idea called I reassured and kind of put it out into the world and said, I'm going to do this project. I think a big thing is it don't kill people's ideas. There's a lot of times as creative as we get very excited about things. And a majority of the time, those ideas, you know, we bounce off the wall, we tell other people, we get excited about it. But, you know, nine times out of ten, it may not be an idea. We actually act on. So don't be like the partner or the friend who's always just shooting somebody down or poking holes in it. It's not going to work because of this. It's not going to work because of this. You can't do it because of this reason. Instead, I think encourage people through the first couple of weeks as they explore an idea. And then once they get to a point where it's like, they're, you know, they want some constructive feedback. Then you can, yeah, actually bring in it. I think that's hard for people to learn who don't actually create and do things, right? Because it's like, all you have are your fears and your biases based on your life and your experiences. As opposed to people like you and I who've now created a lot of things. And we spend a lot of time in creation mode. And you know how important it is that you do have that positive feedback. Because that's what keeps you going, right? Like, if you kept making videos and recording these episodes and not a single person listen to them, listen, I don't care how much you love it. Eventually, you're going to stop doing it. If no one's listening to it. You're not going to do it forever. And having those moments of positivity, it really comes with like you and I have the context of, I've done this so much like when something comes to me, I know what they need. They just need someone to be like, thanks Matt, you know, like, good luck, keep going. And they're going to be like, all right, cool, I'm going to start my own YouTube. I'm going to do this thing. I'm going to do whatever. I think that's hard when you have your friends. And that's actually that taught me a huge lesson super early on of like, when you're trying to get feedback for your idea, when you're trying to get feedback for a dream you want to put out into the world, you need to get feedback from people who are actually in the trenches doing what you're trying to do. Not your mom, not your friends, not your family. Because if they haven't done what you're trying to do, their feedback is dangerous. It can completely derail you because all they're going to present you with is biased feedback. They don't, they're not doing what you want it to do. As opposed to people who have, and they can say, yeah, that's an interesting idea. Now I'm going to tell you, it's going to be a lot of work. It's probably going to take you six to 12 months to make this thing happen, but I think you should chase it down. That's a reasonable thing to do. As opposed to people were just like, that's a bad idea. Jason, go back to bed. This T-shirt thing is ridiculous. Here you're an idiot. Yeah. So how did this T-shirt thing take off? Because they got weird. Yeah. Well, it was, yeah, it was bad. It's weird from the beginning. But it's still, it got even weird because it worked. Yeah. It really, well, so first day the website goes up. This is like, you know, everyone's been here. You're just like, I spent all this time we built a brand. I did a photo shoot, first ever photo shoot, super awkward photos. You can still find them on the internet. Their hilarious. And we launched the website, which literally just meant turning it on and making it live and 12 people showed up that day, 12. And I think it was like me, the two people that I worked with in my boutique, my mom, my grandma, my grandma probably, like multiple times, like she was just crashing it. And I had this moment. I was like, oh, it doesn't work this way. You can't just like put something out onto the internet. It's like building a hotel in the desert, right? Like if there's no road to get to it, if there's no billboards pointing in the right direction, you're never going to find it. And so I just had this moment where I was like, oh, I have to start like pushing this thing out. Okay. I should probably use these social media channels that I've been thinking about or looking at. So I just hopped on Twitter and just like, you know, had an account that I'd made, but I started actually talking to people. And I would just search hashtags, just like random hashtags of t-shirts or companies that I thought were interesting or just people around my area, you know, and just like jump in random conversations. And I wasn't pitching or selling anything. I was just showing up. And then people would click through and they'd be like, you know, this is 2008 Twitter. So there's not a whole bunch going on. And they'd be like, I want to share it. What is this? And they'd see my bio and they'd go to the website and so like 12 people became 30 people the next day. And then 30 people the next day after that became 40 people. And I had this slow build and all of a sudden, I would get like a sale or two here. And the the way that I sold, I reassured because this is even weirder was I decided I would sell the entire year of 2009 at face value. So January one was one dollar. January two was $2. January three was $3. All the way up to December 31st, 365 day of the year, 365 bucks. Right. So you're wearing people sure each day different company. Yeah. And but like, I guess people wouldn't see it's not how many people are you actually coming in contact with how you actually showing that you're wearing this shirt. And that was the point of the pricing structure was like, listen, if you pay five bucks, you don't care that only like 13 people saw it. Right. That's not a big spend for you. But my goal was, hey, I'm going to show up every day. I'm going to do this. I'm going to be on social man. I'm going to be promoting these companies. Hopefully I will grow. And by the end of the year, 365 bucks will be worth it. I mean, it sounds like a joke amount of money now. Maybe it doesn't. But to me, that felt like a good way to kind of organically grow this and see my community grow because I'd never had a community before. I didn't know what that meant. And yeah. So it just, it kind of just got going and it started building the steam. And I just kept sending emails to people that I would come in contact with. I had people who would email me and be like, hey, my friend has like a business. They're starting. It's like a dog poop bag company or something. And I was like, well, that's kind of a weird shirt to wear. But it's a fun story. Like that to me sounds like an interesting thing to like solve that problem. And I'm listening, I'm buying, I'm opting into wearing logos, right? Like, I'm not going to wear stuff. I don't want to, but like a dog poop bag company. Sure, let's do it. Like, that sounds kind of fun and interesting and weird. And how can I make that, you know, unique or fun for people to watch? And when January 1st rolled around after three months of kind of hustling and being in that hustle mode, I had landed half the year sponsors before it even started. And it was just people buying into the idea, the thought. And this is something I've done. I did it that that time with that business without even really knowing it. Now every single business I start, I try and pre-sell it or do pre-orders in some way because to me, that's the ultimate validator of some of them will care about your idea. If they will pull out their wallet and go, here's money for the thing that you're selling, especially if you're building a business. I think if you're just creating content online, like it's going to be really hard to do that. But every business, every course, everything that I sell now, it's like, can I get people to pay for it in advance? Because that tells me, oh, there's actual interest here. Like, people actually believe this has value. And so, yeah, I had that. And then I started every day in January, wearing a t-shirt every single day, filming a YouTube video on a flip cam, no joke, because it was 2009. And they were awful. Like, the videos were so bad. I didn't know how to edit a video. I didn't even, like, January 1st was the first day I opened a movie editing program, which was eye movie. I didn't know what to do. I just like plugged in the thing and was like, okay, is this going to work itself out? You know, like, whoop, they're going to have a video. And yeah, just like, I kind of just kept going. I fell into it and just started wearing shirts for no-name companies. Like, the first couple months, it was just nothing. And I remember the first big break I had was, I think it was like the second or third week I'd been doing it. And you streamed the live streaming platform at the time, put me on the front page of their site, because they're, like, well, you're showing up every day. Like, we need consistent content. And you're kind of a weird dude, like, why are you doing this project? And I'm sure they're probably just like, let's just flip this on and see what happens. And then, like, we'll turn it off. Yeah. And like, 5,000 people watched that live stream. And all of a sudden, I had some agency, like, an Alabama call me. I don't know how they got my phone number. And it probably because I put on the website, because I was just so hungry to have people talk to me. And they called me and they're like, hey, we want to buy up the, like, like, 18 days left in this month that you have. And that was the first moment where I was like, whoa, that's kind of cool. It's not just like one company. It's like this agency that sees something bigger. And so there was little moments like that started happening kind of along the way. And then, yeah, things just, I got all kinds of weird stuff that went on that project for five years. You saw, it was a five year project. And then the company grew and you're, I mean, when you do the math, if you're selling out for a year, that's a lot of money. Like, it doesn't sound like a lot 365 dollars for a day. 66,795 dollars. I counted it up in Excel sheet. I literally put one, two, three, four. I had no idea how to do. There's a formula for it now that, like, people told me a thousand times over. But yeah, that first year was, I had, I figured out, like, monthly sponsorships. So as a thing, I was like, oh, like, a new revenue stream. I could do monthly sponsors as well. Like, bumpers on the videos and things. And again, this is before, like, no one was doing this type of stuff. There was no influence or marketing where you had these things. I was just making it up as I was going along. And yeah, ended up making like $85,000 that first year and had almost no expenses, whatsoever. And I was like, this is amazing. I just made this entire thing up and it worked. And it just took my effort and my ingenuity. And my just, just being me. Like, I wasn't trying to be anybody else. And kind of crazy. Like, I think it was August 2008. It was when the final day sold for that first year or 2009. Sorry. It was when the first day sold for that year. So like, the whole year was sold by August. And I was like, all right, what am I going to do next year? Because I want to keep doing this. This is amazing. Just made all this money. And I'm doing what I want to do or at least what I thought I wanted to do. And so I decided to scale up because that's what I thought, like, oh, we've got to scale up. So I got a second person to join me. We doubled the price of the calendar. And I launched the calendar a couple weeks later. And half of 2010 sold out it doubled the price when I launched it. And so now I had like $60,000 in my PayPal account because I was going to take a, I didn't know what to do anything else to take through PayPal. And like PayPal said, I mean, you know, they're like, oh, we're going to have to hold this money for like two weeks over here. I was like, oh, what? Like, this is like the first time I'd ever like experience like that type of stuff. Like, you have these weird growth issues. But yeah, I tried to grow the company. I did grow the company. I mean, I grew it to two people in the second year to five people in the third year. And then that was when I really started to notice like, hmm, I'm just growing and scaling. And I can't keep up with this. Because I'm still filming a video every day. And as we talked about it, Daniel lesson, I remember I filmed 889 videos in a row without a day off. Not to say, and that's with a live show every day that's a YouTube video that's me answering emails. The Irish or website about halfway through 2009, starting getting 10,000 visitors a day. And so with that, like, my email address was like, right on the front page, so people were emailing me, like, people were calling me through social media. You're talking holidays weekend every single day, every single day, 889 days straight. And it just got to this place. And that's it's funny because I think what happened for me was I hit a million views on you stream. I'd already hit it on YouTube. But I hit a million views on you stream with the live streaming at that 889 today. And that was no moment where I was like, I don't feel great. I feel so tired. I should feel amazing at this moment. And like, I pretended. I remember pretending on that live stream of that day. Like, this is so great. Like, everybody, we did it. Like, thanks so much for showing up. And I flipped out the camera. And I just went and laid down in a hotel bed because I was traveling a whole ton of that time. And I was like, this is miserable. I really hate this. Like, I, and I, all in 10s of purposes, you see me, I'm like the happiest guy ever. But I turned the camera off. I'm not happy at all. And I started to learn this. Like, I, you know, met other YouTubers now because YouTubers are becoming a thing. I met other people at conferences. And like, you put on the show and then backstage you're like, I fucking hate my job. You know? And that's like, I do too. I really do. And they're like, what, like, you know, I, you know, I'm sure you're on the today show. You're on these things. Like, everything's so great. And it's like, yeah, but I'm having trouble keeping the business running. Like, I don't know how to manage the money. I have five people. I have to keep track of like, they don't show up for a day. And like, what do I, I have to keep up with them and like apologize. And so it's just all these things that I didn't know we're going to come with trying to scale and grow. But that's what I thought I was supposed to do. It's like, back to the hustle thing, right? Like, I just thought I was supposed to keep doing this. It may be eventually, I don't know what would happen. But I just thought, like, it would just take off or someone would buy it. What would people buy? I don't know. Like, Matt, like, what would people, I had this idea, someone was just going to come to me and be like, Jason here's like $10 million per hour. And like, I've just get to be like, whoo. All right, I did it. You know, that never even got close to happening. But yeah, it was just all these lessons learned. And then, so the business for five years ran and made $1.2 million in revenue. And by the end of it, I had $100,000 in debt. And it sucked. And I felt like a complete failure and fraud by the end of it. Like, I just, because that one, that like million view live stream. Like, from there was like, I was here and then I just started just trending down. Like, every show became a grind, especially every like Saturday show. And I was like, gosh, I had a Saturday again. Like, why am I doing this to myself? Why am I working every single day? And I just thought I had to go back to the very beginning of this conversation. Like, I thought I had to show it for people. And now I've just learned like, you just don't. Like, they'll be happier for you if you take some time off and actually like figure out a business model that's sustainable. So you can keep showing up in like presenting value to them in some way. Was there a moment when you realized that this wasn't working, that there was kind of like the wake-up call. We were like, I need to turn things around like this. I'm in debt. I'm not where I want to be. I'm working too hard. Yeah. I mean, it got to a place where like, I had, trying to the mental math. I think I had $30,000 in a nice round number in monthly expenses between salaries for seven people is what I got to because I tube like operations people because I couldn't keep up. I was getting 300 emails a day. I couldn't keep up with it. And a lot of those were companies are like, we want to work with you. But like, we don't just want to buy a day. We want to put you on a cruise or we want to do whatever. So it's not just, hey, go pay me money. It's like, oh, I have to think about this. I have to like come up with creative ideas for this 365 times. Then with five potential additional sponsors, that was five X of that. So it was just, it was crazy. But I just remember in 2011, it got to this place where I toured the end of the year. I was like, I can't keep spending $30,000 a month. Like, the next year is going to turn over and the pricing structure, I kind of came this, I kept the same. So it was low in the beginning of the year. And it would grow throughout the year. And it wasn't sustainable because guess what never changed, the amount of money I had to spend every month never changed. But the amount of money I made drastically reduced. And that's just like a bad business model. And so I realized like I had January of 2012. And I was like, I don't have money to pay the bills. And I had to borrow money from family. And I was like the worst call to make ever. Like, I had to call my, I call my grandparents. And I was like, is my money? Like, I know I'm going to have it because I'm eventually going to like make more money. But like, I just, this isn't working in some way. And then I remembered I maxed out like my fourth credit card to kind of keep this stuff going. And when I hit $100,000 in total business debt, I think was like mid 2012, that was like the line is drawing in the sand like this can't work anymore. And I was also 50 pounds overweight at that time. I didn't sleep at all as miserable. And I just decided like someone has to give. And it's going to be either me or it's going to be the stupid business that I like have put all myself worth into. And the business is going to have to give because I just can't take any more. So what do you do from there? How did you actually turn things around? Did you close the business down? Yeah, well, what I, my pride was too strong. I couldn't shut the business down completely. And the crazy, so the crazy part is, is like, I'm still getting emailed from like, today's show type outlets. Like, I would be flown to Atlanta to go on CNN. And like, literally they would pay my dime to go and show up and like do a thing with them or like, I would do a satellite interview for Fox News or whatever. And like, now I wouldn't do that interview in a heartbeat. But back then I was like, oh, this is awesome for the business. I'm getting this exposure. But I just decided like, I have to let people go. And so I made these calls. And I basically just told people like, hey, I have enough money to pay you for the next month. And I'll understand if you want to quit today. I really hope you don't because like, I'm trying to do everything I can. Like, I, and I finally started telling them, like, I had to borrow money. I had to do all these things. And they, I think a lot of them didn't know any of them. Well, they didn't know any of that. Like, I think they saw I was tired, but they didn't know the financial side. And they were all very gracious. And they were like, yep, we understand, you know, we'll figure it out. And yeah, I essentially let everybody go except for my girlfriend at the time is now my wife. She was doing operation stuff. So like, she stayed on. And then one guy who actually had moved to Florida where I live to like work for me from Michigan, which is crazy. And shawnily, you're the best. But like, we stuck together. And I said, you know, let's change into a video production company. And so we'll just do videos for people. And like, still be the I wear your shirt kind of thing. But like, we'll just do less and like scale back everything. And that was made 2012. And I tried to keep it going for like six or eight more months. And then in the beginning of 2013, I was like, I just can't do this anymore. Like, I can't. I can't keep filming videos. I hate the video camera. I hate the editing. I hate everything about it. I don't like we dealing with clients and all the requests. I'm like, I put up a video and then someone will get mad and like, I just can't do this anymore. And so in May of 2013, I shut everything down. And it was, it sucked. Like, it was one of the hardest things I've ever had to do in my life. And now looking back and I'm like, so stupid. That was one of the hardest things I had to do in my life. Like, I created that. I created that thing that became so difficult for me to do. It's hard to give up. My whole identity was tied to it. I was like, what am I going to do next to? I'm nobody. I'm now like a one hit wonder internet person. You know, like, I'm the million dollar home page guy, which by the way, Alex too, amazing human being. Like, no, no, no, okay, right. Was that the same time? He did that in 2005, which, yeah, so early. And I remember that was like, same time purple cal, kind of came across my desk. So those things were the two things I've been playing with. This is a guy that he saw at a pixel for, well, is it a pixel? A dollar pixel and there's a million pixels on the website. Yeah, there's a really, I made a million dollars. There's a really interesting, like, full story to that. And then I think he, I think he still does, like, he creates, like, web apps and things now. He's a really smart guy. Alex too is his name if anybody wants to look it up. But he, like, how he built that was not just everyone showed up in bot pixels. Like, he had to buy, like, advertising space. And he had to buy, like, PR and stuff. And there's, like, a lot of, like, actual business stuff that went into making that a thing. But I defend him a lot because people were like, oh, he just put this website in mail this money. I'm like, no, he didn't. He worked really hard. Yeah. He had to do a lot of stuff. And yes, it worked out. It's kind of like, I read your shirt. Like, oh, he just put it on a shirt every day. And it just, you made a lot of money. You made a million dollars. And like, yeah, that's the AOL headline that they wrote. And I told him to change it, because like, I don't have a million dollars. Like, I didn't, somehow it worked. Yeah. And like, you know, media just doesn't want to do that. And then when you lose control of that stuff, then, like, someone else is twisting your identity. I still get emails now, even today. People, you know, like, can I wear shirts for you? Like, first of all, that was five years ago. It was like the last time I did that. And second, like, what are you still reading? That still says that I'm doing this. You know, like, there's articles that still come out that say, like, you can work for this guy. I'm like, no, you can't. Yeah. Take me to the stage at MisfitCon Fargo, North Dakota. Yeah. So that was, what was that? Right before I shut everything down. So like, right around May or somewhere around there, up 2013. So I was brought into speak, this tiny little conference in Fargo, North Dakota. I'm getting chills just thinking about this. That's like, how impactful this wasn't my life. And I don't know who the speakers are. I just know who the people are putting it on. I actually estimate they could pay for my ticket to fly up there, because I couldn't afford it. I didn't have any money left. Like, literally nothing. And AJ and Melissa, such amazing human beings who put it on, they actually paid for my plane ticket for my girlfriend. I now wife to come up. Don't just call her wife if it's in the past. I think she's a wife. Yeah. Next wife. Previously, previous pre-wife. So yeah, I don't know. That's getting weird stuff anyway. Break in the tension here. So we, we fly up there and I just I'm just feeling like a fraud, like leading up to it. And it's like this handcrafted curated event. It's beautiful, like the town brought in furniture for everybody. It's like a hundred seats or in there, small stage, like just so beautiful. And no one knows who the speakers are. And I remember listening to a couple of talks ahead of mind. And I was pretty early on. And so I went up and I was supposed to be interviewed by the sky who's going to ask me these questions. And I just remember sitting there thinking like, well, not going to do it anymore. Like, I'm not going to sit up here and pretend to have this like great story and everything's going perfect. And I'll never forget, like, beginning of the talk. I was like, guys, I hope AJ and Melissa don't kill me. I'm going to tell you what's really going on. And for 45 minutes, I think I just buried my soul. I blacked out. I literally don't remember anything that I said. And then I just remember kind of snapping back into place. And there was like standing ovation people crying. Now, this becomes also super special. So I think people standing out at like every single talk because that was just the nature of the thing. So it wasn't just the mind was that great. But I remember coming off stage in like Pam Slim, who's an author who was there. She's written two amazing books, Body of Work, I would highly recommend anyone read it if you're like, I need to figure out what I'm doing with my life. She gave me a big hug and she was like, if you need anything. Like, please call me and talk to me. Like, I can help you, whatever. And I really wanted to call and talk to her side note. It took me eight months to get the courage to call and talk to her. Like, that's how much pride I still had. But so I buried my soul. I felt just like, so I felt this huge relief. I was also really feeling down. And then Joshua Field Millburn, someone you know, gets up on stage shortly thereafter me. And first of all, his hair was just fucking amazing. And I was great hair. Wow, I just wanted to kiss it. I wanted to kiss his hair. Like, not as face. And anyway, I'm sitting there and I'm feeling so bad about myself. And I'm hearing his story. And he was like, you know, I'm in debt. And I've got all these things. And I'm trying to get more. And I'm all this stuff. And I'm like, oh my gosh, this is my story. Like, he's telling the version of my story as well. And I just remember listening to his talk and then going up afterwards and like, shaking his hand and be like, wow, thank you so much for sharing that. Like, and he was like, I really like your talk as well. I thank you for the vulnerability. Like, oh my gosh, like, you know, I saw this person up here, you know, and I'm like, we're on the same stage. And we get on the flight back, my wife and I. And we're talking and we're just like, things have to change. You know, and that was really what led to shutting down our reassure. That's what led to us kind of embracing minimalism and kind of just getting rid of everything and really building a path for ourselves to get out of this life and Florida that we built. It was like full of comfort and not taking risks any more and everything else. And actually trying to embrace adventure and change and experimentation and just going, like, we can do anything. Why are we doing things that we don't love doing? And then your your life from there was it was it challenging from that point to no, it's just perfectly easy. Everything fell on the place. I just got like lots of money, like really fast. Yeah, it was just not incredible. It was I wrote multiple, so I started writing. That was the thing that really came out of that was I was like, I just need to start, I have all these feelings that I need to let go of because I've held them in because every day I had to be in a live show where I was perfect because I was wearing a company's brand. I couldn't be sad. I couldn't be upset. Life was shooting on my face at certain times. I couldn't say that. And so I finally had this release in writing. And so I was right these posts were like, I just feel lost. I just feel like I don't know what I'm doing. And it wasn't all doom and gloom in the post. It was like, I hope if you're reading this and you're feeling the same way, like, I think this is normal. I think we're all going through this. And I started to just build an audience through these these really just thoughtful and like thought, I think vomiting for me of all these feelings and people really resonated with it. And it wasn't tons of people. I mean, it was it was definitely not as many people who were checking out the area of shirt website every day, which was kind of crazy. But it was the right kind of people. It was people who were showing up and like they were encouraging. They were creating stuff. They were enjoying what they were doing. And it just kind of created this momentum for me where I was like, you know what, I'm not going to be a one-hit wonder. I started to get this like charge again to do more things. And that's really when I found like creating online courses and kind of selling experience and knowledge that I had built so that people could avoid the mistakes that I'd made. And I had so much experience selling sponsorships specifically. So that was like the first thing I gravitated toward was like, what can I do that I know a lot about that I actually feel confident that I could teach someone how to do something? And let me just try that because that seems so much easier than like filming a YouTube video every day and doing everything. And and I had seen a lot of people in the entrepreneurial space started to create courses and I was like, what are these things? And so I created my first course. You know, I thought I was going to do like a six-figure launch and like everything was going to turn out. I made $5,000 in the first launch, which is a great amount of money. Like you can't poo poo that, but I was expecting $100,000. Very different. And I realized, like, oh, this is a whole different type of work. You know, this is, I can't just like make a funny video. I have to actually like provide value to someone and teach them something. And so I learned just a whole bunch of stuff in that whole world. And that was kind of like the next year and a half was trying to figure out how to create value for people, not entertainment, which is what I had been doing. But like actually like, I can teach you something. I can teach you something that I've learned in the past five years and you can skip all the hard work that I did and you can come out of with the skill that then you can build a business for yourself or a life for yourself that you want. When I look at your work today, it feels so authentic. And that's a word that is just thrown around so casually. Yeah. And it's hard because there's a lot of brands that try to manipulate through the, this guys of being authentic. And they're, you know, they're in boardroom saying, all right, how do we authentically connect with this audience? How do we appear as if we're being authentic with our message and all this stuff? How do we as individuals who are truly expressing ourselves online and trying to find our voice? How do we actually be authentic and not be fake authentic? Yeah. I think for me, like, I was fake authentic for years. And it just like, I knew what it felt like to be fake to turn off the camera and then had this like, you know, like I just felt terrible. And then the shift happened when I started writing and then specifically when I wrote creativity for sale, my first book. So I had this idea to write this book because I had been writing and I'd really like the kind of cathartic feeling that it was giving, but I actually had to have had a fun idea of how to make money with the book. And I wanted to challenge myself to do something. So I created the site, sponsormybook.com. So this is where the very literal domains Jason does stuff. I wear your shirt, sponsor my book, like, just by my last name. By my last name is in there as well. We'll come back to that one. We'll try and keep that one short because there's still more. So many big insane ideas which is fun. And so the book project was essentially like, I'd learned all this stuff about how to helping people sell sponsorships. I had 1,600 brands that I'd worked with. And I was like, you know, I think what I'd be interesting for this book is like, the whole book is about selling creativity. I had all these sponsors. It's such a big part of my life. The last name project was right before that. What if I sold a sponsor in every single page? And it wasn't, you know, like I could choose the companies to say no to or whatever. And it was just one little line, like a little length of a tweet, 140 characters at the bottom of every page. And they could just accompany the journey of this book that I wanted to write. And I put this website together. I ended up taking me about 3,000 emails, me sending individually to people. Both people who reached out because I built a website and they found it. They had questions. But like 3,000, I kept track 3,000 total emails I had to send. But I made $75,000. So I literally wrote myself essentially an advance for $75,000 for this book. I'd never written a book before. I'd barely written blog posts up into that point. And I had this book that I published and put out into the world. And it was just one of those things where that was another part of this journey from here. I was like, wow, I can make something up that no one I'd seen do before. I can just use my effort and my work to make it happen. And I can make a good living from it. And I can produce something and I can put it out there. And that was a huge turning point for me as well. And so go back to the authenticity thing. Like, that for me was where I realized, like, I'm not a good writer. And it's okay. Because how I write and what I write resonates with people. So I don't have to be Stephen King. I don't have to be Seth Goat. I don't have to be any things. I can just be me. And I'm going to have a very small audience of people that really enjoy that. But you know what? Those people have money. And they'll pay to support in some way. And it can still work out. And so that for me became this kind of like huge all-how moment. This turning point for me. I'm like, wow, like, I can just be myself. I don't have to pretend to be anything. I can be real. I can be honest. And people will still support in some way. These projects that I come up with. You have a lot of experience with advertising sponsorships working with brands. And doing it from the very beginning in what 2008 when nobody else is doing it, to now where we see it taking on a life of its own. And every other Instagram post that I see is a sponsored post, hashtag ad, hashtag sponsor. What are your thoughts on advertising? How is advertising impacting people today? And how can we authentically work with brands to make money? I hate it. And I love it at the same time. And it's weird because I still think going back to the very beginning of our research. The crux of what I wanted to do was tell the stories of interesting companies in a human, authentic, relatable way. I think when advertising is done that way and the company actually makes something useful or helpful, it's fantastic. I think we've all seen an ad for something. They've been like, wow, that's cool. I'm actually glad I saw that. Now, that's one out of probably every 100 ads, right? Because you get an ad for band aid. And you're like, what? You know, like, I don't know. It's like, this is literally one I saw on my Instagram feed night. I told my wife, I was like, I just got an ad for band aid. What did it say? I'm like, it just, it was a band aid. You know, I don't understand. And I'm not trying to say that that's a bad thing because listen, I wore shirts for a lot of these companies. I wore shirts for like pizza Hut and these brands are like, I don't even support with my money anymore. And I look back on that and I'm like, should I regret those decisions that I made? And I'm like, you know what? No, because I had to go through those decisions to get to the place where I am now. We're like, I now have a filter for who I work with, what I do, the companies that I represent. And I didn't know any better. I just had to get started with something. And I think the way that advertising is being done now online, the thing I don't like is the disruptive nature of the things that we curate. And I just wish there was another option. Like, I wish an Instagram, they could say, like, hey, do you want to pay $100 per year and never see any ads? Or you can at least pick the companies that you like or the things that you like and like make it better. It's like, I just hate seeing the company, the incongruent ads or the ads at like our things that I'm like diametrically opposed to. You know, like, that's the stuff for me. Like, if I see another progressive insurance ad in my feed, I just hate it because I'm like, number one, I'm already a guy co-customer. So, like, you guys obviously know a lot of information about people like, how are we not figuring this stuff out? Like, I'm not going to switch some other company or anything. I don't want to see this stuff. So, that's where I say, I hate advertising because we're not good enough yet to actually know and be smart with it. And it is really disruptive. But I do think on the other side, it's like, you can really find some cool stuff. You know, like, people can be promoting their stuff in a way where that's the only way that they're going to be able to cut through the noise. And that can be really helpful and it can be really interesting. And then what about the side of actually making money. So, as content creators, we spend a lot of time just focusing on making stuff. And for a lot of us, the easiest way to go about making a profitable business is to just click that monetization button or to accept a lot of sponsorships and start putting ads on our videos and doing these sponsored posts. So, you know, how do we, as the creators, as the one that are actually advertising on our products or our videos, how do we figure out how to navigate that space? Yeah, I mean, that's it's hard for me not to answer this question without sounding like a hypocrite, right? Because I took a lot of money from a lot of companies that I no longer would support. And that was just me being young and immature and not knowing any better. You know, nowadays, I would never take money from a company that I didn't directly support or I didn't believe in. And so I think that to me as the difference for creators is you may, when you're getting started, need to take some money from companies so you can put food on the table and everyone's just going to have to understand that hey, that's part of the game. But I think if you do have a choice, like I think you're in such an interesting position, right? Because you, you have the success of the documentary, you have some previous client work that you did that like built up this buffer, you know, like you have these things that you don't have to flip on monetization. And also, if you're really crunching the numbers, like what does monetization actually mean for a lot of these creators? A couple hundred bucks a month? Can't you make that in a different way that doesn't create the disruptive experience where someone's now getting like a siallus ad before your videos? And you can't control it, right? Like you just get whatever shows up. And instead, it's how can you use the creativity that you have to reach out to a brand that you love? And this is where I think so many creators could just do themselves a service. It's like if you have built a platform of any size, you can reach out to someone or companies that you love. Because this is what I did for my book. I reached out to two companies that I wanted to be cover sponsors. One said no, one said yes. I ended up at the $20,000 sponsorship because I reached out and said that I love them because I did. But reach out to these companies go, I have a creative idea for you. I make this content. I have this audience. I see this thing that we could do together for like a 5 to 10 podcast episodes or 5 to 10 weeks on YouTube or whatever it is that you're creating or on your website. And we could build a relationship together, do what it works together. And those companies may only do stuff via like CPM or whatever normally. But guess what they're not getting? Those types of emails every day. And those types of emails are ones where they go, screw our CPM. We've got 10 grand. We can throw this kid on YouTube. You know, like he'll do some fun stuff. We'll see what happens. And to me, I think that's where creators can do themselves a positive service with advertising instead of just taking money for a brand and being like, hey guys, check out the new whatever thing that's going around YouTube that everyone's talking about. That you know that person doesn't care about. As soon as the camera's done, they're just like dropping on the floor. You know, as opposed to a brand that like, I actually really love these Bose headphones or whatever. You know, I'm like, I'm working with them because it's an amazing product. And like, watch this like fun, sizzle real that I created of of these headphones or something fun. You know, and I just think that there's so much opportunity there that people don't take advantage of because it's easier to flip on the switch. And then she'll be like, okay, I'll make some money. Yeah, I think people flip on the switch too early as well. Because I think if you're only getting, if you're getting like thousands of views in your video or videos or tens of thousands, like you said, you're making, you know, a hundred dollars a month, maybe? Yeah. I don't think that's worth it at that point to give up the, you know, the, there's friction that's going to be added. And I don't think people actually realize that. It's like, well, if people are used to ads or used to ads, but you know what, like, how many videos have you clicked away from because an ad popped up before? And you're like, ah, you know what, screw it. I probably shouldn't be on YouTube right now anyway. Yeah. And that you just lost this subscriber. You just lost somebody that could potentially be like a fan of your content for life. And it may not happen when the first time that you see that ad, right? But I think we all know, like, we've been in those channels. We're like, I wish they, like, you know, like, can't you guys make money some other way? Like, I hate seeing these ads before your videos, especially these super income group ones. And I think those little moments they add up. And eventually you do exactly what you just said. You're like, I'm an unsubscribe from this person. You know, like, I'm just, I don't like their videos anymore. And it's probably not that you don't like their videos anymore. It's that you don't like the interruptive experience of trying to get to their videos anymore. Yeah. And we talked about this a little bit last night too. But the, is it authentic? So you look at somebody like Tim Ferriss or any like Joe Rogan who they are only talking about brands usually where they use and they, they value. And I think that's like, that should be the starting point. You know, shouldn't be chilling products and services that they've never used. I feel like you're doing your audience a giant to service. You're telling them, hey, go buy this thing that I've never used or go buy this thing that I tried out. And I, you know, but I'm not going to end up bringing into my life and not going to use our regular basis. Is that they're not getting creative with it? Yeah. They're just reading something. But in a way, is that actually an authentic approach to advertising, whether like not kind of pretending like it's something that it's, it kind of kind of, dressing it up and making it seem like it's, you know, there's the line where it's like, if they try to incorporate it into a conversation, that can be filled with. That's like wrong where it's in the middle of the podcast or they're like, yeah, and all you actually, I do use these headphones, even if it feels natural, like, this doesn't feel right. So it's like, is that okay or should we be getting more creative with how we're bringing ads and then it's tough. It's tough. It's, I think it's a tough question. I mean, I, I listen to some of those podcasts and I listen to some of those ads and like, I don't know, I'm obsessed with deck shepherds podcasting armchair expert. Like, I love it. I just love his authentic. Like, you talk about authenticity. That dude is authentic to the max. And he, you know, he didn't have ads the first couple episodes and then his podcast took off. And now he has ads from all the companies of all the things and some of them he uses and some of them he doesn't. And I found myself like, I get a little angry at the ad part and I'm just like fast forward, fast forward, fast forward. And I don't, is that going to be the thing where it's like the little dots, little blips and then like I'm not going to listen to his podcast anymore? And was it because I listened to a bad episode or was it because of all those little moments or I was like, man, this really like fragmented his, you know, like, the authentic thing for me, right? And, and I do, I like when someone promotes something that they absolutely love. When you can, you can hear it in someone's voice. You know, when someone talks about a product that they love and that they're actually passionate about it, you know, it's very clear when it's different of like, hey, guys, you know, you got to sleep tonight. So do I. Let's talk about the mattress that everyone knows. You know, and it's like, it's not authentic. You know, it's just really not. And I mean, who am I to judge these people? I mean, I, I, I were sure it's for all these companies again. Like, but I will say the one thing that I was super intentional about was I never shield the company to like go and purchase every day. That was never my thing. My thing was, here's the story of this company. Here's the funny skit I'm doing on YouTube. Here's this and I'm presenting it to you. Please go check it out and see if it's right for you, but don't just go buy it. Like, I'm not just telling you to go buy it. And I think that's the difference is these companies through podcasts advertising and all this stuff. It's like, you need to go buy. You need to go use my discount. You need to do this like that to me. Is where it's like, do do I need to? Do we all need to be buying all these things? Or could we just pre-presenting these in a different way that's fun? And I mean, again, like, let's go back to the enough thing from the very beginning. Like, how many more like sponsorships is Tim Ferriss need? You know, and, and again, like, I don't know Tim situation on this thing, but like at what point does he just go, you know what? Like, I'm just gonna have one sponsor per episode. And I'm gonna make a company that I really love and I'm just gonna focus on that. And I mean, sure, that's the altruistic or his least is altruistic, so you can get with advertising. But why not do that? You know, and I don't know, maybe it's just because they have different goals. They have different financial things that they want to hit and they're driven by different things that we are where I'm okay with not doing any of that stuff anymore. And you're obviously okay with it, because you could have flipped on monetizing and advertising and accepted some of these things, but you don't because you're like, I'll make money in different ways. You know, I'll figure out how to make this work and not have to make this experience or do something that I'm somewhat opposed to. Right. I think it's, I admire people like Josh and Ryan from the minimalist and Sam Harris, who have these very large followings where if they did banners on their website and flipped on advertising on their podcast or on their YouTube channels, they could be making millions of dollars every year. Yeah. And that's a very tempting thing to want it to do. How many people could say no to that? And I think it does come at a cost. It's, I don't think it's going to like destroy any of their audiences or destroy anybody's audiences like thinking about doing this for their own channels. But I do think it like it separates you from other people when you take a stand and we're like, you know, either I'm not going to advertising or I'm going to be so thoughtful about it that I'm going to be giving up 75 to 80% of sponsors that might want to share my platform. Yeah. It's interesting when you think about it too from the perspective of a lot of these people where they're just entertainers, right? Like that's all they're doing. So like, how can you really make money with that? You know, there's so few actual avenues, whereas I see people like you or the minimalist, like they do so many other things to make money, like they have actual business models outside of the content they create and the entertainment that they create, that those are the things that support making the things that keep in them free. And I will say, and I think they talked about this in an episode, because this is a thought that I had was like, you are still advertising your own stuff a lot of times. Yeah. Even without even knowing it, you're saying like, hey, go check this out or go see that, you know, you're mentioning your own things and that is a form of advertising in itself that will lead to dollars in some way. And maybe it wasn't like you got to check from X mattress company, but you did get people to buy X thing eventually down that road. Is that the same? Is that different? Yeah, I actually, I felt the same way. And like that's that was my mentality too. It was like where I want to develop a couple courses first, where I'm like, oh, I could just advertise that at the beginning of the podcast. But hey, anybody who wants to support the show, I just created my first course. It's about how to make better videos and then pitch it that way. Where it's like, instead of it takes extra work, you have to create more content. You have to create a lot more stuff. There's a more time and it may not be able to sound as easy as flipping a switch or just making a simple read. But I feel like that would be more profitable. And it's also going to be more beneficial to your audience because your audience is getting direct value from you. You're probably, you would probably make way more sales selling your own course than somebody else's course because people are coming there for you. So I feel like it's a win win. That said, easier said than done. And I think everybody's got to kind of figure out where they fit into the mix on this. And again, who are we to judge these people and the decisions that they make? Again, I made bad decisions and I've taken money from companies that I didn't love and I'm sure you've taken work from companies. You're like, I kind of wish I didn't have that one on my resume or I just never put that one on my resume. Yeah, I mean, that's the thing is that weird thing is that like, I don't do advertising right now. But then also, you know, I've made videos for Reebok and like Nike and tons of like really well established large companies that I would in advertise on the podcast, but I still take money from them to make videos. Is that on that pickle? Yeah. I don't think so. Yeah. I didn't pay the bills. And like I said that earlier, like you think at a certain point you have to pay the bills so you do what you have to. But I do think there's a responsibility when you get to a certain place where you don't have to take that money and you don't need to take as much as you're taking that you can do something like you've been thinking about doing, which is creating a, you know, I'll take your course on how to create, you know, better videos or how to create a story, you know, how to tell a story. Just because I like your style and I want to learn from you and I think that like I resonate with you as a person. And so I think I think about that a lot of time or a lot of time while I'm watching YouTube videos especially, I'm like, how can I support this creators so that they can actually get some money for the thing they're doing from someone who's watching, not just from a sponsor or whatever, because I feel like that's a better impact on them. As well as like, all right, X company just gave me money and, you know, I laid my head down at sleep and like, yeah, I'm glad I have money, but like, who shouldn't have taken money that way? As opposed to, I made a thing and then I made another thing that supports that. Now people are paying for that, oh my god, this is amazing. I feel so fulfilled by this. I'm giving value all the time. I'm getting value from customers. You know, it's just like this nice cycle. And that's kind of where I've tried to shift all of my stuff away from all of the advertising, all the companies, everything else to try and give value to people and like build a life that actually matters to them and know that like, okay, I'm getting supported. They're getting supported. Like, it's a nice life cycle, not just a, I'm making money, go look at this thing. Yeah, I think it builds a deeper connection with that person as well because then you're continuing to stay in touch with them. They're paying money for something that you created. Yeah. I think about that a lot when I made that transition from, you know, doing weddings for other people and making videos for other people versus filming your own weddings. Filming. Yeah. But like actually like going out and getting clients and that was a totally different experience because that relationship was was stronger between me and them as to where I'm just taking money for a job or taking money for an advertisement. I've got a couple Instagram questions that I want to get to from some some aspiring entrepreneurs here. Cool. Have questions for you. But before that, we, I don't want to leave people hanging. You sold your last name a couple of times. It's like super weird. Yeah. Yeah. But let's tell that story real quick and then we'll get into these questions. So 2012, I get a text message from my mom to says, can you hop on Skype? I had never Skype with my mom before my entire life. And I was like, well, this is weird. We didn't live in the same state at the time. And I was like, okay. So I get on Skype and sorry for your listeners. We're going to go to Sombertown again. And my mom's crying on Skype. And I'm like, whoa, what is going on? And she's like, you know, long story made short. I'm getting a divorce from your stepfather as my third father at the time. And you know, it's not a good circumstance. And you know, just wanted to let you know. And I don't know if anybody can tell this in this or watching this. Like, I try and solve things with humor, trying to think about that, trying to inject humor as much as possible, even if it's not funny. I just try. And so I just quickly, like, quit. I was like, well, great. Now I have to, you know, like, sell my last name. So I can get rid of this guy's last name. Because I was like, right in the throws of I reassured stuff. So everything was like, I had to sponsor road trips in a sponsor fitness challenge. I could just all the things were sponsored. And I was like, I got to sell this too. You know, I was like, add it to the list. And it made my mom laugh, which is good. And the thought just like stuck in my brain. And it was a couple months later, and I remember I was sitting in a panerabred, not a spawn at all. Don't even go there. Not a spawn, not a spawn. But I was sitting there with my wife and the guy Sean, who was still with me at the time, said, let everybody else go from my reassured business. And I was like, guys, I think I'm going to do this last name selling thing. And they were both like, what? You know, and I was like, I've told you about this before. And we have, we thought you were kidding. Like, you do crazy stuff. But like, come on, sell your last name. That's a little too much. And I was like, but is it though, you know, like my entire identity has been crafted around like this hour, your shirt thing. And like, this last name that I had before this, I could mean nothing to me. So I did it. So I bought the domain by my last name.com incredibly literal. Also available. It's no one to duck before apparently. Yeah. And I had a website built for like 1500 bucks. It had an eBay style auction system built in. So it would start at zero dollars. And then for 30 days, the auction for my last name existed. I don't know why did air quotes auction. I guess why did air quotes? Was it an auction? Was it an auction? It was. And I had the intention when I first wrote this project. Like, if this made $5 or $10,000, and I got some interesting or weird company to sponsor my last name for a year that was always for, it'd be a fun story to tell. You know, and I would get a little bit of cash because we had to almost know money coming in. And so we built the website, put it up. And I had like a small email list at the time that I kind of built up to get interest for it. It was like 600 people. And I emailed this list. And within 24 hours, the bidding was at $33,000. Wow. I was shocked. I mean, absolutely just shocked. Again, like I thought $5 or $10,000. And we just like, I remember like looking at the website on the bidding coming in and going up and up and up. And I'm just laughing, looking at this. I'm like, this is ridiculous. Again, like, you can do anything. You just like put something on to really. You don't get what you don't ask for. And so the bidding ended at $45,500. And funny enough, like three minutes before the bidding ended. I was getting phone calls from people who were trying to bid of like, is this legit? Are you a real person? Like, you're going to disappear. And the one call was from the marketing manager of the company, the one. He was like, I'm $5,000 over what my boss said. I can spend on this. Tell me on the last bid. And I was like, I think so. And he was, and that company was headsets.com. And so I was Jason headsets DOT, COM spelled out for a year. And I went down to the courthouse. I stood in front of a judge with a buddy of mine from college who was a lawyer. And like, I'm in a courtroom. And it's like divorce and like child custody. And then this asshole was trying to change his name. I'm pointing to myself, not a mat. Who's trying to change the name. And I literally walk up in front of the judge. Just like you picture like Judge Judy. Like I'm like walking up. It wasn't Judge Judy. And I'm walking up in this guy like pulls a piece of paper over. And he didn't even look up a mean. He's like, all right, Jason, have you been convicted of any felonies? I'm like, like, my, I guess, was I looked at my lawyer. Like you didn't tell me he was going to ask me his question. And I was like, no, have I? Like, I couldn't even remember the time was shot of no. He was like, are you trying to escape from any like creditors or whatever? And I'm like, not yet. And he was like, all right, well, this is the first one of these last names. Like stamped a piece of paper. And I was legitimately legal Jason headsets DOT.com. So I had like driver's license and everything. And I lived at that last name for a year. And like immediately after that, like, did a whole news cycle was on USA today's homepage of the story. And it was like such a hilarious and ridiculous thing. And you think about it, you know, like, you saw your last name, like, what, you know, but like, it didn't matter to me. Like I had no allegiance to my last name whatsoever. And it was just really fun. And so I did it a second time, because that was when my book was coming about. And I was like, um, byline of a book is a good place for a last name. Like, it's a very memorable, noticeable thing. So sold a second time, did a second auction made $50,000 to second time. So I literally made about $100,000 selling my last name. And nothing in my life really changed. And it was just this fun kind of adventure that I got to do. And I still get emails this day of people. Like, can I wear a shirt for you? Can you help me sell my last name? And like, I always respond to the second one. Like, I'm not a last name, Pimp. I'm sorry. Like, I can't sell your last name for you. You, uh, I think that really comes back to the purple cow where you're creating ideas that in a lot of ways speak for themselves. And while you had certain things in a place and an email list and you had some stuff to to help you that had, you know, you built up a reputation at that point. The ideas themselves are so unique. And so original that the promotion almost does itself. Yeah, and that's, I mean, that, you know, not to quickly jump over that and jump something else, because I'm, I know I'm dominating the mic here and all the time. But, um, this buyer future project, which I don't know if we're going to get to, but it's fine if we don't. But fast forward to that. I mean, I had built eight products up into that point, a couple of software products, couple online courses. And it's exactly what you just said. Like, I had all the experience. I had some audiences at some things. And I packaged everything and everything in this, this idea, this like buy my future, you buy everything that I have, you get everything I create in the future for one price only. And if I would, had started with that 10 years ago, of like, here's the thing, no one would have purchased. I had no experience. I had no no idea. Nothing. And I hadn't done the thing. But it's because I had all this experience that then 178 people raise their hands, I will spend a thousand dollars when you crazy human being. That's amazing. That's ridiculous to be able to get that. But I get people who email me asking me about, about I wear your shirt, about buy my last name, about sponsor all these things. And they're like, you know, how can I repeat this thing you do? It's like, spend four years doing it. You know, like, that's what you have to do. You can't just flip these things. I didn't flip these things on. I spent all the years doing all of them to be able to earn the ability to do them. And even in that, they all still took a lot of work, even with the ability to have earned the notoriety and the, like, respect from people and the attention from people, which is so hard to get these days. But you still have to make the ask. You have to repeat, making the ask. You have to follow up, like, all these different things. And that's the thread that kind of, like, weaves through all this stuff for me is just continuing to make the ask, continuing to put these weird ideas out into the world and not being afraid of, hey, if it doesn't work, what's the worst thing that's going to happen? I'll move on to the next one. I'll create something else that's weird. And it's never easy. No. It's all, it's actually always hard. It's always difficult. Yeah, there's always things that go wrong. Absolutely. It's just part of the game. Yeah. It's why you get a hustle. If you dig yourself, if you go, if you just hustle through it, then you'll make it. Yeah, just put in the work and that's all that may out in a way. But kind of, why do we, yeah, actually, truthfully, in a way, a little bit. But I think there's an on an off switch for it. I really do. You know, like my wife and I are in hustle mode for our new business. And we know that it's a grind and we put in so many hours. But eventually it's not going to be. And we talked about that a couple times that I do think that's important just to kind of come back on. Because I think you're in such a similar boat too. Like you put in so much time and so much effort. But eventually you get to a place where like, okay, I could probably go down to one video a week, you know, and it wouldn't matter. And I would get more views than I've gotten, you know, when I was doing three videos a week. But like, what I did to get me where I am now is not what I have to keep doing to where I want to go. Yeah. No, I'm completely in that boat now. And they're definitely days and weeks where I feel like, oh, this feels too much like a grind. But I know that this is kind of a temporary phase. It's like when I was making minimalism, minimalism was just super grind. Yeah. And you didn't know what the finish line was going to be. There was no guarantees at all. Right. We were, it was such an indie project. I was honestly, honestly, just, I invested about 10 to 15,000 dollars in the project. I was like, if I could just make that money back, I would be so happy. Like, that would be amazing. Then I realized after and then I made more on top of them, like, oh, it's better to make more money because then I can do it again. Yeah. But you still have to make it. Like, that's the thing. Like, you have to, you have to, as Joshua says, judge through the judgeory. Like, I'll never forget that phrase because you have to go through that to see even the opportunity that a Netflix is going to pick it up. Or even before that, just people are going to pay for it. And it's going to make money. And you have to know that I believe in this idea. I believe in this thing that I'm creating for anybody listening to watch this. Whatever it is you're doing, you believe in it enough. And you want that dream or that idea more than you fear the reality of what it takes to get there. And the reality is usually just a shit little work. Yeah. You put in a lot of work. And then you try to find that balance. And for me, it was, it finishing that project. It was like, all right. Well, I'm not going to bother about that. I've been in a car with dudes for a long time. Yeah. Yeah, for months just driving around with two dudes and a huge light kit. Like, you realize the things that worked and didn't work about a project. And how can I optimize it? How can I make it a little bit better? How can I actually enjoy the process and live a healthier life during that? And I think that you can certainly do better. Sometimes it takes a lot of work. But then, you know, a month of hard intense work towards a project can be very fulfilling. It's like running a marathon. You don't run a marathon every day. Some people do like rich role. But like, you know, but he didn't start running a marathon every day. Exactly. Like, you can certainly build up to that. And you can become better at it. But I think we do need to ask that question. How much is enough? And yeah, it's cool, right? Yeah. That was a little bit easier on that. And then we'll go to Instagram questions. Let's finish up the podcast with a couple of questions here. Now, were these long answers short questions? Is that what we're doing? We're not doing that. Yeah, I actually stopped doing quick questions. I didn't stop like for good. But it was, uh, I started taking questions on Instagram. I kind of like them better because it's a little bit more diverse and specific questions to your questions were just bad. Just be a bad. Yes. Well, how do you get through doubt? Bloring. This one kind of relates to what we were talking about. But what do you think about all the, uh, this is a Darcy Arons from Australia. Australia. What do you think about all the one to be Gary Vs of the world? Oh, man. The kind of imitations of people who have made a successful platform. We see a lot of people copycating them. Thank you for your question, Darcy. All the way from Australia. Hi, it's an interesting topic for me because on one hand, I see the value in seeing the success of what someone else has done applying that to yourself. If you don't know who you are or what your secret sauce is or what it is that makes you you and at least going down up half that you can go on and you can see a way to operate. And that that may open other doors for you and you'll find that your thing after that. But on the flip side, I think it's a faster path to whatever your metric of success is, which is a lot of personal fulfillment if you're yourself. Because I've been in a place where I've had the success that similar people have had and it was not fulfilling at all. And I followed their path and I got whatever level of success that was and that you won't get to Gary Vs level. I could just guarantee you like no one who's trying to copy him is going to get what he gets. But it's not going to feel fulfilling because it wasn't yours. It's not your unique thing. Whereas when you do your unique thing, you can have like a hundredth of the success metrics. But it'll feel so amazing because it's 100% you. So to me, that's when I see anybody copying anybody or following anybody's same like visual style or whatever, you kind of do your own thing. Because when it succeeds, you're going to be like, yeah, but you know what? I just copied mats like video thumbnails and like his style and like the topics he was talking about and like I know deep down like they weren't really my original thoughts. And eventually that catches up with you. And I know that from experience because I tried that. I think if people just instead looked at Gary Vs and go, what are a couple of things I like about the way that this guy does stuff? By the way, he is 23 people who like follow him around every single day. You don't have that. So sorry. It's not going to work out for you. Instead, go, I can do this. And I like these three styles of things that he does. I'm going to adapt them into my thing and now I'm going to move forward with that and see how that goes. Right. And it's see if you actually like it. Because I think a lot of people that would see Gary Vs life, it's like it looks really great in glamorous. But like when you watch a video and it's all hyped up and there's great music and you know, he's obviously got an amazing energy. That's usually not what people's days are like. Usually it's a lot more boring. And also that dude works a lot. He probably doesn't sleep much either. No. And I guarantee if you just were put into his body for like a week, you would be so burnt out you wouldn't even enjoy it. I think of people. And that's why you see a going back to like people who do a vlog for seven days and then they give up because they don't understand what it takes to do all that. Like you see the Casey and I stats of the world. Like it's incredible. I did it 889 days in a row. I have firsthand experience. It is not sustainable. You do not have a life with it. And I wanted to ask you because I think this is an interesting related question this, but I don't want to skip now these questions. So I don't care how long we go. We're going to show you. But I wanted to ask you, when you first started your YouTube channel, did you find other people inspiration for the visual style or like the thumbnails or even the topics that you were like, oh, I'm going to pull from that and make it my own. Or did you just sit down and go, I have some ideas. I'm going to put these onto the world. It was more I have ideas and I'm going to put them into the world. It was less pulling inspiration from other people because I had been a filmmaker for probably 10 years before that. So you had a bunch of ideas. And I had a visual style and I looked to my videos anyway. Like I had developed that over years where in the very beginning, for sure, I stole from people and I, you know, people who shot back in there was these old forms. I forget what they were called, but it was like just filmmaker sharing footage and that they shot and like everybody would shoot footage of their backyards. And so then I would just copy other people and like, wow, that's really beautiful how they shot that. I'm going to copy that. Or just getting inspiration from people that I knew and filmmakers that I was close with. And then eventually developing my own style. And then with the YouTube channel, it's been an evolution from, it would just been over a year now that I like started to actually heavily start to post stuff. And actually in the beginning, if you actually look at some of the early videos that I started posting when I had like one video that said, hey, welcome to my YouTube channel. I'm like starting this thing up. I think there was some inspiration like the vlogging inspiration. I did a couple of vlogging style videos, maybe two or three. And then I, you know, probably inspired by Casey Neistat and others, there was just huge vlogging movement a couple of years ago where everybody was doing it. And I was like, oh, I think I'm pretty interesting. I could try that. And I'm just like, I don't like doing this. It's not that fun. I could, you know, do it for short stance. Maybe I'll do vacation type stuff every once in a while or I'll include some vlogging style into some videos. But for the most part, I'm like, this isn't as enjoyable for me. It's really challenging to to vlog yourself. I'm more of like a behind-the-camera type, you know, I want to be really thoughtful about my shots and plan out how I'm going to make these videos. So that was it for me. It was like, let me focus on my strengths as well. Because I'm also, I'm better when I plan things out when I say, all right, I'm going to do a video about minimalism productivity. What are some ways that, you know, that has played a role in my life? What ways have has minimalism helped me be more productive and thoughtful? Let me script out this video. Even if I'm doing something on camera, I'll usually at least do a couple bullet points. So I'm like, okay, I want to tackle this, this, this, what do I want to say? Because I'm not a Gary Vee. I'm not a guy that just like goes on camera and just like can have all these inspirational, quotable. Well, it's Gary Vee wasn't Gary Vee. Yeah. You know, like I had him on my live show in 2009. He wasn't that person. He didn't have all the like amazing quips and the thoughts and all these things. But as he's filmed thousands of videos and done thousands of talks, of course he has that stuff now. He just has this role of decks of things that he says. I have like three of them. It's like, you don't get what you don't ask for. Okay, I have one of them. You know, and you build those up over time and it becomes easier. I do, I love that answer though for you because I think it is interesting because you actually did have the stealing of people's styles way early on before this stuff. And then you adapted your style. And that's why I think your videos stand out. Why they're different than other people. All right, we got to get to the question. No, we're only going to answer one question. All right, Robert Brown, what would you say to someone who has an idea and wants to get it started, but doesn't have the resources to get it where it needs to be right now? I just graduated with an MA and I have an idea and a prototype and a pitch and even a concept video. But everyone's telling me it's not enough to talk with an investor. How do you cross that uncanny valley? Man, I, I went down the investor path a little bit with our career shirt and all you're doing when you're getting an investor, unless you're really trying to live in that world is giving up a part of your dream and giving it away to someone else. And I just don't, I don't see it anymore. Like for me, it just doesn't make any sense. I think if you're an entrepreneur and you're trying to build a creative or creativity-based content-based business, you don't need an investor. But if you're trying to build an app, okay, maybe you need an investor. And in that case, what you need to do is get the app and in as many hands of people as possible and get feedback on it and whatever you can do and then show, hey, there's people who are interested in this, people who are using it. But if it's just like, I don't know, building a prototype and you just need money, I think you have to borrow and scrap from family and friends and anybody that you can't don't take on an actual investor. I would just try and do it so that you keep 100% of the control and everything because otherwise you're just going to give up part of what you, you are trying to create for yourself and forever. That's just how I look at it. I do see the opposite coin a bit where it's like, you could get an investor who has experience in what you're trying to build, that could give you a bunch of value, that could give you some money and then you kind of share that journey together. I just think that's really, really difficult if you have no track record and you're just getting started. It's almost impossible. Right. Just graduating, I would almost suggest figure out a way to make money whether it's through contracting or freelance work and I even see one of my old clients in vision who's now like, they're on, yeah, you know, they're on pace to be like a billion dollar company and when I first met them, they were just basically contractors and we're working with other companies to help them figure out how to create design strategy and an implement design thinking into their process and then they created an app simultaneously like towards the later part of that and then eventually transition into the app. So like maybe if like you have this great idea, maybe there's something there where you can teach and coach other people about how to do that, make some money, then leverage that money that you make so then you can fund this project yourself. Like I feel like there's it's you can't give up control. Yeah. I think people also think investors are a shortcut and I think what it takes to get an investor a lot of times that same amount of time could just be put doing exactly what you said and then you do it yourself, you know, and you're not, you didn't lose anything by doing all that stuff. You actually gained a whole bunch of not giving up control going forward. Yeah, dude, like I think back to very early on like say just at a college like $20,000 was so much money that like somebody but wow, $20,000 oh my god, like I could develop this app and do all this stuff. Realistically $20,000 is not, say if somebody was giving you 20 grand as an investment in a company, that's not much money at all. You want to pay a developer full time to like develop an app. We just spent $10,000 in a developer for a back end for our new project that we're working on called wandering inplay and I mean like what he built is almost nothing and it's an amazing to think like that $10 is huge for us that investment. That's a lot of money to invest but like what he built is really not that much in the grand scheme of things and it's insane how quickly that money goes. So your point is incredibly important like what you could get and what you have to give up in the beginning because if you just have an idea and no track record nothing's built you said like someone's going to want 50% for a small amount of money. You just gave up so much when you could make that happen in a scrappy way anyway. Yeah. Let's see here. I kind of imagine you just making up names and these are just your questions. Yeah, I got uh it's good to be a joke but I was like I was going to try to think of a name that was very close to Matt Diale and not Matt Diale. I got Matt Diale. It's terrible. Uh Don Chan. How do you know when it's a good time to take a risk? How do you decide when it's time to quit when things seem like they won't work out? So taking risks and knowing when to give up. Both two very important things to know is a creative. I think the risk part is when something is nagging at you so much that you can't get it to shut up. It's time to jump on it. Like to me that's when like I left the nine to five world to start my design firm. Uh that was it just it's just kept clawing at me and I had to do it. And and that was the same thing with you know wanting to write my book. Like I just had this idea. I had this stuff on it to do and like I kept like all right I just have to take this risk and I had to do it. And a lot of times I think people really see risks as more risky than they actually are. And it's because they think about like I have to quit my job and start this thing. No you don't. You keep working at your job for six months. You save up money. You cut back when all your expenses. You build up a buffer. Then when you take that risk it's much less risky and you actually have something to fall back on. So I'll let you respond to risk as well and then we're going to quitting back before. Yeah I think it's it's it's about calculated risk. It's for me going into a hundred thousand dollars in student loan debt at such a young age and realizing how much that trap made how much that weight of that debt was holding me from making and taking risks really changed my perspective to where I'm not you know say even like if to take an investor on like that I would see as a risk. I'm like well that's a hundred thousand dollars I have to pay back or if I buy a house. All right that's I don't know if that's worth it because then that's going to restrict my freedom and it's going to restrict the risks and the decision that I can make. Leaving freelance leaving you know a six figure plus salary making a lot of money to make no money was a big risk to to to start a podcast is a risk but I was ready because I calculated that decision and I thought really through it to make sure that I was making the right decision. So it's um for me I think for everybody it's going to be a little bit different. Their their threshold for risk is going to be different but for me and just coming from my experience of being in debt I definitely air on the side of caution and I'm not going to jump before I have my parachute. Yeah well and I think it's just touching on the debt thing real quick because I do want to make sure we talk about it's quitting question but like we had our hundred twenty four thousand dollars debt so we beat you but I was two people so we could achieve it but like when we hit that number it was equally parts scary and also a little bit gratifying that we hit it and drew line the sand because it was like I never want to be at this point again. I don't want to feel this way again and it wouldn't feel trapped by it again and so I almost feel like you have to get to some of those points and you can't avoid them because you have to learn that lesson because imagine if you didn't have that hundred thousand dollars in debt and then all of a sudden you started doing a filmmaking thing you started making documentaries and you're like oh I'll take on the best just take on this and like now I'll send you a three hundred thousand dollars in debt. Now I have to work my way out of that I didn't ever have a lesson I never learned a lesson that a younger earlier stage of money to be able to avoid it so I'm almost grateful for the debt that we had because it's like I'll never get to that point again never in life and I want you to get close to it because that's how much I learned from that experience. So yeah let's do that last question all right that's gonna be the last question for the podcast and then we'll quit the podcast. When do you know when to quit when do you know when to put an end of things when it's not working? Yeah I think there's a lot of people who myself included who think of quitting and failing as the same thing and I think quitting is something where if you're the person deciding to quit you are in the driver's seat you're in control. I think failing a lot of times happens to you I think quitting is something you choose to do and so that's kind of how I look at it now is quitting to me creates an opportunity for something else to exist. So I'm quitting doing the I read a shirt business well guess what that just opened up all these doors for now I can create all my courses I can create software I can create other crazy projects I didn't have time to do that before so that quitting actually was beneficial to me. Now unfortunately that was also associated with the failure so it's tough that quitting feels very difficult to me but now I feel really empowered that I get the choice to quit projects you know like I'll make I've made a couple online courses and I've quit them I've shut them down I've stopped selling them they've continued to do fine but guess what they took a bunch of time and energy that I didn't want to spend anymore I want to invest that in other things so I intentionally quit them so I can create space for this other stuff. I think that's a great place to end this podcast on. You just want to quit this podcast. Yeah that's it this is the last episode I've ever done. Thank you so much for coming on this show if people want to hear from you and see what you're up to where should we send them. Wanderingamefully.com I think is the thing I'll chill here all advertised is this business I'm building with my wife and you know right now we're in the phases of building it we've got this whole behind the scenes thing where you can see everything that it's taken for us to build it all these posts that we've written about the process which is really fun but eventually it'll be a place for intentional creatives independent creatives who want to build a life for themselves and they can kind of join this community that we have and we just love the term Wanderingamefully like it encapsulates us so well just this experimentation but also with purpose and calculation so yeah I'll just have a lot of fun doing that. Awesome and thanks for doing the podcast thank you for having me and that is a wrap. And that's the podcast for this week thank you so much for listening if you want to find out more about this podcast you can go to groundupshow.com all right thanks for listening thanks for watching see you next week
