# Men's Mental Health // Ground Up 093
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7USGrnGcFL0
Subscribe here 👉 https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCsrVzMMYCqbSPDT1TwFwVnA


Find Dan here:  https://evryman.com
Support the show:  http://www.patreon.com/mattdavella

Dan Doty is the founder of everyman and co-founder of the tv show MeatEater. You've seen him on the Joe Rogan Experience talking about his programs to get men to open up. Today we chat about the importance of addressing our emotions, what camping has taught Dan, and the simplicity and freedom of escaping into the wilderness.

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** 
**Date:** 2019-01-08

## Transcript
 Hey guys and welcome back to the ground up show. My name is Matt Diavella this week great podcast But first a housekeeping item that's very important if you like watching this show I'm gonna be moving the ground up show the video version that is to a new and separate YouTube channel from here on out Starting next week. It's gonna be found at youtube.com slash ground up show I've got a link right at the top of the description down below if you want to subscribe to that right now That would be great. You'll continue to get the podcast nothing's gonna change about it It's just gonna be on a new platform. The reason behind it is that every time I upload a video every time I share something with you guys on this channel Or the new ground-up show podcast channel. I want you to know exactly what you're gonna get Not exactly the content that's gonna be within it, but the platform the the way that the The messages communicated the long-form conversational style of a podcast is very different from the short Edited eight minute videos that I normally make on this channel. So just trying to make it clear Just trying to think in the long-term what's this gonna look like in a couple years How am I gonna be able to grow each of these platforms in different ways and imagine? Not everybody that watches my videos here on this channel We'll also want to watch the podcast, but if you are one of those people then feel free to go down below right now Click on that link and click subscribe Thank you guys for watching and enjoy the show This week I'm joined by Dan Dodie the founder of every man You've seen him on the Joe Rogan experience and the today show discussing his programs aim to get men to open up Today would discuss the importance of addressing our emotions What camping over a thousand nights has taught him and the simplicity and freedom you get by disconnecting into the wilderness There is something so freeing about not having to choose every goddamn thing every moment of the day This podcast is add free thanks to listener support go to patreon.com slash Matt Diavella to help keep it independent And get access to exclusive videos on filmmaking and lifestyle design with new content coming every month Again, that's patreon.com slash Matt Diavella enjoy the show All right, Dan. Thank you so much for being on the podcast today. Welcome in sight of the chat with you Yeah, like a lot of topics that I think we're gonna get into that haven't quite been covered on the podcast Before so I'm excited about that before we get into it. Can you tell me just a little bit about The work that is that you do right now. Yeah, I'll give in you a proper intro before the show But I think it's always good to hear it in your own words. Yeah, so I'm the CEO and the co-founder of every man We're an organization that creates the space and the gives the education and the teaching from men to learn how to Connect to other humans and themselves by the simple process Of being vulnerable of owning it and understanding what we feel and sharing it with other people, which is Surprised to many women and Sort of an interesting thing to say, but it's actually a revolution or anything for most men to be able to say You know what I'm actually really scared right now, and I don't know what to do and to have that simplicity of emotion It's a vulnerable thing and it's nothing. It's not it's not a thing that men Are good at but when we do it it creates a human connection that we're all very much needing It seems like it's like happening at a very important time as well Yeah, considering everything that's been going on in the past couple of years I mean, it's it's when you look at the world 10 15 years ago in terms of A man's role and what's expected of a man. It's very different or at least it's It's quickly changing it seems like there's this movement of people So I think it's actually interesting. I think that you know what what we're doing has been done We're not the first ones to do this right there's been people doing this for a long time I don't know that the need has actually grown that much I think it's just come to a boiling point I think that the the impact of the harm that men are having on themselves on other people in the world is just I mean Obviously, it's come to to ahead with a me-to movement where women thank goodness You know have stood up and said God, this isn't okay Like no more we have to step up. So yes I don't know that culture has shifted fundamentally and that's why it's happening But I do think we've found a seam in terms of Timing of when the world's ready actually I was terrified for most of my adult life because I knew I had to do this thing I knew I had to step up and say these things and be the guy to share this message But I was terrified and I I was scared how the world was gonna accept it and I feel like It was just in a way I was Biting my time impatiently until the world was ready like okay, we're ready to ready to do this thing so bring it Yeah, it seems like that's a hard thing to talk about even to your close family or friends to to be vulnerable I think and sometimes it's it's even harder to be vulnerable with the people that are closest to you Absolutely it is because there's a you have an entire life and relationship of built up meaning and you have these implicit Not expressed understandings between people that you love right and so are you gonna rock the boat and just go against them So that's one of the things that we have men's groups where men come together to practice We have retreats with wilderness expeditions and there is something powerful and helpful about going to a place where You're not anonymous because you say your name, but you don't necessarily have these deep built-up Relational histories with these other people. So yeah, I think I think it's a a lot of what you see Happening in our organization is men come in they learn the skills they practice. They see how it feels once you've opened up Which is fucking remarkable and then peace by peace They start to bring it back into their lives in their relationship So it's literally something that happens all the time is like a man will share something with his group that Maybe hasn't shared it doesn't like to share it's uncomfortable to feel and to express But where he really needs to say it is with his girlfriend and so the group is there Really to practice it's like a gym. It's like okay get it out here and like get over that first hard step and that's that's really dialed Like what do you really feel like? Let's diggy like really deeper. What what is it and then from that place you can go home and be hey honey I'm not happy with XYZ And it's that's kind of how it works organically It's funny because I was watching in a couple of videos on your YouTube channel today and and some people were just giving testimonials talking about their experience and somebody was like I think did you tell anybody that you were going on a manager treat and he said I told people I was going on a retreat Not a man's retreat because there is something about it and there's even something to me That's very intimidating about totally as somebody who has never done it as somebody who would be very I would I would say very open to doing it and even like after just diving deep this morning and watching your TED talk and stuff And I'm like shit. I got to do this I mean as the further you start to get into it, the more you realize that you can get something out of it Yeah, but there's still I don't know if it's a stigma, but there's something just resistance that's Saying well first of all, it's just Intimidating to be in a group of other men because you're and to be vulnerable and other men men It just seems like the most difficult thing to overcome is that first step. It's true. It's a speed bump Actually we did a workshop recently a co-ed workshop and a woman gave it I don't remember her name, but she gave it the best expression I've ever seen. It was like man that that first That first hump. It's like a speed bump that you got to get over but when you get over it's like whoa It's this is actually okay, but it's big. You know, I would never downplay the the intensity of of how Yeah, it's it is it's built from a stigma, but it's also a very immediate felt sense of fear It's scary. It should be scary especially for men when it's just not how we operate We don't operate that way, but you know like I like to contextualize it think about For example, whim Hof and his ice bath method like you know breathing a bit and then sitting in an ice cold bath for as long as you can And that's not normal either. That's hard. That's painful, you know and this is a for me the emotional The vulnerability this piece this it's what I love about it what I think is Helping it catch on so quickly is that although it is scary the results it is low hanging fruit This is the lowest hanging fruit of personal development that I can find anywhere because it is fast and hard and impactful The impacts are immediate because it taps into our human wiring it taps into this like This way of being in connection of humans that is I think so fundamental and core as social mammals as we are wired and so when you get there It's like oh man Yeah, this is whoa like and you know, so it's very impactful and it doesn't take We have these exercises, you know, where for example we would just kind of make eye contact and Share something that vulnerable with each other and it's It it causes a cascade of like Physiology that changes things like like what we do is we practice paying attention to how our bodies feel And paying attention to what emotions we have and so with that awareness as we connect through here it is it's almost like I use the example like Extreme sports sometimes like the rush you get the fear and stepping through the fear is really intent it's very real and But then on the back end of it is just this incredibly healing and helpful Yes, it's funny you don't have to Walk no shame to Tony Robbins, but you don't exactly have to walk over hot coals in order to have these peak experiences The fact that you can simply just look at somebody and make eye contact dude. It's kind of wild I'm talking about yeah, that's exactly what I'm talking about. Yeah, it's not that far away. It's scary It's not complicated It's like it's not a complicated thing. It's it's it's hard I think in many ways most people would rather do the whim-hoff jumping out ice bath Why do you should probably do both? Yeah, but but here's what's happening already is it's starting to normalize in people's lives and people are bringing How it's impacting back and it's just like oh my gosh. It's so cool. So I had dinner with someone last night And so the basic process we do we call it a check-in right so we'd sit here and I'd say I'm feeling I'll just share my my experience what I'm experienced right right now with you so I feel I feel like my legs are heavy my face feels a little drawn downward. I'm tired I also feel excited to be here. I'm having fun talking to you. I like the excitement of being on the camera And I feel sad for what's happening in my home. I just had a newborn my wife is really hurting and is having a hard time so I feel this pulled toward her And I feel overwhelmed with all everything that's been happening lately Just things have been moving so fast. I don't feel like I've caught up All right, so that's just like me sharing what's true for me right now. So people are saying you know what my brother and I When we when we have a call now instead of just like shooting the shit and saying things that don't mean anything and doesn't really impact each other We just said the first minute we're each going to check in and like from there and it's like oh my gosh So my my dad and I are doing this my dad and I are having like virtual coffee as often as we can and So my dad came to to a retreat this year and we've we've opened this line of communication that just means so much and I never and We didn't ever had that in our lives. So I'm gonna rambling here, but what I'm saying is is like yes It is intense at the beginning, but like after a while it just becomes Well, why wouldn't we just be more open with each other? Why do we need to keep such a distance between us when it's really what we all want at the end of the day? Yeah, and I see this happen a lot in in relationships Especially very early on like you play this game back and forth with the significant other that you're starting to date and It's very tense and nobody's saying how they're feeling Even like sexually especially you will never talk about what's going on in the bedroom You'll just try to guess figure out what they want and you do that across every aspect of that relationship in the beginning for the most part And I remember Early on I learned the hard way from just early relationships and screwing up dramatically by not Talking about how I was feeling trying to understand how they're feeling so then my current relationship with my fiance It was from the beginning Stumbling into the most uncomfortable conversations like stumbling not really understanding how to enter it But like let's just start this thing. I feel really weird about this conversation Yeah, but I would feel even more weird on a film even more uncomfortable if we never got there and I think a lot of people have just trouble Just basically communicating and having uncomfortable conversations totally and so For me, there's I guess there's four things that come up, but I'll just say one and that is One of the reasons that it's difficult to have those conversations I mean, there's a lot, right? There's you know Not one of the hard other people fear of judgments all the all these things you can you can name a hundred things But one of the things that we also do is we often are very Unpracticed at feeling difficult emotion especially with another person, right? So a lot of times those things when we have a argument or we have that tension in a relationship Is because the actual physical somatic like physiological experience we're having and the emotional experience we're having It's really uncomfortable for us, right? And we do all these things as humans to off she offload that and go around and jump over it and hide it and push it down All these things, but it so it but it really is it's nothing more than a skill It's a learned and practice skill to be like oh God, okay, here's I'm not actually feel what I'm feeling and I don't know let you know And when there is the ability to create a safe Understanding between people to do that it's just like Right through it right to it like how much of our life energy and time are we spending Skirting around shit, man, you know So there really is a skill component, you know, and it's It's like you know in some ways I consider what we do kind of like a Almost like a technology of human relating or a technology of human connection and You know, so we can kind of run programs to create safety, you know, we can we so our basic formula is we slow down first All right, so we're not gonna engage in these conversations when jets crazy we're gonna slow down intentionally come together Speak from our experience because as soon as you jump out of speaking from experience and you talk about your opinions or your judgments things like that it Makes it possible and more probable that it's going to be fighting for territory and things But if you speak from your experience if you just like I'm really sad or really scared No, nobody nobody can really argue that or take that from you all right speaking from experience is the way to Crick connect and create the safety so I think that in the same way that you said People have a speed bump about just Going to a man's group or joining one of these communities in the same way There's a speed bump into having that first typical conversation with a partner. Totally isn't partner whatever it is And then once you do that Does each one after I just get a little bit easier does like a friction start the yeah, where away. Yes for the most part I would say that's that's mostly true. I do think that It still is scary. I mean to to be vulnerable. I think has an edge to it's Throughout I would say for myself so I've been doing this for a long time Yes, it's gotten a lot easier, you know like And each step along the way there seems to have been like another layer of the onion Where I'm like oh my god. I have to do that. I have to be vulnerable again now in this place with this person with this feeling Because we have many layers of things inside of us that you know we either don't want to address or we don't want to feel so it's not like Yeah, it's not a quick switch that all of a sudden. Oh, I'm free and vulnerable everywhere. Yeah, but So we think of it. I think of it as a practice. You know, just just like just like anything else like meditation or working out or anything else The the reason that I feel like people are really being drawn to it again is the Is the impact is Intensely noticeable The benefits it's not like a you know some people start meditating like oh, I think I feel a little you know more peaceful or so But it's like no, it's like my relationships are shifting dynamically and powerfully and I'm receiving the human connection that I need fundamentally So it's powerful There's something about I think being in a group full whether it's I imagine it's very similar men and women in a group of men or in a group of women Because I was just talking to my partner about this that it gets you to It's it's hard to explain but I remember growing up in high school We would have poker. I would be in groups of boys and men all the time 10 15 it was very common. We play poker. We have late night slumber parties whatever And then as you grow up and like in college you still have that a little bit it becomes more co-ed in college And then once you leave college all your relationships become one on one Let's go out and get some coffee. Let's get a drink. You're not having these these group dynamics anymore And then you get a family and then you're you're more Like hey, let's Netflix and show tonight. Let's just stay home and it becomes more comfortable and you become more siloed And you have to really take that extra effort. I think to be able to continue to you do grow those kinds of groups and That dynamic correlates with men's mental health decreasing as men get older like middle age men have the fewest and least deep friendships of any Subsection of our population and who's killing themselves Middle-aged men You know like it's a vital nutrients to our lives to have friendships and Connections and I think you're right. That's a great question about or a big great point about the the group nature of it, right? You know like it's that team We do programs with army special forces guys and we have an integration program. We're bringing special forces vets in with civilians and run programs. I mean it's freaking amazing But you know one thing to note is Most I would it's a generalization, but a lot of people in our culture would consider navy seal special forces green braise These guys is sort of the pinnacle of manliness they live 24 hours a day in teams of men. It's it's it's like they are So connected to each other. They live a cooperative life in a way And so I think that's something that just kind of gets missed in our you know It's not just these individual men like just doing the one man thing. It's just it's not it You know, I mean I don't want to make any I want what I want to say is we weren't programmed that way We didn't evolve that way for example. I I was in media for a while and I was part of a group of guys That flew around the world and around the country in the world and went out in the wilderness and hunted animals and filmed it and it was like a modern day version of a like a You know communities hunting party that went out and It's just something so So freaking awesome about it, you know like a group of guys is a really I don't know it's really important for men's mental health and they're overall wellness How do you guide the the conversations to be more positive because I think there's probably I mean it's not a every time men get together. It's all great and we also go about our feelings Because there are certainly our When men get together can that masculinity in a hot or at least hostility come out a little bit more When you have all that testosterone in one place Well, it's interesting. So what would you picture in terms of hostility? Would you picture in terms of like bashing women or like what would you? I guess you could say yeah bashing women you could Cat calling because you're not you don't cat call by your yeah sometimes people do but I guess often times cat calling is a A product of like appearing cool in front of your guys So my my initial thought on that is that that type of behavior is a defensive surface mechanism That isn't like the heart of the matter. It isn't truly what men are actually feeling that's that's like a mask that is put on To look cool to to gain some sort of Rank or some sort of you know perspective from other people and that so it comes down to intention, right? Yeah, of course you could get a group of guys together and go drink beer and and you know What would they talk about like maybe football and Their sexual exploitations and things like that which is I'm not even gonna demonize that I mean whatever It's not necessarily all bad but With the intention of getting together to Just be honest, right? Let's just call it that to be truthful You're gonna go right through that stuff and if a guy you know is kind of hung up on On something you're gonna go right through it down deeper into what's actually happening and there may be real anger there And so that's great so we create a space where yeah, let your fucking anger out like actually be angry because that's one of the things I think is actually happening is that real true deep anger We don't have anywhere in our life to express it and so as it's suppressed and down there It comes out in these shitty ass ways where we just backed by our partners or maybe yeah We do it comes out in some gross Feelings toward women or toward whatever, you know, and so it's just this like uncomfortable leaking of Shitty stinking energy, you know, but when the when you can get down into it and say oh yeah fucking let it out, man Get it like let it like You know because feeling and experiences and emotions they don't go away They don't dissipate you know you can't suppress things down and keep adding to them and just expect that they're just gonna Like what like dissolve disappear. It doesn't work that way Right because I got you've mentioned this before though, too in in that I guess historically men were Protectors of families of communities and And now You have that and maybe the military and in certain disciplines, but for the accountant So I started doing this working with adolescents, right and these adolescents were really struggling and hurting Causing harm to their families and that's just like I couldn't help but thing like why what is what's going on here? Like these are a mate like I would get out there. I'd connect with these kids to be like Can't you fucking amazing like you're amazing human you're a kid like I think you're awesome and It just sort of naturally started to see so like parents would come for parent Weeks or dads would come out. I'd lead a trip with boys and their dads and it was just like oh Like not on purpose, but our Inability to Get through our own shit spills on to our children spills on to our wives like I think that men's Willful or subconscious ignoring of our own repressed emotion trauma feeling stress suffering Is a huge Cause of harm in our in our world on many different layouts skills right so like Raping rape suicide like being the dark scary intense violent ones, but then even just like a father who Has a hard time really being present for his kid. I can imagine that's like That's kind of like the blanket story. That's like what has happened almost globally, right and so The ability to start peeling back some of those Relating I mean we need when we grow. I'm a dad now. I have two little boys right a two week old in a two-year-old And it's more apparent than anything in the world to me that they need me to be there Not just physically not just financially, but just like with them They need me to look in their eyes and hold them and play with them and give them my love fully and Men and our culture have not been showed trained taught to show up and be able to do that and it's not just songs Right, it's daughters. It's it's partners. It's like we are holding we're withholding our humanity from the world That's funny that reminds me of Bill Burr has a bit on just how man just push it down and further down and down until eventually just explode And that's what happens all the time. I you know, I see it in friends. I see it in parents It's not it's more common than it is uncommon and to see people just holding back how they truly feel yeah I you know I've been kind of sitting on this for all but I believe that we're at the very beginning the first rustlings of a of I mean you take like that you know sort of Nutrition world or the paleo movement of trying to get back to a more natural way to eat or minimalism and a more natural and human oriented way to to live with stuff and things I really believe that we're about to enter an era where we talk about our our internal and relational status is in in the same kind of frame in how are we actually wired to healthily relate to each other and you know so that means everything how to parents how to and this is going I'm not saying it's just starting but I do think that our culture is I think it's a necessary and almost organically unstoppable next step. We were talking a little bit before the podcast about minimalism and simplicity and as it relates to kind of living in the wild and getting more connected with nature how do you view that because I know a lot of people when they think about minimalism they think of walled and living in a cabin in the middle of the woods and I know that's definitely something that's very close to you and it's something that you spend a much of your life connecting with so and and for me personally as somebody who grew up middle class family not really lived next to a farm but not really too connected with nature but also going on these getaways to my parents cabin in the middle of the woods and experiencing that but now as an adult living in a major city feeling often deprived of a connection with nature. Yeah yeah I was just sharing before we started that I feel I've been trying to quantify accurately how many nights I've slept on the ground basically it's it's it's in the thousands for sure and the first things that jump out about that is I loved from an early early age like being in the woods being on a river or being outside was it just it just made me deeply happy just like naturally my mom would take me on these blocks and we lived in North Dakota where there it was basically just farm country it was flats it was it was not a nature area right but there's some rivers we would walk these shelter belts shelter belt is a line of trees that farmers plant between fields to keep erosion down from wind so the wind doesn't come here pick up all your tops well but we would walk down these shelter belts together and I should remember how happy it made me and yeah so after college I became a wilderness therapy guide and I spent a handful of years leading groups out in the woods and you know what it really did for me first was it just started I used to joke that I didn't need a therapist because I had a sleeping bag and that really meant something to me and it still does when I say it and what I feel like it inevitably did was start to thaw me out like the just the connection the slowness the and I would even say I don't need to get into this but I do think that there's something about I think there's something to the idea maybe you heard of like the earthing practice they do in Japan or just they actual contact with major like you know without cement and shoes and everything in between us I think there's something there about being grounded and being in touch honestly but yeah man like you know going out for 21 days with a backpack where you have all of your food well 20 days is a lot of food for once easy to get like a stage so maybe eight days of food a time whatever but you know drinking out of a river or a lake you know pitching your tarp like a lot of this I didn't even sleep at 10 to his under the stars or under a tarp I mean think about that I mean think about this you know beautiful home we're in with all of the things but the the shift to literally a tarp you can fold up into this thing and it weighs like a couple ounces like that's your shelter that's your home it just makes me so wildly happy you just to say that I mean it's it's ridiculous and the like the kind of food you eat out there you know like you you eat oatmeal every morning you maybe have freeze dried food or something so simple that you that you can rehydrate with water or that you can cook in a few minutes what an immense amount of freedom I mean like we could we could flip up our phone and order any cuisine in the entire world right now and have it delivered to us in a half hour fuck that how like how like I get how good that is and I like that too but like there is something so freeing about not having to choose every goddamn thing every moment of the day like it's overwhelming you know we think about our how we evolved as humans I mean what the way we live now is so wildly out of the norm from what was possible before so there's something about the regularity and the simplicity of that I mean and that's just even that's just one element of this what really struck me about all the wilderness work was how we begin to relate as humans away from all the distraction away from the noise away from the other connection and you know it's literally like making the decision to you know way it's very similar to what we do in every man we just intentionally like come together to really see each other right but I mean if you go on the wilderness with six people like so far away from anybody else I mean you can't escape each other because you need each other to do what you're doing and you can't like duck out of your relationship so I've done quite a few experiments and I'm trying to do more and more of them in terms of relationship with technology where I recently did a 30 day social media detox which is just to take a step away from it because we think it's so important we think it's when we're caught up in it and when we're checking every single day andcessantly a lot of times we become trapped within it and I'm curious about your relationship with technology in that way because it seems like you need it in terms of what you're doing in terms of the spread of meshes and to talk you have a podcast and very much connected with technology but also understand that actually separating from it will give you more clarity yeah I'm actually wrestling with that like immediately right in my immediate life right now I feel I'm as addicted as anybody you know I want to screen as much as anybody out there and but what I I spent a lot of time I have a meditation practice it's very important to me and it's all about feeling the experience my body's having it's a body-based meditation style and so if I don't pay attention to my screen time and my social media time you know I just get caught up and it's just that but when I when I can slow down a little bit and start to feel how I feel as I do it it's gross yeah it's a gross like I could feel it even right now kind of in the pit of my that kind of my sternumary it's like oh this is like a weird addiction where you're not in control of what's happening and you're I can feel the need for the hit of serotonin or whatever it is you know and a little like not even the like but more of the comment I guess so that's true yeah because I was doing some research on it too it's it's actually the anticipation in which we're addicted to yeah it's a feeling of like I like I need because it's very it's not that often that the content itself pays off with the expectation of what you're hoping to get out of it because it's one in a hundred it'll be an amazing opportunity that today show has an email for you and you know to me it's those amazing bursts that you like oh it's worth it to just check oh maybe something else came in and we get so caught in that feedback loop that it's it's really difficult to break it really is so for myself you know I make sure to unplug daily almost daily you know I try to do daily you know full hour of meditation to really not it was but here's the thing too I think it's you know it's not just social media I can feel it on a spectrum too it's like you know I don't know yesterday was really just hired and kind of down and struggling and you know I just was like oh am I going to call to make me feel better you know and I did and I got like it was early morning I couldn't sleep like call five people nobody answered I just and then I'm like I want a man just fucking sit down let's just set that on a bench and downtown LA I was like yeah I feel pretty shitty right now they did this research study where they had people uh in a room and you could either sit there by yourself or get a mile to electric right I saw that and most people men actually were more inclined to to do it it was like 60 70 percent men clicked it maybe 20 to 30 percent women clicked that insane it's crazy just because we we can't sit still with our own thoughts and I imagine this was even before technology I think this is just something that we have we try to distract ourselves we try to just keep busy we're not only try we do we're very successful but I think that yeah right you have to start looking in and you have to start identifying how you feel so that's the bigger practice not only identifying but letting yourself do it letting yourself do it that's actually the deeper practice here it's not just sharing it's not just talking about it it's actually feeling that that's the harder thing that can I let myself feel like uncomfortable inside can I let myself be intensely angry right those I mean that's the that's the harder thing that's like it's not just like I'm I'm sad but there's neurology or neurobiology to back this up right so just very simply the ability to identify and name your emotion is is you're able to basically disarm larger cascades of deeper emotion so at the beginning or with mild to medium level emotions or feelings naming it like feeling it naming it basically is like okay I don't have to ramp this up I don't need to escalate right so name it to tame it is the first one feel it to heal it is sort of the deeper level right so and that's what we do at our retreats at what's what we do in our group is like not only are we gonna talk about this but hey man it's okay like you don't even have to talk right now but let yourself be really angry let it let it be there and then when you're moved to say something from that place do it you know um and here's what happens which is deeply beautiful and let's shift it let's say just to sadness or loss or grief right so say um let's see if I can get an example in my life um well let's say loss of a relationship right and so you lose a relationship and um what would you imagine would come up sadness you know maybe fear being alone distraught whatever that is and you'd say you don't have a therapist and maybe have some friends but maybe don't let yourself go all the way open with your emotions you come to a men's group and the guys are just there for you and you know you say that you're hurting about this and they just affirm what you're feeling it's like yeah and we're here with you as you feel this and so there's this ability to let go into the actual emotion that's been pent up and you know it's just naturally you kind of sometimes tumble or fall into this outpouring of emotion or you can just sit there and you know have a good cry or or let yourself just what like our emotions are natural things they they have this process it's like digestion almost you know they like they need to have their moment and then they go and then they pass like it is real and so that's why the fact that men don't go to derby generally speaking it's improving and don't have these deep level of friendships that's you know I think there's multi-faceted ways to approach this problem but a group is really it's just really powerful it's it's it's like amazing maintenance you know I still have a group myself and my community and it becomes the anchor of my week you know it's just like it's like a it's a gut check it's a head check it's a feelings check and like not only is it a place for me to like sort of catch up and let out what I've been suppressing because I mean this and I'm gonna like a fucking human and suppress still the majority of what I feel even though I'm dedicating my life you know to help not do this it's hard yeah it's really hard is there is there something to do some of us sometimes over feel and and harp on things that we should be letting go of um say if we continue to relive in a bad experience or traumatic experience is there a point where we should say okay I'm ready to step away and let go of this and not let it define my life anymore well that's such a good question and I'm not gonna I'm not gonna answer this with authority I'm just gonna answer it from experience um I believe that there is a lot of looping that occurs you know or retraumatization sort of circling and and going into an experience or a feeling that's there um I do believe that with the right guidance and support that you can drop into that experience and have the support to go a little bit further a little deeper to a place that's I do believe most of those can be say completed or healed and one of some one of the missing things and this is sort of under underlies a lot of therapy and a lot of just human connection protocol stuff is that our brain when we when we re-experience say a trauma while fully connected and cared for by somebody so say we were here you know I'm fully present with you and you were able to go through that experience there is there is the ability to shift and change and heal that neurobiologically that's one of the sort of deeper simple underpinnings of therapeutic process and things is just that point you're not alone in this this time I'm gonna be here with you and it changes things it really does so I think it is the question is should I step away from something at times yeah probably definitely you know and I don't know what that means and whether that's necessarily possible but you know if that means that I get you know I know that stepping into a certain community of people like sets me down this this course of action like of struggle should I not go there yeah probably you know but with the right guidance and support could I use those triggers to go deeper through it and actually come to a place of healing and resolution where my body's no longer holding onto it I think that's absolutely possible too if somebody wanted to find a men's group where do they go for it every men dot com e the r y m a n dot com and how does it work so we have probably about a hundred groups around the country in the world right now and yeah you just put in your zip code or your town and search and pop up whether there's a group near you if there's not a group near you we have a simple process to start your own group we have curriculum we have mentoring we have a we have support to help you get it going it doesn't take it doesn't take any training to start this it takes willingness it really takes just being willing to like step in and be vulnerable and lead by example so and there's other organizations out there too and actually we're championing all other watch and say most other men's organizations too and I mean listen what I would say is like whatever feels like you feel okay enough to go like go find a therapist seriously talk to you just one body and say hey would you maybe be willing to like I don't know like share a little bit more about what's actually going on you know do that you know do whatever how does the the process works say like say I joined up to a men's group I'm just curious to understand how does that look like is it like once a month meetings once a week or usually weekly yeah usually weekly I recommend weekly to anywhere between two to four hours I think the sweet spotty stands up being two and a half or three hours long it's usually six to ten guys I think that's a healthy size group then we need all I mean wherever guys can't meet just a private quiet space I know alcohol no poker or generally is it just sitting around it yes so yeah I mean yeah yeah it's I guess it's suggestions our recommendations our recommendations is that you it is basically like a circle of chairs right and it's and it's uh we have a process and it and it's we have like a you come in you have a first check in like you know everybody's kind of says where they're coming from what they're feeling and then everybody gets a good chunk of time every night whether it's ten minutes or fifteen minutes whatever your time allows for to really be heard and to go into what you're feeling and really have that opportunity and then usually there's time at the later if somebody's really struggling with something you set aside a half hour towards the end to really you know give a guy some time and attention and I think from the outside you know yeah you're like wow we're gonna talk for three hours the actual stress for groups is is that they never have enough time to actually go all the way to where the the problem in reality is the opposite yeah so you know again we don't have any hard and fast rules here like if you want to drink a beer go for it but our recommendation would be try this first try it without see how it feels to sit down no phones no booze no other activities I mean that's the whole point right it's the the whole point is like be present with each other you know really sit down and let yourself be there all the way and yeah it's it's I get I do really get even though I've been doing this for long I get how weird it may come across at the beginning and you know there's no it's not this is a normal in a lot of ways right yeah I think it's the best things the best things aren't normal yeah like what's the alternative just continue to judge through whatever your exactly the other amazing thing so here's just the anecdotal example so I started a men's group when I moved Montana um which I was still at that point in my life I was still terrified to start my own group that's that's how much I understand how scary this stuff is like as little as like three or four years ago how's like oh my god what are people gonna think of me and but here's what happened eight guys committed uh within six months I think five of the eight guys had started their own dream business the project that they were like waiting on holding on so it's not just about like the outpouring of emotion it's like all of a sudden you have a place to put out there like who you are what you really want and the natural reaction is guys are like fuck yeah of course you have to do that what do you like what are waiting for like we're here for you and there's the natural support the natural sort of power behind yourself is massive and so all of a sudden you're not doing life alone and these things that you all man I would love to you know God I would love to really write for amazing one day and but you never have like enough you know I don't know energy coming into really push you to do it all of a sudden every single week you're sitting down with seven or eight guys that are like dude of course you got to do it do it what do you want what how can I help and it's so it's not only just the so we kind of think about it in terms of like the there's a part of getting like like a level set like to a place of being okay and then from that place of okay is where things get really interesting it's like what do you want to build man what do you want to create how do you want to live and that is fun and exciting yeah I feel you need you need other people to be able to push you and to encourage and push each other and I know like myself I want to be able to do it by myself just set out with an idea to create something it's I need other people to bounce ideas off of any other people to tell me that I'm not crazy and it sounds like when you have a group like this that's actually supportive and that's not they're not idea killers they're like yeah that's great do it because that's what it's all about it's all but just a learning process well and it's the space where people can be honest where if you can say your dream or whatever but it's but you can also have guys if it isn't if it doesn't like feel right to other people they can say well is that I mean I don't know is that really gonna work and that but the thing is that rarely happens but to have that ability for honest feedback yeah god man I launched every man I created every man with the support of my group like they backed me man like you know like they just like they're like yes do it every week and you know and that's part of the reason that having the regularity of like a weekly group is so powerful because we can run away from ourselves so easily you know so say if it's and we do say that when you're in a group like you you're gonna commit to this you're gonna come every week right because otherwise you know like if it's super an optional thing like our subconscious is gonna push us or maybe it's our kind of what part of us but the fear of like it's scary to do what we really want to do right and so this this tendency we're talking about where we evade or ignore like that can be really powerful so like it'll be like oh I'm really just not feeling well I'm not gonna come to my men's group tonight could actually be derived from a place of like god I'm like really terrified to take this next step in my business you know so it's just kind of like the understanding that our behaviors are often driven by deeper things and when we regularly sit down with each other and allow that to actually clarify where our behaviors are coming from it's really powerful so there's accountability is one of the major like gifts yes groups I imagine it's one of those things where once you get into it you realize I wish I was doing this five years ago ten years ago right because like there's so many I look back to a younger version of myself it's so much social anxiety worry and doubt about starting something creating a podcast or whatever it is becoming a filmmaker and if you had other people there I think that could help lift you up and support you on a continual basis you could get so much further seriously like that is it is it's when young men step into our groups and they're early mid 20s it's like oh my goodness man do you know what you're gonna be able to create in your life do you have any idea how incredible it is that you're here and I got lucky to you I stepped in my first group when I was 27 which at that time or for me it felt young like all the guys in the group were in their 30s and 40s it is true it really is and you know and I don't have any illusion that like a men's group is like the only form of this but like the bigger it messages like come on let's like we're humans we're social social mammals like this do this together like I didn't I got to find the quote or the thinker that I saw this but basically an idea that human genius truly comes from collaboration like the big things like we have this idea that it's just one person's brain that truly are the things to honor or celebrate the most but the reality is that none of us are an island right and what I so as I see every man sort of take off and emerge you know it's not me you know this is this is not me but like our team and the way that we like the synergy between us and the amazing creativity that comes between us it's it's multiplic you know many multiples many many like I don't even know how to quantify but many multiples more powerful and like to just implement that in our life on a regular basis is a game changer that's great you want to wrap up with a couple quick questions here yeah these are quick questions not quick answers and the first one is kind of touched on but if you could look back at a younger version yourself say around 20 years old and not tell yourself to do something differently but just provide yourself some advice what would that advice be oh good well it would I think I would have kickstarted this process and I would have said hey you have some emotions in there the sooner you get access to them the sooner things are going to move forward another piece of advice would have been you're probably too young for thinking that long-term monogamy and like relationship is the best way to live right now I would have tried to get ahead of some pain that I felt in cause and my 20s through relationships but on the honest answer that is I was very fortunate I had some mentors in my life that they didn't ever really give me advice but they somehow gave me permission so I think my 20-year-old self I was in college I was doing an anthropological field studying Ecuador with this incredible man named Jim Beloton his wife Karen and like sitting in the back of this bus you know driving through the mountains of Ecuador and him saying like yeah I want to like go live in Mongolia for their first six months and like you know like through the mountains and live at tribes it's like yeah you should do it you know just like gave me permission to have adventures you know so I feel like I was really well cared for in terms of advice and mentorship and he's just one example of many well that's just a great point though because many of us feel like this the sense of we're going to miss out on something if we maybe take a trip abroad or we live somewhere for six months that just completely off the grid we feel like well if I don't do that then I'm going to miss out on you know starting my career making it all that stuff and it's like you got plenty of time to do that shit yeah so so this was here let me share it this way this was the advice or somehow came to me for whatever reason I got to my live my 20s by just literally following my I just I just somehow got to fucking with like I lived in Panama I lived in Ecuador I did this wilderness work I'd save up money I travel all over the world and for whatever reason I guess I guess I just in some ways I didn't necessarily have a specific professional ambition yet but I was allowed to just live my life and have experience and so for for people in their 20s for young people that's often the advice that I give now is like hey like I'm kind of an adult now let me give you a preview like getting like it kind of sucks and go live like go do what you want to do learn who you are like this system the system is waiting for you when you either need to or feel really called to participate in it but go explore go have experience is like the bottom line for for me it comes down to experience like and I think you know in age I'm just I'm either the oldest millennial live or I'm almost a millennial but I feel like the the lean toward experience and meaningful experience is is I mean it's it's not anything you know that's not said now that's what millennial is want how old are you when you started every man was two years it was 18 months ago 27 I was 35 yeah that's 35 I think that a lot of people they do they feel like you can't start something this late in life and have it be a lot of people feel like well I'm too old now I'm 40 years old I'm 45 years old like yeah I can't I can't start it like why why now and it's like it doesn't take that long you know it's that's that's a question many people I would say great many many many many percent high percentage of people would have some version of that like my dad came on a retreat early this year but for years I've been inviting him and you know I think there was a sense of like just I missed the bolt on this like it's too much it's too late I missed it but like it's just kind of bullshit for any of that I mean it's it's either you it's either you like you honor the truth you haven't said you you don't I think it really comes down to that no matter how old you are no matter what's going on and I get that life's complicated you know like and I've it's I want to be super transparent like I started this company as I started a family I have two young sons and financial like security has been like the last fucking thing that we've had and it sucks it's been really hard so yeah man I mean there's far more practical people than me that I think you should listen to also but I think my wife and I are well practiced at jumping off cliffs and in fact actually in real life we both actually hate that like we're afraid of heights and I don't like those but in terms of you know taking risks to follow what we really feel is true I think we're we're pretty into that what was the tattoo you said you'd get all at once all I want not by choice and I mean I'm changing it I'm officially declaring that no more all I want to now it's step by step I just a little bit overwhelming right now everything we moved we had a new baby like every man is taking off it's just like whoa it's it's I think sometimes we we take on too much responsibility and we we think we need to do everything at once when in fact we can drop stuff but it's hard to drop things because the stuff that you're doing now you you you you care about it you enjoy every single aspect so you couldn't imagine well how could I slow down business but in a lot of ways we don't have a choice because it's either you're going to grind yourself down to the bone and not enjoy anything or you're going to enjoy the few things that you do have totally totally yeah so I have surround myself with the team of smart practical folks too yeah so there's a balance to be found I think that's actually a key to just in like running a business and growing right spawning people you can trust and people that you can delegate to and and yeah so we're starting to we we run our team based on the principles of our groups and so that trust is something that we dive deep into and take completely seriously and we're also starting to corporate work and helping teams and based on our principles because it really is a very effective way to build trust and maintain it that's fascinating because yeah I would imagine if I were to hire an employee now I wouldn't have one on one deep dive conversations with them but that's probably something that would be very important especially if you're trying to build a cohesive you know yeah and it's a little different you know in the in the professional setting I mean you know it's not what we're not going to like heal each other's trauma necessarily in that but there is a level of like baseline can my human self can't my nervous system trust you can do we have safety head can we create safety here where we can interact and be honest and and like yeah think about it we was just talking about this the other night but like the amount of people that for example if your boss sort of mistreates you or something like gives you a hard time like that can really like that hurts deeply and long right and that that's not just like a little thing like you go home and you're stressed out and maybe you sleep poorly and you you know you either take it out on other people or you just kind of suffer by yourself like our work relationships because of the amount of time we spend there are massively impactful on our health and our life and our well-being and so yeah so what if we could just establish work communities that allow for a boss I don't feel very this doesn't feel right to me I feel and I feel scared to tell you this but blah blah blah blah just that that sort of honoring human my partner Lucas Krump calls it that you know a lot of these companies are it's actually inhumane the way people interact professionally it's inhumane and so yeah what we're working on in the list of corporate and team spaces how can we create more deeply human environments I think it's it's putting the people first too because I've seen it just from things that I hear about I've never really had a typical nine to five job but it's amazing when you hear about managers and bosses who value their employees more than the company itself yeah who say hey listen I just want to be honest with you you know you may want to you know I think that you might be able to grow further in a different company yeah maybe hey there's just opportunity at this other company and I can give you an introduction if you want totally like that's the kind of thing that I think the selflessness just trying to take care of each other and not really being well then my performance review is not going to look very good we give this yet totally well and the thing I want to say there too is there's room for balance right so say you have like a team at the head of a company and one person is looking out for the bottom line and the second person is looking out for a new bottom line which is the human interaction with the understanding that when your humans are taking care of their performance their ability to to to impact so like there is real capitalistic underpinnings here it's potential it's possible I saw Al Gore speak yesterday and this is kind of basically what he was saying is that like you know market forces will at some point shift us into this more humane way of living whether that's environmentally or whether that's interconnectedness with you know humanity like it does seem that we're going to lean that way but it is a halt I mean that's I think one of the reasons it's probably scary you know for for I mean what a business business is purposes to make money right and so what we need to do and what I think what we are doing is showing that and it comes back to like what I said about the ministry of business like when you have that environment in that place people like like I said five out of eight of our guys started their own business within six months it's like unlocking their creativity unlocking and that's one of the issues that I like personally before I started every man I felt like I was able to bring maybe 35% of who I was to my job and and 35% of my personality 35% of my passions and probably even though I performed fairly well probably 35% of my potential honestly this month was a big month for you yeah a baby boy you are on the today show travel and all over the place um how do you face moments of doubt I imagine both those in your personal and professional career this past month were tested yeah so how do you enter those positions where you just feel overwhelmed you feel like you're not sure you're going to be able to make the right decision or live up to your own expectations two things I reach out and then I tried to do my best just to stick with it whenever's happening so I had a really big moment of doubt yesterday yesterday morning I had just facilitated a workshop at Summit in LA for what had been probably designed to be 50 people ended up being 350 people um it was a new experience for me it was scary I got done with it and I just felt this like big doubt or void like was that did that go well did I do okay and so I went back to my hotel went to bed couldn't sleep was just sort of like I don't know caught in a shitty space you know and kind of a woke up early um felt terrible felt freaked out felt scared and it was doubt it was like man did I scare something up or you know was this okay and uh and that's what I think I mentioned sort of but I called I called my wife called my dad called my mom nobody was awake I've walked around the street satin or bench um feeling uncomfortable and uh yeah I think you know a couple things I was just like I'm just going to sit here and feel shitty for a while and then um you know ended up a few people called me back and everybody's like what I think is happening then is that you're really just completely fried and you're you know you're kind of shut down right now and you're you know it's going to be okay and something like okay it's going to be okay didn't feel better then I went on with my day I went back into the event um having breakfast and people started coming up to me and being like oh my gosh that was one of the most powerful things I've ever been in and I was really honestly like really like like thank you for telling me like I need like I need a little bit more feedback and as the day went on everybody was just like I got so much amazing feedback and it was you know the truth of what happened started to filter back to me and I put myself in the position to to hear it um so yeah I mean you know you know what it came down to is about like 16 hours of just like a really uncomfortable state but I had people you know supporting me ahead people you know kind of like holding my hand along the way and I just kind of got through it you know like worked out together side and you got a good night of sleep last night and I'm you know I'm feeling I feel confident now you know so it's a process stuck with the process well if you're an egg as if you're not feeling those things then you're you're likely not pushing yourself yeah and it's more than a moment of doubt you know it's like a it's a wave of doubt yeah it's like a yeah definitely all right man well I do it I'm totally sold I definitely want to go on a retreat with every man I know you guys do these pretty frequently throughout the year as well as the men's groups so if people are interested in either of those and want to hear more about you where do we send them everyman.com yep you can find our podcast I do weekly podcast too I'd love to have you on some time yeah we have our events up there we have coaching so myself and and and have a team of coaches that help man do this one on one if a group doesn't feel quite right for you yet yeah our groups on there and everything everything can be found there and yeah I'm super excited about the today show appearance I'm super excited we have a article on men's health coming out this week that a guest of yours yeah green who I love massively he's amazing I wrote it and he and I have become real close and so yeah look out for that too awesome can't wait cool man thanks for doing the show welcome thank you that's it for this week's episode of the ground up show thank you so much for watching and listening this podcast is 100% ad free and is brought to you by Patreon subscribers if you like it access to exclusive videos on filmmaking podcasting and much more go to patreon.com slash mat deevela every contribution will also help to keep this podcast ad free which is pretty damn awesome I appreciate your support and I'll see you next time
