# Ground Up 007 - Cultivate Your Skills w/ RJ Woessner
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7whxAy9LwSM
http://www.groundupshow.com

RJ Woessner is an actor living in NYC and he's doing pretty damn well. But that wasn't always the case. We talk about how he got started out, and how he paved his own lane in the cutthroat world of voice over acting.

More from RJ...
Twitter:  https://twitter.com/rjwoessner
Instagram:  https://instagram.com/rjwoessner
Facebook:  https://www.facebook.com/rjwoessner

More from me...
Website:  https://www.mattdavella.com
Twitter: https://www.twitter.com/mattdavella
Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/mattdavella
Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/matthewdavella

Music
My Own Revalation by The Passion HiFi
Keep Fallin by The Passion HiFi
Finding the Balance by Kevin MacLeod (http://incompetech.com/)
Bama Country - Country by Kevin MacLeod (http://incompetech.com/)
From Russia With Love by Huma Huma
**Keywords:** the ground up show, ground up, podcast, matt davella, Matt D'Avella, RJ Woessner, actor, acting, film, filmmaking, filmmaker, self development, learn, self improvement, 
**Date:** 2017-03-31

## Transcript
 Can you, can you be fucked? It's gone, yes! Welcome to the ground up show! Today on the show, I've got RJ Westerner. He's an actor here in New York, and believe it or not, he's not struggling. But that wasn't always the case. When it first moved here, I had no idea what I was going to do, or how I was going to even get to this point. We talk about how to overcome failure, the importance of getting paid for your art, and why you should think about diversifying your talents. I think naturally, we are persuaded to have one focus. You kind of have to be multi-hyphenated. This is the ground up show. Alright, so today on the show, I have with me a voiceover actor. He's an actor actor. A musician, dancer, did I miss any juggler? No, not a juggler. Not a juggler. It's RJ Westerner on the show. What's up? Yeah, so we actually met on the internet at stage. Yeah, as I meet, well, I don't meet most of my friends on backstage, but lately I look around, all my friends, my girlfriend, I've met them all on the internet, so it seems pretty fitting. Backstage is how we met. I hired you for a product video that I did for a client years ago. Yep, back when I was living in Hoboken. You're experiencing on backstage. Has that been a thing that's been good for you as an actor? Actually, believe it or not, it has. Other than signing up my girlfriend and I, to do that shoot with you. You were getting ready to go to Miami on vacation together. And I saw that spot, and I was like, this would be really fun for us. Like, for her to kind of see what it's like to be on a set. And also, I was like, we can make a little extra money. It'll be fun. We're going to go to New Zealand. Yeah. And that was, she, she did great, but that was so much fun. That was really cool. Yeah, yeah, that's do that. That was cool to bring her out for it. Because that was the thing in the casting call was, Real Couples. Real Couples. Yeah, that was the first one, right? Yeah, that was the first one. Yeah, that was the first one. Yeah, that was another client. But we've done a few of that. That was for an app of the years. Yeah, it was called Tracer. It's a nice Tracer. Tracer. But there no longer company anymore, but. Well, it's a very difficult business, but we had a nice little shoe. And we made a nice little video out of it. Backstage is like, it's the Wild Wild West. Yeah. Some people are super professional. Some things. I mean, top level agencies will cast on it. And then independent people will search for stuff. And then you're going to get some creeps on that site too. So you kind of have to fish through it like Craigslist or any website. Yeah, I was going to say, you probably have a wider range in terms of, it gets better on backstage than Craigslist. Although, do you get like those big budget big commercial stuff from Craigslist? Uh, no. I mean, I don't look on Craigslist for jobs. I look for Craigslist for furniture. Well, dude, that was not. Was there ever a time? Because I did in the very beginning where I looked for jobs on Craigslist in terms of filmmaking for me. Yeah, I never did it. I never looked on Craigslist. Yeah. Craigslist. I think you never got that low in your career. There were just two sketchy and too much of like, there were too many question marks and the legitimacy. I don't know. I'm like, you know, I prefer the actual legit online marketplace. Yeah. Yeah. I think those are more, those are newer as well, though. And I don't know if I had, there's backstage, obviously, for actors. And that's a little bit easier. Backstage has been out for a while. I mean, that's been out since like, I think the 70s. Oh, really? But if you're trying, that's not for filmmakers. I don't think. Do they have an option where you can, well, it's Mandy.com. I think it's for filmmakers and productions. Yeah. It's hard. I mean, I think that avenue of getting work is challenging in terms of finding good work that pays well. If you're just going into it cold online, it's very difficult, especially for me as a filmmaker. When I got started out, I had to, the the biggest project and the best projects I got were from Word of mouth. It was from fine online. Referral. Exactly. Yeah. So, yeah. So, tell me a little bit about some of the projects that you're working on right now and that you're most excited about. Like recent within the past year. So, what have been the kind of crazy wins for you? Kind of back to the backstage thing. I mean, that started out as a print job that I self-submitted for. It turned into a sag, a sag project that was going to be like a new media. Then I wrote in my agent and then I ended up being going, it literally went from being nothing to being a lead, a principle in this commercial with chemical gland from Orange's a new black. Right. It was for H&M. It was like a, but that was kind of a testament to like getting yourself out there and not relying on your agents or your people to get you stuff. That was really exciting because I'm like, wow, like things kind of transpired. I don't know where. That was really cool. That was my first featured on camera principle job. That's huge. And it didn't start out that way. It started out. You just thought it was going to be. You're going to be an extra in the shoot. Well, originally I was just, it was just going to be, I was just going to be doing print stuff for H&M. I thought I was going to be one of like 10 people. Right. And then I ended up playing her boyfriend and then it turned into, they were going to take some kind of b-roll shots for like a website and then it turned into a full on product. So like the evolution of the job, it went from being like a new media kind of thing to me being an extra. And then I was featured clearly in it and then they were like, oh, we're actually going to upgrade this to an on camera principle. That was kind of cool. Just to like say the evolution of a job. I think it's, yeah. And it's about being open and not necessarily knowing what you're going to get out of it. Yeah. That is a lot of it. I can't tell what things are going to turn into half the time. Yeah. But that was really neat. I also did my first voiceover job where I narrated a TV show. No, what? That was awesome. That was awesome. That was awesome. It's actually amazing because it fits perfectly with minimalism. This is the one with, it was kind of, was it crazy collectible items or Yeah. Yeah. There's like this really successful show on TLC called My Crazy Obsession. And it's a doll to like eat toilet paper. And like just crazy. There. And it's definitely one of them. Probably. Yeah. I'm pretty sure somebody, yeah. I think I saw that. But anyway, there was a kids version of that. And these kids have bizarre obsessions like they collect cockroaches that one kid collects and repairs of vintage vacuum cleaners. Another kid collects electric fans. And then another kid collected fishing lures. And got into like Guinness Book of World Records. Really bizarre kids. But and their parents are like almost nurturing this. Yeah. I think in a way they would have to do it. Yeah. Like that's the way. Yeah. That's why it gets like that. But it was called My Kids Obsession. And it was like a one-off thing in between Christmas and New Year's that they aired. It was a one-hour special. And that was, that was one of my goals as a voiceover actor was to narrate a show. Or be like the voice of a network. So that was really exciting. That's huge. That I got to do that. And yeah. So I want to talk about how we got here. The name of the show is a ground up show. This to me is incredibly fascinating because I can wrap my head around how to build a freelance business. A client business as a filmmaker, a photographer, a graphic designer. That to me seems relatively simple. Not easy but simple. As a voiceover actor actor actor director. Yeah. Like somebody who's so multi-talented and you have so many different avenues to go down. To be able to quote unquote make it or to be able to actually, I would say to, when I say make it as an actor would be to be a paid actor that gets work that can pay rent. And like that to me seems like a very difficult thing to do as an actor. And so how did you first get started out as an actor? Well, I've been acting full-time freelancing for the last three and a half years, almost four years. So it's weird when I put that into perspective. I'm like, wow, when I first moved here, I had no idea what I was going to do. Or how I was going to even get to this point. So like, it's amazing. I started by going to a music school in Boston. And I knew that as soon as I moved to New York, I wanted to hit the ground running. I immediately had to diversify my talents and just try to find as many outlets as possible. Because as you know, as a freelancer, you don't know what's going to stick. Or like, what things you're going to be known for or what things you need to focus on. So I immediately started studying at a voiceover acting studio. I googled New York City voiceover on Google. I was like, well, I don't know what to do. And I had no one to really reference. So I just used the internet. And then I started studying at acting studios. And I did film scores for screenwriters. And he seemed to do some music. So I would write music. Yeah, that was one of the things that I did at school for college. And it was fun. But it was grueling work. And it was underpaid. And it was just so much work. And I'd be watching these actors in these series or web series or short films. And I'd be like, I think I'm better than that. And it was frustrating. And I was like, I think I need to be doing that more. More so than this side of the whole production thing. So yeah. So I kind of just reassessed and decided I needed to go more into performing and not doing composition. So I kind of shifted gears, started doing voiceover and things kind of took off. So voiceover was really like the first. That was the catalyst you could say. There we go. Brought to you by catalyst. That is interesting because I think that probably most people that get started out don't go into voiceover acting. It's almost more niche. But they kind of say, get ready. It's going to be a tough industry. And it is. And it is very difficult. But there's so much work out there. And that didn't really dissuade me from going for it. Like I did a lot of people's voiceover jobs. Voiceover jobs. Projects when I was a Berkeley. And they were like, you're pretty good at this. And then I was like, you know what? This is something I think I want to develop a little bit more. And that's why I started training in that. And just getting myself out there going to workshops, meeting people. That's what landed me. My first agent who I got online, who found me on a voiceover casting website. And then that kind of led to the next thing. And I started meeting casting directors. And they were like, oh, you should be doing more union stuff. And they linked me up with some of the bigger agencies in New York. And that kind of opened up doors for more commercials. And it's just amazing how things kind of. Yeah. And that's what I actually noticed myself is that in the beginning, it was very slow to build my business. And I did a lot of weddings. I did a lot of really crappy project projects that I wasn't proud of. And that, you know, they were far and few in between. So I'd get a project. And it would last me for about a month. And then two months, I'd go by without getting another project. But slowly, as you start to make more connections and get more clients, it builds up into this snowball to the point where you will have so many connections out there in your name. And your name will be out there enough that you'll be able to bring in work. And naturally. So the word of mouth is going to get out there. If you continue to deliver and make amazing work and you're great to work with, you know, there's obviously other things that come with it. But as you start to snowball, it really becomes much easier to get work as you go on. In terms of voice over work, do remember your first paid project. The first time you got mine. I do. I do. It was December of 2010. It was for a Texas restaurant called Papa's Restaurant. And I did a bartending tutorial video. I did three videos, I think. And it was 500 bucks. And I was like, wow. And that more than paid for the service I was on. It was called Voice 1, 2, 3. I still use it pretty often. But that website was great because it, like you said, it's certain clients from all over the world. Denmark, Chicago, LA, Hungary. I still work with a lot of them. They still send me auditions in London. Yeah. And some of them even like, now that they know that I'm in sack after them, then I do union stuff. They'll be like, hey, you do union stuff, right? Here's a Coke spot. Can you audition for this or a client or a client? You know, certain products only do union stuff because of their advertising agency. And because of the union rights or a sag. I think the, not a sag affiliate, but there's a term for it. They're like a signatory. So like they have an agreement with the union to only use union talent on certain jobs. So I've gotten some pretty cool jobs through that. Well, this is why it's important to just kill it with every project you do. But you're solving it every project. If you slack off, I've had fun calls with some people that are just like not professional. Like that's just the first interaction I have with you. But if you are amazing to work with from beginning to end, you deliver on an amazing product, whether it's a voiceover or if it's, you know, editing or shooting a video, those people will come back to you if they need that again. And if they are good at what they do, then likely you will get more work from them. And they might even refer you to someone else. And that's like where the real spider web happens. Exactly. That's when it starts to go out and get crazy. Was there a project early on? So you had that one, which is your first paid project. Is there something that you remember early on that was kind of a turning point in terms of like, wow, this is actually, this is a legit production here. This is a legit shoot that I'm working on. When I started doing a bunch of Bud Light, animatic spots, which are like all the early development commercials before they actually hire a production team like yourself and casting and actors and all that. They'll do a lot of mock-ups that are animated. They're like, pre-vis animatics. And I was hired by an advertising agency to do a bunch of these spots. And I made some really good money doing that. And that's when I realized like, whoa, this is like actually something that is feasible that I do. Yeah. And that opened up some other doors and through doing that at that agency. I still work with that agency. But now I'm a motion capture performer. Oh, that's amazing. Yeah. Yeah. Agency and I've been there almost three years freelancing. Doing, I started out part-time a couple days a week. And now I go in like four or five days a week. I get a text every morning like if they have spots that need to be shot. And they'll be like, are you available? I'm like the first guy that they call to me. And what's all just through the amazing gigs. But yeah, it's just, it's snowballs. Yeah. No, it's incredible. Talk about that particular gig because this is you, they hook you up with these balls. You're wearing the grease. They hook me up with balls. They do. Yeah. Yeah. It's like a tight form fitting suit. Yeah. I think 54 or 58 markers on it. Oh, they're not balls on it. They look like balls. They're balls. They're reflecting bulbs. Balls. Markers are being a comp. Yeah. But it's a room with a bunch of very expensive cameras. Each camera is like $10 or $15,000. And yeah. They shoot actors. And then they use our body language. They transpose it to animated characters. And they have animators in Thailand who create these, these really cool, beautiful animations of real people. They'll actually do facial scans of real people. And they'll use that on the spots so that when the casting or the advertising agency looks at the animation, they can get a real life sense of what it's going to look like. A good example of diversifying your skills and your talents. That's a weird in between thing where you're kind of doing like almost like dance. There's a lot of dance. But then you obviously sing. You do music. You do voiceover acting and actual acting. So when did you decide? All right. I can't just go down one lane. I can't just do voiceover acting. I need to do all these other things. I do see a lot of parallels with filmmaking where you can just be a shooter or you can master audio or you can become a drone operator. There's so many different avenues that you could be specialized in. Yeah. But then to be a generalist and really have all these different skills. When did you decide that that was going to be important for you? I think naturally we are persuaded to have one focus because that way you can guarantee that you'll be known for something and you can get work for that one thing. But when you're in our industry, I think you kind of have to be multi-high-finated. You have to have a lot of different skills because all of them you can draw upon for different opportunities and you need to open yourself up to those. So like kind of like how we've talked before about just saying yes to certain things. I knew when I moved to New York that I needed to diversify my talents because I knew I didn't want to be a starving artist. I didn't want to just be here struggling and having a difficult time. And I knew that I wanted to be to everyday be able to focus on my art, focus on different projects. So when I was a Berkeley, I went to a seminar and it was basically about having multiple streams of income and opening yourself up to as an actor. Also, singing and taking dance classes and just it's so important to open yourself up to all the different avenues that might potentially open doors for you if you're a performer. Yeah, and I think that that's such an important point is that I've seen so many people that are more talented than me not make it or give up on their art because they couldn't make money doing it. Or didn't think they actually could make money doing it. So I think it's incredibly important. That is so sad. That's so sad. There's so sad. People that I realized and looked up to and said like I literally just copied frame by frame their videos because they were doing it so good at the time. And for whatever reason they can't progress and build up a business out of it. But you need to have that. And so for you to be able to identify and say, all right, well, like I don't want to struggle, I need to be able to make money doing this. I think that's an important thing that differentiates you and me from people who perhaps maybe doing it just for fun. Like you need to make money. You need to get paid for your art. That's really important. And I have a lot of different interests as well. And I don't want to get pigeonholed into one specific thing. I certainly don't want to be a jack of all trades master of none. I think that's kind of baloney. Anyone I respect or anyone who I really admire is really good at a lot of different things. And so I kind of just, yeah, I think having a strong work ethic and having focus and being able to like, okay, this month, I'm really focused on my voice over career this month. I'm doing a lot of theater auditions or TV stuff. Or now I'm focused more on marketing and my website and all that. I try to have those little kind of benchmarks and have those checkpoints for different things that way I'm focused enough in each thing that everything kind of just rises. It's like going along. Because if I wake up and I'm like, what am I going to do today? That's where it's kind of like, it can be kind of like, well, you're almost, you have option anxiety, you know? And that can be kind of paralyzing. And that's kind of where I was, you know, in high school. I was just like, what do I want to do with my life? Yeah. What am I going to do? I have so many interests and like, I love performing. And I entered a music concert and arts competition. And I ended up winning it with an original song. And I realized, okay, I need to study music, I think. And that was kind of the foundation of what got me into the arts, got me into performing, got me into entertainment. And then I'd always been a singer. And so then I kind of everything just kind of built off one thing to the next. And I always loved acting. So I just parlaid one thing to the next. And yes, somehow I'm like, wow, I've been in New York like seven years now. And I'm still doing it. And it's gotten better every single year. Better projects, more talented people. Working with unbelievably creative people in this city. It's amazing. What do you attribute that to? Why do you think that you were able to get to this point while others can't? I really invested in myself when I first moved here. I bought great equipment. I got online. And like, it's, you know, you have to shell out a lot of money in the beginning. And it's really kind of scary. But I wanted to get myself out there. I constantly went to auditions. You kind of have to be brave and just go for it and not care. Like, along the way, I knew I was going to fail. I knew I was going to embarrass myself or that, you know, I was going to get into something and be like, I don't know what I'm doing. And just kind of, you know, hope that hope that my diligence and my perseverance was going to get me there. And then I get little wins along the way. And those little wins along the way keep me inspired and keep me realizing, Oh, you know, this is, this is why I'm doing this. Like, this is actually working. This is working. And then eventually, I get enough momentum. I mean, I had so many different odd jobs when I moved here. When I first moved here out of college, I had an unpaid internship at a record label. Everybody at the record label was fired before I even got there. There were like three people there left. I've been the guy who hired me. And so I realized this is a dying industry. I don't want to be in this. And I ended up going from that. I worked at a music production and sound design company. Then I was a dub intern. It was a paid internship. And I sang on a bunch of demos for commercial spots that a bunch of the In-house composers would do that. I learned a lot at. But I knew again, I was like, I don't think I want to compose full-time. I still, I like being in the studio. I like performing. I like being on mic. I like being on camera. And I like being on stage. So I was like, okay, that's kind of where I'm going to go next. And then started training a lot. And just, and then I worked in my uncle's coffee shop, briefly. I worked at an event production company for like two and a half years that was extremely grueling. And I had like a super low income. I was working 40 plus hours a week, making $30,000 a year, which is not a living wage in New York. So it was, it was trial by fire. I was just like, I need to do this. I wasn't, I was not designed for a nine to five job. At least at this point in my life. At this point, I'm like, I need to be creatively fulfilled. I'm going to go for it. Fuck it. You know? That was my attitude. That's why I'm, I have any success at this point, which I still feel like I have so far to go in there. Yeah, well, that's, it's almost weird that I'm on this podcast, because I'm like, what wisdom can I say? I'm not, I'm not doing it. I feel the same way though. But it certainly is, I think, when, when you look back on it, there was points like two, three years ago, where I felt like it couldn't get any better. I was like, this is incredible. Like, to do, and I, and maybe I said the bar low, but like, that's humbling when you realize that. It's like, you're like, you're taking in the moment, and you're like, I'm grateful for this. Yeah. And that just begins more work and even better things. And each year gets better. Yeah, and I think the thing that you have to do is, you start to kind of reframe your priorities and your focus as you get better and as you do bigger things, because I had set a goal. It was on my book, I made a bucket list. This was the summer of 2013 to make a feature length documentary about something important, something I cared about. That's literally what it said on the list. And then like, three, four months later, Josh emails me. Subject line idea says that he wants to make a documentary with me, and I'm like, holy shit. Like, this is insane how this is just lining up right now. And then within a couple of months, we go out and we shoot it and have no idea what I'm doing throughout this entire process. It's just an alarming experience from the beginning, and just also learning and realizing that I actually don't know anything. At the time, I thought I had it all figured out. Now I'm realizing shit, I have a long way to go. And to be able to go through that experience to actually make it and to make a movie and to put it out, to get it in theaters and then on Netflix, it was an incredible experience. And then you're done, and you're like, what's next? What do I do now? Like, oh my God. It's so nice when you're wrapped up in that. Yeah, in the work, and then you're like, what now? Yeah. So then now we're on the podcast. So then, you know what I mean? It's like, you kind of create new levels for yourself. And it's like, all right, well, let's try this. This will be fun. And like you said, it's about putting yourself in a position where you're both terrified and where you're going to embarrass yourself and that everybody's just going to laugh at you. Man, failure sucks. Like, it obviously sucks, but it is so important. And you have to, like I said, you have to be brave, and you have to just like suck it up and go for it. And you're going to learn along the way, because at least in the acting game, it's kind of a numbers game. Like, if you stick with it, and if you continue to train and continue to go for eventually, people are going to fall away, and you can hopefully you'll be remembered. Every year, like, my new year's resolution is like, usually an assessment of my year, and then I re-evaluate the things that I want to focus on. So kind of like how you said, you were like, I want to make some documentary that I really care about, and then Josh, Josh, let me chat to you. That's what happened with me last year. I was like, I need to be singing more this year, because I've kind of steered away from that part of my life. And sure enough, I was in India, and I got a text message, hey, we have this show. I got referred to an Occupella theatrical show called Vocalosity. It's like the pitch perfect movies on stage. In real life. Yeah, in real life. It's actually a really kick-ass show. It was really fun. And I got that offer, and I came back, and I learned the show. And I learned the show in four days at NYU. I learned the music on my own. I learned all the choreography, flew out to Cedar Rapids, Iowa, and did a tour of that show for like a month. And like, I've never done it to something like that before. I'd always been kind of timid about going on tour, because I'm like, I don't want to lose momentum in New York. I don't want my agents to forget about me. And I don't want all my kind of recurring jobs here in New York to kind of like, fizzle away. And so that was something that I kind of put into the cosmos. And I got it. I was exactly that was my year. Yeah. Two national tours. I went all over the country. I got to perform in front of amazing audiences. Like some audiences were like 2,000 people from like San Antonio to Maine, to Florida, to Burmuda. It was amazing. Yeah. And so I'm not too big on the law of attraction and the secret. And that kind of stuff. That's to me tends to go a little bit too much in the direction of fruit fruit. Is that to call it? Oh, we will. Oh, we will. Yeah. Fruit fruit maybe just the fruit fruit. We have been brings it down to another level. But the way that I see it and the way so going out and talking to all these people through minimalism and learning about their experiences about how they struggled in the very beginning. They were stuck at a point where, you know, they were either overweight. They were unhappy. They were in a job. They didn't like all of them. Across the board. That's what their lives were like. And like every single time the first step was to ask questions and to look inward and to say, why am I unhappy? What do I actually want? What should I be doing with my life? These are questions that I don't think most people ask. I think most people tend to get caught up wherever they're at. And they're just thinking very micro. They're like, well, if I just get this promotion then I can do this. And then maybe I can switch jobs to this. And it's very small as opposed to saying, well, what will fulfill me? What will actually make me happy? Those questions are more difficult. And their questions you have to continually ask yourself. Like you had gotten to a point where you felt like you were doing very well. And you were getting paid as an actor and a voice over actor. And then now you're like, well, what can I do next? What should I focus on this year? And I think people have to continually ask themselves as questions. Oh, yeah. Continually look at themselves and figure out what you should be doing right now. Yeah. You have to look inward and you have to stay in tune with yourself. So what I want to do is I've got a voice over for you. Okay. So you know how I create these little teasers for each show. I'm going to do a teaser for your show. But I want you to do the voice over for it. Okay. So this is the voice over. But here's the thing. You're a voice over actor. You're incredibly talented and you can do so many voices. So I figure, let's get a few takes in. Let's get some different options. Right. So let's start out. Like, yeah. I got a couple here. And then you can, you can certainly freestyle. Yeah, tell me. Let's do like sophisticated millennial. This is who you're trying to target. This week on the ground up show. Our guest is the multi-talented RJ Westner. He's an incredible voice over actor, actor, actor, and juggler. Not really. And he'll be talking about how he got so goddamn good at everything. And let's do quirky comedy. So just really upbeat, crazy weird. Yep. This week on the ground up show. Our guest is the multi-talented RJ Westner. He's an incredible voice over actor, actor, actor, and juggler. And he'll be talking about how he got so goddamn good at everything. And then dark drama. This week on the ground up show. Our guest is the multi-talented RJ Westner. He's an incredible voice over actor, actor, actor, and juggler. And he'll be talking about how he got so goddamn good at everything. He's kind of weird talking about myself. Yeah, that's why I wanted to do it. I wanted you to feel uncomfortable this week. This week on the ground up. Dude, I've been doing some voiceovers now. Let's show you, dude. I think you'll be better off too. Yeah, it's weird. All right, so. I like the way you do this, too. It's very like real and natural. It's not like it. It's just like this week on the ground up show. Right. That's funny. There's like something the fact when you do it, too, I'm, I could go with so many different directions with it. Yeah. And that's why I'm not a voiceover actor because all I could do is me. And that's why you're talented. And you can play about a hundred different people. So this is how I would do it. This is funny because I do these voiceovers. Like Natalie's usually in the next room. She's like, oh my god. I just get it already. That's hilarious. All right. This week on the ground up show. Our guest is the multi-talented RJ Westner. He's an incredible voiceover actor, actor, actor, and juggler. And he'll be talking about how he got so goddamn good at everything. See, but it's funny because that, the, the, that was perfect. Right. That should be used. So that's going to be used. But like what I would say about that is like, I don't like that. There is a certain voice that you use. Even when it's still me being me, but I'm still, I'm like, almost showing it, I'm handing it up about 15-20%. Mm-hmm. It's not like this is not a conversational tone. And I wonder, that's like the art of voiceover acting, right? I mean, those subtleties in, in how to deliver this, where it feels natural, but it also fits what, the direction. That is, I think, the paradigm now of voiceover work. They want you to not sound actory and not sound an ounceary. That's what's crazy is they want you to, to be exactly that. They want you to be yourself, know who you're talking to, but not seem like you're an actor, which doesn't make any sense. It's like they don't want you to, they, they, they will literally say, non-an ounceary, conversational, not voiceovery. So it's so funny, like, which is what we're doing next. We've got, you know, not like that, or like, you know, the ground up show, coming, you know, coming this fall. You know where this stems from, is, we interview Juliet Shor from minimalism, and she talked about this word authentic, which is what companies are all trying to do. It's funny because as a person, as a human, it's quite easy to be authentic. It doesn't, if you, if you're comfortable in your own, if you're comfortable in your own, it's sure. Okay, for some people, maybe difficult, but I would say, for brands, people don't have to think about it. They just are who they are. But when a brand has to position themselves to eight million people, and now they're thinking, well, how do we approach this in an authentic way? That's authentically us. And it's like, well, what does that mean? Because you're talking about a company here, and really you're just trying to say, like, in what way can we trick and get people to feel comfortable and, and believe us and trust us? That makes me think about these, uh, what I think they're Toyota, or Chrysler commercials where they say, not real, or these are real people, not actors. And it's like, they're actors. They're getting paid by SEGA after us to go on that spot. They're being told what to say. If they say something that the client likes, they'll say, okay, say that again, can we get that, uh, absolutely. Can we get the overtime, actually? Can we check the lighting? Hold on, hold on, here we go. Okay, that, these that little lighting thing to check, whatever meter. And they're okay. Okay, great. And then that'll end up in the spot. And it's like, that's what acting is. Exactly. And so there's an authentic thing ever. And they think that they're like, that they're fooling us. Have you seen the parody? What's so annoying? Have you seen the parody ones? It's just like some guy thought, I just didn't. It's so funny. I did see that. That video is so good. So basically they're just, they're saying, well, it's actually actors, but if this was a real person, let's just say some dude from Boston. This is what it would. This is what it would be like. What are some of the bits that he's saying? Oh, this is fucking Toyota. This is fucking Toyota. Yeah, it's obviously Toyota. It's not an Audi. You think this is an Audi? Oh, what I love the best one is he's like, What's the award? There's like a name for that award. It's like the JD JD power. He's like, that fucking award. Only, it's like, means that the call looks good for like three hours. It doesn't make me feel free. It's like the initial values. It's so good. I love that. And I love it when people like, call shit out. These people are real. Real people, not actors. Like, that whole, like, sham is just, it does not fly. It's not original. I wonder if it works. It's not really TV. Reality TV works. It's incredibly entertaining. It's incredibly addicted. And they're real people. They're being authentic. But they're being told what they're being told. They're being told what they say. Being fed lines. Do you watch any reality TV? Not really. Not really. Not really. It makes me watch the bathroom. Yeah. See, once I live with my girlfriend, I'm sure I'll be watching around housewives, Kardashians, all that all that. The bachelor is, Here's what I hear it so it. I'm not watching it. Here's what I can't do. I can't do it. I can't even start because once you go down that path, you're done. Here's what I'll say about the bachelor. It is some of the best produced content I've ever seen. In terms of engagement, in terms of pulling you in. Because for the final three episodes, it's usually between two to three people and the only question the guy's asking is, who do I love? Do I love her? I don't know. I might love her. I don't know what to do. And that's it. For three episodes. If you actually look at the script, if you were to read it, it's the same shit over and over and over again. But somehow they cut it. These producers are geniuses to where they can create compelling content. And it is difficult. You do get hooked. And then I'm like, now I've got to watch this. Now I've got to watch the bachelor. Here's the problem that I have. My girlfriend's Australian. So she has the Australian bachelor and the American bachelor. Like, come on. Tell me that I just am not overwhelmed with the amount of reality TV in our house right now. No, thank you. I tried to get rid of the TV. I said, well, because I like to do these little, kind of tests. Oh, try to say like, well, it would be fun to just get rid of the TV and then see how it would be. I feel like I'd be more productive. I could listen to more podcasts. I can get rid of, I almost went over here thinking my phone was over here. Get rid of my phone. Sometimes I just want to not have to. That is, I'm addicted. I'm addicted. And I hate it. Like, like, 10 years ago, I didn't, I didn't compulsively grab my phone. I do it too. And I do it so much now that it is detracting from me working. Like, it is a legitimate problem. But I want it to be a way. But if I miss a text, I miss an email. That might be a huge job. You know what? That's an opportunity. And so I have this, this undying, unwavering fear that like, I'm going to miss an important thing. Because in my industry, literally, if I don't pick up the phone for certain gigs, like, I did SNL twice because I picked up my phone. Wow. Like, and right then in there, I got to do SNL. So like, It's so tough, man. That's a hard thing to know. And yeah, I got to sing on Letterman with Bastille because my voice teacher is a vocal contractor in New York. So like, I have to be at the ready. So I can't disconnect entirely. it's a, it's a catch-22. It's like a paradox. It's like, I need it in order to be get more work. And I also need to get away from it in order to be focused. And it's a, it's a sacrifice. Because obviously, you do have to be willing to give up some work. You know, you go on vacation. You go away for certain amounts of times. You go on the subway. You're like, there are certain times where you, you obviously can't get a hold of. And these are risks that you have to take. And obviously, the further along you get, you know, when you get to doing feature-length films and being the lead star in a major motion picture, I think have a little bit more options. And you, you don't have to be available in the moment right now. where those opportunities could slip by and you're okay with it. You have to be willing to accept. And this is something that I learned early on where, you know, when I try to prioritize and not look at email, 100, 200 times a day, you have to be willing to let go of some work and to sacrifice some work. But it's, it's all, it's personal decisions. And it's how much you want to be able to, to give up. But like, the biggest indicator for me that I have a problem is if I go to the grocery store, and I'll say, I'm not going to bring my phone. I'm just going to leave my phone here. And then I go to the grocery store. And then there will be pauses throughout, where you just kind of stop at the end of an aisle or you're waiting in line for a checkout. And you just go for your phone. And then I'm like, I don't have my phone on me. And then it's like, but then it, you have to, you have to, you have to, you have to, you have to, you have to, you have to, you have to, you're on your phone and they get upset if you don't text him back right away. But it is about, I think at least in that respect, setting expectations for those people to say, hey listen, I'm not going to always be on my phone, but it is a scary thing, how that twitch is just always there. And we're always checking. And then conversely, you also have to be on top of your, Instagram and your YouTube, and all your different pages. your content has to be, if you want to be, keeping interest, you know, you have to be on that. You have to be on it, but you can't be on it too much. It's like such a delicate balance. But I think that maybe there's a difference in two things of, and I'm just now starting to create original content. So I'm learning a lot about it. There's a difference between interacting with people and your audience, and then creating content for them. And like creating content for them, you can't do that at the same time as you're interacting and on Facebook and Twitter and YouTube. You're absolutely right. So you obviously dedicate that time. so if you're going to record a voiceover, or if I'm going to make a video, I'm just going to focus on creating content. And that's how you build an audience, really. I think how the interaction is important when you're actually building a community. And when you're actually trying to get people to come back, and they say like, oh wow, even if they see that you're interacting with somebody else, especially I think the bigger you get, that becomes more important. But like, I don't think that's going to necessarily build your audience. It's going to make your audience more loyal and like you more. But you have to make great content. So I think that's what you have to focus on first. You're right. It's a totally different experience if you're just scrolling through and checking in with people or whatever versus like, okay, now I'm only focused on. You can technically like not interact with anybody and just create content all day. Push it out without actually looking at it. A part of me thinks the super talented people just do that. Like they don't. I mean, you have to be engaged somewhat. But like, if you just send the great stuff out there, like it's going to flourish. I think so. Yeah. Well, I asked Josh from the minimalist. When I started this podcast, this was like probably last year, they end the last year. I said, hey, like, you know, do you have any advice? Like, what do you think about building this thing? And he's like, I don't know. Like, and which is I love. I love it when somebody will say, I don't know. Most people try to, and even me, I try to bullshit answers so often. I don't like yourself. Yeah. I know what I'm talking about. I don't know, man. here's what I do know. Just focus on creating the best content you possibly can. Focus on that. And then, that's going to be your way forward. Just keep focusing on making awesome content that people want to consume and people enjoy. That has been my M.O. Just focus on like kicking ass, getting better, developing your craft, and let that speak for itself. Don't get hung up on Instagram likes, or your Instagram following, or like what people think or how you're perceived, like just focus on the work, like just try to be the best you and your career will, you know, we'll go on the right direction, and certain doors will open, and everything else is a distraction. And I think the great thing about it is that most people are distracted, most people aren't creating and making things. So if you can focus on making things and you're relentless about it, and you keep going, I think that's Tim Ferriss says it's about most people don't even try. Most people don't start a podcast or even like create their first voice over acting real. Most people don't do that. So just by that simple fact, you're one of a very small percentage of people that's willing to actually try, which means that you have a much likely or chance to actually make it. I'm curious when you decided to make the move to New York, why you chose New York versus LA. You know, most people I think are drawn to LA, it's obviously the acting center of the world, so why did you choose New York? I chose New York. I came to New York twice when I was in high school for a show choir competition for a, it's called Show Stoppers. This show choir is a big deal in the Midwest. That was like my only outlet as a performer. I get to sing, dance, act, hang out with pretty girls, and that was fun. When I came to New York, I fell in love. I mean, I always wanted to be legitimate and I thought the most legitimate performers and true talented people, triple threats to everyone in New York, and they did theater. And I knew that I'm like a, a quick kind of, I like the jolt that you get. I like the jolt every time I go outside. Seriously. Like I like being, having a fire under my ass. And I like the culture here. I love the diversity, I love the opportunity. I like the vibes here. And I'm hungry. And this is a great place for that. And I just knew that I was going to end up here. And my uncle also lives here in Manhattan. And so I knew that I had some kind of link, and having gone to school on the East Coast in Boston, I would come down and see him. And I just fell more in love with the city. And I knew I was going to move to Brooklyn. My girlfriend was from New York. I knew she was coming here as well. And I, LA was always, I never really saw myself in LA in the beginning. Because I didn't necessarily know anybody or know enough about it. I just knew that it was like a super relaxed kind of chill vibe, man. And I, I don't know, I was just like New York. That's what I'm going. I feel the same way. And I think that, I think for people starting out New York is actually an amazing place. If you're in our industry. Because there's a reason they call it New York City prices. Because if you're trying to be a filmmaker in LA, there are thousands of other people that are vying for the same exact job that you're vying for. And they will do it for way cheaper. Undercutting everybody. Because that's just like what I do. I can't do it. Sitting in traffic, right? And this guy's just as good as me. So you honestly should do that video for a hundred dollars with that guy, because I'm not going to do it. So I think, and maybe I'm exaggerating this, but this is what I've heard from other people who have hired those in LA, compared to here and have kind of run the gamut in terms of freelancers. But I think New York's a great place to be. It's a very difficult city. And especially we're lucky we don't have to deal with the morning commute and a lot of that madness. Like Natalie has to deal with it every day. And when we have shoots early in the morning, you have to deal with like just shoving yourself on to a train. Man does that suck. There's so much about New York that's amazing. And then there's a lot of it that's just like old people jerking off on the subway. Like you're going to go into a subway car, and there's just going to be shit on the ground. So I'm just decided to take a dump in the middle of the floor. That's just what happens in New York. And there's a lot of that. And it's noisy. And like you said that fire into your ass. I think it's great when you get started out. But after a few years of being here, you're kind of like man, there's a way to be. I need to like just get away. When you're in New York for more than three months, and you leave. You're like, holy shit, you're shoulders relax a little bit. You're like, what have I been doing for the past three months? I have a love hate relationship. I love this time. I love it so much for the opportunity. I love the people, I love the culture food. Arts, everything here is amazing. But there's too many people. Everybody's angry. There's just. It's a difficult place to live. Do things. You can't go to Hamilton. You can't go. That's for the elite or for the lucky who win the lot. Yeah. I saw him. Didn't I tell you that? No, you didn't. Yeah. Dude, well, see, because I was up on this before everybody else was up. Did you see that the public? I was actually going to get tickets for that. But then for whatever reason. Like, I heard about it. I heard about it back since when he did the original White House, Poetry Jam thing. Where Obama was there. And he did the original Alexander Hamilton rap. And we saw you. I found Lin Manuel. He said not like his theater stuff, but he did a lot of videos with college humor. And I was like, this guy is amazing. And like just like admired him for his rap talents. And then because I was big into hip-hop. And then, you know, to kind of watch us that show evolved. And then they did a first run of tickets. And it sold out pretty damn quick. And then there was a second run that they did. And I was just like first day for whatever reason. I was, I happened to check online. And I got tickets. I had to get him eight, nine months in advance. It's still quite a, quite a weight. But we ended up getting second row right down in the front. It was incredible. It was an amazing show. And I don't know, honestly, that was one of my first Broadway shows. I don't got a lot of Broadway shows. It's a show that I feel like I need to see to have the lyrics and the hip-hop. I need to visually see it to reinforce what I'm hearing. Because there's so much happening. There's so much happening. Yeah, there's so much happening. And it's hard to follow what's going on. And to also like remember the lyrics. Other than like the poppy or kind of hooks, you know. Well, yeah, you also look at it in a different way than most people, I think. You kind of, you can really understand what he's doing with this song and picking a part of the story. How do I invest? Orphans and another one. Yeah, like, like, yeah. I'm very oral. So like, I like to, all right, I'm very good at. I'm a mentor. The show is changing very quickly. Or oral. That's a word. Are you? Yeah. So I like remember things well if I can reinforce it by listening. Right. So like, whether I'm learning lines or whether I'm learning music, I have to get it in my body, and in my brain through listening. That's the best way that I've found. Is there another show that I should go see? Because that's the only one that I've seen in the book of Mormon? That's kind of old. That's something. I haven't seen it. Here's the thing. Natalie and I bought tickets for the book of Mormon. Well, it was last Christmas, I think. Or two Christmas is a go. We both bought each other the same as that gift. We both bought each other book of Mormon. I think I'm going to tell you. Yeah. She ended up buying the better seats. She spent more on her tickets. So we kept hers got rid of mine. And then there was a snowstorm on the day that her tickets were. So literally we bought four tickets. So what happened? No, she did the cancel it. They canceled the show because of the snowstorm. So they didn't have like a, they, it was a really, they just refunded it off. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. She ended up getting to see it with a friend who just randomly got extra tickets. One and a lot in the lottery. Okay. I didn't see it yet. So I think I do want to see that. It's brilliant. I actually auditioned for it. Yeah. That's so amazing. Oh, my God. That would mean what's open. I would respect you so much more. If you didn't know, right? I was right now. It's pretty low. If I could get, that's the thing is. I have a lot of friends now who are on Broadway. And like I, and just my network of people who are doing it. It like reinforces like, I'm good enough to do this. Like, I just have to have the tenacity. I have to just keep working at it. It's a game. It's at the next level. You think that would be pretty amazing to get to a certain level with voice over. I had to like get, I had to make my way up the wrongs and get noticed by casting directors. So that they're like, yeah, bring RJ and whatever for this. And it's the same thing within that community. You know, the casting directors, you know, it tells you or any of the, the theater casting companies. Like, you kind of have to get in there in there on the radar. Right. And then they'll be like, okay, he's not right for this, but maybe he's right for that. And just hope that, you know, your moment's going to, going to come. But that, I mean, there's so many, I mean, there's so many talented people in this city. And so many talented people in LA that like, I don't have any animosity towards the people who I'm going up against. Like, I'm rooting for them. I'm not obviously, I, I want to do well myself. And I want to reach my own goals. Yeah. And this is the one thing I noticed about you from the very beginning is just that you're such a great guy. You're, you're like, just to hang out with and, like, just, I see a upbeat personality. There's a lot of people, especially within the acting and, and kind of entertainment world. That like, it is like, they have this doggy dog mentality. But the thing that I found even for myself is that you just, there's plenty of work. Just relax. Like, let's just, there is plenty of work. Hang out. Have a good time and not stress about like, oh, I didn't get that job. This guy got this job on more talented than him. Like, it's just, you kind of have to surround yourself with people who are, who think like that as well. Because if you're around people who are always like making excuses or complaining, it gets really exhausting. And yeah. I think they kind of say, you know, you should find your tribe. You should find your people who kind of lift you up and your people, you know. And that's, there are a lot of awesome people in the, especially in the theater and acting community. They're amazing people. But then they're also some really shitty people who are self-absorbed and just difficult to connect with. And they're obnoxious or what, what have you. So like, that can kind of be like, oh my god. Am I, how am I going to survive this or how do I associate with these people, you know? And that's, it's so important to find people that you can connect with. But just like connect with that in every industry and every, and everything. And that's why people say, I try not to get hung up on that. And that's what people say about LA. Oh, the people suck. That's a common one. Dude, if you're in a city with over 10 million people. LA is fantastic. Yeah, you can't find 15 friends in LA. Then like, there's more, the problem is you. It's, it's nobody else but you. Yeah. So it's also just a cop out. It's fun because it's like a, it's a cliche thing. Well, LA, the traffic sucks, but the weather's great. There's no water. It's expensive. You know? Okay. Great job, buddy. Yeah. Like, like, you're original. Yeah. Like, it's the same with New York. New York is tough. Everyone always says, I would never live there. I love visiting, but I would never live there. Right. Okay. Well, that's great. We don't want you to live here. Yeah. Yeah. It's, it's fun living here though. Like, we're in our 20s. This is like the time to grind and live here. Yeah. And do it. Yep. And then hopefully like right now I'm just writing this way. I don't know what the next thing is going to be. But I've learned to be okay with that, you know what I mean? Yeah. I just know that I'm going to, I'm going to keep moving forward. And my mom always said. And my son like, I sound like four's going. My mom always said that's like a box of, you know, um, my mother always said like one day to time. And I've always tried to think of that because it's so easy to just get bogged down and like, where am I going? What is all this amounting to? And like, what am I going to be when I grow up? And she was always like, I, she's like, I'm, you know, 60. And I still don't know what I'm going to be when I grow up. It's very easy to be overwhelmed, especially today. Um, so to be able to just take it one day at a time. Yeah. There's some value in that. And just focusing on what you need to do today. And then, you know, the one thing that you mentioned, just, so you're doing auditions. And this is just kind of the life of an actor really. Yeah. Like grind. There are some overlaps there with filmmaking where I get a big client of big project. And it is, there's, it's hard to describe what that feeling is. It's kind of like a euphoria and like an excitement about this project. Also the realization that, well, now I got to do the work. Now this is when the work actually starts. Talk about that a little bit. And some of you're, you're kind of those wins. And because I'm sure you, you have to fail a lot. And you have to go on a lot of auditions that just aren't the right fit for you. And they don't see it. And then you get those wins. What's that process like? What's the process like for for auditioning, failing a lot. And then getting these big ones, everyone's in a while. It's kind of like how you said it's weird. It's like, I'll audition for a lot of things. Maybe every 30 auditions that I do for voiceover, I'll book one. But if I'm doing something independently like through an online marketplace, like if I'm self submitting for stuff, maybe my, because I'm more selective. It'll be like one in 10 or one in eight. But when I'm doing theater or when I'm doing television and stuff like that, like a lot of the time, I'm like, I have no idea what feels good now. Like I'll leave an audition. And I'll be like, that felt good or that felt terrible. And like I just, I've learned to just let it go. I've learned to just not dwell. That's been one thing that's good. When I first moved to New York, I was very sensitive. And I think New York has kind of hardened me a little bit and made me a little bit. I have thicker skin and be able to kind of realize like, okay, like leave the work in the room, treat the audition like a performance and opportunity to like have fun. And then let it go. You know, tear up the script and move on. And then go to the next thing. And that has been like a really enlightening thing that I've been able to just like focus on the work, do it. Something may happen from it, something may not. And a lot of times like just like with you, I'll get referred to something, you know? And that will open more doors. But then the occasional audition I'll end up booking. And I'm like, oh, wow, they really, like I booked that. That was weird. You know? So in terms of the ones that you think you nailed, you don't get. And then the ones where you're like, that was interesting. You end up getting. And it's so weird. Yeah, I think so bizarre. How that works out. But that's the thing. Is that even so on a micro level and what I'm doing, like creating YouTube videos. Sometimes you don't know what's going to stick, what's going to work, what's not. But you just have to keep the phone shit at the wall. And everyone's like, if you get like five to 10% return and making good shit, I think you're headed in the right direction. Let's say that somebody is stuck right now. Okay. They're a little bit, they're trapped with, they don't know which direction to go. What can somebody do today in order to set themselves on the right path? I would say don't get hung up on the small stuff and stay enthusiastic, stay passionate, remind yourself why you're doing what you do, and how lucky you are to get to do what you do. It's a process. It's a continual process. I sometimes find myself in these situations even now, or I'm just, yeah. Well, me too, because it's a process. And you're continually have to like, you have to remind yourself to be grateful to show gratitude for what you do have to work towards your goals to continue to move forward even when you have doubt, even when people shit on you. And when you start to put stuff out there publicly in front of people, a lot of people will be shitting on you. What one tool have you leveraged in a way that others haven't? I'm a twin. And my whole life I've always kind of had a competition built into my life. Like, well, your brother got an A on this exam. What did you get? Well, I got an A minus. So my whole life I've always been kind of compared with him. And I think that because I always had 50% of attention and 50% of, I think because I was always in competition with my twin, that gave me a work ethic to like, strive to be the best me that I can be. And dare to be bold and, you know, live the life that I imagine, like all those, you know, Henry David Thoreau kind of quotes, you know? I really took those to heart. And I think that my work ethic is probably my best. Attribute. Like, I want to do great things. I don't care what anyone thinks. I'm going to go for it. And I'm going to ride this wave as long as I can. And see how far I see how far I can go, you know? And that's exciting for me because I don't necessarily know where I'm going to be in five years. But I know my life's going to be exciting. It's going to be fulfilling. And I'm going to be doing interesting things. You know what I mean? And if things change along the way, that's fine. And accepting that. You know? It's going to change. It's going to change. It's inevitable. So what is it that drives you? Curiosity. I'm just very curious. Maybe I think that might be why I enjoy acting so much because I get to learn about so many different facets of life and so many different types of people. And I get to study, like really have these intensive kind of studies about different things. Culture, life, people, careers and culture. It's amazing. So I think that because I get to do that, I'm always learning. I always have further to discover about myself, which is great. And I get to connect with other people and that's a really special thing to get to tell stories. So how do you face doubt? Hmm. I face it head on because that's the only way you can do it. You know? Like, we don't really have a choice. I feel like I have to every day is different. And thankfully, you know, some days are high, some days are low. And sometimes I'll usually just go for a run or exercise. And I'll have a whole new perspective, you know what I mean? Putting your head down and just keep going forward, even in the face of doubt, is the most important thing you can do. So I can't imagine myself doing anything else other than what I'm doing right now. Singing, acting, performing, creating stuff. Like that's I can't imagine myself doing anything else. And I think no matter how much doubt I have, I'm going to keep doing stuff. And my attitude is going to change, you know? And it's normal to doubt yourself. Like even when you're doing great, like even when I'm doing well, I'll still have doubt about, you know, so many things. But I just try to get hung up on that. To me, that's like, that can be so debilitating. If I, if I just do on, oh god, like, I might, like, all the time that. All the time, I'm like, am I good enough to be doing this? There are so many talented people, like, why am I doing this? Like, how long is this going to last? Like, when am I going to give up this charade, you know what I mean? Like, how lucky am I that I get that I get to perform and put on a costume and do commercials and do voiceover work and narrate TV shows and perform on stage. And some people say, it's like, well, what do you see yourself in a year or five years? And it's impossible to tell. Because five years ago, I could never imagine that I'm at this point right now. And so there's a part of me that thinks that setting goals and having expectations doesn't matter. You just need to know what you love doing right now. And that's all you need to know to move forward. And if you don't know what you love right now, then start trying different shit. Yeah. Start playing around in that of teakering. That is great advice, I think. And that is something that I definitely agree. Like, if you're, if you're stuck, like, if, like, younger me, it's like, just tanker play, find different things. Like things are going to kind of, it's amazing how life kind of rights itself. Like, it's like, it's that stereotypical. Like, this is what your life looks like. And this is what it looks like in retrospect. It looks like a straight line. But really, it was like, it's a great thing. It's a great thing. All over the everyday. That's how life is. That's how that's how our careers are. You know? So I got one more question. I want you to name one thing that people before they go to bed tonight. They should either watch, listen, or read. What one thing do you think I could be a podcast? Could be a book? Could be a movie? What one thing do you think would, um, is so important. They need to watch it before they get the bed. Uh, right now there's a really cool podcast called, How I'm built this? And it's NPR. And, um, Guy Roz is the host. And he interviews people like, the founders of Creighton Barrel. The two people who created Instagram. And granted, they're all entrepreneurs. They're all innovators. Um, and kind of culture shifters. That's very inspiring. It's actually kind of comparable to your show. Yeah. But that's a good show. That's a good show. Except the ground up you're dealing with, like, literally people at the ground. The base level. Basically subterranean. Yeah. Like below the ground. We just have some air above us. We dad show Instagram yet. That shows very inspiring. All right, man. Well, that's it. All right. Thanks for being on the show. Thanks. Thanks for inviting me, man. Well, we'll have to have you back on the show when you're on Broadway. That's it for this episode of The Ground Up Show. You can subscribe to us on iTunes SoundCloud, YouTube, or anywhere else that you listen to your podcasts. Big shout out to Conrad Golovak. He produced this episode. If you guys need somebody to shoot and edit your videos. Hit him up.
