# You Can't Be a Minimalist If...
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8BADhRmu4Cw
Get exclusive content:  http://patreon.com/mattdavella

People try to tell you what you can and can't be. I don't like that. In this video I talk about the negative feedback I sometimes get (especially as someone who calls themselves a minimalist). I also talk about, as many have wondered, why I have 24 t-shirts.

New videos every week! New podcast every Wednesday!

My gear... https://kit.com/mattdavella
^These are affiliate links. I only recommended products that I use & fully endorse.

Subscribe:  https://goo.gl/nzS5ri
My podcast:  http://groundupshow.com
Instagram:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella/
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella/

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** minimalism, minimalist, lifestyle, simple living, simplicity, documentary, film, filmmaking, wardrobe, clothes, 
**Date:** 2018-03-23

## Transcript
 So, not too long after I made my first feature length documentary minimalism and we got it on Netflix. I wanted to see what people were saying about it, what they thought of the film, I wanted to see the reaction online. So, I went on a Netflix and there are some reviews on there, so I started reading through some of them. I was expecting the absolute worst, you know, everything that I knew or at least I thought was wrong with the film, things that I needed and wanted to make better but didn't have enough time. I thought they were going to pick out all those flaws. And what I saw was actually a conversation about minimalism and simple living, and some people saying how it's something they aspire to, other saying it's something that they could never do when here's all the reasons why. Which was really, really great to see because just that conversation was what we wanted to bring about. As much as we answer questions in the film, a lot of times it's really not about having the answers. It's about having a conversation and looking within and asking, you know, what adds value to my life. But then, of course, there were comments like these. Okay, the guy with the girlfriend he lives with with tons of shoes is not a minimalist. He goes home to his material-filled world after filming this. And if you wish to take life advice from someone who leaves home barefoot on a skateboard, or wish to be preached about minimalism by a guy with a $200 haircut with $20 worth of hair product in his hair, feel free. It's the epitome of irony. They're making money from you for having nothing. A funny scam, but a scam for hipster is nonetheless. So what you have with these comments are people who have a certain definition of minimalism in their head. And when other people break it, by the way, I don't know how they know how much Josh's haircut cost. I don't think he actually spends $200 on a haircut. But even if he did, that doesn't mean that he is not a minimalist. This person had a preconceived notion in their head of what minimalism means. And if anybody else breaks that or does something a little bit outside the box of their prescribed definition, then all of a sudden, outrage. You're not a minimalist, you're a fraud, you're a cheat. So I wasn't that surprised when I started making YouTube videos myself, talking about minimalism and simple living and how it applies to my life, that I would get some of these comments. People saying you travel with too much stuff. You have way too many forks. I swear, I've gotten this comment on my apartment videos so many times. You have too many forks. I've got eight forks in my house. Maybe they're joking. Four big forks, four small forks. That's not too many forks, whether you're a minimalist or not. Sorry, I had to get that off my chest. That was really frustrating. And most recently with my wardrobe video, there were a couple of people that remarked on how many t-shirts I have. They could not believe that a minimalist would have 24 t-shirts. There was actually somebody got really upset. It was almost like he thought he just found out a conspiracy theory. And he said, he said, wake up people. This guy's got 24 t-shirts. There's no way that he could be a minimalist. I got a good laugh out of that. But I want to illustrate a point here. Because minimalism at its core is about intentionality. It's about making conscious decisions about how we live our lives, the things that we consume, and buy, and how we lead our lives. So for me, I have 24 t-shirts for a very specific reason because I use them all. Most of the time I get through all my t-shirts, and I can break it down for you and do the math. There are seven days in the week. I usually wear seven t-shirts. That means every day I'm wearing t-shirt. I go to the gym five days a week, so I need another t-shirt for the gym. I do my laundry every other week. Seven times two plus five times two. Twenty four. It's amazing, right? It's like somebody actually went through the effort and thought this through and said, hey, this is exactly how many t-shirts I'm probably going to need at most in my life. But really, a benefit of having so many t-shirts is that I'm doing my laundry last meaning that my shirts will last me much longer. So I probably won't shop for clothes for another probably two to three years, unless my pants, I rip a hole in them or something, and I really have to replace them. But I have all the clothes that I need. I guess the one thing that I would leave you with is don't let other people tell you who you are, what you are, what you can do. That is only for you to define. So if you want to be a minimalist and have 24 t-shirts more power to you, I say go for it. Thanks so much for watching. As always, you can get behind the scenes content on my Instagram. That's at Matt Diivella. And if you like podcasts, I've got one of those. It's called The Ground Up Show and I grapple with ideas like the one in this video. I've got so many great guests from filmmakers to newscasters, athletes and rappers. Go to groundupshow.com for the podcast. See you next time. Thank you.
