# I Have a Crazy Idea
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=8cWgh8zyQNo
http://gettherockonmattspodcast.com

Hi there. If you're new to my channel my name is Matt D'Avella. I directed the Netflix documentary Minimalism & I have a podcast called The Ground Up Show.

On the podcast I challenge listeners to pursue their passions & attempt impossible challenges. And I've got one of my own. For the past year I've been trying to get The Rock on my podcast. He hasn't returned my phone calls yet but I still have hope. Check out the full journey so far in the video. Lots more videos coming.

You can get the podcast here:
http://groundupshow.com

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** the rock, dwayne johnson, dwayne the rock johnson, podcast, podcasting, interview, matt davella, Matt D'Avella, film, filmmaking, behind the scenes, impossible, dream, big, self-help, 
**Date:** 2018-03-17

## Transcript
 Have you ever had an idea so big, so crazy, so impossible that you just didn't know where to start? You didn't know what to do next. I've got one of those. A little over a year ago, just after making my first feature length documentary, I decided to start a podcast. I know in 2017, not the most original idea, but as a filmmaker who had gone through my share of failures, I wanted to talk with other creators about their experience. It was amazing to be able to learn from filmmakers, entrepreneurs, rappers, and journalists about their stories and how they made things happen. You know, reaching out to complete strangers, having them come over to your apartment, share coffee, have an hour-plus conversation about the things that we've done right and wrong over the years, things we would have done differently was such an amazing learning experience. And in a lot of ways, it opened the world up to me. It got me to reach out of my comfort zone and talk with people I never would have before. Which leads me to my big, crazy idea. I thought about this. I thought about who would be the ultimate guest to have on the show. Who inspires me the most? Who would be just in and of itself, getting them to come on my podcast would be an accomplishment and it came down to one person. Duane the rock, Johnson. I do bring up the rock in every podcast. I've been trying to get a whole of the rock, he's not picking up, he's not answering my phone calls. Who's this map dude? I'm a nobody. I wouldn't mind getting the rock. Yeah, we'll see. I'll see if I can put in a good word. I want to touch the rock, not literally. That would be creepy. He's got this thing called the rock clock. Have you heard it? No. So you wake up with the rock. So you lived off it, you wanted to touch the rock. I can't. Can you stop smiling at me like that? It's just really, it's really creeping me out. And you didn't have to wear a suit. I said it was casual, stalking is the most sincere form of flattery. So this isn't a video about how I finally got a whole of the rock and he's coming on my podcast. I wish we're not very yet. I think we have a long way to go. This is a video to let the world know, at least my very small part of the world, no. What I'm trying to attempt here, because I can't do this alone. As much as I wish I could just pick up the phone and get through to Dwayne the Rock Johnson, it's not going to happen like that. So over the past year, I've started to put in the groundwork. I started with a frame photo on my wall. Then I placed the same photo on my wallet. I watched a documentary the secret and they said that I could get a red bike if I just think about it. So this is kind of me doing that. You have to feel it. Then I built the website. It's called GetTheRock on Matt's podcast.com. And it's got a huge button on it that auto-generates new tweets at the rock. And as my podcast is grown, some of the guests that I've had on the show have met the rock. They know someone that knows someone, they've worked with him. Even those that are friends with him. But he's literally one of the sweetest, you know, most kindest, harded humans I've ever met. That can crush you. We're getting closer every week. So I'm going to be doing a bunch of things on this channel over the next as long as it takes. You know, whether it's three months or three years or more, I recently binge watch every single doing the Rock Johnson movie over the course of two months. That video is going to be coming out very soon. I've got some other videos I'm working on. And really when it comes down to it, this is something that I want to be fun and ridiculous and over the top because I'm really doing this for you. Okay. That's not true. That's totally not true. I'm doing this for me. I'm also doing it for you. I'm doing it for us is what I'm trying to say because I do want to show you and I want to show myself, prove to myself, what's possible when you just have a crazy and vicious idea and you actually try to make it happen. You actually do everything it takes to bring it to life, you know. That's why I'm here. That's why I'm doing this and hopefully that's something that you can be a part of as well. Thanks so much for watching this video, guys. I hope you liked it. If you can do one thing right now, it's to go over to get the rock on that's podcast.com, click the tweet button, check out some of the stuff that I've done so far and be a part of this journey with me. Thank you so much.
