# Slow Fashion // Ground Up 092
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=91chEhzCEcQ
I'm moving  the podcast to a new channel...
https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCsrVzMMYCqbSPDT1TwFwVnA

Find Dani:  https://instagram.com/dazey_la
Support the show:  http://patreon.com/mattdavella

I talked with Dani Nagel, a fashion designer and owner of the brand Dazey. We discussed making the leap from full-time employee to full-time business owner, the slow fashion movement to create ethical and sustainable clothing, and the crisis of authenticity on social media.

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** ethical fashion, sustainable fashion, ethical clothing, declutter, lifestyle, lifestyle design, minimalism, minimalist, simple living, simplicity, create, creator, get started, ground up, make, matt davella, matt d'avella, podcast, podcasting, start, the ground up show, Dani Nagel, 
**Date:** 2019-01-02

## Transcript
 Hey there my name is Matt Diavella and you're listening to The Ground Up Show, the podcast where I talk with creatives about how to make shit happen. This week I talk with Danny Nagel, fashion designer and owner of the brand Daisy. We discuss making the leap from full-time employee to full-time business owner, the slow fashion movement to create ethical and sustainable clothing, and the crisis authenticity on social media. Like on the outside people thought, oh this girl has it all together, she has everything you could want and yet I was feeling miserable. This podcast is made at free thanks to Patreon supporters, put a patreon.com slash Matt Diavella to support the show and get access to a dozen exclusive videos with new content of coming every month. Again that's patreon.com slash Matt Diavella, enjoy the show. Do we start? Yeah let's do it. Great. Let's get started out. Can you give a little bit of an introduction because I know you wear many hats, so what is it that you do? How do you feel your days? Many hats, so I am a t-shirt designer and that's what most of my career has been in, but the past almost three years now I've been working on my own brand called Daisy LA. It is a art apparel line with a mission to empower women and create conversation. And initially when I started the brand I did all the designs, all the photography, I mean all the everything. As you do, when you're first starting up and now it's grown a bit so I'm able to explore fun things, like more media and podcasts and stuff like that, but yeah I mean we're a small team and we love what we do. Yeah I think what's amazing about what you do now is this push towards slow fashion. A lot of people are becoming more and more aware of the fast fashion industry of putting out new lines every single week and constantly re-upping and trying to keep up with trends. What has been your view of just the industry at large? Being somebody who's worked with in it as well as now trying to kind of pave your own lane within the fashion industry. What's really interesting with fast fashion is people were not educated on it until very recently, even I've been in the fashion industry for almost 10 years, I started super young and for a long time I had no idea and I was working for a lot of these really terrible fast fashion companies and one of them being macy's, I was doing men's t-shirt designs for them and I just remember walking out into the warehouse and seeing like 5,000 units of this one t-shirt design I did that was just a dumb design and I was like, where's this all going to go? And I was kind of like the first time I realized like these 5,000 shirts aren't going to be around for more than a few years, it's some trendy t-shirt, it's going to be gone, where's it going to go and then I stumbled upon the documentary true cost on Netflix. Yeah, and he was actually on the podcast and didn't work, he made it, yes. And when I watched it I couldn't believe it and I had been contributing to this terrible thing with no idea, I had no idea and I was literally in the industry so that was a huge wake-up call for me, I mean, still working for other people, I didn't really have a lot of control over that, but I knew when I started my own company I wanted to do it right and do it the best way that I could, but yeah, fashion industry is the second most polluting industry in the world, next to big oil, which is pretty bad and a lot of people don't know it. Bad company, yeah, exactly, not a good spot, but what's cool is with my brand like we're very much about creating conversation and bringing up these tough topics and educating people on that. So alongside us doing our best to create things ethically, we're able to teach people to shop and support these smaller brands and we go one step further than a lot of even these smaller brands by making all of our shirts as they're ordered. Because one of the biggest reasons why the fashion industry is so wasteful is they have to pre-determine how much stock of something they're going to make, there's minimums, you know, they need to make hundreds and hundreds of units and only like a certain percentage of them are going to sell, the rest of them they have to get rid of and there's a huge waste. So instead we're doing small batch of, let's say I'm wearing like this short sleep sweater in yellow, so we'll make like 10 of those and we'll have them sitting on the shelf and once they're ordered the graphic will be printed and then we have a few different graphics that go on this body, but by doing that we aren't creating anything that's sitting around unwanted that's going to go on sale. We're only creating things that are already ordered and wanted and making as minimal waste is possible. That's amazing. One thing that I remember and in some of the interview we did with Julia Chor and minimalism was around the idea of fast fashion and the fact that fashion, clothing itself has lost its value, where at one point you could actually trade your clothes as if it was a monetary value, but now if you want to get rid of your clothes very few items retain their value, maybe a leather jacket, maybe something that's like on the higher end or maybe like a name brand, but even once it's out of style, a year or two years go by, you couldn't even give it away to thrift shop for the most part, right? Oh my gosh, yeah, I mean clothes lose their value like after a couple of wears. People are not interested in wearing it. Nobody really wants it. I mean, there's just way too many clothes in the world. I mean, I also, I'm a huge proponent of places like crossroads or buffalo exchange, where you can sell your used clothes and buy used clothes from other people. And if I'm not wearing my own brand, which I do like 90% of the time, I usually am wearing something that's like secondhand. And I think that's a really great way for people who are on a budget to approach being more ethical with their fashion choices. Well, yeah, because there's, like you said, there's just so much clothes that's already been made that if you are struggling, if you are on a budget, you can just pop into a thrift store and find something to be. Exactly. And with so many of these big fast fashion brands, one of the companies I worked full-time for was Urban Outfitters doing t-shirt graphics. And I just remember like, you would just try to come up with whatever phrase you think is going to sell. There wasn't really a lot of thought or a heart put into what you're doing or what their shirt or design means. And with Daisy, I try to put a lot of thought and really make it a piece of art and something special and use really nice fabrics and make it something people are going to like treasure and actually value as a piece of clothing that means something as opposed to some throwaway shirt that says like spring break or something, it's stupid on it. Right. Which I'm guilty of just hanging in the past. Well, it's just, it's funny that you mentioned that because I experienced the same thing as a freelancer when I first got into minimalism. I was working with pig brands like Reebok and Nike and making commercials and working on sneaker lines and most people know how crazy sneaker culture is where some people own 50, 100 pairs of sneakers. And it was hard in the beginning because you have to, and I don't think it's a bad thing because we all have to make a living. Right. We but it's the idea of knowing, okay, I want to try to find a way around this to create something that really means something to me. And it sounds like you had that same path where it was like you had enough with producing these kinds of shirts that maybe didn't have any meaning or value to them to you to creating something that actually did. Totally. And it makes such a big difference in how you feel with your work. Like I was feeling kind of depleted and like what I was doing wasn't making a difference. And at the end of the day, like I'm still making t-shirts, but I feel like I'm making an impact on people through the messaging on my clothing and educating people and I just add so much more meaning to your day-to-day life than feeling like you're contributing to something bad, you know? Right. Well, everybody needs to wear clothes. Yeah. And not everybody's like me where they want to wear the same exact shirt every single day. So your clothes for a lot of people it means something. Like it is a symbol of what it represents to you and whether that's Gucci or these like high-end brands or it's a brand that's more sustainable and like yours has a message behind it. What are some of the messages? Because I know you put a lot of thought into them that are put into the clothes that you make. So every collection for Daisy is designed around a different theme and a lot of the times the themes are something that I'm discovering or wanting to share going through in my life. Like there was this speak up, speak out collection that was all about giving women a voice, especially like with this whole me too, hashtag and a lot of women are coming out as assault survivors. Like this line was kind of about them having a voice and being brave and also just about women in general who are often told to be quiet or silenced. I mean so many times in my life as a young adult or in my career as somebody who's very vocal and opinionated I was told to be quiet. And this collection was just kind of like about women using their voice and being loud and it has different phrases on it like speak up, speak out or she will not be silenced and then I designed the artwork kind of tied it in with the phrase and then my next collection this past summer was the summer of self care and after the entrepreneurship life I was like a couple years in. I realized I was way overworking myself and I was exhausted and I looked at my life kind of from the outside and it looked like I should be like the happiest person in the world like all these good things are happening but I was really stressed and really like at some points feeling depressed so that collection was very cathartic for me to design and really reflect on like what matter like there's phrases like magic in the mundane. There's like a ton of them like just different things to remind me like it's okay to like log off of your phone or you know take time out to care about like your physical being and then this past collection I've designed so many collections about different themes like you go on forever. On this past one was all about sisterhood and unity and diversity and celebrating that within feminism so that's amazing. It's great to actually have I like that each one has a message behind it and it's not like you're putting them out every single week every single day it's like this is a collection that means something that's going to last a long time it's not something that's just a femoral that's here and then it's gone the next day. Totally. When you're creating slow fashion what does that look like? How I know you said that you are very slow to not produce mass batches of clothing. What does that mean on like a yearly basis and how do you see yourself moving slower but also effectively because obviously if you move too slow then you don't have a business. Yeah I mean with our strange made to order model we've been learning as we go and we really have to market ourselves as a slow fashion brand because it literally is slow. It takes time like our orders can take three weeks to a month to ship if there's a lot of orders coming in and I mean our production team like we've been working with them for the past few years and they're amazing but you know whenever we have a surge of orders let's say a celebrity posts a picture and one of our shirts or something. It's been difficult finding the right balance with the supply and demand because okay like maybe sales pick up for a few months because of something you know something like that happens and then they'll go back down and we're trying to balance like how much we should create and not waste so it's been difficult and it's something we're working on continually especially since we have so many different colors and everything is custom made for Daisy like I told them I want a short sleeve sweater and they make it I pick the pantone color and they make it so everything is like very custom made and done in such small amounts it's a learning process but we've been you know working through it and we hope to be an example to other companies that are wanting to do something similar. Is there a pressure for you to try to scale up things and make this big business and that's often the trajectory that a lot of companies take and a lot of them have it as that's the stock template that's what we should everybody should be trying because big as we can so then we can sell it to somebody and then make a bunch of money and then not to say that everybody's doing that but oftentimes that's what happens both in startups and in a parallel fashion do you see yourself scaling up when needed and how do you think how do you feel about keeping things small and intimate like is this even an idea that I mean I have that conversation with myself all the time of course like a part of me as a very driven person I want to like become as big and popular as a brand as possible and then other times like I do question like if that is going to hurt our sustainability practices it's hard to tell I mean we've been growing slowly and we've been comfortable with that and we've been able to sustain a small team and that's really cool like in some ways like I like love the pace we're at right now but of course like it's so hard as like a business person you want to grow and you know maybe we could figure out a way to really make it work on a larger scale and that could show other companies the right way to do it so if we can have a bigger impact on both the women that love our brand where our shirts and feel empowered and other companies that would be awesome what's your message to the larger companies is it possible for these companies to scale back in a way that would be sustainable and ethical because it seems like there are a lot of them are just trapped into trying to make board members happy right if they don't see growth every single year then somebody's getting fired yeah I mean it's hard when you've built your company to a certain point and you kind of you have a new threshold of what profits you need to sustain it so yeah I mean these companies need to make a change like our planet simply that's what sustainability is it's not sustainable the practice is they're doing right now they simply just they can't continue to do this but yeah get it as a business when you hit a certain point like to make those decisions like they need to make major decisions in order to be more sustainable and to be more ethical I mean you can create things outside of the US like all of our stuff is made in LA but you can participate in fair trade as well like working with people in a different country if they're being treated fairly and they're in a safe like a safe work environment and they're being paid fairly but again these companies have just gotten too big but they need to they need to make a change yes sorry it seems like it's it needs to come from us it needs to come from consumers and people need to say hey I've had enough because for every time you walk into an H&M or one of these stores that promote fast fashion then you're supporting a company that doesn't use fair and safe practices exactly at the end of the day consumers have the power to make those decisions so if this big company H&M Zara sees that people are becoming educated on fast fashion and they're choosing to support companies that are having more sustainable production practices they're going to have no choice but to follow suit so where you invest your money is a vote for what kind of future you want I know that's a phrase that's tossed around the internet a lot but it is so so true and whether you're supporting like a small brand like ours or a bigger company trying to do things better like that's where you need to put your money and not in these companies that are doing it the wrong way as tempting as it is to buy the $2 $3 tank top it's just a bad decision for the world there's a reason why they're that cheap yeah it's not somebody's paying a price yeah it might not be you but somebody else yeah I'm actually yeah I've got a video that's coming out over black Friday and this is probably gonna be released well past it but um it's just about like this idea that it's very easy to get caught up and swept up in the sales and 70 80 90% off and I think if we take a more of a true minimalist approach where you're actually like value the material objects and aren't like it's throwing things away every other month then you won't get swept up in these sales and the urge to buy stuff I mean what I was younger and H&M's were like just starting to like pop up all over the US I loved it I was like oh my gosh like I was a starving college student I could finally like get all these different outfits and got to point where I just kind of like saw clothes is like it was like a piece of trash after a couple of wears like it was literally nothing it meant nothing to me and as I got older and I started to realize like how messed up the fast fashion industry is and started to support small businesses I would actually feel good about buying something from a small business and supporting their dream and their hard work and I would actually treasure that piece of clothing or that accessory way more than some throwaway piece I got at a fast fashion store and I even started to just like every time I would put something on that was from Forever 21 I like wouldn't even feel good about my outfit that day you know and instead of like putting something on I was like I felt confident and if somebody asked me where that was from I got to tell them about some cool new business instead of saying oh it's from Forever 21 it was so much cooler and nowadays that like you're sharing your outfits on social media all day like how much better is it to tag like a cool small fashion brand that's gonna be so excited that they saw you in their clothes and repost it and actually appreciate your business then tagging Forever 21 and picture you know yeah it is interesting that you even mentioned like the feeling that you get when wearing the clothes because I think it's something that's important to focus and recognize for us as consumers is how do you feel when you're in line about to make a purchase and you buy something and then how do you feel as you're walking out the door and then a week later when you've got that thing and you know for so long before that you're like I need this thing I need this thing I got to buy it I got to get it and then you finally get it and then a lot of times buyers were more sets in and we're not happy with our purchase and so many of us are paycheck to paycheck like 80% of Americans are living paycheck to paycheck and it's just a lot of us don't have the money to buy all the time so it's much better to buy smaller amounts of items maybe higher quality they're in it last a longer time yeah definitely I mean that's something I've noticed since I've been shopping small more and supporting other female owned businesses I don't get those same buyers remorse I usually like the item because I saved up money to like spend it on something nice that I loved and I also felt good about my money was going directly into this person's pocket and not the pocket of all these corporate CEOs like it felt good like everything about the purchase felt good how do we go about finding these brands obviously we can check out your brand it's exactly exactly we can do that which I definitely encourage people to check out what are some other ways besides thrift shopping like how do we know if we're supporting a bad brand or good brand because a lot of times the brands that aren't ethical it's not very clear from their branding and how they push everything out even though they don't say they're sustainable they have this happy cheery beautiful ads that make you feel like they're good people okay what do they call it green washing like all these companies that are trying to make everything look green and ethically make it aren't really I mean that's more in like the like home product like cleaner world yes yeah the food has a similar thing all natural and which all natural means exactly doesn't mean anything yeah um there's a lot of different ways I think social media is a great way to find small businesses because it's an amazing tool that small businesses have to market even though they don't really have a marketing budget so a lot of small businesses are on social media look at hashtags look at hashtags slow fashion ethical fashion you know usually if you're following one slow fashion brand Instagram can recommend some other ones to you on DZLA we don't carry just our brand but we also carry brands by other ethically made slow fashion female entrepreneurs so that's a cool curated space where you can discover new brands we list all about their their practices where things are made and about the entrepreneur like right on the listing so we're educating people about like check out this brand another good way is there's this app I believe it's an Australian app called good on you and they have the whole app is about ethical fashion and you can look up any fashion brand most fashion brands um and they'll rate them like ABC DF kind of on their production practices and they have big brands on there some brands are worse than others um and then you can also discover new small fashion brands on that app so that's a really cool tool to use that's something I want to do I want to look sorry no not that not that I can make the app I just do not want to make an app that sounds like a terrible time oh really it's actually did a documentary on product design and we actually interviewed with a lot of people at Airbnb Twitter Facebook like about how they design these apps and these products it's a tough crowd to compete with anytime you're trying to make an app and it's it takes a lot of money engineering and creating the app itself is crazy expensive and the amount that go to market similar to a small business the chances of you succeeding and thriving are so small and I'd love to get into that with you in a minute about just like how to make it as a creative but I'm interested how you actually made that leap to be again with like how did you go from being a designer to a full-time creative somebody creating your own stuff yeah it's a scary thing to do um it was something I wanted to do every like young fashion designer you asked them like or somebody who has wanted to be fashion designers and they were young they'll always tell you I want to have male clothing line like I designed clothes for my dolls like I have that same stereotypical story like every girl I met in fashion school wants to have their own line and it kind of like you start to hear that over and over again you're like oh that's not really realistic like everyone thinks that they can have their own fashion line so I kind of like put that dream in the back of my head and just decided to start working for other companies and I originally got a degree in fashion design but I've always loved art and I've always messed around on Photoshop so I got an internship with a t-shirt company and I had never done on me that I could do both art and fashion like fused into one thing um so after that internship I just kind of was like I'm going to be a t-shirt designer and um I ended up getting a job at that internship and uh working my way through just different companies I was in San Diego at the time I got a job with Macy's in LA then Urban Outfitters that I was a job hopper I'm sorry how did you like the the corporate structure the nine to five type environment looking back it's totally not for my personality type but I didn't know and I didn't really give myself the option to think anything else was possible it was that little dream at the back of my head so I just kind of put my head down and worked and I think that's why I hopped around job so much like I was literally a design machine like I would sit there all day just pumping out designs and that's really hard so you and a lot of these corporate companies don't give you time to find inspiration they just expect you to like output all day long and it was really draining is that how you're judged basically it's just like the number of stuff that you put it yeah how well you're designed sell and how much you're designing and you know it was really rough and I went from one job to the next and luckily like was able to kind of like through I found a lot of stuff through Craigslist like a legit job I had early on yeah I lived a couple Craigslist I was a bottom feeder I was like give me that fifty dollar job I found like full-time corporate like jobs really yeah like the Urban Outfitters thing was through a Craigslist ad they were private label for Urban Outfitters that was like one of my goals and I was younger I was like I want to design for Urban um then that was miserable my art director was terrible to me and like everyone on the team and so I ended up leaving that to design for a hot topic in Torrid which actually had a really awesome company environment they treated their employees like family and it was so cushy and nice that I got really bored I started like listening to podcasts about entrepreneurship I started doing some secret freelance on the clock I started posting my work online um which I wasn't supposed to do like when you were for these corporate companies you do not own your artwork oh so yeah you don't own your own artwork so you can't really post it like it's you're just you're not talking to you in your real yeah I mean you could put it in a portfolio but they don't want you to even have a portfolio because that means you're trying to get other work you're not even supposed to freelance like you're their property artistically and I struggled with that and I always kind of like tried to break the rules at companies I worked at and I got in trouble that hot topic is very corporate they saw me posting stuff on Instagram and that was it so I was fired from hot topic and kind of after listening to all those podcasts and sitting at my desk daydreaming was like this is my shot so I tried doing freelance failed miserably then got a job with a startup and learned how to start a business from the ground up and then after a year there I was like why am I doing this for someone else so I quit and started my own business and yeah I mean I would have been terrified to do it if I hadn't gotten fired and gotten that experience from the startup brand right so in a lot of ways getting fired was one of the best things happening and you hear that over and over again but it's so true it led me to where I am now because when you have that cushy corporate job like I was a young designer and I was doing really well for myself like whether I was fulfilled or not like it was still a good job and I was doing art and that was really cool I probably would have never made the leap when you got fired and you attempted to do freelance looking back why do you think you failed in that first attempt? because I had no game plan I just kind of thought I was going to make it work I was listening to these podcasts entrepreneurs like doing these amazing things and I kind of like ran out of the gate like I'm gonna do this like I'm awesome blah blah and I had zero game plan I hadn't built up a client base and I was so used to that corporate paycheck that the stress in between freelance gigs like I just couldn't handle it and like looking back like that's a part of the process like freelancing is a different world like there's gonna be highs and lows and and a new eventually will be fine but I was so used to the consistency that I just couldn't handle it and I think working for a startup was a really cool way to kind of have some consistency it wasn't that corporate paycheck but I was getting experience and I was able to do things that I was not able to do at the corporate companies where I was put in like the designer box and I couldn't mess around with marketing social media photography like it was like you do your one thing and we don't want to hear anything else from you so working with the startup is an awesome way to dip your toe in and like really get that experience that you don't get with your one job. Yeah I think that's an amazing example too of an alternate way out of a job that you hate because a little far too many times we hear the story of the person that's like well I just quit my job I got fired and then I started working and everything worked out great and it doesn't always work out great you really I really encourage people to have a plan if you know that you aren't happy in your job then it's what steps can I take to make sure that when I do leave I can be successful at whatever my next venture is so it's saving up a lot of money it's making sure you have run way for six months to a year if not more as much as you possibly can give in your salary and then I think obviously living simply and making sure that you're not overspending while you're in that place of limbo which I've been more than two times before but I love that the other option that you provide it which is maybe I mean obviously it was an intentional for you but you could intentionally leave that nine to five job that's a little bit more rigid and strict and maybe it doesn't let you work from home to a place where they are potentially more flexible more work from home hours more time to start your own passions and your side projects that eventually could then lead to your building your own thing totally like it was like a total different world from the corporate like they owned my artwork they owned my time I wasn't allowed to freelance and I was working for the startup they totally encouraged me to freelance because they know they weren't paying me as much as like I could get paid working for somewhere else so they were very chill about being more flexible and letting me work like you said it from wherever I want and maybe kind of have like a little more schedule of my own and I was able to save up money and build up a freelance client like you said I saved up enough money to live honestly wanted to years off of from corporate job just because I was that afraid like I was very afraid like I would not have expected that I was going to be an entrepreneur and living this life that I do now but yeah saving up a lot of money gave me the freedom to start my own business and building up a freelance base like freelance kept me afloat the first six months of my brand so that was also huge it sounds like you're risk averse yeah which is not like a lot of people wouldn't like meet me and think that I'm very like kind of bold and and out there but I don't know I think it's like how I was raised my dad's very conservative and he would have told me not to do any of this to begin with just stick with my paycheck of course he's like proud but yeah like for some reason like financially I've been very conservative most of my life even though in other ways I'm like a little more daring but yeah it stopped me thinking from doing a lot of things that I could have done I'm sure would have started it sooner right I mean I don't know I'm kind of with you because as somebody who graduated with six figures in student loan debt bought a brand new car made terrible financial decisions in my life since then I have become more risk averse and I am much more conservative when it comes to financial decisions to the point where I'm not that strict I would say like I don't have a budget I don't count every dollar that comes in I don't really I don't even set aside money for taxes because I just don't buy a much stuff like I just live below your means I just live below my means but I am very risk averse now I think it's about knowing which risks are worth taking you know starting a business could be seen as a risky opportunity but I guess what's the worst case scenario that could happen if you're not investing tons and tons of money into it it's just your time right yeah I mean you just have to get a job again it didn't work out you're kind of embarrassed but you're okay was that the idea is that I guess like if this doesn't work out I could always get a job again yeah I mean people get so in their head like imagining worst case scenario and sometimes you just have to sit down and be like all right really like what is that worst case scenario and is it really that bad is getting a job again that bad like I had a decent resume like that worst case scenario that was what I had to do and it could be embarrassing and it was a little embarrassing when I got fired failed at freelancing and had to get a job again but I was fine you know and you also learn things along the way yeah definitely and something I've learned a lot my entrepreneurial journey is you can't always hold on to money and things so tightly and sometimes by spending more money you're going to make more money and that was something that took me a long time to learn it took me a while to hire my first employee even though I really needed some help and once I finally crossed across that threshold and did it I realized it opened up so much more time for me to make more money and spend time on marketing the brand and now I'm all about people like putting like their money in the right places like you said it's important to put it in the right places but if you're so like you're holding on to it so tightly that that money's not going to help you get more money you're just kind of going to slowly maybe save money instead of focus on making money early on was it a grind for you now I know obviously you have moments these days that you still work very hard and it can be very stressful but specifically during the early years how do you view that that period of your life and to get to the point where you were able to hire somebody to offload some of that work I mean looking back now my day to day is a lot more laid back and that was done very intentionally because I did grind for years two point where I started to feel burnt out and I was doing everything I love I was doing photography working in fashion social media t-shirt design like I combined all my passions into one but I was just working to damn hard and that's why I had to you know I wanted to do this summer of self-care collection in response to that and when I design that collection I took everything I designed the shirts seriously and I've done a lot more curating like what is really worth my time and when you get to a certain point and everyone's asking you to do stuff and your schedule is really crazy like you have to sit down and decide what's the most important and what's worth your time and sometimes that even means writing a list of like okay what are all the tasks that you have and like what do you get out of that task writing it down and crossing out the things that don't really matter that much you know right because even if you are grinding in the beginning and doing everything yourself there's still only so much that you can get to even if you're working holidays and weekends and nights even if you're burning yourself out you still will not be able to do everything that you want to do what were some of the things that became easy for you to cross off the list to say you know this not as important right now as doing the actual design work I think when I first started my company I wanted to do it all and I had the energy to do it all like I was just so excited and once you've been doing it for a while it's draining and I was able to kind of like write down the things that helped my company like some of the big projects we're working on we have an ambassador program where people can like rep our clothes and make commission we were focusing on wholesale and our blog and like we kind of like wrote down like our like big things that we are working on and we realized that wholesale was a fraction of the money that we are making compared to direct to consumer in our ambassador program yet we were putting the same amount of effort into that that we were these things that made an exponential amount more money so we just kind of decided to put it on the back burner and focus that energy instead into things that made more money our blog as much as I loved to blog about things and you know share like images and and thoughts on stuff it just wasn't getting the views that was worth the effort that I was putting into it and my time was becoming increasingly valuable as the company started to grow and you know more people are like asking me to do podcast interviews and and pop ups and this and that so it's about making those decisions and some of those will be to just cross it off the list and surrender it you know if a wholesale person comes wants to wholesale cool we'll let them do that but we're not spending our time trying to get all these people for the blog instead of me spending all my time doing it I found somebody to help me do it I mean it's good for things like SEO and you really got it examined like why that is valuable but maybe you don't have to do it maybe you can get some help with that I don't need to be sitting around shipping I need to be the face of my company I need to be showing behind the scenes I need to be connecting with my audience I think it'll it takes experimenting doesn't it because you have to try different things and maybe not maybe you won't have the time to try everything but you have to try to write a blog see if that works out do different iterations of it maybe write guest posts for other blogs and eventually you'll start to get some feedback from all the things that you're doing right we're like okay well this actually isn't a great use of time right now so maybe we we side table it maybe we push that put this on the back burner so then we can focus on the most important things totally and in what's really cool these days with social media is you can directly ask your audience what do they like what don't they like you know why didn't they want to go check out that blog post like I've asked my audience questions like that I love to be really transparent and show the journey of running a small business and people are like happy to help they feel like they're involved with the brand and they give me honest feedback that really helps us make big decisions yeah let's talk about social media because it seems like that's something that's been very important to building your brand and communicating with your audience and also finding new customers in clients would you say that that is an essential component of what you do yeah everyone says not to put the all their eggs in one basket and we're kind of in a space right now we realize we have so much emphasis on our Instagram and that's been the center of our business and what has really given us any sort of success so hands down like I mean I had worked blogging back in the day when it was first coming out so I had like a little bit of experience with that but starting my business and promoting on Instagram and getting influencers to post about it just creating really compelling artistic content and being very transparent about my journey as a small business owner is what built my audience and those are my customers those are my core those are my people and that's I mean if you look at our analytics it's like 90% of the traffic comes from Instagram so it's been really amazing at the same time you know I'm looking into finding other ways to sustain the business you know what if something happens to Instagram everyone says this like I want to there's some new platform on the sudden we're left in the dust so we're trying to diversify a little bit um yeah I know exactly what you wait because I'm in the same place with YouTube and it's like you know I like diversify a little bit but I think there's still something to be said of if this is working really well and nothing else is sticking like this then it makes sense to for the time being commit and invest in this and then um I don't maybe dabble like I said an experiment with other stuff but it's kind of hard to turn away from something that's working really well if you have a really popular blog it wouldn't make sense to stop writing for that blog totally I mean it goes back to that like what are you putting your energy in and is the payback worth it and right now like the payback is worth it for social media you know I post Instagram stories all day long just talking about you know what this shirt design means about slow fashion about behind the scenes of our production office behind the scenes of a photo shoot like the first thing like throughout my day like pops in my head is like oh should I Instagram story this like is this going to be valuable to people and I become so accustomed to it like yeah a lot of my day consists of writing like really like thoughtful captions and like organizing my feed and it's a beautiful feed yeah thank you very neurotic about it but what's cool is I have now a small team so it's me and three other people so they're handling a lot of the the logistical things that I don't really need to focus on like I know what I'm good at I'm good at creativity I'm good at branding and marketing I'm bad at logistics I'm bad at software I don't even want to know if there's something going on so I found some people who are good at that stuff like people who are way more organized and almost keep me on top of things and it gives me the freedom to focus on you know being very creative and focusing on social media and Instagram yeah I think what you do great is the videos that you create on Instagram and the stories and just like the authentic communication with your audience because I think that we're in like a crisis of authenticity now and Instagram it's very easy to look cool to play the part to you know have that every buttoned up photo and but to be able to be authentic and real and kind of take away the the gloss and the shine and say hey this is what it's really like I think that's super valuable and I think video is going to become more and more important as we move on and both in social media and just create creative platforms in general because you can't really fake video that much you can a little bit but it's so easy to see through it you can tell if somebody's being like a fake persona or on to be on camera versus this is this person for real 100 thousand percent yeah that's actually so funny you bring it up that's the topic I'm currently working on for my next collection amazing it's about authenticity and being real in this weird fake world of social media and being vulnerable and and how people really appreciate it and find it so refreshing it's so easy to fall into that trap of looking at all these people's lives on Instagram and everything looks perfect they're beautiful their lives are put together sometimes I feel like I even you know like will design my life to look a certain way so I constantly have to remind myself like okay remind people like yeah this happens you know like I tell people if there's like some something going on with my business like hey guys sales are really bad and really frustrated um people are dying to hear that stuff because they're sick of everyone's life looking perfect and everything being flawless and curated and we're able to do that through our captions and our videos and I still love to make photos look beautiful and super on brand but I'm able to balance that realness through our Instagram story and the messaging of our brand but I've had to unfollow a lot of bloggers and people that are actually friends of mine people that I know aren't actually living the lives that they're making it look like on Instagram and it's so frustrating I've got friends who are traveling the world and doing all this amazing stuff making their lives look perfect but I talk to them face to face and say how are you and they're like Danny I'm really depressed I'm really stressed out and I'm just sitting there like you're making hundreds of thousands of little girls on the internet feel like shit because you're making your life a fake facade of perfection and it's just really it's weird being in this space where I kind of like live in both worlds like consuming and creating the content and knowing these people who are the people living the perfect life of Instagram and knowing that it's not really real and seeing people hurting from seeing this fake content so I'm kind of trying to start a conversation around that and and encourage people to be more real on social media and spill their heart out once in a while I mean people need to hear that stuff yeah I'm right I'm right there with you because I don't think that we should be trying to escape culture or escape reality and go live in a cave somewhere I think we have to work from within it and we have to be a part of the conversation and to be on Instagram or to be on social media apps might be a part of that it may be helping to actually be like hey this is really how my day is going now I don't know if we should be posting post wherever you want but for me personally I wouldn't want every single post I make to be serious or thoughtful there's a balance right where it's like hey today's a good day I had a lot of fun today I think it's great to talk about that but then don't forget that sometimes days are tough and I think some people can get so much out of that the fact that you had a tough day that you're really frustrated you're facing a lot of doubt and I think that's actually going to build a stronger connection to be vulnerable yeah I mean you don't want to be a bummer all the time but I think you want your social media to be a reflection of your real life so much of our lives are digital and in person these days you're kind of in this weird space and some people take advantage of this coin to term that's really terrible vulnerability marketing which is using your weaknesses or your sadness to like get fans or likes and and that's gross too that's just as bad as posting the fake stuff because it really is kind of fake in a way if you're like if you're using it in a manipulative way you're like oh this is gonna help me build an audience exactly and I've seen some people do that and I think people can tell like or at least they're starting to be able to tell just a single tear right now they're just like I've seen it go really bad the other way so I think it's good if people are doing it in an authentic way and that's what I'm trying to do on my platform yeah if you're not real though and not like the fake real but if you're not really real online as well as in person it's gonna break you down there's only so long you can keep up the facade yeah it's cutie draining I can't even imagine how how do you suggest people approach that to to have that balance of being their selves online but also you know because you're in a you know in a in a challenging space right because it's a very it's a personal brand I mean but you have your own identity your own personal brand as well as this brand that you've created so it's like how do you bring a voice into that that is real and authentic but it also has the qualities and the message that you want to stand for yeah Daisy is a very unique because it's sort of a mix between a brand and a blog and I very much like am the face of the brand I mean I do the designs like I share my journey and I'm generally like upbeat positive person so even when I'm telling people about like the shitty things that happened in day to day you know I try to like have like a message behind that like hey like just want to let you know that like everyone has bad days and you know wake up tomorrow and and maybe it'll be better so I try to like keep everything with like a positive spin on it like I don't want to just be like bitching all the time on social media because sometimes like yeah I see people doing that and like you know that in some ways like that's going to bring people down the same way that seeing everything glamorous and perfect is going to I think it's just about being real like I have one foot in my digital life and one foot in in reality and I want them to mesh and feel authentic otherwise it like you said it's going to be draining like when I go to write a caption that day I think most people would just want to be like oh okay like what can I muster out of myself that's happy and relates to the photo instead of like hey um this is how I'm feeling right now and I'm really passionate about like this issue and I think people respond a lot better to a more authentic caption like they're getting really like savvy with this stuff people can tell right so you don't exactly have to say you know a lot of times we put these self-limiting rules on our self that this is a photo of me at the beach and now I need to have this be exactly about that experience but it could just be a photo and then the caption is completely different it's just a representation of how you feel in that moment mm-hmm yeah I think everyone has to go with their gut if they're highly uncomfortable sharing that stuff by all means they shouldn't have to be forced to do that um but maybe like tiptoin maybe if you're afraid of being on video which a lot of entrepreneurs that I work with are and I encourage them just to try it out you know like dip your toe in and see how it feels and and for me it was something like being this open online with something that took time but it helped my business a whole bunch compared to like just like trying to make it look like some big brand you know like having that real connection makes the online experience more enjoyable for everyone where do you think you saw the biggest growth in terms of being a creative I'm not talking about numbers but more so like personal growth when you look back over the past five to ten years what for you has been the things that have really stood out as like this decision or maybe facing that challenge really helped me yeah um I mean I think the transition between designing things that had little to no meaning and then when I first started Daisy like it was more like my chance to be an art director and be creative and then it slowly transitioned into being more mission driven with empowering women because I had felt disempowered plenty of times in my life and accidentally by sharing my journey a lot of women were telling me that they felt empowered to maybe start a business or do something like that so there was at some point around when I first started Daisy there was a transition from it being just a t-shirt line into it having like a meaning and a purpose behind it and that's what's given me the most fulfillment like if I was just making cute shirts that would be cool but being able to talk about these issues like even with my most recent collection talking about um unity and sisterhood and diversity like that's been really rewarding to me even if people aren't going to respond like as as well as a collection about self love or happiness like talking about the things that I'm passionate about and having a platform to do that I don't know if there's an exact moment where that happened but to me that's like what has given me purpose in my life it seems like having that message too also helped you to build a community where when you're starting out as an individual it can be very lonely and very daunting to face this hurdle and this challenge of making it as a full-time creative how were you able to build community and other like a support network around you that maybe they weren't employees but they were people who were on a similar journey or could also help you yeah I mean I have a lot of stories Daisy is very much about community um one of the ways I've done that is by launching our ambassador program because coming through this journey with my brand and myself like people feel like they're a part of it and this was a cool way to actually have them be a part of it so girls post the shirts they're able to talk about the messages on them they're able to call themselves a brand ambassador and actually get commission if people use their discount code um so that's been a really cool way to get like our customers like feel like they're a part of our brand and something bigger and another way I've done that is working with other female entrepreneurs in the fashion world there's a lot of competition especially pitting women against one another and that was the opposite of what I wanted to do was my brand so I worked really hard to do collaborations with other brands whether that's a design collaboration or a photo shoot or um I literally carry products from other female owned brands on my site so I don't have to feel like I'm at competitive like competing with anyone because we're working together um and through doing that I've gotten to know a lot of female entrepreneurs and and realized a lot of women were feeling very isolated working for themselves and so I co-founded a female co-working space in downtown LA about a year ago and that's been a really cool community it's like a 3,000 square foot loft in downtown I co-founded my business partner Terran and I work in an office space full of other small creative female entrepreneurs and that's it feels like I've co-workers again like it feels awesome instead of working for yourself so yeah like there's so much to the story but like those are a few ways I've really like embraced community in this world I've heard I heard this early on it's like that you are the person that you surround yourself with so the five people that are closest to you you are going to mimic their traits how they talk you're going to embody their mindset so if you were around people that are self-defeating who don't believe that you can create something for yourself then likely those people are going to bring you down but if you're around other inspiring people who are doing something just like you or what you aspire to do then they're going to help to push you and lift you up and I think that's so important oh totally I've always loved that phrase and I think it is really really true um ever since I've been surrounding myself with more driven women inspiring women it's pushed me to do better and we've helped each other along the way whether it's you know somebody has a connection that you need or somebody has a tip or you're able to help someone else out like having this community of women who are working together towards something similar has made a huge difference did you you know the dip by Seth Goden have you heard of it? No but I love his book all marketers tell stories that was a huge like it made a huge impact on how I marketed my brand yeah I have you he's got so many he's got I think he's so many books 18 bestselling books he's he's unbelievable and he's definitely was on the forefront of just marketing his first book I think was permission or one of his first books was permission marketing which came out like 2001 right around like the whole internet boom just talking about how you need to have permission from people in order to send them emails right like this is so basic right yeah something that people still don't follow through with to this day but it's about ethical marketing practices but he also has a lot of books about being a creative and following an unconventional path and his book the dip which I've probably talked about over dozen times on this podcast is about how in the very beginning and I think this is something that especially applies to those that are starting a brand or even a fashion line it's incredibly exciting because you're doing the logo and the initial line and the website and all that stuff and it's so much fun and it's it's very easy and then because everything is just everything's pure inspiration but then you hit a point where you enter that dip and things are tough think that's where the real work kicks in and his book was really all about should you quit is that a time when you should quit or leave or is that a time when you should push the route and keep going did you face a moment like that with everything that you've created where you look at Daisy and you say this is really tough time but I know I want to stick through and how did you get through that dip? Yeah I mean there was this one point and this was right before the self-care collection where all these amazing things were happening at once and I had just bought a house and it was that's been one of my dreams ever since I was a kid then I hosted an event a week after about that house at that house for Coachella and then two days later I went to Tokyo and in the midst of all this like a bunch of stuff was going on with Daisy and with biz babes the co-working space and it all like all this amazing stuff was happening but amidst all that I was so drained and I felt depressed and I beat myself up about it even more because I looked at everything that was happening and I was like you should be over the moon all these amazing things are happening yet I felt defeated and crushed and I just felt like I couldn't sustain this lifestyle that I was trying to live pushing myself constantly there was in a moment of rest and yeah as soon as I got back from Japan released the collection I just kind of changed how I do work like I only give myself a couple tasks to do a day luckily I've built my company I've worked my ass off to get it to a space where it's pretty self-sufficient with an awesome team in place and a huge priority for me right now is sustaining my brand and my energy and keeping my inspiration high so I'm also focusing on like what gets me inspired like walking around town going to a coffee shop listening to podcasts reading books like that stuff I intentionally put into my schedule to sustain my energy and my passion for this brand that I love but at that point where I felt and an all-time low I felt like I just wanted to run away and I remember when it really hit me I was doing an interview and somebody asked me oh you just bought a house you're traveling you just launched this that like how do you balance it all and stay so positive and I just was like that what it looks like like on the outside people thought oh this girl has it all together she has everything you could want and yet I was feeling miserable and I just answered the question like really honestly it was like I'm not holding it together I've not balancing it all like things are happening but like it's all coming to a head and that was like a weird moment for me about it was like wow I don't want people to think that I have it all together so that was a moment right I kind of committed to like being more real about like struggling through some of these times where I was feeling really down and also just changing my lifestyle and getting out of that and I think by slowing down a lot I've been able to get to a place where I feel really happy I've unfollowed a lot of people I try to not be on the internet all day long and by making these decisions it helps me hopefully get to a place where I can continue to do Daisy for years and years to come and be excited about it every day. It sounds like you've been very intentional with how you design your life and maybe it started with touching the hot stove and you know making your mistakes but eventually it seems like you're getting to a point now where you can have that balance you're not working too hard and you know like any creative I'm sure that there are the moments when you do have to put in the extra work you have to work the weekends you have to work the late nights but all in all when you look at it it seems like you've achieved the kind of balance that you were looking to get. Yeah I found a lot more balance and there's some guilt that comes with that like you feel like you should be working all day and you're like I'm running a business like what am I doing but you just have to know like you're choosing like sanity and self care and sustainability over everything crashing and burning you know you can work your ass off and then you hit burnout and maybe that's the end of everything instead of maybe slowing down and having more longevity in your career and your business that's more important than having some crazy high and then crashing down you know yeah that's great that's a I think that's a great place to leave this episode thank you so much for being here and chatting this is awesome to hear your story if people want to find you online where should we send them yes so you can find my business at dzla d a z e y underscore l a dzla dot com you can find my corking space at biz babes b i z b a b e z my personal instagram is Danny dz d a and i d a z e y i way too many handle that's that's half of that okay cool thank you so much yeah thank you that's it for this week's episode of the ground up show thank you so much for watching and listening this podcast is 100% ad free and is brought to you by patreon subscribers if you want to get access to exclusive videos on filmmaking podcasting and much more go to patreon dot com slash mat deevela every contribution will also help to keep this podcast ad free which is pretty damn awesome i appreciate your support and i'll see you next time
