# The Things That Matter
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9A_AWDxoTP8
Sterling's Parody:  https://youtu.be/JmFtSNBz77c
Sterling's Channel:  https://goo.gl/eiXXyF
Full Episode:  https://youtu.be/iuz1NIksSys

Getting started is often the hardest step. When you’re setting out to create or learn something new you’re going to fail, you’re going to screw up & make mistakes.

Don’t kill people’s dreams. If someone comes to you with an idea we need to encourage & support each other. We need to push each other to learn, improve & create.

This video is made possible by Patreon subscribers. Get my exclusive AMA podcast & vlog at https://www.patreon.com/mattdavella.

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** behind the scenes, creative, creator, creators, documentary, film, filmmaker, filmmaking, freelance, freelance life, freelancer, hustle, things that matter, create, get started, ground up, make, matt davella, matt d'avella, podcast, podcasting, start, the ground up show, inspire, inspiration, motivate, motivation, 
**Date:** 2018-08-27

## Transcript
 So the other day I made some coffee and sat down to check Instagram. I opened up my phone and found a few notifications waiting for me. The hashtag gets sterling on Matt's podcast. So I followed the breadcrumbs to this YouTube video. Today we're going to be talking about how to edit like Madie Villa. Now first off it's important that you talk in a voice that you would use if you were maybe a pastor bed time and didn't want to wake your parents up. But something different than the typical YouTube voice, something that cuts straight to the heart of people's emotions, even though you're just making coffee. It was like turning to mirrors to face each other it was like running into an alternate reality version of yourself. Suddenly I was faced with unanswered questions. Who am I here at? And my nothing without smooth jaz and a crispy voice over. Now but actually I just message Damon asked him if you wanted to come on the podcast. He said yes. There he is. What's on man? Going on man. Right there. It's so weird to be here. Nice to meet you man. You too. It's crazy. Yeah. This is so fun. Alright so this kid's sterling made an amazing parody of my videos. It was so good. It was so on point that when I first started watching it I could have sworn that he had just stolen one of my videos. But this is at the first time that he's tried to come on my show. He actually had sent me a video five months earlier. Let me know your thoughts. I'll leave my website in the email here and you can take a look at some of my work. No, that's asking her if I can. And I kind of shut him down. I mean I did it in a polite way. Right now I don't think it'd be the best fit to have you on the podcast. To be totally transparent I'm looking for people with a bit more experience. Now here's the thing. He didn't give up. He's only 22 years old. He's been filmmaking for maybe a year and he kept at it. He kept honing his craft and when I was able to take a look at not only that video but the other work that he's done over the past five months I was completely blown away. The amount of growth that he's packed into that period of time is amazing and I had to applaud the fact that he was able to do such a spot-on impression of me that I decided to invite him onto the show. I've done it. This is one of the things I wanted to do. Make my take it. Thank you very much. Appreciate it. Thank you. Let's do a podcast. You want to just get started? Why not? And then we'll just start talking. Sounds good. So weird. How do you feel? It's really weird. Yeah, it's just like the table is, I don't know, I don't know. This was like three weeks ago. Yeah. Which is weird. You message me and we're like, hey, you can come out on the podcast. Are you available in time in like a few weeks and I was like, I'm gonna be like, if this is an invite, then yes, I'll find out. I was like, what day are you available? Because I kind of like left it vague and then you were like, I can come whenever you want. Yeah, I was like, yeah, I don't tell you. Yeah, you're like, you're like, you're like, you're like, you're like, you're like, you're like, you're like, you're like, you're like, you're like, you're like, I'm available one day. One hour. Yeah. You played it really cool. Yeah. All right. So we just wrapped up. We did. How do we even go? It was good. It was smooth and I cried. So that means I had to be good, right? Had to be good. Had to be good. Had to be something leads. What did I say to you? You gave me a call. You were nothing. I don't know. Yeah. She called me piece of trash. They invited me. I had to make a joke out of me. Yeah. That's so. Now I'm really excited. Now you do awesome, man. Cool. Honestly, as much as it seems like it meant to him, it means just as much, if not more, to me. The fact that somebody would do that to come on my show is honestly mind blowing. And it just reaffirms everything that I'm trying to do here, trying to encourage people to pursue their dreams, to pursue their passions. And it's not always a straight line. You're going to face many roadblocks and challenges along the way, which is why we need to be there for each other. We need to be able to support each other and encourage each other and pick each other out when we fall down. I would love it if you would check out this podcast episode with Sterling. It is on my YouTube channel now. It's also available on your favorite podcasting app. It would also be great if you could check out Sterling's channel. I would love it if you would subscribe over there and share some love with him. He's been working very hard on his channel. So it would be great to see you guys showing him support. If you want all of the links, they're going to be in the description below. Thank you guys so much for watching. I don't know if you guys know this, but I started a vlog. It's called the Secret Vlog. It gives you an intimate look at my work life and my personal life. I'm not perfect. This man, I'm a bright perfect. And it's for Patreon subscribers only. This is one of the ways that viewers are helping to keep this channel advertisement and sponsor free. You can check it out at patreon.com slash Matt Veevelo.
