# Doubt
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9aR4san-Gpc
http://www.groundupshow.com

Cole Younger talks about grappling with doubt & overcoming the odds in this excerpt from episode 042 of The Ground Up Show.

Cole on Instagram:  https://www.instagram.com/cole_younger_/

Watch the full episode:  http://www.groundupshow.com
**Keywords:** ground up, the ground up show, podcast, film, filmmaking, cole younger, matt davella, Matt D'Avella, photography, behind the scenes, how to, 
**Date:** 2018-01-18

## Transcript
 There's a lot of self-doubt in the beginning, especially where I grow up from hardest, you're not going to be an artist, you're going to be a fuck up, that's where you're going to be. And it was, it's very looked down upon where I come from to be like a photographer, a painter, or they just talked a lot of shit about it. They just talked a lot of shit about it, and from the very beginning of me picking up that iPhone 4 and going out on the streets and taking photos, there was a lot of self-doubt. I didn't think it was going to turn into a career, I just knew it was helping me with my depression, and that's basically where I started. It's just something to help me with how it was feeling, because no one else could help me. And you were actually using your iPhone, it wasn't like, you know, while I'm here, I'll take a photo. This was a camera, and you were going out and you were shooting at like, yeah, that was my camera, yeah, for sure. For sure, looking back on it now, I haven't taken any of the photos down off of Instagram, like, I like to see the progression, and sometimes I'll go back and look, and it's just like, wow, I can't believe that I actually put that out there, but I keep it up there. That's so important. Yeah. There is such an urge and a desire, even for me, to take down some of my old stuff. Yeah. And like, dude, I had some stuff when I was in college, where it was just the courney as to videos, just cheesy over the top. But at that point, I thought I was being really creative, and I was like, yeah, yeah, I just overfilled through the shit out of it. Yeah, you just destroy the image. Yeah. But it's, you know, you're you're growing, and you're exploring, and you're you're definitely like pulling inspiration from other people more so than you are creating your art at that time. Definitely. How did that progression go? Like, and why did you keep going? Did you truly enjoy it? I really enjoyed it. Like I said, it was helping me with my depression. A lot of the reason that I kept going, and I really appreciated is some of the people that followed me early on, gave me a lot of one inspiration, and two, they would say, wow, that's cool. I'm like, looking back on a noun, like, you are lying to me for sure. But thank you. But thank you because it kept me going some days. But I think sometimes it's also like, that's cool, or that's great for you at this point. I think that's okay to set. Yeah. And it's like, you're not always saying that's great compared to the work that I'm doing or whatever. But like, I do that's so important is to encourage people that are starting out. It's hard to give constructive criticism, like at that point, because I think the best constructive criticism is just keep going, keep making stuff, keep putting out there.
