# Death to the Status Quo // Ground Up 079
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9DZJeC6kmKA
David's Newsletter:  https://davidthebrand.com

David Sherry is the founder of Death to Stock, a membership community that delivers personal, curated non-stock photos & video.

On the podcast we talk about building your audience slow & with integrity, I try to convince David that he’s a minimalist, & how experimenting will lead to your creative & personal breakthroughs.

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** 
**Date:** 2018-09-19

## Transcript
 Hey guys and welcome back to the Ground Up Show. Today my guest is David Sherry. He is the co-founder of Death to Stock. A membership community that delivers personal non-stock curated photos and videos. On the podcast this week, we talk about why you should be growing your audience slow and with integrity. I try to convince David that he's actually a minimalist, which he thought was kind of funny. And also we talk about why experimenting will lead to your biggest breakthroughs both in your personal and work life. This is the podcast. I find it to be very compelling is like how do you grow an audience? But not only that because some people have the experience of a viral event taking off their career in terms of growing an audience. But then you don't have a say over who those people are and maybe that thing that made you viral wasn't the best representation you stand for. And you have this audience of people that like maybe doesn't actually connect or resonate with your ideas. Yeah. But fascinating. I sort of feel like it's the opposite for me and like what I personally want is the opposite. I've been joking about this thing which is like a slow growth hacker, which is somebody who like takes their time and like really tries to build as tighten it of a community as possible through not necessarily just going viral. And I think it's like obviously it's very popular right now to try to get viral hit. So you maybe are trying to be celacious or something like that in the content you create. And I feel like people are sort of wanting more depth than that and like people are smart and they want to talk about interesting topics. So like building content that's meaningful and growing your audience slowly, I think that's how I want to approach my work. So yeah, I think you build more respect, more trust. There is more intimacy, you can be vulnerable because like you said, when you get popular because of a viral event, you have no control over. I mean, you almost become for a lot of people a meme. Like if you even look at some of these people that become viral in these meme photos that you check around and it's like they are now a character. And how would they even even if they wanted to leverage it, even if they didn't want it, when they still wanted to like present themselves online as they truly are. That's that's an uphill battle and like you see it so many times and especially people who maybe get missed misrepresentate their views get misrepresented. How do they then correct that and make people think that they're, you know, see who they truly are. Sure, it gets away from you almost like you have this thing happen and then all these other people are talking about it or commenting. Yeah, you don't necessarily get a start from the foundation that you want. And happy to give like a quick background if that's helpful on me. Yeah, that's what we did just run into it. Sure, so yeah, six years ago I started an email list which is called Death of the Stock Photo and I was basically a failed photographer. I was trying to shoot for brands and it just wasn't exactly working out. I was pitching companies trying to be a full-time photographer for them, you know, back in the early days of Instagram. And nobody wanted to hire me so I started an email list. It was called Death of the Stock Photo and with my friend Ali, Shadat Ali Laman. And the premise was very simple sign up for our email list and we will send you 10 free images every week or every month actually to your inbox. And you can use those in your own blog website, you know, pitch deck whatever it is that you want. We're going to go on these little missions every month and shoot content that you can use yourself. Because a lot of our peers were freelancers themselves web designers and it was difficult. I think at that time six years ago to find high quality content to use in your projects. I mean, now I think it's the market's changed a lot, but you probably remember back in the day the way stock photos sort of were at that time is all very cheesy, very staged. Not still, I think when people think of when they think of stock photo or stock video. Sure. You think of the corny business shot of people pointing at computers screen. Yeah. That's what people. It comes in. I think it was just very literal. I don't think that they were going for any type of emotional connection in the content they were making. I think what they were going for was let's like literally translate two people shaking hands in front of a desk. And like that was like the maybe the words that people were searching or something. I think what we tried to do when we started this email list was one the content's going to look different. It's going to be a bit more artistic, a bit more real. We're going to share the story behind how this content is actually being produced. So it's not just like some random person standing in front of a thing shaking hands. We actually went on this road trip and we met these people and a lot of shooting their space. In that way the email list itself sort of started like a lifestyle blog. I think is maybe a better analogy for it. It just so happened that the lifestyle blog that you were following you could use all the content you saw. So I think that's how people sort of started to like understand who we were. Is like I'm following these people, these photographers. They're doing interesting things. They're traveling. They're taking photos. And I like their story. I like hearing from them. But everything they're sending me I can also use myself. So it's kind of like a power up for our users as well. Right. And does that go to the build it slow, build it small? Let's not try to like go viral. And compromise or morals or the premise in which this was founded. Yeah. So it sort of is a landing page. So all it was was an email list off of one landing page which was still up for probably two years. And the way we grew was very organic. It was definitely spending a lot of time. If people were using our photos online, I'd search through like image, you know, search on Google and see people using it. And I'd comment on their blog or people would send us what they were making with images. And I'd maybe give them feedback or so just like any way to connect directly with people. And we definitely had sort of like a bigger start. I think there was like some luck in that when we started putting out this email list in this content. We probably had like 5,000 people sign up like within like two or three months. So that's like a pretty quick growth trajectory for email. And everything we did was always step by step. So it started with this landing page. We'd start sending out these emails. It started growing. We crowdfunded a road trip, which was basically this tour around the US where anybody who was on our email list, if they wanted to see us travel or go around the US to create new media for our subscribers, they could back it. And I think it was like 5 or 10 bucks. So like we I feel like we did a lot in early days to like engage with like very quickly. We crowdfunded that. And so I feel like we did a lot in the early days to very much like engage with people. And even when we traveled we met up with subscribers. So we said next week we're going to be in this city who wants to hang out. Next week we're going to be in this city who wants to hang out. So everything has been very step by step and everything has been very personal and direct with our subscribers. If you think about like when you were first going to launch this thing just a landing page, very simple. Did you overthink it where you like this is not ready or did you like delay releasing it or was it? Hey, let's just get this up and running. This is V1. We can change it on the fly. It's not going to matter because people aren't listening or watching anyway. Yeah, totally. I think I'd come off of a few failed projects like I said. So actually I was pitching companies to be a full time photographer for them because I saw Instagram was taking off and I was telling them, hey, like this thing Instagram. It's probably going to be big. You need high quality photos all the time. Let me be that person that creates them for you. And I had a series of projections there and I tried some other random, like it very much came off of like maybe I'll try this thing. Like what if I just went direct to people and shared my work with them instead of waiting to sort of get chosen by one of these brands. Which rightfully probably shouldn't have hired me anyways. I was like just as cool like I don't know if I had the credentials necessarily for that. But I was waiting to get picked. I wanted one of these brands to say yes, you go be a photographer. And I think the email list and the landing page was like why don't I just be a photographer and just like if anyone wants to see my work or use my work, they can use it. I think that's the way to go. I think too many people are waiting for that opportunity, waiting for somebody to hand something for them or give them the job. And I think a lot of people would be more fulfilled if they went out and learned it themselves started getting clients and freelance work. At what point did you decide to like make that change? At what point did you like? I mean it sounds like it was pretty early on. You'd been a photographer for a little while. I don't know what your chops were at that point. But then making that transition from like hey, let me try to get these people to hire me to ask for this. Yeah, I think I jumped really quickly into pitching. So like I definitely started before I was ready. I think in a good way in trying to get these brands on board. That's ultimately why I didn't get picked by them. And actually like so ironically, the thing I was pitching them was a road trip around the US where I'd create content for their social channels. And so it's kind of fun. It was actually a year later when we crowdfunded our own trip. It was like my own version of that done again. Just with my own audience. So it was kind of cool. It was kind of a fun like retribution over the almost of like okay. So that concept was actually about the same. But yeah, I mean, I don't think I just expected it to take off. I think I probably had two months of feeling sorry for myself that I got rejected by like all these brands. And then it was like yeah, why not just share it and just see what happens. I think there's probably too many people now, especially like I mean that was six, seven years ago. But then when we're talking about today, I don't think if even if you're a talented photographer, like to get a brand deal to just reach out to one of these companies to work with you, it's going to be an uphill battle because there is so much talent out there. I think that's when like having an audience to that max you is in a lot of ways like the new self reliance. Like that was completely it. Yeah, there's a book by James Altature called Choose yourself. And I think that was very pivotal for me. And yeah, you have to kind of create your I didn't want to have something to just fall apart. And I think if you're waiting to get picked all the time, it's sort of risky. You have to always go out there and make the next sale. But if you have an audience that supports you, it's a slightly different story. You have a little bit more resilience. So I think that was always something that was appealing to me. I just had to fail a little bit first to remember that almost. Are there some principles about building this community? And like, I mean, is that possible? Is it, you know, it's online? Is it possible to have that community feel even as the audience grows to beyond 5,000 subscribers? Yeah. Yeah. So it grew really quickly, right? So like it was 5,000 and then it was 20,000 and then it was like 150,000. And I think for sure, your audience changes, but I think one thing that we try to do that sort of, I feel like always kept things being a bit more tight in it with our community was it was still always like pretty personal. So like, yes, we turned into a company and I can get to that, like eventually it was monetized. But it's still very much function sort of like that same kind of story of us going out there taking images to support this community. And even though some people are paying, it was very much like we're trying to support our audience. And that's what we're spending our time on. So I think that led to a closer sort of relationship with people, even just sharing random stuff. Like I feel like we did a lot of stuff that wasn't necessarily photo focused or yeah, I just we just didn't try to be like a robotic machine that was trying to like grow really quickly. It was like we'd talk about what we're up to. So yeah, I think just being more transparent, I think was a big key there. I think that's the problem with most companies and most people as I just want to grow so fast, so quick. And that's usually when things fall apart. My friend Jason Zook, who's on the podcast. He did, I don't know if you've ever heard about this. I think I told you about it, but maybe I, that I, that I wear your shirt guy. Yeah, so he like had all these projects and like from the outside, wildly successful. He scaled up, I wear your t-shirt. So he basically got these brands to pay him. It went like a dollar for the first day, two dollars to wear it the second day by the end of the year, 365 dollars. He ended up scaling it over three to four years. These brands would pay him to wear their, logo on their shirt and he would do a video. He did a video every day for 865 days. And he scaled it to have like three, four or five people wearing shirts every day. Oh man, more than just him, right? Yeah, he did a big business. And he ended up having an overhead. His costs were 20 to 30 thousand dollars every month. Yeah. And that, and he ended up having to borrow money from his grandparents. Yeah. So like pay for, he said, I know I'm going to get the money at the end of the year, but in the beginning of the year, it's like really slow and I'm going to make him like 10, 15 bucks a day. Yeah. Yeah, pressure. And then the purity sort of changes. I think that's the issue a little bit with scale is one, your, your customers, your users become numbers, right? It's like you're looking at metrics and you're not thinking about them as people. And so, you know, I get tons of email replies and I still do get a lot of email replies that like you want to take the time to respond to those people individually. It's not just even if they're not paying you, you know? So I think all the things that don't scale are always typically like, that's probably one main principle that I'd say that I try to always adhere to. Like anything you can do that doesn't scale is actually how you build scale. So, you know, when we did our road trip, not only were you meeting people in different cities, so like anybody who wants to come hang out like well by your coffee, whatever, we sent like handwritten notes to 250 people or whatever. Like, yeah, I think it was just like chipping away at any time. You could make a bigger connection with somebody through something that didn't scale like do it. Yeah, what was that thing that you did where it was like, we're trying to find the furthest, most from the people, so we did like an email campaign that was called way out there. And the premise was who's the farthest person in our audience? Like how, yeah, who's the farthest person away from us or the most remote? And we wanted to know where you lived and like a little bit about your story. And we would send like the top five people who sort of submitted some type of care package, like a creative care package. And so we just opened that up to our audience. We just said like, hey, way out there, like who's way out there, being a creative, you know, how are you living the non-stock lifestyle? What are your coordinates? Like send this to your like latitude, longitude. And if we like your story, we'll send you something in the mail. And I was just blown away. This was probably three years in, so maybe like 200,000 people on our list or something like that. And we got stories from the most crazy random places that I just never would have imagined. I mean, yeah, Tunisia, Africa, like Northern Highlands of Scotland, small towns in the Philippines. And the stories that people submitted were just so fascinating. And I'm almost like emotional. Like I feel like I cried reading a lot of these responses is just people saying, like, I live in, you know, this area in the small town. I'm the only person who's a photographer. I'm the only person of the camera. And like, many people get me, but when I receive your email, or when I engage with this community, I feel like I have this lifeline to like, you know, a creative sphere that I don't get to see all the time. So that was a really meaningful way that actually we learned a lesson, which is when I started the company, I thought, okay, like our main audience, like the people that we want to serve, it's like the Apple designer, right? They've got the iPad and they've got five screens and they have all the latest tech. And in reality, you find out that the people who are most meaningful, I think in your audience are not those people. Those people actually have all the resources they need. You know, they have meetups, they can go to every night. They have the budget to buy, you know, they could hire a photographer and stuff. But you've got these people who are way out there who, I feel like have less of those resources or community. So what you're doing for them is more meaningful. So I think that was a big, like, flip that kind of switch that flip for me was, oh, our audience is not this like idyllic designer. It's actually just like everyday people. When you start talking to them on the phone, it's someone who's starting a yo-yo shop or somebody who's teaching some really random skill or, you know, it's just not what you expect, but I think in a good way. Like, you see that they're human and, yeah. So that was like a good change, I think, for me along the way. Yeah, I think a lot of times, especially when we're young and maybe sometimes with entrepreneurs and creators specifically, we have almost an ego to be like, I know what my audience wants. I know what I need to be creating and this goes true for like product designers if you're making an app for somebody as much as it does for somebody who's making a film a video or a company. It's once you start to get some customers or an audience, it's listening. And taking a step back and I'm like, well, what are they reacting to? Because you can make so many assumptions about what these people might connect with or what this person might look like. Like you said, it's the, you think of the Apple designer. And that's what I think most people would think of. And I think when you even look at some of these other stock companies out there, it seems like that's who they're creating. Sure, right. But I like that approach to just let's actually engage with the audience and see where they're at. Yeah, one other thing we did is, and this was like, I feel like this is like the gut sort of feel you're talking about for like who your audience is and maybe what they might be needing right now in a way. It was actually the day after the election here. And regardless of your political interest, it was like a stressful time I think in the country, just obviously. And so I was actually in big sur when that was going on. And that night I was at the beach. And I took like a 30 second video of the ocean at Big Sur. The next morning I wake up. I know the world is an interesting spot. And so I emailed out a video of the beach. And I had like a one sentence thing that was like, hey, how about how about we all just take a breath? And it was just all it was was a video of waves. It was from my iPhone, it was not quality. And I think that is what builds community. It's not, you know, it's not always just the utility that you're providing. It's like, hey, I'm a person too. I know you all are people. What if we all took a breath together and like here's a cool way of thing. I saw yesterday. And I think that's another example of like, I think brands have a hard time taking that type of risk. And yeah, I didn't say anything political. I just was like, yeah, here's a beautiful ocean. Let's all look at it together. And that was very well received, you know. Yeah, I think that's the thing that fresh, fresh, fresh rates me with a lot of the entrepreneurial self-help type people out there. I mean, for every James Alcher, there's like a hundred other people who are like imitations of like this eccentric person who's like, you got also you got to make all the money because it's almost like it's like a plague. That's just overrun. And everybody's like, we've got to also got to work hard. Yeah. And then Jason again, he's said, he's like, well, what is it all for? Why are you working so hard? Why are you putting it on this effort? You know, if at the end of the day you're overweight on healthy and like miserable, and you don't even like this stuff you're making, what was the point of even doing it? Totally. Yeah. And so I think it's even just like being like, I think what's happening. Actually, which is interesting from a community perspective right now and from like an entrepreneur blogger like influencer perspective is like, I think people are more attracted to people who aren't necessarily putting themselves on a big pedestal. So I think to swing in the other direction away from all these people who are saying, like, I'm a millionaire. Here's how I did it. You should be doing it too. I think that people are swinging the other way. And what I'm trying to do with my own communities right now, and this is like a big focus of mine is it's not necessarily like removing myself from being like the central point, but I'm trying to surface other people's voices. So when we, you know, not just my own. So when we sent out the email that was, hey, who's the, you know, the most way out there person, we collected like 3 to 400 responses from people over the globe. Well, we just packed those up and shared them with everybody. So like the next email was like here's like 50 stories we heard from other people in the community. And so it's not us saying what we learned from that experience. It was like, let's just showcase other people in our community and what they're thinking. And I think the more you can remove yourself from like this like pedestal spot and open up room for other voices who are in the community to share, I think it's a smart move strategically, but I also think it's just like more enjoyable. So a lot of the stuff I'm doing right now is like trying to like open source or like decentralize a little bit. I think is one way of putting it, which is how do I involve other voices who are also in the same interest group and the same mission is me to also have a voice at the table. So involving your community, you know. Is there a way that you've found to do that that works best? Because a lot of times people follow you for you. Sure. They follow the voice that they're they're looking for. And even if that voice like for one is like not on a pedestal and not like, I know everything like these are the 12 steps of success. Like I learned them from this from scratch. And like, dude, I get the, and it's part of like being in this space, but I get the Instagram advertisements and like the swipe up. You got to swipe up. This is one guy who burnt was burning his book. He's like, I'm literally burning my book by it before it's like saying, Scorches my hand. And I'm like, she's like, can, can you guys just relax and like, where's the self-deprecation? Where's the act? You don't know it all. Because like there's way more of those people out there than that crazy. Yeah. They're just not speaking up. I think what you're really talking about here is a leadership. So you can still lead a community forward. You can still create the right structure. And you can still sort of be that person who's connecting things without always necessarily being like the me to you voice, almost if that makes sense. So I think it's very much about like, definitely people are following, you know, these bloggers and stuff like that for their voice, but I think you can also lead through opening a space for other people. And like, I think a good example is just like, if you hosted an in person meetup, like you probably wouldn't just like talk the entire time. You maybe connect people, you'd walk around the room and say like, you two should meet and you'd set the stage and you'd think about like, where should we host this? What type of food or cock? Like, so I think like that's the leader host, like instigator is sort of the role I suppose that I'm trying to now put myself in versus the only dominant voice. And I can give one other example. So I have like a little separate email list. It's called Creative Caffeine. And the premise was like, hey, it's has nothing to do with photos. So if you want to like hang out and chat about creativity without being photography related, I'm sure you feel this sometimes is like one different outlet. Like come over to this other email list and we'll like chat and hang out. And the first thing I did was in the welcome email, it was like, please hit reply. One, I want to interact with you, I want to share what your thoughts are based on the stuff we're talking about. So I'll still write articles and I'll still prompt. I'll like pose a discussion or pose a topic. And I'll give my two cents about it, but I'm very much looking for other people's input and perspective and then I typically share that as well. So I'm sharing a lot of other people's responses or their take on this topic, if that makes sense. Yeah, it seems like, I don't know if you did this intentionally. But it seems like everything that you do is has some minimalist principles in it. Where? Here's to hear this. I mean, when you look at what you're doing, it's like the core is an email newsletter. Yeah, definitely. And you have the ability since you're just focusing and being like, well, this is the core of what we do. This is how we communicate, how we connect and interact with each other. Uh, what's nice is even, it's like, a lot of times it's not even like public like everything is always like, look at what I made. Everybody come to my YouTube channel and watch my stuff and because trying to get as many views as you can. And now it's like, well, here actually, all these like thousands of intimate interactions that are happening. Um, but like being able to create these 300 things to send people that are far out there. Mm-hmm. You couldn't do that if you had five different platforms. You were trying to manage and create content for. It's like, it seems like you're very focused and direct about the stuff that you're making. And it allows you to scale up in ways that other people can't when they have all these things. Yeah, there's something fun. Well, one, I think he creates a little bit more of a safe space. And there's a little bit of an allure as well of like, why am I not hearing about this? Like, how did I just find this? So, you know, it's kind of fun getting emails from people who are just like, you know, how did I never find this before? Um, so I think there's a little bit of like an allure. It's kind of fun to have that. We never have an about page. I have one of my personal website, but that the stock has never had in about page. Um, I think that's fun. It's like who's doing this. And in that way, it's almost more like a mission. Um, so if you have your mission there, if you have your philosophy, if it's very much baked into what you are expressing, it almost feels a little bit more like a movement, uh, than, then yeah, whatever a company or something like that. Um, and I kind of lost my tree. Did that happen? But by accident, the no about page, or was that like, you just, I mean, at first it started out as just a landing page. But there are certain things that we always just say, well, of course, that's the best we need about page, a contact thing, and like everything else that goes with it. And like an Instagram Twitter, Facebook, like you have these expectations that you need to be everywhere and be doing everything everybody's doing. How did you first start to question those norms? I think it was by accident. I think a lot of, I think a lot of what we've learned has been through experimentation and then you sort of learned it by accident. So, um, all of these things that I think in a discussion with somebody right now, I could be like, here's all these interesting stuff I've learned about building an audience, or building a brand. Um, I don't think they were that intentional at first, and I think a lot of them were experiments. Um, so I'd say a lot of it was in retrospect. Some of it maybe was the minimalism. Like you said, like, we don't need to have a big site. We don't need to have all these channels. Like we don't need to be on that network yet. Um, and, and so I think maybe by default a little bit. Yeah, you put constraints around things. Um, I really like email as a constraint. Uh, because you can do so much stuff with it. Um, because it has to fit into this email. I feel like that flexed our creativity a lot. Uh, because you can start to rethink what should an email feel like. And that's actually been one of my other favorite things. And I think email has come back around two years ago. Email is not like cool. I think email is cool. Again, because like social media got really noisy. Um, but, and then also like noisy and also people felt like they didn't have any control. Because they're like, well, they changed the algorithm. What the hell? Yeah. I'm only getting 100 likes per photo when I used to get a thousand. Yep, totally. Um, but I also think there's something to be said for like taking risk and taking like emotional risk. And it's all these campaigns that we could talk about that I feel like really boosted our community engagement or like made people feel more attached to our brand. I felt really scary upfront. Like, who just like sends an email out to a lot of people with just like, like, like, you know, crappy iPhone video of a way of being like, hey, that's all brewed together. Like, all that stuff did not feel as easy as it just looked back at. And now I'm be like, oh, yeah, duh. All that stuff felt like a risk. Um, so I also like how people don't expect you to do those things. Like, I don't think it's the norm. And so the inbox is fun. And my favorite thing is when people say, this is like the only email that I enjoy opening. And it's like, because there's so much terrible spam. I almost think that's better, right? Because like, let everybody go crazy with spam. Like, I'm going to send something totally different and weird. And it's going to break their mental model almost of what they think email should be. People are getting sold to every single day. That's right. Everybody. I mean, like, advertising and sponsors is one thing. But then it's like, people who are trying to get you to sign up for their Facebook page or like their new page or whatever it is. It's like, it gets overwhelming. And like, when you're actually creating something and there's really no intention behind it, you're not like, you're not trying to get anything from somebody. Yeah. But you're saying, hey, just just breathe, just relax. Come on. It's going to be fine. The world's still turning in. Yeah. That kind of stuff, I think, is so cool. And it's also, there's like an innocence to it that I think is like, is that is that challenging to maintain? Because you want to be showing up authentically all the time. And then when you do it and then it's successful. Now, obviously, there's going to be people out there that would like are going to be manipulative about. And then it'd be like, well, let me, well, that worked. Let me try to let you see if I can, you know, artificially create this connection. Yeah. But then it's like, how do you just be authentic without worrying about every response? Everything is in the feeling and the intention behind something. I think someone could create the exact same campaign as me. And maybe even word to word. But if they had a different intention when they were creating it, it will show through in the content. So I think maintaining that innocence like is very important. And I think it's almost more in the feeling that you personally have when you're approaching it. Like, if I had done that campaign because I wanted a certain response, I just feel like it shows through. I would have picked, you know, slightly different words or my subject copy would have been sort of spammy like, Open this if you want to like breathe because the world's on fire or whatever I would have said. It would have been very easy to make a clickbait. Yeah, title from that. So I think actually the hardest thing is maintaining, I call it like the no agenda sort of attitude which is like, I don't have any agenda here. I'm not trying to sell you. I want to share my perspective. Maybe you have a perspective too. And I think the more I can like create that naturally, like you almost have to feel that way. Like I almost had to feel it's an interesting time in our country right now. Other people probably feel that way. Maybe I should just share this like thing and see if other people like, Yeah, it's hard because I feel like you have to actually feel like that. Like if you don't actually truly have that intention, I think it goes south. I think maybe another minimalist principle that you unknowingly or knowingly have is good. I'm just forcing minimums. No, please. Yeah, right, the minimums. Yeah, you are never minimalist. But it seems like this also comes from a place of having enough. Because if you didn't feel like I have enough, my audience is enough. They're big enough. I'm like I'm connecting with enough people. I have enough money. Then that kind of intention will seep into everything you do. And I think that's why a lot of people end up, like they seem like very eager and antsy and anxious to get your attention. I think that's a great insight. Once again, it goes back to leadership a little bit. Like a safe leader does not need anything from you. They are here to cultivate the space. They're here to support. And so I think that's a great point is that paired with this sort of innocence that this knowledge and attitude is, hey, I'm good. And if you think about the death of Sakeema list, it wasn't a abundant thing, right? We're just going to give you photos. We don't have any expectation sign up. And you're going to get photos in your inbox every month, and they're free. And I think people were blown away that that was actually a thing. It's sort of like, oh, this is cool, but it's probably going to suck. And then you get your emails and you're like, oh, these are very good photos. So people are even almost skeptical. Sometimes I think when you have that, like, no, it's cool. Like you can use them or not or sign up or unsubscribe or, but like this is like a thing we're doing over here. And if you're into that, we'd love to have you. So yeah. So you said a lot of the success came through experimenting. Is it, do you think, like, when we're trying to give advice to other people? Sure. Is it the act of experimenting which leads to success, or where there, I'm sure there were, some principles that were like, well, what you should do this, you should do this. Like, what was the balance there between, like, did you figure out the secret to success? Honestly, I think that the experiment creates magic in some way and I think the tough work is understanding if, like, how to cultivate that. So like, you start this email as people start signing up. And I think a lot of like the work or advice is like, not probably honestly more around this stuff we're talking about right now. Like, not going too quickly into like the sales mode, like letting it be nurtured approaching things from the way we're talking about. So I sort of feel like with each project that we do, we're trying to experiment our way into seeing something interesting. So I think you experiment to see, will someone's eyes light up if they see this? Will someone say, like, oh, that's really different and interesting? Like, I feel like, yeah, you experiment to change somebody and then, like, a really impactful way. Even if it's like one person or five people or like, oh, that's amazing. I want to do what you're doing. I want to sign up for that. Once you figure out that, which I think is the hardest part, is like actually making a strong impact on somebody. I think the hard work is then maintaining and cultivating and growing it without losing its purity, which is sort of like what we talked about. So I guess if I was to still let into advice, I wouldn't double down on something. If I didn't feel like it was like interesting and very impactful, even to a very small amount of people. So I would try to not keep going if you're doing something that isn't really like changing someone, even if just one person who were like, oh, like, I'm so happy this is here now. Or I'm so glad you made this or this really touched me will you make another one? So I think a lot of it isn't even the beginning. Like, experiment until you see something that works and then you have the hard work of scaling that and building it while maintaining its purity. Yeah, I think having those little wins early on, like you should. I mean, really, it is so impactful to have a couple people like the first comment on a YouTube video that you get. That's a really, really big deal. Yeah, the first like, maybe somebody pays for your work for the first time, whether it's $10 or $100. That's a big deal. Like you don't forget those firsts. Yeah. And they help to motivate you for. Yeah. But like if you're not getting a first, then maybe what you're doing, maybe you need to change it up a little bit. Because everybody should be able to get to a point where they experiment enough where they can add some value that actually impact somebody enough to be like, hey, this was really cool. Oh, for sure. I think most people, they actually run into this problem where they're trying to do something that fits them into box that feels like safer. So rather than experimenting the thing that you think would be really cool, you're like, well, maybe I should do it like those other people. So I try to make it like that. And like they really remove a lot of their almost insight and innovation and like unique genius almost from the project or the product. And so I feel like when I talk to people about what they're working on, this is like a really common thing that comes up is like, yeah, well, I'm making this thing and it's like a course and we're talking about how to do X, Y, and Z. And like, I don't know, I just can't figure out how to grow my audience. And then through the discussion, they'll be like, oh, yeah, and then I had this one idea of like, I would do this crazy other project. And like that idea sounds amazing to me. And I'm just like, that is like, your story is amazing. I was touched by you telling me that I don't know why you're doing this other, you know. It's like, I mean, this is like the whole depth of stock, like non-stock. Like are you taking the stock route doing something? And it's like, oh, yeah, to be a blogger, I have to do this and this and then you just end up fitting in and it's not interesting. Yeah, it's the taking the safe route. And because you've seen other people do it because as well, if I make this course and I put it out there, I'm probably going to be able to sell 50 of them. If I do it for $100 and okay, that's enough money for like the next couple of months to pay rent and bills. And it's like, I think they're, they're justified feelings and it's very scary, especially even like we were talking about growing an audience and growing viral. There's a lot of appeal to want to do that because like, you're worried you're not going to be successful. You're not going to make it. You're not going to be able to make a business or I'm living from what you're trying to create. So I think it takes a lot of courage to be able to do the thing that's weird that maybe won't work, but it's something that's true to who you are and you're telling a story that you actually believe in. Yeah, and maybe that's part of the error in the pressure of the entrepreneur, bro, or whatever, is that you have to crush it right now. And if you're not making $10,000 off of your thing right now you feel like it's like you're not making it. And I think, yeah, a lot of the stuff that is meaningful probably develops a little bit more naturally, a little bit more slowly. And I do think that part of the luck is how quickly that faucet sort of turns on. But if you have something interesting and unique to say, I think that people want to gravitate towards that. I think everyone has that available. I think one of the problems too is like the comparing ourselves to other people. That's one of the things that I, I had trouble with when like you see all these people putting out their financial reports online. Yeah. I get it. And like, for sometimes it's helpful. Sometimes you're like, oh, wow, that's really interesting. Like, I'm really glad I have that information now and I see where all their money is going. But nine times that it makes you feel horrible because you're like, this person's making $100,000 a month. Like, what the hell? Yeah. Yeah. And then it just puts us down that rabbit hole where we feel like we need to keep up with those that are on that same playing field as us. That's one of the things that like all happiness researchers say, especially when you're talking about income and well-being. It's your income and your well-being is directly correlated to how you feel compared to other people around. Sure. Yeah. So if your neighbor gets a raise and has a new car and, you know, you feel like, oh, well, I'm not doing that well. So you feel insecure compared to them. But if they had $10,000 less than you, you would feel good. Yeah. That's, I think, what we are as humans. It's just built into our DNA. And I think we have to, like, it takes a lot of mindfulness to get out of that trap. Well, not only is it built into our DNA, we have these social counters that are on every network that you see every day. And we associate follow count with influence. And yeah, it doesn't ever really exactly translate one to one with their happiness or their success. And it's hard. Yeah, I've definitely been thinking about this a little bit myself too because I feel like to maintain what we're talking about almost like that innocence. And like, not immediately jumping into that thing or not, like pushing really hard in that direction because you think that's the right thing to do. I feel like it's easier if you're not so much seeing all that all the time. Then again, I also try to be very aware of what the landscape is and what's going on because it helps you make decisions that helps you know where you should sit, you know, in a positioning standpoint. So it's, yeah, I don't have an answer to how engaged or how like removed from the world. I guess that I personally should be. And I'm trying to figure that out too. I think it's really tough. Yeah, I think it's definitely a practice. And it's, I've definitely, I find myself slipping sometimes, especially when my YouTube channel started growing. It was like the first thing I would do in the morning is because like it was crazy. I mean, it was like a month or two of going from 3,000 subscribers to like 100,000, which was wild. And like, I mean, honestly, I have a video where I was like talking about the first 400 subside. I think I got like, I went from 150 to 300 subscribers overnight on YouTube and I was like, this is great. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. 100 to people. I was like, that's a lot of people. And then now it's like to see that growth. You get swept up in it over that two month period. And I'm checking it every day and then, you know, YouTube does this funny thing where they'll clear out a bunch and that wakes you up. Because I knew like I was in a day. Yeah. And I was like, like, my worth was gone totally. And I only say that to say that like, it's easy to get swept up in it. Yeah. And then I had to build a practice of being like, well, listen, my audience sizes enough. I'm happy with it. I'm not going to check it every single day. It's not changing anything. Yeah. And it's not helping. But to your point, it is nice to see the industry to see what competitors are doing into. I understand it, but not let it totally influence and sway what you're doing. Yeah. And I think you want to like bring you as much as possible and not necessarily try to like copy what other people are doing. I just don't think that it works that well. I think the most authentic stuff you put out is when it's your own sort of idea. But it's funny you mentioned the sort of like, calling of the list. We just did this recently. We're like, we pay a lot of money to MailChimp just for like to host the subscribers. And we for sure have been a little bit I think caught on that number too. Like you had a certain number of subscribers. And it's like fun to tell people. We actually had that for a while, but then we were like started doing it. And I think we're probably cleaning one to 200,000 people from our email, email us like probably this month. Because people, you know, and probably for good reason, like sometimes people like that for one time and now they don't or they switch jobs and there's an email that's just sitting there that was from their old job and doesn't get checked. So you can tell that this person hasn't used the email. You like six months or hasn't checked it in a while. Yeah, we just have never dug through and like done that. And then see what you start doing is you start looking at your stats. And I think what you see is actually a good thing in a bad thing. Like at first you're like, oh, now we're going to remove like 100,000 people from this email. Yeah, that's crazy. But then you say, if we have those people who are moved, like our open rate doubles are click rate doubles because without all those people, now you have accurate metrics of the people who actually care. And it always is about the people who actually care. So yeah. What are those people who are there and not like ultimately doesn't matter. So I definitely understand that. We were in that mindset too. Isn't it funny though? Yeah. Like the context or at least the, I did a video on this too that was, it's all about like hedonic adaptation. Where is it beginning? Like if we, if I have a list of 100 people and I lose five, and I, you know, I sent out an email and I lose 10 subscribers crushing. But then when you get to the certain point, you don't notice that at all. Like you don't care about it. And then it takes like 100, I mean usually it would be the reverse. It's like the good thing is like the little wins don't matter anymore. And now you need to have like a thousand people sign up in a day for it to actually change how you feel to be excited about it. Yeah. what's the dip? Why were you excited before? But now you're not excited for it. Totally. And I think this also goes to the topic of like depth, which is like, I saw someone who tweeted this. I think it was Jason for you. He said traffic doesn't always equal audience. Something like that. And I think what he was trying to say there is that how many people actually, you know, are really caring about what you do. And it's probably way smaller than whatever that number is anyways. Yeah. I think that's the part that's sort of exciting and the opportunity I think right now for anybody who is building a community is recognizing that, yeah, that, you know, whoever on Instagram has 25,000 followers. But like, how much of those people really care that are following? And that's not to say anything against them. It's just there's a lot out there. And I think as always, if you can go back to your sort of super fans and you can really build a deeper, long lasting relationship, it's just better than having a surface level number. So I think now I'm of the opinion of like, you'd rather have 10,000 true fans than like 100,000, and million people who are like, okay, about what you do and don't care that much. Yeah. I think as long as you can get over it and get over the fact that the number is not going to change who you are or change like the integrity of your business and that's it. And like, even having this conversation is getting me to think about like, how I message my stuff and put my stuff out there where there is this urge. And it's funny because like, I'll go to your website when I was just looking up, death to stock and it's like, it's not evident how big your newsletter is or like how many people sign up for this thing. Like that is not how you get people to sign up. You have a very small thing at the bottom, just to try but whatever. But then it's like, it takes a while to find that. But for me, I'm like, when I put out my podcast website, I just hit a million downloads. So I'm like, I gotta have that big banner up front. Like one million people download this podcast. Like you said, half of those people might not have listened to it. Some of them are YouTube views, which certainly nobody. There's like, there's a small percentage of people watching YouTube video that go through it. But then it's like, what's it matter? Is it, is that changing somebody's mind? And is it changing the person's mind that you want to sign up and listen or watch what you're creating? I feel like you want scale, but you don't want to have scale without death. So I would love to have a million people who really care, but I don't care about a million people who don't care that much if that makes sense. I think like, definitely, it's not that my interest isn't to scale. I would probably, loved to have as many possible people who are interested in what I'm doing be a part of it, as long as they actually care to be there. And so what we're doing actually with the email, which is funny, and we try, I wanted to do this like two years ago and I started just forgot about it. But we're just going to send on email that's like, hey, it seems like you haven't been like digging what we're interested in. We're going to unsubscribe you unless you click this link. And like, I think that just shows that you have a perspective of like, I care about your time, I care about your attention and trust, and we only want people who are like actually interested in what we're doing. And everyone has different interests in different, time commitments and stuff. So maybe it was for you at one point that's not anymore, but like, that's great. You should keep, do anything. That's so funny. it's funny. Is I just realized that I was like, my friend Jason. it's funny. Jason's the one that connected us. and I was like, I don't know if you know, I'm going to told you the story about my friend Jason. How do you know Jason? it's hilarious. I don't know Jason, through Paul Jarvis who Paul is like, it was a great, my brother. he's got a lot of mail champs stuff. Yeah. I think he's also one of these people that like has a really tight knit tribe. And so I was like, I sort of met them somehow early on. I just really like how they approach things too. I think it's very similar mindset. Paul Jarvis and Jason's are people to look at how to present your self authentically online. Yeah. Like Jason does it so well and how he presents his like him and his wife with they have wandering aimfully now, which is a sight. They just launched, but it's, and how they communicate through everything. It's like, they're being so authentic and weird and they clearly don't care what people think about themselves. But it's beautiful and like high quality and they just show what can be done when you're being true to yourself and like Paul with his email newsletter. Yeah. One of those newsletters that I don't read every one, but every time the dude's so consistent every Sunday you get in your inbox and like, I read maybe 15 to 20% of them, but I never unsubscribe because I'm like, this dude is like, he's so authentic and like, he's such a great writer that he's always going a quality stuff. And for me, be able to see what he's doing messaging his stuff, because I think like you can have like these role models to look up to. Yeah. And I think leads to the depth over time. And that's something that I think we're really good about with that which is maybe like I guess, advice thing is like, we sent an email fail every month with photos. we literally just kept at it year after year. And I think, yeah, that probably helped people these people who just aren't trying to rip me off. They actually like, you know, mean what they're about. They are, There's there's so much there when it comes to consistency. I feel like, and it's hard to like pinpoint. There's not just one reason why consistency works. even for me, doing it, I've done now. This is, actually, so I record a few of these. This is to be releasing like over a month. But it's been over a year. So like a year and maybe a month of releasing the podcast every single week. And before that, it was scattered. It wasn't consistent. My audience didn't grow, and it never would have if I didn't just put it out once a week. And I think like you're getting better. You're like learning about how to interview and how to connect and how to find good your shows growing. And then you have a little bit more legitimacy where you can book your guests on the show would make for better episodes. And then it's also the fact that your audience comes to expect it. Yeah. they're like, where's the podcast every week? Yeah. It's funny because where in the beginning there's nobody listening. Yeah. So there's no incentive you know, commit to I'm going to release every single week. And it takes a long time before you ever do it with audience that cares or is like interested in it. how do you push through when you're when it just feels like why am I even what's the point of releasing or sending it on this week or because nobody can see it anyway. Yeah. it goes back if there's just one person or five people you feel like you're actually making an impact with if you come so much easier I think get through that knowing that yeah, even if it's just a few people. definitely the process is like, you start nobody cares. You consistent. learning. getting better. more understanding what your audience might want. it's all ladder process. I think we did that was a good I think turned out to be a good when we did our first logo who his and and he's insane graphic designer made Blink one logo Justin Timber crazy people and we had to him do we did a him doing our logo feel like that way it was we were still totally green but suddenly we're aligned with this guy who has some credibility and and then what happens once you make video with logo. that story next person want to collaboration here's we did with logo if we it's step think same of you get one some random that you had because of that then you have a guest builds to the who rock to that that did doing a competition yeah it's mixed back you know heard you know he's he's hard to get a my girlfriend make forefront a just on has been I think competition closed as of this recording and announcing the winner in like two weeks i'm going to be like on Monday so unfortunately we cannot play the jingle you know the jingle board expecting it yeah i'm going to push for that but i've got some amazing jingles i'm going to my audience vote for the best one that's awesome that's exactly you're doing exactly everything we're discussing now too it's like you've involved the audience yeah it's just fun i feel like not that i only like making things for the weird but like all the weird stuff that we do is like the most enjoyable tends to go the best like and when you think about early adoption and like the customer curve on if you're seeing that early adopters early majority you know the masses like the weird or the ones who get involved first so they're the people who raise their hand so when you're doing something like getting the rock on the show it's like easy for certain people to see that and be like that's for me and then you just can't overdo it and then like and then maybe this is me being neurotic alright i can't talk about i definitely can't talk about every episode sure i don't know about every episode i'm going to say that the farther you take something that is not expected to be taken far i think sometimes the better with weird stuff and so i think it's not really like yeah yeah do something all out people are like because what that signals is exactly where we're talking about it's like the no agenda thing it's like I didn't have to go through all this trouble to build this website to make this tweet thing to you know shoot this video or whatever but i wanted to and it's not to sell you or anything like that just like a fun thing we're doing together yeah i think what it is is there need to be a purpose behind like anything that you're creating and like if it was repetitive and it was the same thing every time and it's not fun anymore it needs to get weird it is about taking that idea whatever it is and meaning like alright well let's do let's try this and it's like having those ideas where you know like well that that would be funny if somebody did that and then just doing it yeah because most people think well i'd be funny but it's not gonna make me money it's not practical how am i gonna execute on it they think of every excuse to not do it yep and that's almost what i've seen two in conversations where people are like well i'm gonna put together like the typical thing but then i had this other and it's exactly that it's like that's what attracts people i think early on and i know Paul one thing he has done very well is i don't know if you've seen like the logo that he has on this because he owns rats and he's got his rat people so like yeah he has like he talks about rats he takes post their pictures sometimes he'll sound like health updates on his rats and i think it's a fun texture of who the person is that helps the right audience self-select in yeah and then i think what i was going to say before two was the when you were talking about like well you get this person then you interview this person and there's going to be times when it's like really scary and you get really nervous for sure and you do like you're you know whenever you're doing a project that you've maybe you've you've really anxious because you're not you've never done it before you've never done anything like it and then the more that you do those things and put yourself in those situations they become normal and then you could have that interview with that like a celebrity or whoever it is every single time and it's not going to feel weird you're going to eventually going to become natural if you do it enough and then there's maybe going to be something else that scares us you know that you can push yourself a little bit further but if we shy away from it and i had a lot i actually so for many years i didn't date and it built up it was like maybe four or five years of not dating going on any dates and like i had all the excuse in the world from like being focused on my business and like freelancing and whatever that i just didn't and it built up to this intense anxiety to where literally going out on a date like the day before i'd be like nervous shaking man i can't do it i can't like i can't even go out and like sometimes i'll flake and i wouldn't show up and then eventually i was like all right dude if you're you're going to live your life every day you're just going to be like nervous and scared to go out and meet a girl to do it and then the first one was really terrifying and then the next one was a little bit easier and then eventually it just all the walls broke down and then my anxiety went away yeah and you have to you have to do those things it to be uncomfortable to eventually get comfortable yeah and i totally know what you mean you sort of build it's so interesting because all this stuff is just like it's just an idea or like a mental picture you have of something like let's say it's an idea or interviewing someone or even just emailing somebody like it's very possible that someone listening might be very nervous just to send an email to someone they don't know or to reach out to that brand or whatever and it's really easy to start building that idea the mental picture of what it means to email somebody into something so much bigger than it really is and it is almost like this big cloudy haze of complexity where it's like how can't send that email it's like this is this huge thing that interview you do a bunch of interviews all of a sudden you like see through the smoke and the haze and you like this is actually really simple and like not a big thing at all so I think some of it is like you can build things up in your mind but when you get on the other side and actually experience them you see that there's nothing to be scared of at all and then it's like you don't even get nervous anymore when you do that the next time yeah and like you said a lot of times so there's these mental images in our head that we're like just thinking about the future and it terrifies us but I say go ahead down that rabbit hole and see what's worst case scenario what is the worst case scenario that you send this email like I mean they call you an asshole and I say you know like wasted my time whatever most likely they're not even going to respond but it's like okay cool that happens get over it and that's one of the reasons why whether it's dating or like reaching out to people to have them on your podcast don't rely on that one person sure yeah well that one person if I get them on that I mean yeah yeah it's like I'm not doing it seriously I think actually the art of it is taking it seriously and not seriously at the same exact time but yeah perfect you just balance that perfectly but then with you know you can book if I have to you know if I don't get this person on then that's it like I'll reach out to ten fifteen different people usually five people spawn maybe three people end up coming on the show and like same dating, same with podcast and whatever you're doing you just have to put yourself out there in a way and not be afraid of failing yeah and it almost all goes back that we were talking about earlier with like if you have enough because if you feel like you have enough then you can reach out and if you get rejected it's okay you're just going to reach out you feel like you have other options and so it is kind of that place of need a little bit and yeah it's almost like training yourself to be in that space as much as possible I think to me is what has really helped my creative process and productivity and work just in general because yeah the more areas where you have the mental picture sort of built up that is a wall you need to knock down to see that there's nothing scary on the other side the slower you're going to move productivity-wise I actually think like the best productivity hack or the best like business hack is actually taking a step back and it's interesting where are those areas that are complex or hazy you're hard to step into and start kind of dissecting why that might be or having that mental conversation that lets you get past that you just got to keep pushing stuff out there and not worry as much about the result we have a lot of expectations there's a lot that we want to accomplish a lot of times we feel too anxious like we want to get everything done right away right now it's cliche but it is like just try to enjoy the moments when you're actually building something back on those moments like with nostalgia and you're like man I was so cool back when nobody cared about what I was doing it was like a grind at times but we were able to get through it and through the other side yeah it's very I'm sure like with your dating example once you start to say like oh I'm okay actually like it sucks until that but then once you start feeling that it's like very energizing and it's sort of like boost your confidence a little bit because you're like oh okay like I'm good now you know yeah I think a big thing too is like having self-awareness and like I definitely know people who don't date and they don't think that I mean and like clearly they do want to but they're kind of tricking themselves into believing that they are successful at dating and it's like you're not actually like you're not actually trying out there and you're not taking steps to improve so you need to have awareness to be like I and like even if it's just to yourself and you're lying to everybody else but when you look in the mirror and you just tell yourself I'm not where I want to be right now I think that's like the first step to be able to change totally yeah like rock bottom is like how we all change right like it's not until you like see how bad it is that you decide to like when you accept that then you can like take a step forward so I think yeah sometimes it's like you have to almost get to that place where you realize like okay this is a problem I need to deal with it that's when you're able to sort of step forward what were some of those lessons when you were growing the business yeah to make sure like you said you kept the spirit of it all sure well so my first co-founder Ali who I'm still friends with one good lesson that I think I learned from her was we were very like open in dialogue about like how we were feeling about the business so like you know as things progressed like we always have a conversation like maybe once and once every two months like fun with this like is this so cool where is this fit in your life and especially because I was just out of school and she's like older than me or something so she was kind of like getting like established she's a designer she's a design studio with her husband now I feel like it was helpful that we always had like a step back discussion because then you get so lost like in the weeds and there was a certain thing and she's like I don't think I want to do I've a design studio with my husband I think like that's growing this stuff like that's growing like I think I want to do this and I'm like like thank you for you know telling me that like let's figure out what we can make happen so I think like I guess to your question about like how you keep things like going is if you're so heads down all the time where you can't have that conversation or if I was like gonna attack her for like you can't have a lot of like I think that leads to some of the negative outcomes we're talking about so I think being able to remove your the biggest mistake which is also the biggest lesson was wrapping my like self in the business and so I think anything you're doing that is like really putting your self worth into the business I think something a lot of people talk about is an area where you're going to be not as clear headed about what the business needs you're going to be more short-term focused so I think the areas that I got into trouble with is probably like a two-year period like the first three years I feel like things the magic is there and everything like I was definitely approaching a railway and then probably there's like a two-year just yeah putting too much of myself like I was the company versus me being David who like the company's a thing but I also interest it was like all to wrapped up in that so is it was it a bit of ego to be like yeah I think that would be maybe common I don't think that it for me because I almost feel like like it was more like a fear thing so it wasn't like poistress like put myself out there it was more like this is a house of cards and if I don't keep things going like it's a part and then if it falls apart then when your life falls apart yeah if I don't have this thing and I think that's a common place to sort of get to especially with maybe your first business success or whatever and actually it kind of came to head when like we're talking about where you have to like hit the edge to sort of realize I'd plan to trip to go to Thailand actually and two days before I left shingles which I don't know if you know shingles is it's like typically in people who are much older it's chickenpox coming back and the only reason why would help why would happen with someone like me is if I was very stressed out and my immune system was down so I did not go to Thailand and I did not go to my holiday with sick for probably a month or something like that very thrown off balance you know I definitely feel for people who have illnesses especially chronic now because your mind that changes so quickly when you get sick like that so I took a month of not working being sick and that was a wake-up call to I didn't think I was stressed until my body was like hey you're a kind of Kanye West said a song having money is not everything not having it is same thing with health like when you don't have your health when you have your health nobody thinks about it everything's grey everything's grey and then when all of a sudden like you start getting what is going on with body it's really scary and there is like this sense of not having control everything feels like it's falling apart but then at the same time you're also you're awake to what's really important and how you need what you need to be and like like maybe this business shouldn't come before the health of me and my employees it's almost like the email example of like it felt like this giant task to send that email I feel like with the business there was like simple things that could be done in the company that because I was so wrapped up you know whatever with the company it was like that felt like a huge effort so like making that one thing happen now feels like a big effort or feels like a scary thing even though I've been used to it maybe before yeah it's not always very logical like the dating thing it's like this isn't that logical I shouldn't really care that much but for some reason the way I was relating to the business I think was very unhealthy so I got sick that was the wake-up call probably spent the next year I'd say working working on changing my relationship to my work and I'm very happy that happened because I feel like totally different and it's weird because if you're somebody who works a lot you can still kind of keep the played spending so it's like I don't know how much people would have really seen in the business that like anything was different even though I was clearly stressed and eventually sick and then eventually just like rebuilding myself and like not working on the company that much so maybe other people think the play just still spending but I was definitely changed my focus from the company to me I was very lucky that in a way I had the luxury of doing that because the business was out of place that I was able to have more space and then so how did you find that balance between the two of them and practically speaking what are your days look like now compared to what they did look like before yeah so different I think like all things when you correct you over correct yeah so you swing the other way but I think that's necessary so I think I maybe I think I took a month well aside from being sick I think I took a month ish break and yeah I just couldn't I mean so you can the grind thing I just couldn't grind at that point I couldn't like sit down and I love that like working hard you know not because I feel like I have to because it's enjoyable and so yeah took correcting the other way and then finding where that balance is and yeah I wish I had like an exact answer I feel like it's such a process in terms of changing the way your habits are in the day first you start recognizing a lot I was very like disciplined I have to be up at this time I have to work and I had to remove that to free myself up a little bit so I could come back eventually from like a positive space if that makes sense so I say my days today are less less rigid less disciplined than they were at that time where I was like making something happen or whatever it sounds like it went back to experimenting where the experimenting of the business makes something stick it's very much about like how can I actually get my life in balance and I think that happens with like if you're trying to build healthy habits in your life it's not one size fits all sometimes people it works well with incentives sometimes people have a better time sticking habits when they have a partner like an ally to be able to keep them going sometimes those things don't work at all for anybody and it comes because everybody so individual we need to really identify and see bring these things into our lives and gender lives yeah and you just start recognizing stuff that you thought really healthy and that's what I mean about me feeling like I had to be up at a certain time every morning if I feel like I have if I want to do that then that's awesome and it's not a stressful thing in my life it's part of what I want to be doing it's positive so I think a lot of it was flipping one thing I talked about is like from needs to choices and I think any time you can get into a space where you're choosing to do something or you feel like you have options instead of I need to do this I'm forced into doing this it just goes better and it's more enjoyable so I try to always move into that space like I have choices I have options I'm choosing to do this and because I'm choosing to do that it's enjoyable for me I felt like this conversation was like a book I feel like there's a book within maybe in the lines maybe there's a I'm going to shout out I don't know if you know him he's a book coach whisper and so I've told him many times that at some point I need to call Azul because he's the person that helps you you know, craft your idea that's definitely something that's like on your mind not right now maybe in at some point in the future I think that'd be fun I write a lot so I definitely enjoy writing is that something that you've done before thinking about? Well, it's funny like when I started this whole like, hey, let me create original content for some reason maybe it's because my friends all had blogs I was like, well, I'm going to start a blog and then I started writing blogs and sharing blog posts and I was like, I'm a filmmaker what am I doing? I'm wasting my time I spent my entire life making videos and that's obviously where so much is going now like YouTube because I sure massive and I was like, alright maybe I'm just not going to write I do actually really enjoy writing and the writing goes into films and videos and there's obviously like everything like whether you're making a tweeter, a description for Instagram if you can't communicate Yeah, probably like in a short period of time and get your message across and like have some you know, joy and some weirdness and how you write then you're probably not going to be successful so I'm glad YouTube is doing video because obviously the world needs it so yeah, thanks So yeah, maybe writing down the road maybe a book but it's like the thing with minimalism and trying to find out like what you should be doing right now you have to say no to a lot of stuff and writing a book if I said, okay I'm going to write a book like I probably can't do a podcast I probably can't do all this other stuff that I'm currently doing at least not in its current form or it's just me if I had an employee and like the circumstances were different but you have to set your priorities yeah and it's going to take a lot longer than you think too so like if you say yes to a book potentially you're signing up for a very long like not just no now no two years from now you know so I think that's the other thing but you don't have to take on that approach I mean I've been very inspired by this author I found on Twitter I'm blanking as name right now but I saw he put out a book on Kindle and he tweeted the next day writing my next book and I saw like maybe three months later the next book was out and so like I don't think he was overthinking it and I think he was just like making it happen so I like seeing someone who is like not necessarily feeling like it had to be this giant thing I'm right I don't know if you're calling right now maybe he's like he's he's written like 12 14 books sometimes short sometimes long but it's short but it's like yes sometimes we overthink it sometimes we think while we need the about page we need to have all this extra stuff and it's like one of my favorite books is flinch by Julian Smith super short you could read that in a night yeah and but also very impactful sure and you know maybe it's it's always about starting small like maybe it's just a manuscript maybe you start out and just make a trailer or like a short film that could be turned into a feature film yeah it's sort of like the weird thing again like I was a to be the city I was like I wonder if you could make a book sort of like an album or something like that album art and then you do like 12 tracks or whatever and then like yeah put it out like a mix tape or something like that but it's actually a book like I feel like yeah you could approach it there's no rules right there's no like no book has to be a certain it doesn't need to be printed on paper obviously now like digital yeah maybe you can book even means yeah that's great do you have any closing thoughts that's a great question I don't think I have any right now I appreciate you have me over I like if it is like conversation like this I think it's it's always interesting to see where it goes so I just enjoy like having conversations there's no agenda we're just going to discuss stuff and wherever it takes us thanks for having me over and thanks you know making it be like this yeah I think it's definitely clarifying I mean I'm I'm pretty selfish do sometimes I like do it I just really love like having these conversations yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah I think that really resonates that sticks and like these kind of conversations not only does it change like the two of us how we interact with our audiences future changes gets other people to yeah yeah and I'm going to I got out of my girlfriend patie a link that is easy to sign up for my personal newsletter, which is creative caffeine that's where I'm like having all of the fun like experimenting and stuff but death to stock.com is how you will find is death to the stock photo but you can also go to death to stock.com and then yeah creative caffeine, which is my newsletter I take a very interesting approach on that and that it is not at a fixed time or day I actually only share things when I feel like I have something to share so usually it's at least one to three times a week I've sometimes like it's and I'm very up about that and it's like yeah it could change I might experience something so it's kind of like the weird place where I'm playing yeah that's amazing that's amazing that it's working because well it's swinging the direction like hey here's like this monthly structured photos and then when I said I want to do this other thing I said hey it's going to be the everything else you know like I'm not going to it's going to come tonight early in the morning it's going to be long short and I think it's like you probably for most people you have to master the consistency part first it's kind of like Picasso right he was like a master painter he like if he did traditional paintings beautifully and then he's like let's make this totally and that's where it's been fun to have other people's voices as well so I'm sharing applied to me that's another weird thing if you're on this list I might share what you write to me if you ask me not to yeah but when I get random emails from people like post those in the email so I don't know it's just weird I love it man I'm going to sign up after we talk awesome right on yeah thanks again and I'm sure we'll talk soon alright thanks for doing this have you enjoyed this podcast have you gotten some value out of it has it helped you on your creative or personal journey if so I would love it if you consider making a contribution to patreon if you go to patreon.com slash math develop a little membership community that I've started to create and it really is starting to feel like community lots and lots of people are contributing I'm answering them secret AMA podcast episodes that are exclusive to patreon I've also got a secret vlog where I show you an intimate look at my personal and work life and how I set things up here at the ground up show and how I make my videos so if you want to get access to these things and you want to also just contribute to the show and help to keep it at free and help to make sure that I can keep doing this full time which is honestly a dream head over to patreon.com slash math develop and be a part of this journey thanks for listening and I'll see you guys next week
