# Ground Up 056 - Side Hustle w/ Sierra Katow
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_aChl1ns9o8
Get the podcast 👉 http://groundupshow.com

Sierra Katow (http://sierrakatow.com/) is a comedian & writer living in Los Angeles. We discuss what it takes to make it as a working comic today, her side hustle as a full stack developer, and doing the work up front so you’re ready the moment things take off.

New videos every week! New podcast every Wednesday!

Subscribe:  https://goo.gl/nzS5ri
Instagram:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella/
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella/

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** behind the scenes, creative, creator, creators, documentary, film, filmmaker, filmmaking, freelance, freelance life, freelancer, hustle, create, get started, ground up, make, matt davella, matt d'avella, podcast, podcasting, start, the ground up show, sierra katow, comedy, writing, comedian, stand up, funny, laugh, learn, education, school, 
**Date:** 2018-04-25

## Transcript
 So, I got very lucky like in my junior year of college, I got to do last comic standing, and so that was kind of a moment where it's like, oh, hey, like you get some airtime, so maybe be funny, right? Even when you didn't think you were building like you were, okay? It doesn't feel like anything is externally like the feedback's not coming right now, that I would want, but just know that like, then at least it'll be ready when that thing hits. Sierra Cato is a comedian and writer living in Los Angeles. We discuss what it takes to make it as a comedian today, that is what it takes to make a living, to make money as a comedian and comedy writer. We chat a little bit about the importance of a side hustle, specifically her side hustle, as a full stack developer, why that's important, why that helps when times are slow. And we also talk about doing the work upfront. So, when shit goes down, when you got that big opportunity, you can take full advantage of it, and you don't miss it. It's a great podcast, I think you're going to really love Sierra. Before we get to the podcast, if you guys have questions, I'm going to start getting to a couple more of your questions here on the podcast. If you want to ask a question, send it in to helloatmattevello.com. It can be about creativity, it can be about filmmaking, your specific craft questions about projects you're working on. Would love to hear from you, would love to help you out and get to the bottom of your problem. So send in a video or audio, keep it under two minutes, and I will play that with my guest and we'll tackle it again. Hello at mattevello.com, send it in, look forward to hearing from you. And lastly, before we get to this great conversation, have you guys been enjoying the show? If you've been getting some value out of it, I have one favorite ask. If you're very small favorite, head over to iTunes, leave a review. You've been doing an amazing job, helping to increase the awareness and visibility of the show. We've been popping up in the top 200 on iTunes business, which has been incredible, because that just means that more people can get value from the show, learn, and also it makes sure that I can keep doing this. Because I'm not making any money right now, but eventually down the road, that is the goal. I love talking about the building of the podcast, the building of the show. And you guys can hopefully learn something as I start to navigate this little world of creating original content. Alright, enough rambling for me, enjoy the podcast. You're listening to the ground up show, a podcast that inspires creatives to make meaningful content and pursue their passions. My name is Mattevella, and I'm a filmmaker best known for the Netflix documentary minimalism. And I'm sitting down with creators to talk about their process, the lessons they've learned, and how to make an impact. So, Sarah, thank you so much for coming on the podcast. That's for having me. We just like, combine and do it. Sure, I mean, you know, that's okay with you. If there's anything you need to tell me before we didn't get that, I mean, it's going to get real weird. Okay, this is weird segment in the middle. Oh, okay, okay, thank you. Thanks for talking. Yeah. No, I appreciate you coming out here and doing the podcast. I had your friend Alexis on the show. Yeah, yeah, so cool. Yeah, that was a weird episode. Oh, I mean, she's just a cool person. I feel like she like brings it into her tone. Like, I even when I'm like in conversation with her, I like turn into a different person. Yeah. We're in a good way, but it's like, I was like, wow, I didn't know I had that energy in me. Right. It's like being swept up in a river. I guess this is where we're going now. Right, I'm like, well, cool. Yeah, so thanks for being here. Before we kind of just talk about your story and some of the work that you're doing, or you've done, tell me a little bit about the work you do right now. What's right now? Oh, man, okay. Well, I guess I do a lot of stand-up comedy. And that's kind of been my life for a while. But that's always happening. And I like that about it. I also just finished working on a show, a TV show called Drop the Mike, which was like a battle rap show. It's on TBS. It's a lot of fun. But sort of I was working the writers. I remember as writers assistant. And I've done that in the past for other shows as well. And always trying to write. I guess kind of trying to do the comedy, stand-up comedian, but also writing and auditioning for weird comedy things all the time. So it's a real mixed bag of things, but all kind of with the through line of like comedy. Right. I want to take one pause and talk about the rap battle stuff because that sounds amazing. It was cool. Did you ever, like, I don't know if it. So I got into comedy a little bit in college and did a little bit of stand-up. But like when I really first started getting into sketches and video and all that stuff, it was like the parody rap videos, which is just a must be say thing. Like the, yeah, yeah, yeah. No, those are fun though. Yeah, they're fun. I think, yeah, I don't know. Did you ever get swept up in that? Do you have any video out there? It's just embarrassing that you're, like, editing. Oh, well, I do have embarrassing videos. Are they rap battles? No, I mean, they got. But I also, I was just kind of, so, how do I say it? I guess like, yeah, it's a rap battle show that's like celebrity rap battles. And it's basically based on like a James Corden late night bit that he turned into an entire show. And I kind of, you know, I, I have been a rap fan for a long time, but I was definitely not at all at the same level as like a lot of the writers, for instance, one who was like actually a rap battleer who's like one tournaments, and it's like the best rap battleer in Canada. Really? Yeah, yeah, so there's like a lot of, there are like a lot of people who actually came from either freestyle background or something like that. So I was just really excited to be surrounded by people who had just like this crazy skill. And I myself, like, got to, you know, contribute little lines here and there to the some of the rap, which is fun, but that's great. I was definitely like more of a learning experience because I was just like so in all of everyone. Well, there is such a comedic element to rap battles. They're like rusty. Right, there's a punch line, like you have to kind of reverse engineer the jokes to make it land. Like, how do I tell this guy he looks like a wax figure? I guess start from a place that's like, not gonna expect this, but I was like, actually, because that's the thing when you get the crowd, like I used to be into those like, man, like all watching rap battles online, there was this thing called freestyle Friday on BET that used to watch. And there was this rapper Jin that was just like unbelievable. And he would just destroy people. Like, I think like, it's like partly scripted part, like partly he has an outline of what he wants to do. But then when you go off the cuff and like you're like commenting on somebody, the color of somebody's shirt. Right, then you're like, wow, how do they even do that on top of remembering all the other stuff that they wanted to say? Yeah, yeah, it's amazing. It's crazy. Give me one second because I just, oh yeah, I don't know what I did. I'm like losing it every single year. I got like sick recently, and I don't know what it is. I'm having all these like weird medical health issues where like I just break out and hide. Oh no, that's the worst thing. Just weekend, we were at Anthony Jesenbach and I showed here in LA and right before the show, my lips started to swell up. Uh oh. And then I was like, this is concerned. And it happened like two weeks prior where it just like blew up and I didn't know what it was. I actually took some car max lip balm then and I guess maybe I have an allergy to that. I mean, yeah. But then this time I didn't, but then I'm like sitting through the show, trying to do enjoy it. At the same time being like, I might be dying. Yeah, it's like they're going to close up. Yeah, I never know. I'm afraid that way. Don't what that happened. I know, so I've been like, I feel like it's still got me. But um, okay. Well, I mean, I'll let you know if your face starts to swell. If it starts to swell, if I pass out, maybe just call an ambulance. Okay. I'm glad I. And now I feel more comfortable. Yeah, how you know that. Yeah, I know how to do that. I think. Okay, great. We'll be fine. Um, cool. So let's, let's go back. Like, when did you first get into comedy? What was when did it? Uh-huh. I guess. So I started doing stand-up when I was like, I think sophomore high school like 16, um, did open mics around here basically. So I kind of, I told dry, uh, grew up in outside of LA. And so it was possible, you know, to kind of go to do some comedy club open mics. Um, there's some who let me in. I think when I was under age and then, uh, gradually I could kind of do others. But they would like make me wait on the sidewalk. And then they'd pull me in and then make sure that I got kicked out afterward. You know, I think like that because, you know, as much as, that I was just there to do comedy and stuff. Of course, they like serving alcohol. It's a big, you know, nighttime thing. So, so yeah, so I did a lot of that. And then, um, yeah. And so from that, I've always kind of been big into stand-up. And I mean, that's really young to be getting in a stand-up at the sophomore high school. Yeah, yeah, I was on the young side. Would your parents think about it? Oh, um, they were very supportive. I think at the time, you know, they're like, oh, cute hobby. Like, I think I played basketball for a long time. So they're like, oh, well, this is like the new basketball. Oh, my god. Like, there's no future in it. But yeah, you know, it's fine. Um, so they would like drive me to open mics. This is like before, maybe I got my license say. And then, um, yeah, they've, oh, they would come to shows. And I think, you know, have always been actually super supportive. And that's like, I'm very lucky. And I know I am for that. And I think, you know, I kind of had to warm them up to the idea that, like, okay, now I'm actually trying to pursue this too outside of just a hobby. Um, but, you know, I, I think I was also lucky to be, like, my parents are very funny. And so I think they always valued, like, funny people. Uh, we would watch a lot of comedy movies. They're like, just always be enamored with certain comedians. So I think that was helpful. Like, my grandpa, um, my mom's dad. I guess he was like a cartoonist and he was like a humor. Like, he was really funny and he would also draw really funny things. And made a living off of being an artist, like a visual artist. So I think that also really helps. I had a time when it wasn't as common too. Oh, yeah, not at all. But like, yeah, I don't know. I mean, he was just like kind of fascinating life because I was, his thing he would do, like, in between her sketches for a lot of the, like, animated, um, bugs bunny, things like that. And what does that mean in between her sketches? So back when I guess, yeah, everything was hand drawn in an animation. Um, so maybe the main artist would do, like, the main, you know, that's so cool. Yeah, the main positions. And then he would be one of the people to kind of fill in the gap. Wait, for legit bugs bunny? Yeah. Whoa. And that's historic. Yeah, and yeah, he worked on a few other things, uh, but for sure, it was just sort of, I think having somebody in your family who was able to kind of pursue a creative career. And he didn't die, you know, like, this, like, fall down at 30 years old. Um, that was good. Yeah, that's a real, that's a real thing that might happen. Oh, I mean, I mean, I mean, it could still happen. So that was, yeah, yeah, you could just die because you didn't make it. But yeah, I mean, there's been one, you know, possibility of life. Yeah, I'm so happy. And your family, I feel like it's pretty encouraging. Totally totally. Um, because it's kind of hard to argue with that when somebody makes it in this successful and does well. Yeah, yeah, of course. It's like, it makes it seem like, oh, okay, well, so just do that. And then like, of course, it's a different time and everything, but I'm like, yeah, I mean, I'd love to. Yeah. Yeah. Um, so then you, you kind of stuck with stand up from the beginning, was it? Sure. Do you remember your, like, a first joke that actually did well, where was it? It wasn't like, I'm sure it wasn't the first joke. So I, so I had, honestly, the first time I went up, it's like, open mics is like, nobody there anyway. And I think because I was so young, people like wanted to support, you know, um, so one of the first, yeah. So one of like the first jokes I said, and it was, you know, it was very silly. And it was like a fart joke, essentially. And I'm not gonna, I'm not gonna make a seem very intellectual. It was a fart joke. Let's be real. Um, that actually, like it was fine, you know, and I think I was, I had a little bit. I had a like a lot, so this is gonna nerd me up a little bit, but I was like, big and a student government as a child. So I was like, you know, always giving speeches and all that stuff. So I would love to throw in jokes at the speeches. So the whole, like, my whole point of starting stand up was like, oh, you mean, you could just tell the jokes and you don't have to do all the responsibilities. Um, so I kind of found that kernel. And so I always like had jokes I wanted to say. And so it was like kind of cool to finally have a platform to like just go up and people are just like, yeah, make me laugh and you don't have to have any sort of position on the school affairs. Um, so there's this kind of like a rush to that right where like, I mean, because it's, it's terrifying, you're like, especially, so you're giving this speech. That's like, you're not really supposed to be funny, but then you're like, all right, I'm about to tell this joke, let's see if this works out. And then when it does, you're like, holy shit. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I mean, yeah, I clearly hooked. Yeah, hobby that got out of control. So, right. So yeah, I definitely felt that rush right away and continually, sort of, you know, and then I would obviously have like, okay, bomb in all the time, but I never felt like it was that bad because this is what I tell people when they're like, oh, I want to try to do stand up what's your advice. It's like, oh, well, just go to like one where there's a bunch of strangers because if you bomb like you just, oh, I didn't, that wasn't me. Yeah, don't tell your family or friends, because everybody's like, oh, I got it. Go. I know. And like, then you have to be accountable after we're to face them. Right. Who would want to do that? I don't know. I mean, it's hard to encourage somebody, I think, after you see, like, if you don't really know like what it takes to do stand up, some people might be like, maybe this isn't for you. Oh, I know. I know, right. And then they might, you know, in their whole life, they've just been watching like Netflix specials and like, where's the most polished, yeah, I've been working for a long time. Sure. And like, because you don't, most people don't see that. Most, a lot of people don't go to open mic nights and just see, I would say, maybe stay away. I'm not interested. Yeah. Right. Like, if you like comedy, don't go to open mic nights. Right. But I don't know about that. Yeah. But I think that there's probably, like, a culture of comedian supporting each other as well, where it's like, because you have the conversations, like, before and after the shows and like, talking about, like, yeah, that was really bad. Yeah. Yeah. That didn't go quite the way I thought it was going to go. Yeah. That's very valuable feedback. Like, yeah, if you can find people that give you that, and I think what's fun about stand up, or for my experiences, it's sort of like, you know, I kind of was always, I feel like, kind of shy. Like, I was never like class clown or anything. I was thought I could be funny, but it was not going to just come out of me. So I always feel like what's fun about stand up, too, is that I can do my set. And then afterwards, people who, like, laughed at it already feel really comfortable, like, you know, introducing themselves or like being able, yeah, to like talk to you, I guess. So I kind of liked it as like a skipping that initial awkward, like, oh, so hi, you know, I do come to, you know, things like that, like, it's like, if you can already step into making somebody laugh, I feel like it already, you know, jumps a few steps in the friendship. It really helps, especially if you, you've, you've done well, and you've got a couple jokes that kind of, um, earned some respect, like, I mean, I only did it for like a year, but then like, when you would have the comics, and it felt like they were the veterans of the game, like they've been, but they've really only been doing stand up for two years. And then they come into like, wow, that was a really clever joke. And you're like, oh, yeah, exactly, but it does like, yeah, it opens it up and like, I always have such a hard time with maybe it's like a shyness, but like approaching people or like, I'm not a good networker, and like, so I tend to always just try to let my work speak for itself, whether it's film or otherwise. And I feel like that's, I don't know, maybe that's like the shy way to do it. That's the best way to do it. But that's, that's, yeah, exactly how I'd say stand up kind of feels. Yeah. So you, like, obviously comedy was there, but like, I went to your website earlier this morning, and it's, you got coding, art, right? You kind of, it's not like you're a state of wanting to. A lot of things. Yeah. I mean, the website, yeah, maybe I should update the website. No, I'm just kidding. I mean, yeah, no, that is a good, I do, I do draw. And I think that was like a big part of, I guess, you know, growing up, I would draw a lot, had a lot of that, and still want to, I think, but I haven't done that as much recently, but I do a lot of freelance coding kind of to balance my life. A lot of that. Yeah. That's really clever. Yeah, yeah, it's nice. I mean, obviously, I do it because it's good money sometimes, and that's great. But I think more than anything, it's kind of nice to have something that's just completely different from doing comedy or writing and things like that, where it's just like, okay, I got these little tasks to complete, and then I'd check them off, and I feel good, you know. Do you enjoy it? So your full stack developer? Yeah, yeah, what do you mean? Do you just do everything? It's like, it's kind of like that, so it's basically like, you know, front end stuff is a lot of like, maybe design or making things that like, you know, you see on the screen, and then back end being like, things in the database and like, building out more like, I don't know, storage of information, and things like that, so then just being able to combine the algorithms that everybody hates to talk about. Yeah, yeah, I guess that would be in there as well, though. I don't do anything as complicated because, you know, just as a freelance or I'm like, pretty pretty simple. Yeah, do you enjoy it? I like it. Yeah, I mean, so I like started coding a while back, and I started computer science and college, and that was always sort of, you know, something that I wanted to do, but then because comedy sort of took over, I felt like it's also like a great thing that I've just had in my life for a long time, when I keep there, but I'm not necessarily as like ambitious about it, so I don't put it maybe at the forefront, you know, anymore. Right, it's not like, you don't see your future going in that direction. So it's nice to be able to make some money on the side from it, but it's not something you're going to... Totally. Yeah, I mean, I kind of see it as like a hobby, it's like, you know, maybe some people are like, uh, software engineers who do comedy at night, and then I kind of like flip of that. Right, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So you said that it's kind of helpful to do something outside of that, like, what, what, how does that help the comedy? And like you do see this with a lot of comedians, where it's like, they don't just do one thing. Sure. You can't just do one thing. Yeah. I mean, yeah, you, I guess, you know, solely for like, uh, just having something else to put your brain on, you know, so I think it's hard to working in, you know, comedy, and then which is also sort of like entertainment. There's not a ton of, uh, or it's like a little harder to like achieve tasks, I guess. And as somebody who kind of comes from maybe like a school background where I was like, oh, I get my homework done. Yeah. Yeah. I think I felt like it was kind of nice to have, you know, something that's a little bit clearer. And then comedy and like sort of the creative side of things, that's a little bit more, like a morphist. I'm, I'm like, I was working on things and pitching things and then we're, you know, doing stand up, which is fun and everything, but I guess, you know, if there's a time where I'm like, man, you know, that things really like happened for me in a while. I, even though I know that's not necessarily true because I'm like, I was working on stuff. I think it's kind of nice to have like something where you're like, oh, and then I can, like, check little boxes over here, maybe that's just like my personality, but I think that it kind of helps balance, like, just the way we gauge, like accomplishment in a weird way, like, I think sometimes I feel as if it'd be nice to have a little feedback or something. And then, you know, and then like, yeah, I was so worried about, no, I just think that, like, it's like, oh, well, it's good to be like, okay, I did this little thing. And I was like, actually, easy to do. I think the same kind of gratification maybe comes from like doing the dishes or, you know, what do I mean, like, cleaning your room, like, why would we need a room to like procrastinate? It's almost like, procrastination method for me and so I've actually heard that where somebody said, like, best advice I ever got was, and this is like, Tim Ferris, who's like, he's really well known. He's like, uh, make your bed every morning to start out with a win and just like, kind of like, like, it's like something very small, but it just makes you feel like you're, you know, not a piece of shit. And especially as a freelancer, like grappling with doubt is part of it. Like, that's how you actually keep, like, how do you keep going? It's really with getting the wins along the way. Cool. And I guess that's a good question that was like, do you bring some kind of structure to comedy? Like, do, how do you organize your day? Like, do you have to do lists where you're like, yeah, I do this today? Right. Yeah. No. What's weird is like, I never considered myself really type A, you know, or anything like that, but I think I've become more because there's so little structure to a lot of the, like, comedy career stuff that like, I feel like I need to implement something. And so I have, like, you know, so I guess, you know, I, I always am booking shows or whatever. So then that sort of thing is always my calendar. So at least I kind of have, you know, goals to work towards as far as like, okay, well, I've that show that night. That one's kind of important. So I want to make sure, like, I have a set list for that and whatever normally it happens. Like, on the drive over, let's be real. But yeah, well, like, you know, ideally, yeah, I kind of try to prep for certain milestones that are shows. But that's, I think, just that alone, like, the fact like prepping on your way to the show says something about how long you've been doing it, how much confidence you have because maybe it's a personality type, but I feel like, for me, if I'm going to give a talk a five minute talk and, like, I don't do that a lot, I'm like, preparing five, like two, like two months in advance and I'm like, I gotta make sure I get all this down, but like the fact that you've been doing it so long, you can, I mean, I guess it's like, yeah, it's that and it's like the frequency of shows. So it's like, sometimes they'll have weeks where I'm doing like a show every day or something, and that's even not as much as, like, a lot of people, a lot of stand-ups do, but in a, maybe about standard or a little bit more. And so yeah, so I can't necessarily prepare two for, because it's like, well, I got one tomorrow, so I gotta prepare for that one. So yeah, so that ends up being a little last minute, but then the, I mean, the stakes of these shows is so much lower than actually a talker or anything that would be, like a scheduled event show. Sure, yeah. I guess the equivalent in stand-up might be like, if I'm trying to get a tape to submit for certain things, you know, maybe like a late night set or something like that, then that would obviously be a big deal, and that's all about like, even prepping for a big set could be doing other sets, right? So, right. That makes sense. Yeah, that makes a lot of sense. Yeah. So yeah, you were saying, just, we're talking about, like, the two-do list checklists types off, and the one thing would be just, like, the preparing for shows and, and kind of scheduling them out, and then, like, it's how else do you, yeah, we're doing it. Okay, so here's the, like, weird, gross thing that I do know is I have a, I can't wait to get this. Um, so I have, like, a spreadsheet that I call my dreams spreadsheet. Oh, I love it with gross, yeah, like, like, the woo-woo type stuff, like, a vision board. Right, it's like that, right? Well, you know, and so I kind of was like, okay, well, here's the weird thing. Sometimes I'll go into, like, meetings or I'm talking to just a friend or something, and they'll be like, so what if you've done it? And I'm like, what have I done? And then, you know, I like, try to flash back into something like I've done, and I can't remember anything. But I think it's just because, you know, it's like a little hard to keep track of what I've done when they're not really like tangible things. So there's often things where like, I'll list, oh, you know, I had that, you know, I pitched that thing that, like, show to this network or whatever, and like, sure, it's not like a real show on television right now. But it's still like a win and that I got to do that, and then they, you know, it could be happening, right? Things like that. So I'm trying to, like, keep track of sort of these works and progress, and then that way I can feel as if, like, you know, I kind of know that I'm working on stuff. I guess otherwise, because maybe I've been such a, like, I've been so used to being like, well, I got to wait till it's on the television for it to count, you know, and asked, and if you do that, like, it just, well, you'll never have a win for like years. Yeah. And it doesn't hurt. Yeah, it happens when your joke gets cut. And then you're like, oh, then it doesn't even count. But it's like, no, I mean, you know, because like, oh, here's the funny thing. I worked, the first show I worked on, like, it was, take my wife and it was a sitcom about the lab as a camera in Esposito and Rio Butcher who are two comedians who are married to each other. And they basically, like, we did a whole season, eight episodes, and then it didn't air for a really long time. Like, it was basically like on Sisto, which was this sort of digital network of NBC. And basically, like, shut it down. So they're like, oh, yes, like, all that stuff, yeah, it's not, it's not going to happen. And so we're like, oh, no. Oh, okay. Well, I mean, you know, I say, okay, it's still, like, learned so much. So I shouldn't, so at that point, I was like, well, yeah, I can't necessarily think of it, like, when it airs, it's a thing. Because then stuff out of your control can happen. And then you have to just realize, like, oh, we had like a great time making it, and I learned a lot. And then eventually got released, so that was exciting. Oh, that's amazing. Yeah, yeah. But, you know, it was like, that sort of thing could happen all the time. I think I was in a, like, I did this MTV show where that you did like stand up and then you like acted out your stand up set. And I was in a couple episodes of that and it got canceled, like, before those aired. So like, you know, I mean, all these things happen all the time. But I think that was like, one of the first things that happened when I moved out here and I was like, oh, yeah, I don't know. Like, I guess I was kind of counting on that in a weird way, like in my mind. And I can't do that anymore because then, you know, then you're going to just feel like things aren't working out even when it's, when it's normal. Yeah, you should be able to look back on it and say it was a great experience. Yeah. I think it's about managing expectations and not like kind of thinking, oh, this is going to be, like, expecting this to be the big thing, or at least the right thing that's going to help. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It can be really challenging. Like you said it happens all the time. I've had a couple friends that worked on a comedy central pilot called Delco Proper. It's about like outside of Philadelphia area and they did a web series that did well. And then the pilot, I don't even know if I can talk about this. I don't, I think I can. But I had the pilot didn't get picked up and rather like, but still it's like happens, but yeah. It's so frustrating. It's like you put everything all your time and energy into this thing for like, maybe a year, maybe six months and then for a not to work out, you're like, shit, all right, now what I do. But then that's part of following an untraditional path is that like you get a dust yourself off and just, yeah, just be like, there's more where that came from, I guess, right? Right. Yeah. I feel the same way about people stealing things. Like, I've had people take my videos and blow it to their channels and I'm like, what I, like, I don't really care that much. I don't, I guess if they're making money off of it, that would just be weird. And I wouldn't like it, but yeah, but I'm like, yeah, why too much trouble. I'm not going to stress about it. I'm not actually, well, this happens all the time with our documentary minimalism and like, people email me all the time where like, people just up, they just steal it and then they upload it to YouTube for free and then it's like, like, all the time, it's like, 10, when we first put it out, it was like 10 to 15 times a week. Oh, geez. New uploads. We pop like that. Yeah. So then. But yeah, like, so I would just kind of forward them along and we would issue the copyright claim for YouTube, but it doesn't take a long time. It's a pretty quick process. But like, at the same time, I'm like, I'm not going to waste any extra time and energy on people stealing. Yeah. It's a little bit different in comedy. That becomes a big thing, right? Like we're stealing jokes. Selling jokes. Yeah, yeah. I wonder about that. Because like a lot of the jokes stealing conversations are oftentimes, like, it's hard. Like, I do feel like if you're a big comic, it's like, so not worth it to steal a joke. You know? At that point, it's like, you've so much to lose. Honestly, just tell like a worst joke that you made up. You know? Right. You already made it. Right. So I kind of feel like, yeah, it's not actually their intention or that it's like maybe something where they, you know, oftentimes, comedians of writers and then a writer like accidentally, like, watch them in and then they forgot and then they wrote it down and then nobody checked it. You know? Yeah. I think that's probably where it comes more often than not. Yeah. Like, obviously, there is where it's just like a paragraph that's just pulled. Then it's obvious. But like, there's so many themes and types of jokes that are just so closely related. And I would say, like, for my own, I mean, obviously, nobody's paying attention to what I'm saying. But I think that, like, if I ever worried that I joke, like, like, I think I've particularly been focused on saying, like, doing comedy bets that are very personal to me. Like, well, obviously, I mean, nobody lived my life, I hope. So. Well, there's a lot of people out there, so who knows, but yeah, that I kind of feel like, well, then that kind of makes it copy proof, even if in the back of my head accidentally watched that on something, then, you know, something, and it came back out, like, I feel like, it's less likely to happen if it's something that's like a story from my life that actually happened right or like, mock talk about like, my family or this, this, if somebody outside these in those jokes, then you're like, wait a minute. What? Your dad's name is not Vincent. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah. No. So, putting the, was that obvious from the beginning to, like, put your, your personal life into your comedy? I think so. Yeah. I think, I, yeah, I did it a little bit because I was worried about, you know, just accidentally saying the same stuff and being the same comedian as other people. So there's a lot of that. I think also, like, being, like, I don't know, I, I'm not sure, I like it a lot. I think because I think when I say things that are personal, it makes me feel like, oh, I'm like contributing to the conversation rather than just like trying to, you know, throw out stuff that people maybe have heard before. Um, so I don't know, I guess there's that, I think a little bit more, I mean, especially now, like, obviously, huge conversation about, like, representation and like, different, you know, diverse stories and things like that. A lot of buzzwords, but I think that, like, I feel, I always felt like going out there and being a comedian and being this, like, a young, you know, woman and Asian American, whatever, I definitely felt like, oh, you know, I should try to like bring that into it a little bit more so that I'm not trying to, you know, just be like, oh, I'm here to tell jokes, which I think is totally valid as well. But I think personally for my own journey, I was like, yeah, I kind of want to, you know, bring that into the conversation and acknowledge it because that's kind of fun. Right. And it's not a lot. There's not a lot of us, so it's kind of cool to be like, okay, yeah, I get to be that, I get to be another, you know, person from this demographic and hopefully other people can relate to it. And I feel like I've gotten a lot of response from people, you know, other young women are like, other Asian American folks. And I like that a lot because I kind of feel like that's what I would, what I like watching when I was younger to a lot. Yeah, I think sometimes people need to be able to see somebody like them that's had a similar background of them, making it and doing well to kind of give them the encouragement to step out and try it themselves. Totally. Yeah, even just like doing it themselves, like I think, yeah, outside of just, because sometimes it'll just be like, oh, that joke is sort of like my experience or something like that. I tell a joke, which I, about, oh, I tell a joke about dating a white guy. And I think that's like very common now, you know, like Asian white couples. Yeah, my girlfriend's Asian. Oh, yeah, my girlfriend's Asian. There we go. So, you know, so I'm always like, so one of my things is like, yeah, you know, if you're in LA, like, if you got sent through a rock, you'll probably hear one of us, right? Yeah, yeah. Don't do that. That's a hate crime. So, you know, like, and I think that's fine because every so often and it's probably mainly in LA, but I'll do that. I'll talk a little bit about that in my relationship and things and there will be like an Asian woman in the crowd or like an Asian woman white man couple. Yeah. And I just like to see them either squirm or like laugh really hard, but because they understand. Right. That's amazing. That's so good. I feel like my girlfriend is less Asian than she is all Australian. Sure. Like that. And that was one of those things, right? That you get. It's like, oh, where are you from? She's like, Australia. You know, like, now, were you like, from from? Yeah, yeah. That's like, what does that mean? It's the thing, a poor. Okay. Exactly. Yeah, no, that's a big thing. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Who said, I forget who said that had that joke. I forget his name, but he's like, basically what they're asking is, why aren't you white? Because nobody has a white person like, from from. Right. Yeah, because, yeah, I guess. I'm from Jersey. I'm from Jersey. No, why are you front? Italy. Like, nobody's ever asked me that once. But I don't. Part of my life. Yeah. But part of me is also like, the forgiving side of me is that they're just curious. They're, you know what I mean? Maybe they don't know a lot of totally. People are color. They probably don't. Yeah. They probably don't. Well, because if they did, they wouldn't ask. They wouldn't ask. They would realize, right? They'd already have discussed this. So they're friends. I think, like, yeah, I get that a lot. And I think it's so weird for me to, when I talk with my sister about this all the time. Because obviously, you know, I'll say them up, bringing, um, we are great grandparents were immigrants. So we're like fourth generation or third generation depending how you count that. So, um, we've always been from Southern California. And, uh, and our parents too, and I think we're always building those questions. And it's weird because it's like, at what point does it end? Because literally, like, I'm sure my grandparents got this question. I'm sure my parents get this question. I'm sure. Yeah. I get this question. So, yeah, I mean, it's weird. It's a weird scenario. And, like, uh, and I mean, it doesn't make me more or less American that I, like, my family's been here. But I think that is also what they're asking, you know? And they're like, well, you know, or you, well, you're American. But like, yeah, it's really like a visual thing because clearly, like, I don't know what else to tell you. I don't know. Yeah. Like, it's not my accent. Right. Right. Uh, yeah. And I guess, yeah, it's an interesting thing. I have a lot of people try to, like, speak a different language to me, or, uh, yeah, or ask if I speak a certain language, yeah, because they want to return with that language. And I'm like, I don't even know those languages, even though you might think I do. Yeah. I didn't get that. Italy, though. I think the people stopping me. And then Natalie, she speaks a bit of Spanish, so she could actually understand what they were saying. Right. And I was, but I'm like, Olive Garden Italian. I'm like, actual, like, I don't, I've got to, like, group eating, like, pasta and catch up. Yeah. So find more. That's crazy. Yeah. It's crazy. Because, like, how many generations have been moved by the same from me? Like, my great grandparents came from Italy. And it's like, you're so far moved from that. Do you find yourself, uh, trying to still be connected with the, the culture of your, your, great, great grandparents? I mean, I don't even know. It's like, I, yes, of course. Like, I think there's still things that ingrained in, and like, oh, you know, food weed and like things that are cultural technically, um, that are probably, uh, I'm trying to use in Japanese probably one of the two, um, but I think that's the other cool thing that I have talked a lot about recently, um, with my sister is I think we kind of feel like we're even less, like, I think if I was one or the other, I would be more inclined to be like, oh, I should really embrace, but because I'm two different things like Chinese Japanese, I feel like, well, I mean, I don't want to pick one over the other. So I guess I'm about to be neither. You know, I'm like, I just, I think it's like a weird thing too, we're like, you know, maybe my dad would have pushed for us to learn Japanese or do more Japanese things. My mom would have pushed for us to do more Chinese things, uh, had they been the only person, uh, to, like, be our parent, but like, because there's kind of like, oh, well, we should have an equal footing. So why don't we just both be zero, it was just like, you know, it's just like a weird thing. I think when you're two different things that are multiple things, I think you just feel like, well, I guess I'm American and I think it makes it kind of an even playing field. Yeah. I think it's probably good thing. I think we're all kind of just like, our nationalities are just diluting right. Yeah. I mean, and of course, yeah, that's not to say that anyone who's like a single, like, ethnicity or background is, oh, you're more that no, of course not, but yeah, I think I've always thought, like, well, maybe if I was one of the other, I would have felt a little bit more inclined to really pursue it, but because I'm too, it's just been like, oh, well, I'm going to just not try you guys. Right. I think that they're. But I just saw, there's ugly delicious as a new net food. Oh, I want to see it. I want to see it. Yeah. That to me is one of my favorite food doc series, but like, exploration of food, and also like, like, you know, people are like, that's not real Mexican food, it's just that conversation of whole thing. Yeah. But like, that dude, what is his name, David? David Chang. He just, the fact that he's like, we'll go to Taco Bell, he delivered something. Yeah, he's just dominos, yeah. Right. I love dominos. I do, I mean, I do, you know, I'll just eat it in pizza. Yeah, dominos, great. Yeah. $7.00. Yeah. It's a little bit different though, out here, because you guys didn't have, you guys don't really have good pizza. Right. So I hear. I just can't believe that. Like, I, well, and I don't understand why. I mean, maybe because you guys all like dominos. I mean, yeah, I guess we're just like happy in our terrible, uh, considered to be not great. You've managed your expectation of the pizza. Yeah. Okay. Yes. There you go. Definitely ignorance is bliss. Maybe when it comes to pizza. Sure. But it just seems weird that, like, I don't know if it's the ingredient or something, but I don't know if you have, like, an extra pizza or, I mean, you lived in Boston. So yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I guess the pizza was more exciting. You don't know. Yeah. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. Maybe there's nothing there. I just, because I did, like, like, dominos and like, coming from, like, middle class family, not much money, like, it was, like, Friday as we'd ordered dominos because it was super cheap, um, but then there was, like, I think as you get older, you start to acquire a taste for better foods, um, like, I didn't eat sushi until I was like, 20 or something. Just because my, just spaghetti every day, like, it was spaghetti butter, and that's all we ate. Um, did you, have you started to get in more into food? As you got older, or have you always been into it? Oh, yeah. Because I think I also just, I think when I said, I just thought I didn't like to eat. Like, I, like, I was very active, and it was like, well, I'd rather be doing cartwheels, you know, I'll have to eat it more. Who's getting time to eat? Wasting time, um, but I think also, like, oh, my mom cooked a lot. So that was really nice of her, Jesus, but also, like, I think we kind of had the same stuff all the time. So I was like, okay, this is my palette, you know, I like this, and I like this, and I like, still love all those, like, I crave a lot of those homemade things that she made growing up because that's kind of just like the base of my palette, um, but definitely I think when I, as I've gotten older, it's like, oh, wow, like all these different things. And I think just generally like, all of our willingness to like spend money on food has increased a lot. I think it really has. Yeah, yeah, because like, you know, I mean, friends are always going to go out and it's like, you know, trying different things and then you're kind of like, well, you know, experiences, we are spending money on experiences. That's why I was able to go home, minimalism, and I'm saying, yeah, it's an experience. Yeah, right? Yeah, that's a technique. I'm going to spend way too much money on food, but, uh, and it also, if you do it too much, then I feel like it kind of takes the joy out of it a little short. Sure, yeah, it becomes normalized. Yeah, that was a part of ugly delicious. That was like the different, um, how like, what, I don't know if it was Korean food in LA has started to get really big. The Korean barbecue. Yeah. And it's just all these different kinds of, um, food that, I mean, look at Chipotle, like, that was in a thing, like, I mean, I guess you could say Taco Bell before that, but it's not like, I think there's a quality of difference there. But the fact that it's just kind of spreading out all over the country, and I was in Ohio last week. And it's like, they got text mix and I mean, obviously it's not real mix, but like, still the fact that people in the middle of the country are enjoying Mexican food is pretty interesting. Yeah, totally. Yeah, because, and it's funny because, what was it, or I guess just like, Chinese food, I guess my, so my grandma lives in like, uh, Alhambra, I'm on a park out here, which is, like, we're all the great Chinese food is, so we'll always get Chinese food when we visit her and things like that. But oftentimes people think, like, China town out here is where you get good Chinese food. Honestly, I'd like never been to China town growing up, and I think it's kind of like, it was kind of more like touristy or whatever. Um, so a lot of people move out here like, there's no good Chinese food, but it's like, oh, there's so much good Chinese food. And there's so many like great Chinese people, but like, they'll live over there. So you gotta go over there. Yeah. So it's like, it's kind of funny because, and slowly, you know, I mean, yelp and like everything is shifting people where they should go for good food and stuff. So maybe that's like a good and bad thing, but yeah, I think it's probably too sized to that. Yeah, yeah. That's one thing. Natalie has said, my girlfriend's just sing a porian and like her mom, uh, like culturally Chinese and like, what would they do with it? I think it was dim sum or something like some some weekend, uh, Chinese. I actually experienced it. It was just a trip and like in Sydney and it's. Oh, wow. But she's like, oh, that's like Chinese American food isn't what you would get. Oh, okay. Yeah, I'm trying to shore. Uh-huh. And that, I don't know. No, yeah, I think that's probably that mean that's stuff. I also because it's funny because we say Chinese food, but it's like China's huge and there's like so many players, you know, so many different foods even within it. Right. So like you're also just getting, I don't know, what section food. Even American food. I have no idea. Yeah, I literally don't know what we're talking about. I'm talking about, but I think, you know, my grandma's Chinese. So yeah, lives in, you know, Monterey Park out here. So I kind of know what I'm talking about. I don't know. Um, yeah, I don't know. I feel like I sometimes I just find myself just like bullshit and too much. Oh, no, we're like, I pretend like I'm pretending like I know what I'm talking about. But oh, man. I mean, that's a great, that's a great skill, though, I think. I am trying to bullshit more all the time. I think bullshit is an art form. Oh, yeah. And to the point where like you're not like putting your reputation at risk. Sure. Bullshit just enough, just saying just enough to get by that people won't call you out. Like that was my biggest fear as a freelancer for so long. Is that people are just going to call me out and be like, do you know what you're doing? And I'm like, no, I have no idea. Oh, that question yet, no, no. Yeah, no, no. Oh, my gosh, that's so funny. Yeah, I mean, it's like a poster syndrome. Like times a thousand, because it's like you don't necessarily have like the structure. Yeah. I think, I mean, that, you know, I feel that all the time. But I definitely feel like I have, I feel like the bullshit meter, like in general, is like still above like no bullshit, like everybody's bullshitting. So it's sort of like, well, you kind of got a bullshit to just hit the zero. And then, and then, you know, maybe there's people who bullshill a more important people bullshill less. Yeah, you know, that's true. And I think that there, it's like, it's, it isn't art form because you, you don't want to be like a really good bullshitter. Like, like, you just want to be good enough that eventually at some point, the line blur is, and you're not bullshitting anymore, but you don't realize it. You know, like, oh, I'm actually doing this now. Like actually, I'm like, sometimes it's even like giving people advice or talking to beginners. And you're like, oh, wow, like I actually do know what I'm talking to. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, because then relatively, like, yeah, you're finally able to see what you can actually say. Yeah, but then you just kind of fall back into it. Are we talking about anything? Hey, man, it's, it's an art. It's an art. It's an art. Do you travel a lot? Not as much as I have. I guess I've done, you know, comedy, standups, definitely travel a lot. And it's something that I've kind of done. I did a little bit of like college touring. And so I go to like little, like, small, small, small, select towns. I guess, or cities, and places I would have never gotten otherwise in like, perform at the college, stand up, and then leave. Yeah. So did that. I got to headline once in Hawaii, which is really cool. That's cool. I want to go back. And yeah, and I'm always looking to. I want to Seattle recently for a comedy festival. So comedy festivals also bring me places. But I guess just for like, I haven't traveled just for like, leisure in a little bit. Yeah, it's not true. I don't know. I've gone place certain places. And I think I'm lucky to have a lot of friends who live in different places. So I kind of have an excuse. And I can like crash with them, you know, and I traveled a bit after graduating, very cliche. Yeah, no, but therapy and trip. Oh, that's great though. I don't think enough people actually do that. Because it's like, there's such a pressure to just start working, start making money, totally. And it's not like, and Australia, it's, they have, um, I always get around. I think it's gap year or yeah, I think it's gap year. So like that where they take one year. And I think they maybe work and, you know, study or do something abroad. But it's, it's the year after they graduate where they just, they spend more time traveling and exploring. Yeah, that's not as much a part of our culture. I don't think. No, yeah, I know like a lot of friends. Or it was kind of encouraged. Am I college for people to take a gap year in between high school and college? What do you think is also really smart? I didn't do it because you know, there's such a rush to like, oh, and then go into 13th grade, you know. Um, but it's like, yeah, I don't know. But I, I definitely, um, after I was excited to, and because I think it was the, you know, the luxury being like, well, you know, I can always start comedy when I get back. I didn't like sign a contract where I have to start right after I graduate, which is nice. Um, definitely had friends who jumped right in or like had, I think the, the friend I traveled with, like, he was very set in the sense that, like, he had actually signed on to start after. So he had this very, like, do you start wearing a Google, so he, like, started a few months after graduating. So we had this set period of time where he was like, I could do anything. I don't have to worry about a job. I was a little stressed during it because I was like, I don't have anything going on and I'm draining my bank account. But it was a very, like, good experience, and I don't regret it. But I definitely think that, like, you know, we had a lot of, we were very lucky to be able to do it. Yeah. I mean, it's, well, I was going to say, for people that actually go into the workforce, that's our working after college. So that's the first time that you just realized that this is forever, because there's no summers. There's no winter breaks. Like, you don't really get time off like that. But I mean, we take, like, a little bit of an untraditional route where, like, freelancing and not, I mean, you kind of, when you work on a show, it's essentially full time. It's like a full time job. Yeah, but it's so short just in the length. Like, you know, I think the last, the show I worked on, it was like eight weeks or something. So it's like, I'm kind of on summer right now. Yeah, but of course, that wouldn't exist in like a regular, full time job. And so, so yeah, so I guess like it is daunting if you're just kind of going in, you're like, well, I don't see the end of the tunnel. This is, yeah. Yeah, it could be stressful, but some people love it. Yeah, and then they find out that, you know, I mean, if they love their jobs, you don't have to work a day in your life forever. Yeah, yeah. So yeah, there's that. There's that, um, do you, so I kind of like that structure where like, it's not massive commitments for you, for, for a certain shows where it's like, you can work on it for eight weeks or a couple months. And then you can go and kind of reassess the path that you want to go on. Totally. Like I think, yeah, that is really nice because I think, you know, say you don't like the people you work with. I mean, luckily I haven't had that experience yet, but like, then you can be like, well, you know what, I just have to like smile for like three more weeks, and then I can get out of here and try to find a new place to work. Yeah, so that's great, or you feel like you can, yeah, readjust your path if you're like, I mean, for me, I've been working as a writer's assistant. And it's cool. I mean, I still get a lot of the writer, writerly experience, but I think there's a little bit of like, okay, I think for the next one, I'm really going to try to go hard and try to like, graduate to that like writer position or try to find something where I like start my own project or something, and I think it gave me a little fire, you know, under me so that I could move forward. Um, so it was nice that it was kind of short, so I could not feel like I was stagnating for too long. Um, and, and I think before I started, I definitely didn't feel that way before I started. I was like, I'm happy for anything, and like, this is a great opportunity. I love rap, you know? Um, so, yeah, so I think it was good, to, you know, have that sort of growing period and then cut it off and then be able to kind of start fresh and now I'm thinking about, you know, what's my next move? I guess the trade-off is like, yeah, I mean, I'm not employed for very long, so there's definitely like panic like, oh god, no, you know, no, I'm not making any like income that's steady, so I got to figure out, you know, get more coding jobs or like figure out how to just place that by doing a college show or something, so it's very, uh, it's like a lot more panic, but I think it's a good trade-off for my life, because I'm lucky enough to be like, well, you know, I can code if like the day comes where I have no money, um, and, and I can, um, you also work from home, so I can like work on other projects while I'm doing that, so. Yeah, I think that's definitely the biggest struggle when you're, like we talked about before, was just doing with the doubt, but then there are these roles as a freelancer, as somebody who's on an untraditional path, where work is slow, and that's especially true in the very beginning, when you're not getting paid as much, when the work is a little bit harder, you're like, all right, like, I just need to stick it out until I get another, get right, another job, um, how do you find yourself approaching those situations where they're, you know, you might be busy in terms of like doing work or doing stand up, but you don't have that next job, total site. Oh, yeah, I mean, been there a few times now where I'm kind of like, you know, you reach that peak, like, because I'm, when I'm fresh off a job, I'm like, oh, I need to take time to myself to like work on a certain project, so I can really, you know, capitalize on this free time, but then sort of towards the end when you're like, oh, shoot, I'm running out of time. I got to find another, my next thing. Yeah, I guess it's kind of like keeping in the right mindset where, like, I don't feel as if I need to just sign up for anything where it could be bad, right? So I kind of, I'm always looking for things, but I also know and keep in mind that, especially with this business or like things like that, it's like, one day you have no prospects, and the next day you're already working. Like, that does happen. I guess, like, with this job, it was like, I was like, oh, man, you know, I don't know what I'm going to do. And, you know, I'm constantly like going out, you know, auditions or meetings and things like that, so like, whether, you know, you're kind of just at this point, I'm like, well, I mean, maybe it'll happen or like, I shouldn't get my hopes up, but, um, but with this job too, it was sort of like, I got an email, like, 10 p.m. one night, and they're like, can you come in tomorrow to like interview? And then it was like, okay, you're going to start in two days. So, you know, I mean, obviously the Monday of that week, I was like, oh, this is, I don't know, maybe I should leave this all together. You know, like, you just kind of lose a lot of hope. And then by, and then I just have to remember by like the end of that week, I was already like, oh, I have my next thing. You don't, you never know when it's just going to click and things are going to start happening. Yeah, complete, yeah, surprise. There's no gradual build in the same way that maybe I thought life would be like, you know, oh my god, right? It's crazy, because I've been doing the podcast and like creating original content for a year. And then it was two months ago, I started to release like more minimalism videos and then my channel just started to grow like crazy. And then YouTube featured me as a creator on the rise. Oh, well. Literally in two months, I got 70,000 subscribers. It was, so yeah, I was unreal. And like, a spike. But it was the day before like things started to grow. I would have, I remember talking and not being like, this is tough. This is tough. I've been doing this for a year. I feel like, like, I'm putting out good content, good material. But nobody's watching it. Like, I don't have nothing is growing in the way that I would expect it. But then it's just next minute. I'm like, oh, shit. Yeah. Things are happening now. Now. Not what I do. That's awesome. Yeah. And I mean, obviously, like, that's cool because it's like, even when you didn't think you were building, like, you were right. So I guess it's sort of keeping in mind like, okay, it doesn't feel like anything is externally like the feedback's not coming right now that I would want. But just know that, like, then at least it'll be ready when that thing hits. You know? I guess that's like a big part of entertainment, but also what I've noticed was stand up. It's like, so like, kind of being ready when something hits is like super important, right? And like, I don't know if I kind of, so I got very lucky like in, in my junior year of college, I got to do last comic standing. And so that was like, kind of a moment where it's like, oh, hey, like, you get some air times, so maybe be funny, right? And like, I screwed up. It does screw it up. And I mean, I had, like, also nothing to lose. Like, I was in such a lucky position because I think they're obviously comics that have been doing it for much longer. So sort of just like, you know, be somewhat funny and everybody will be like, wow, you know, the dog can talk kind of thing. Like, it's like, you're young and you can tell a joke. But that was definitely a time when like a lot of things started coming in. And I think I wasn't necessarily ready at that time. And I was still in school and things. But like, you know, okay, so what, you know, do you have any like writing samples or like things that we can really like sink or teeth into? And I think that at that moment, I was just like, well, I want to be a stand up comedian. So I have stand up. And yeah, I can kind of do other stuff. Like, here's little short things that I've written. But I, um, but yeah, I definitely know like, I learned from that. And like a few other things that have happened where I'm like, okay, well, honestly, like, if things aren't having right now, this is a great time for me to like really build up what I have ready when that thing hits. Like, you're obviously banking a lot of the fact that something else will happen. But, but I think that's kind of important, you know, just like knowing that no matter what you're still like working towards something and then, you know, that thing might spike. Yeah, being ready for the opportunity, I feel like, is the biggest takeaway there. And just making sure that, because like I said, just it's going to come out of nowhere. I remember in college, I got, uh, this was like my dream job was a college humor. Like when I was in college, like they were making like the best video of the most like innovative videos, Jake and Amir were just starting to to blow up. And then I like, my brother had saw that they were hiring a video editor because it was one of the guys blogs. That wasn't really that big. So it was kind of on the love, not a lot of people were applying. So I applied, which is my resume. And I was a junior in college. And then, uh, so I think from Philly, I was going to school at Temple University and I took the bus up to New York and then I interviewed with them just totally unprepared. Actually, you know, having no before. So they asked me by email. Can you send us some examples of some sketches that you've shot and edited? And then I didn't have any. None that I was willing to send them. So that weekend. I was like, uh, I was like, yeah, let me just, uh, I'll send it to you, you know, soon or wherever. I was just, just wait. So then that weekend, I shot two sketches. I wrote and like shot two sketches, which is my like college buddies in my dorm. And then I sent it to them on that Monday. And then he was like, yeah, come on up to, you know, or not, not come on up because they didn't realize I wasn't in New York. I was still in college. Okay. I was just kind of like, I was bullshit. I remember right. No, that's great. And then I got up. I didn't get the job. But I was like, just because I don't think I had the actual experience to make it. But it was being prepared for that moment. Like it would have been a lot easier and a lot less stressful if I actually had work. Sure. Sure. If you didn't have to, you know, create it all overnight. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But a little bit more, a little more fair if you had more time. Right. But yeah. Yeah. That's one of the big things. That's all. Uh-huh. What does it mean to for you to actually make it in comedy? Ooh. Um, actually make it. I don't know. That's so interesting because that to me sounds like such like, okay, here's like the line and then you like cross over the line and you made it. And then I learned a little bit or like at least seeing that like you can just be so, so many ups and downs. And that's scary. But I think it's good because it kind of keeps you on your toes. Like, I mean, I would love to. I think like great milestones would be getting a special. And I think that doesn't necessarily have to be an hour long because I think, you know, everyone's kind of playing with the idea of like, oh, there's like 15 minutes that's coming out on Netflix soon for some folks and like half hours. And I remember watching like the comedy central half hours when I was younger and like loving those. So I think getting like anything like that would be awesome because I think it's just sort of like a cool way to like write and basically perform at the same time stand up, obviously, but like having that block to do would be great. So that would be a great milestone. I don't know if that, but I definitely doesn't mean you're set right. I mean like that's kind of like the first step. And then I think it's always been a dream of mine to like host a late night show or a talk show of some sort. And again, you know, that's sort of like a, that's always changing now. Like everything that maybe that we set goals and we were younger, like I feel is all different now. And like in in that scenario, the late night show is now possibly more attainable because they're just, you know, everybody's trying to get the next thing. So I feel like they're they bought a lot. There's like four on Netflix and like, you know what I mean? There's just like a ton of different ones. And before it used to be a maybe like the title show. And then, oh, now we have like, you know, the later one. Yeah. So it's a little bit more successful. Yeah. It was just HBO or the comedy central, right? Right. Right. And that was it. But now it's like, but you could also make your own thing. You could do a podcast. You could put it out there. And then that could be the door in. I mean, that's one of things too that's interesting about comedy is that it's no longer this path that's kind of, everybody has to go down. Like it was nice. Yeah. So now you can kind of make it yourself. Totally totally. How like in what ways? And like, how does like social media plan to all this? And like, how do you view all that stuff? Because it's, I feel like it's these days. It's not as much about like if you have a good voice if you're a singer. Mm. A lot of times that's not enough. Right? No. You need to be able to dance. You need to be able to perform, you need to be able to like have an image and all this other stuff. Like, how does all this play in for you with comedy? Great question. Yeah. I mean, I, I've definitely like evolved a little bit from, so I mean, I would say I got a lot from YouTube. You know, I got a lot out of YouTube just like how to video on Lafactory channel, things like that and that sort of gave me visibility when like, normally at that level as a state of community and like, nobody should be saying, you know what I mean? And I think, and it worked out of my favor, but like for sure, that already changed the game for so many people. And so, you know, it was kind of figuring the next thing. I think now, you know, I posted a little video to Instagram, some of my videos have like gone around on Instagram and that's been really interesting. Of course, it has to be less than a minute. So that's like not at all a joke. I saw your one this morning I watched. It was like something like this is a video and be burning a joke. Right. I mean, yeah, that, too, like a lot of stand-ups that I really respect are like, oh, don't put anything online because you want to say that for your special, right? But I'm like, why don't get the special, right? Yeah. So maybe I got a special stuff. Yeah, to get to that point where people like, oh, yeah, you're funny. Like, want to make special? Oh, but you can't use any of those jokes. It's like, okay. Okay. But yeah, I think there's a way to, you know, get there maybe and sort of the more traditional ways. And stand-up has been around for so long that I think there's also a lot of like, purists and more traditionalists that like would look down on maybe a lot of the new social media things coming to the forefront. And I mean, there's a ton of now like ways to just be a comedian, right? That didn't exist before. Like, buying was, when Vine was up, like a ton of comedians came out of that. And like, obviously stand-ups were like, mumbling in the corner because they're going to open mics. And some people are just putting out these funny, like, six-second video. So obviously, it seems different and YouTube being the same thing. But it's like, I mean, there's just so many different ways to do it now. And I think it's kind of like figuring, I want to figure out a way to do it with stand-up as well because I, that's kind of where I started from, so I like that idea, but I think incorporating it with, you know, Instagram or other things, like, I see no shame in that, whatever, you know, I want to do it and put it out there. Because otherwise, nobody's going to see my stuff. Like, I really don't do like, I'm not doing theaters, you know, I'm doing like, three or four people. Yeah, three or four people. What's the other stuff? Yeah, they're really going to like it though. I love it. They love it. But it's very much a back in my day mentality. Like, people were like, back in my day, we didn't have this Instagram and like a lot of photographers that have been around for a while are averse to like, making these beautiful Instagram feeds because now there's Instagram photographers that like, I mean, quote unquote, where they, all their work is there. That's where their portfolio is. That's where they don't actually have like shows or exhibits or whatever. They're not in magazines. That's where their, their work is. And you got to adapt. You got to, you got to be able to kind of use this stuff. And it doesn't need to define your work. Maybe in some cases it does. But you need, I think you need to just experiment around and see what clicks, what works, and then kind of figure out for yourself because I guess everybody is so individual that like, maybe Instagram works for you. Maybe it doesn't. You know, I mean like Twitter, I think for comedians was probably the big thing I'm right early on. I don't know if it's still as popular. Yeah, I mean for writers, especially it makes a lot of sense. I think I'm, I'm like still so terrifying of Twitter because just the, just the tone of Twitter is is very argumentative and like, you know, there's just, there's a lot of fights. It's a bit political. And I'm such like, oh, I don't want to fight to, but I, but I understand where people are coming from. So, so I think, but I think it's it is a great place for like putting jokes out there. I, you know, I'll post jokes here and there and it's like, oh, okay, so kind of work there. So maybe it'll work on stage. You know, there's, it's like a good place to be. How do you deal with that? Like the negativity that comes with online. It's like, it's different than in person. Yeah, you have a heckleer every once in a while, but it's like, if you're talking to people 101, nobody's ever going to be like, that's, this is stupid. Right, right. That's a dumb joke. Yeah, yeah. How do you do it? It comes fight me. Yeah, no, I agree. I think it's, it's definitely a thing. I, well, you know, I, I think I have some videos online and, and people would like comment on them or they'd like, they'd, they'd, they'd, you know, they're trolls. So they'd like really go through all the measures to find you. And my name is, is only my name, I guess. So go in my Facebook. They're going my email. You know, things like that. So it's like a lot, and it doesn't happen all the time, but every so often, if like a, like, especially one of my videos from a while back, I think people take issue with sometimes. And I totally, like, and sometimes people have valid things to say and it's like, okay, cool, you know, maybe I respond. I don't know if I've ever responded to like many of these, but sometimes they're like really bad. And then I think I learned just to, you know, not even look. And I think it's, you know, everybody says this, but it's so tempting to look, right? And, um, and I turned off my notifications, things like that, um, like for YouTube comments or things like that, because I think sometimes I will like wake up to it. This is the thing. It's like trolls, like, like oftentimes trolls will exist in the nighttime. Right? So it's like, you know, if they're posting a 3 AM, I'm not awake, then I wake up to it. It's like, it's not a 10 AM thing, or like, right? And I mean, it's just, yeah, we're going to start the day. Yeah, you, you don't want to start out with somebody's just destroying your confidence. Yeah, I don't know. It's like, I don't know. I would recommend it. I prefer coffee in the morning. Yeah. I think, I think you're right, though, there is about taking control of that. And the, the hard thing that I have is, and now I try to, like, schedule it in, where I'll be like, maybe an hour a day. I either respond to comments, slash check email and just kind of batch it in. Otherwise, I'm just a checker. I like we all are. Right. I'm just a checker. Have I checked email in the past five minutes? I better check again. And with, but with the comments as tough, because it's great to see the positive. Yeah. And the people that are affected and you may impact on somebody's life. How do you, how do you balance it? Do you say, ask, right? I'm not going to look at anything. Right. Right. It's like, I think, sometimes I just have to be like scrolling and just kind of like, look, I feel like I do that too. We're like, it's bad one. Yeah. Yeah. No, for sure. I just kind of like look for the keywords. Um, but no, I don't know. I guess, yeah, because it is important to to get the positive. And I think that's like, you know, and then the other interesting thing and I think that comes from, you know, being like a, you know, being like a woman online is like, there could be positive. That's actually negative. Or just like being like, oh, you know, being creepy. And it's like, well, I don't want that because I'm not telling jokes to be like, creeped on, you know, so that's also like hard to kind of, how do you take that, you know? It's like, I don't want it. I feel bad for like, just like female YouTubers, like the kind of shit they have to go through. Oh, I'm like, because I don't get any comments about my parents. The only thing I'll have is like, gay guys be like, you're hot. Yeah. Yeah. But like other than that is like, nobody ever talks about my looks online. But they, you just look at some of these comments sections for so long. Yeah. But it's just, you have to be selective and, I don't know, but I think there is something to say about just not looking at comments or being very selective, because it's like a double edged sword. It's like, you are commenting because I made this thing because I wasn't busy looking at comments. So it's like, shouldn't I just keep making this stuff you're enjoying it? Yeah. Yeah. Rather than just kind of like soaking it in all the time. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, that's just a weird thing that's like, I think it also, you know, pertains to what just like Facebook or like any social media where you're like, oh, let's see how many likes I got, you know, because I think that can just get out of hand in a way where it's like, well, who am I? And I'm getting a little deep, but it's like, well, who am I if I'm just like posting this, is this me or is this me who wants likes, you know, for posting like a photo or a picture, whatever. I don't know. I mean, yeah, it's all part of us now. I don't think we can really like deny that, but it's like, it is definitely hard to block it all out. But, but the other thing to about comments and things like that, I feel is like, somebody who I don't know in real, I like, I think it's like the threshold for commenting on something can also be very different for different people, I guess. So like I often think about like the sort of, I mean, in the troll way of like, you know, being really mean, it's like, nobody would do that in person. So then maybe I don't count it, you know, and like, I mean, I don't know if you do that on the positive side, but it's like, you know, I think you take it a little bit, you know, I think they mean it. Yeah, that's all throughout the alleys. But I think they like, I think, you know, just sort of taking all the comments like a little bit lighter than just if, you know, I think that in person interactions are or somebody writes you a longer email or something like that, that I would value more, right? I mean, weighing a little bit more, I guess, not even value, but just sort of thinking about things in like, I mean, the comment world in the social media world is just like so different. Yeah. I think it's a, you take it with a grain of salt. And it's like, you see all of it as just feedback. Everything is feedback. And that doesn't mean you have to listen to all the feedback. Like, I want to finish the documentary. And then I had, I sent my friend to get feedback from like, maybe like, you know, probably doesn't friends. And this one person didn't get back to me right away, which totally fine. Like, I don't, I don't expect it. But then I had already locked the cut. I was done with the film. And then I got this all this constructive feedback after, sorry, I'm not going to, I'm not going to read this now because it's not helpful at this point. Right. Yeah, you wouldn't know, I didn't tell them. I'm able to go back in. Yeah. It's a thanks so much for your feedback. Right. But a lot of times with feedback, you can choose to just push it to the side. Like, it's just a YouTube comment. Is this, you know, my parents, like, maybe they're biased in some way. So then you just have to be really take everything with a grain of salt. Yeah. Just keep making shit and push it out there. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I feel a way. Like, it's funny because then I'm all have certain jokes that I really like. And like, no, like, it doesn't do very well. Like, in a live audience. And that's like another from a feedback, right? And like, I feel like there are certain jokes where I will just like, no, but it's funny. Right. And I'll just keep going at it. And like, honestly, I obviously don't want to turn into somebody who's just like not listening at all. But I think that that to me shows like, okay, well, if I really care about this one, I think it's about like fixing the joke, but not totally scrapping it. You know, and like, I think I will kind of, yeah, I mean, I think I would worry about swaying too much to the crowd, too, because then, you know, I mean, I think oftentimes crowds would really just love for me to tell a bunch of hardships, you know? And that's fine. But I don't know if I want to be always telling projects. Right. There's a balance between what you want to create and what the audience wants to hear. Right. And sometimes there's a perfect marriage and a perfect overlap. But a lot of times, you just have to figure out and kind of, you know, figure out who you want to be. And I like the idea, though, too, of not giving up on a joke or not giving up an idea right away, just because it's not responding, especially with comedy, because you can just do the same joke two nights back to back. And one night, it does rate the next night. It doesn't do well at all. But there's probably an element there. I think that's part of the craft of writing. It's just always like trying to figure out, and like, what's the shortest way that I could get this idea across? Like, what's, is there a way that I can add something onto this that's going to make it better? Or is this going to like distract and go on a tangent? And you're kind of always in a process, right? Before you film a special or do something like that, where it's always kind of tweaking and figuring out the best version of it. So yeah, like, from in the fat or like adding more to it, mixing it in with something you were already thinking of, yeah, totally. What advice would you give to somebody just getting started out in comedy or writing about approaching the craft? Like, what do they need to know at that stage? Yeah, I mean, starting out, I guess, I guess like, watching a lot and reading a lot to, I think helps you develop a taste. And I think that like has become something that I really like about this job or whatever is that. I feel like it's the one thing in my life where I feel like I have a taste in it's, and it's specific. And I want to, and I think it informs the way I create things too. You know, if I'm writing a joke, I kind of know right away my own opinion, and then I want to take it out there as well. But like, you know, I think that's a big part of it because I think there's a might be my personality too, where like, you know, I'm so, I'm so in awe of everybody. And I think that, you know, wow, you can do that. You know, even if it's not something most people would think it's a big deal. I'm just like, wow, that's awesome. But I think when it comes to comedy, I'm like, oh, no, I think this is, you know, this is, I find funny. And I can actually definitively say that rather than just be in awe of the fact that you're doing it in the first place, right? So I think that's, you know, something that I did, I learned from watching a lot and reading a lot. And, and I think, you know, I'm slower on the writing side because I think I started more with the performing and stand up and stuff like that. But, you know, reading a lot of like comedy writing and scripts and stuff. And I think that's also helped figure out, like, okay, well, then when I'm writing, I know what I like, and I know what I did, and I know what I can write to, you know, fit what I think works. And then at least, then you're coming from a place of confidence. And then when you put it out there, you know, you can feel like you can fight for it or not, I guess, depending on, you know, and then change it based on what other people say, but also like knowing where you started and that, like, I don't know, I mean, I think just like confidence to, has always been like hard for me. So it's cool to, you know, come from a place where I feel informed. So I can go out there and be like, yeah, you know, I am bullshitting, but it's also kind of informed to bullshitting. All right. How long did it take to build up the point where you felt confident? Um, I mean, still I mean, yeah, it's the way I can try this. But, yeah, I mean, I don't know, it depends. Because I think, like, sometimes in certain environments, I'm like, oh, well, I could go to this, like, open my key vendor, just like everything and feel like, yeah, you know, I got this. Because like, I've been at this for a while. I've seen this before. But, you know, the first time I was working on a show as a register system, I was like, I mean, totally, I'll do whatever, you know, it's, you know, yeah, and of course had like absolutely no confidence. And I think that was bad because then, you know, people are going to treat you differently because they're like, oh, she doesn't know she's doing. Yeah. So, you know, I think I've gradually learned to be more assured and then it pays off, too, because it's like, I'm actually not going in there and being like, not knowing what I'm doing, you know, and I want to show that. So, yeah, I think you have to always be, I think, pushing yourself into places where you feel a little bit uncomfortable. Because otherwise, you're not, you're, you're just going to stay in the same place. And, you know, even if you get to a place where you're, like, writing on shows all the time, eventually, that's going to become filled right in normal and you're going to be confident going to everyone. And then you're like, all right, well, what can I do now? That's going to push me outside of my comfort zone. Yeah. So then I can learn more about myself or learn more about where I want to go and grow right. And like, yeah, and then like kind of surprise yourself with like, oh, yeah, I guess I can do this. That's great. Yeah. Yeah. Great. Let's wrap up with a couple quick questions. Okay. This is the weird segment. I was telling you. Yeah, we're right. It's not weird. It's just, this is a couple of questions here that I ask every guest. Quick questions, not necessarily quick answers, but you know, you can just answer however you want. Awesome. What book has had the biggest impact on your life? Well, this is a recent one. And I read the, yeah, it's a little embarrassing. I read the defining decade, which is that sort of, it's sort of like a self-help book, essentially. All about self-help books. Here we are about your 20s. And I think it was, you know, kind of talking about, it was like a lot of key studies. It's one was like a psychologist, psychiatrist, can I remember? And sort of, you know, people in their 20s and kind of just think the main takeaway for me was like, you know, not putting too much pressure on yourself a little bit because everybody is in the same boat feeling like, oh, what am I doing with my life or like, what's going on? And so getting that reassurance from that was great. It also had good things. Like, you know, just get started. Even if you make the wrong choice, like, you'll be at least you'll know that was a wrong choice. And that's further than you would have if you never even got off. But, right? So I think you need that, that kind of motivation especially at the beginning. But I'll even threw out. Because I remember when I first started freelancing, I just read so many books. I like I would keep like kind of a spreadsheet of just all these books that I would read and just go from one to the next, just because I needed encouragement. I needed other people to tell me that it was possible. But then you still need that. Like, that doesn't go away. And it still helps. And it also learned about new things. What one skill have you leveraged in a way that you think others haven't? Oh dear. It's like an interview question. Yeah, yeah. Where do you see yourself in a computer? And I can't answer your weakest. So I think, I think one strength, I do feel like I'm very aware of like situations that's so big. But I think I was, okay, this is again, back to my nerdy student government days. But I was like a crazy politician student, you know, where I was like, who's going to, what votes do I need to get this position is so weird? It's like, how's the car? Yeah, I was a little, oh yeah. But are we like that? Like, we can't make any house a card reference anymore because we can't. But we have to, yeah, we have to replace the word Kevin Spacey with Robin Wright, which is very great. Which is the wife, right? Oh, nice. I almost made a Lucy cave reference back there before too. And now I brought it up anyway. Yeah, it's like you can't say it. Yeah, there's a lot of people. I mean, yeah, it's funny. I do a lot. I do talk about them a lot, sometimes in the sets. And it's like, everybody's butts. Especially around here. Yeah, it's, I mean, you know, not in a, yeah, responsibly so. But yeah, I think, yeah, that they should not be excited to hear these names. So yeah, you know, it was a little bit house a card Z. But the reason, oh, yeah, but the reason being, I think it always made me like very aware of like, you know, what the situation was, how I should like present myself, I guess a little bit. And I, I don't know, maybe it's a little weird. But I feel like if I'm in a job, it's like I ain't kind of am able to gauge the dynamic of like who's the person that, you know, who's having issues with who, and like, what do I need to do to like appease the situation or, you know, do I need to? And then I think also just like how people perceive me, I feel like sometimes I know, okay, I should dress a little older because I think people think I'm like a little too young to be here, something like that. So kind of, you know, maybe it's all in my head. But, uh, no, it's a self-awareness. Yeah, it's so important. It's like the, I feel like if you need, if you want to grow and if you want to improve, you need to be aware of how other people perceive you and then use it to your advantage. And then, you know, because totally, I feel like people are, like, they don't want to worry about branding or whatever, like there's these kind of weird words that are associated with that especially online. That branding is sounds a key, but yeah. But you're like, all right, well, just how do you present yourself online is important? Right. Yeah. Yeah. Like your story. Yeah. Things like that. Yeah. I think it's important. Yeah. Let's see here, a couple more questions. What drives you? Why do you keep making stuff? Oh, boy. Um, probably just being able to, I think I like that adrenaline rush of like, oh, I think I got an idea. And like the possibilities are endless. And also just liking that we get to do this in the first place. You know what I mean? Like, I think I'm trying to stay awestruck and stay like, oh, yeah, this is just so cool that like this kind of maybe be my job. I mean, I've yet to fully get there, right? But I think that like, you know, thinking like, oh, this is kind of a weird path. And I like being different. And I like, you know, having sort of the possibility of like, this wasn't something that, you know, people could do a while back. I don't know. I guess that it just feels like, oh, this seems like I've got really lucky. I met a good time right now. Um, and I have this opportunity to pursue this kind of weird thing that I kind of have made for myself in a way or like to find for myself. Um, and that gets me excited. I think just like, having the possibility of like, there's actually no set path. And there's no, um, ceiling. And then there's also no like, uh, defined, like I can't see my life in the next month, which is kind of terrifying. But I, you know, because it's kind of cool. It's like you get that call and be like, oh, I am working there now, you know, and I like that. Yeah, because I think it kind of, because I've gotten used to it. And I haven't totally fallen off a cliff yet. I am very, like, I am kind of terrified of the idea of only knowing what I'm going to do for an extended period of time, you know? And I think that's like kind of a freelancer mentality, right? So I think that kind of drives me just sort of being like, oh, that what's going to happen tomorrow? Yeah. Yeah. Well, you got to take the highs with the lows. Yeah. That's the only way that you can actually enjoy those, those moments when things do work out. What one thing should people read, watch, or listen to before they go to bed tonight? Oh. Oh, here. Oh, okay. This is so weird because I feel like it's like me promoting movie that I'm not even, I have nothing to do with. But I auditioned for this movie, which is why I watched it. And I'm always watching it like who got the part. And then like, oh, they're much better. Yeah. Oh, god. People are talented. Oh, no. But yeah, so I, so there's this movie called Brad Stattis, which is like a Ben Stiller's Ben Stiller's Brad. And it's the same writer and as guy who wrote school of rock. But it's basically like an interesting thing because I think I kind of have struggled a lot with comparing myself with other people and just like being like, oh, I'm not at that point. So maybe I'm a failure, you know? And I think this movie was exactly about that. And like, you know, a little bit about social media, but he's like a middle-aged dad and he's taking a son to visit colleges and he's comparing himself with his college friends or because he's bringing back those memories of like, we were all the same over here. And then now, like, my friend has like a private jet or like, my friend is, you know, this big Hollywood director or this and that. And it shows his thoughts. So it's kind of, I think watching it as, you know, an audience member was like, oh, wow, this is crazy. This person sounds crazy. And then it's like, oh, I'm being crazy. But I'm hearing myself. Yeah. And it helped remove myself from it. And I think it's really like, relaxed me a bit just for, you know, since I watched it. But you know, I think it's just, it's a cool fun thing to watch. It's also like funny and a good movie. But I think if people have an issue of like, you know, scrolling through and screaming, being like, man, I wish I could look like that or do this or whatever, like, that's definitely something I've struggled with. So I think that really embodied it well. And then also made me see it from an outsider's perspective. Better. That's great. Brad Satis. Brad Stamazon, I guess. Yeah. It's on Amazon Prime. So it's like, oh, it's like, yeah, if you have Amazon Prime. Yeah. All right. Last question. How should people connect with you online? Oh, I guess. Yeah. I mean, we talked about Twitter. I'm everything's my name. So Sierra, Cato, S-I-E-R-A-K-A-T-O-W. Yeah, same for Twitter Instagram. And I guess Google, Google, just Google my name. Google my name. Google me, bitch. Google me, no. You want to leave terrible comments. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Only positive comments. Yeah. Take it with the grain of salt. All right. Thank you so much for your time. Thank you. And that's the podcast for today. I hope you guys enjoyed it. Thank you again for listening. Thanks for tuning in. I really appreciate your support. I'm going to send you off with a quote. I didn't, I didn't prepare a quote. I don't know why I said that. God, you ever just start a sentence and like you have no idea where you're going with it. And you're like, I hope this makes sense by the end. It's like, it's, I would be the worst at improv. So anyway, thank you for listening. Go to groundupshow.com for more stuff about the podcast, for other episodes and all that good stuff. Lots of videos have been making lots and lots of videos lately. So check those out. Appreciate you. Support. See you next week.
