# Ground Up 026 - Getting Good w/ Aaron Hertzog
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_CwF0X7kIHs
http://www.groundupshow.com

My guest today is Aaron Hertzog. He’s a stand up comedian, writer & podcaster based out of Los Angeles. He was named Best Stand-Up Comedian at the 2013 WitOut Awards.

More about Aaron:  http://www.aaronhertzog.com/
His podcast:  http://www.friendshipbuddies.pizza

More about this podcast:  http://www.groundupshow.com
**Keywords:** 
**Date:** 2017-09-27

## Transcript
 Welcome back to The Ground Up Show. I'm your host Matt Diavella. On this episode is Aaron Herzog. He's a standup comedian, writer, and podcast, or based out of Los Angeles. He was named Best Standup comedian at the 2013 Witt Out Awards. That in a moment, but first, if you like this podcast and you liked minimalism, a documentary about the important things, I've got something you might like. I've recently conducted interviews with the producers of Minimalism. That's Josh and Ryan from The Minimalists and Spire Media. We want to give you a detailed look at how we made this film from The Ground Up. So if you want to check that out, the interviews are yours or free. If you leave a review of The Ground Up Show on iTunes, reviews help to get the word out for the show, and they help us to continue to do what we're doing right now. To get immediate access to these interviews, take a screenshot of your review and send it to helloatmatdiavella.com. And now without further ado, episode 26. Hey, we're in Herzog. Oh, hello. Welcome to the show. Thank you so much for having me. I mean, I told myself, I was like, I'm going to start out the show and say, hey, everybody. Because that's like your catchphrase. At least it was at one point in time. I'm still saying, hey, everybody. It's a nice, it's got a nice ring to it. So funny. How many people, like, like, say that, you know what I mean? Like, like, no, me for saying, hey, everybody. It's such a generic phrase. Like, people have, like, standups in Philly have started their sets by saying, hey, everybody. And then immediately, like, half jokingly apologized to me. Oh, really? And I got to be like, it's, it's the thing that everybody says. Yeah, everybody says, hey, everybody. Yeah. But I just said it louder and silly or than everybody else. Yeah. So it became a thing. Yeah. For people who don't know about you and your work, tell me a little bit about what you do right now. Um, your main passion. Sure thing. Yeah. I am, um, I guess I consider myself mostly to stand up. Also a writer. I do a couple podcasts right now. Nuda LA. Um, originally started doing comedy in Philly. I moved to New York for a little while. And I've been in LA for about nine months now. So you've been in LA a bit longer than me. Uh, I kind of had a same trajectory where I was not in Philly for as long, but I wasn't Philly for a bit. And then move, why move home with my parents in Jersey for like two years, three years to survive. And then I moved to New York. And then a couple years there. And I was like, I can't do this anymore. You're just a temple too, right? Yeah. Yeah. That's right. Yeah. See for Temple U. Such, that was like the worst song. Yeah. Temple U. You University. It didn't really work. It always felt like it was jumping. It was falling over. So we owned it, man. Yeah, we did. We sure did. You know, basketball games. We, you were big into, I know you're big into sports now. Did you go to a lot of the basketball games? I went to not as many as I thought that I would because I was actually like a temple basketball fan before going to the school. I thought I was going to be all about it. And then just kind of just got lazy. I was just like, yeah, I don't feel like going to a game. I would go if there was like a really good team that we were playing or it was a big game or like early in the season. But the team wasn't that great when I was there. When I was there, they did good. Immediately after I left, which is probably when you were there. Yeah. They were in the tournament. They had Christmas. Yeah. That was like a bright star. Because they have a star athlete. It's like exciting. When I was a temple. So I transferred from Bloomsburg. I don't know if you know Bloomsburg. That's where I grew up. Oh, no way. Yeah. The only town in Pennsylvania. It is. They call that. Literally. Well, it's like literally the only town. Everything else is like a village or a hamlet or a, so old school. Yeah. So town is like a specific, I guess, because of the way it's governed or just whatever they wrote on their charter when they settled themselves. So it's, yeah, it's the only town. They really latched onto it, too. It's like their motto. It's on all the boards and stuff. It separates itself. Welcome Bloomsburg. The only town in Pennsylvania. Yeah. Bloomsburg known for its county fair. Yo. I, I'm going back and missing the fair by like two days. I'm pissed. I haven't been at the fair in like five, six years. Yeah. Bloomsburg fairs great. Dude, they break. If you're in a central Pennsylvania. You go to Bloomsburg fair. So for people who 99% of people listen to this. Haven't been to the Bloomsburg fair. What is so special about it? Man. It's, I mean, it's a classic county fair. It's enormous. It's huge. And then just, I mean, any, any reason to go and eat all the terrible food. I'm, I'm all on board. Like, you know, it's like, pride everything. Pride pickles, fried Oreos. I don't get into that as much, but they have like really good, like, like, regional food, too. Like, potato cakes, parrogies, like, kind of that, like, Polish and, like, ethnic food. Yeah. So that's Bloomsburg. And then they had, they also have, like, a block party, which is, like, I don't know if they still do it because, like, in the board, D.C. State School that everybody from my high school goes to. Yeah. And so I went to Bloomsburg for about a year and a half. And then I transferred to Temple. And then I, like, I distinctly remember this because it was the first basketball game I went to. And I was just getting back into, I was getting into Temple and starting to meet people. And then I won a $50 Best Buy gift card. Like, at, during the half time. It brought me out on the court. Like, threw me up on their shoulder being there. Or did you just, like, do you? Yeah. I didn't even think I applied. I was like, I was like, they call my name out with a crowd of, like, 10,000 people. And I was like, yeah, Bloomsburg never gave me this kind of treatment. So I was like, nobody ever cheered for me at Bloomsburg. Yeah. Exactly. But yeah. And I'm excited that you're here. That's where we met in, in Philly, originally. So let's, like, where does your story start in terms of getting into the, in terms of getting into comedy? Well, it was when I was at Temple. It was, um, the first comedy said I ever did. I came back from, uh, like, summer break. And I typically spent these summers in Philly. I wouldn't go home. But this summer specifically, my mom and Gunsick. She had, uh, we found out she had cancer. And so I went home to, like, help out with that and, like, home and everything. I started starting out on such a download. Oh, man. Sorry, everybody. But then I came back and, uh, my roommate from Temple, since freshman year, had been Pat House. So I was like, really good friends with Pat. He started doing stand up, like, our sophomore year. He knew that I was really interested in it and, like, considering doing it, but had never done it before. So I just got back from, from this, like, summer break. It was like the night before Labor Day. He was getting ready to go to an open mic at, like any split on South Street. And he was like, hey, it's a laid back mic. It's really cool. I know you've been thinking about doing this. Do you have anything ready? And I was like, I'm not really, but I'll try to, like, put something together. So I wrote some bullshit, like, in the few hours before he was going. He, like, went over it with me. And he was like, yeah, come and do this. Like, in, in retrospect, I don't even think he cared. What, it could have been awful. He was just going to drag me there anyway. Because he knew that that's how you start. You don't have to have anything good. You just go and do it. And then that's how you start. So he took me to this mic and it ended up being packed. Because it was the night before Labor Day. And nobody had work on Monday. And everybody was just at the bar on South Street. And it went from being, like, hey, this is, like, a laid back, like, cool open mic. It's not a lot of people. It's never crowded. It's only other comics. It'll be super easy place for you to do this. Easy place for you to do your first set. There's a ton of people here. And they're, like, judging comics. And it's, like, it's like a real show going on. Yeah. But, like, luckily, more and more comics kept coming. So they kept, like, the host, it was Danny Ozark. I don't know if you ever met Danny. But he ran, like, ton of mics in Philly. Yeah, he was, like, a good dude on the scene when I first started. And he kept, like, he kept, like, putting me back. He was, like, hey, this guy just came, you know, sorry, I'm going to push you back. And I was like, hey, keep pushing me back. Yeah. Because, like, I want, like, I'm nervous as my first time. And then eventually went up and did fine. And then just, I was lucky enough to have Pat who, like, had been doing comedy for two years to, like, show up at mics with and, like, tell me where to go and, like, introduce me to people. So I had a, a very good end. I didn't have to go and, like, just, like, hide in the corner. Because I would have never, I would have never started. And if I didn't have somebody who could, like, introduce me to people and tell me where to go and, like, really push me into it. Yeah, I feel like that you can't underestimate how important, like, the, the people that first hop into it. I have, like, it has to be your peers too. Because I remember, uh, Nate Giole, he, we were taking a class together. And I had been writing jokes for about a year. So my experience is a little bit different than yours. But I, because that was just, like, just, it was, it's always on my mind. And I always wanted to do stand up. And I think part of it was doing, like, sketch comedy videos. And the other side of it was, like, writing jokes that I would, like, to perform, like, this dream. I was like, I just want to perform. I just want to do stand up at least once. And then I met Nate and he was telling me about how he did stand up and did open mic nights at Helium. And I was like, like, it just seemed more realistic for me. And then he just wanted to know somebody who's doing it. Yeah, man, he can do it. I could do it. And then he just pushed me. And then within two weeks of him telling me that, I did my first open mic night at Helium. It was really bad. But, yeah, it's your first mic. It's always going to be bad. That's like, you're saying there's this difference. Like, I didn't need to prep for a year because it was going to be bad no matter what. Yeah. I just need to actually do it. Well, that's, yeah, you find that out later. But before you do it, it's so intimidating where it's just like, oh, I got to have, like, a perfect set or something. Yeah. So did you build it up so much? Did you get a reaction that first time was, do you remember the first joke that started to hit and connect? No, not at all because at the beginning, like I said, I wrote the jokes like that day. So it was just like, just like garbage. It was just garbage that I was, I was thinking about as like a 21 year old about to be senior in college or whatever. And I mean, I kind of remember what I, what I talked about a little bit. Like there, there are some dick jokes. I remember, I remember that. There was literally mostly dick jokes. Yeah. I had a joke where I like talked about like being in college and how like college movies are, we're different from my college experience because I was like, dorky and like college movies are all like the party or, you know, like, so there was a joke with that. I don't remember any of the punchlines. I remember getting, you know, probably a couple laughs, but it was enough to make me be like, okay, that wasn't terrible. You know, I didn't get heckled off the stage. Yeah. Nobody yelled at me and said, you suck. Yeah. Yeah. That's really good. It doesn't, that doesn't happen very often. I don't know. Yeah. We're nobody yells at you and says you're not. Yeah. That actually happens. Especially if you're going to comedy at the Ravenlounge. You know, I guess it depends, but I don't think I didn't do stand up that much. And like I did it on and off for a year while I was in college. And I don't think anybody, the worst of it was just zero reaction period. Yeah. Were you just talking for five minutes? And then it's like they'll be even listening. Yeah. Okay. I guess I'll go to the next joke. And then you just keep doing that. No reaction at all. Yeah. So you didn't, did you have any really bad bombing experiences early on or was kind of, wasn't as damaging? I mean, mostly just that. You know what I mean? Mostly just, people would stare at me like they didn't know what I was talking about. Because I tried to be, I think I tried to be weird or I tried to be. I tried to be different and then was weird. Because I was like, well, I don't want to talk about what everybody else is talking about. So I was like, try to think of like dumb, like, and I still do kind of, but like, my jokes would like rely on like flights of fancy and like garbage. Like stuff like that that can be really funny, but it's hard to pull off when you're like brand new. And also like I wasn't taking the account like the audience I was in front of. Like maybe people in a bar aren't going to be able to go on this like journey. Journey with me. Right. And when they're, they've been there drinking all night and just want to like, hear some jokes or like they didn't even know there was a comedy show going on. Right. They're just watching over their shoulder. Yeah. But yeah. I actually started doing comedy. Started doing stand up because I wanted to get in a sketch more and I was like, well, I'll probably meet people and like maybe get them to start a sketch group. And then just immediately fell in love with stand up. That's great. Yeah, I want to do this. I don't have to rely on anybody else. I can just do my own nonsense. But it does also at that same same time. It does open up these relationships. Yeah. Like you think that the people you meet I just stand up for one year. And not even that often. And I still have friends from that that I'm still connected with to this day. Especially in a scene like Philly where like it's big and it's a big city. But it's so close. Close knit like everybody there like hangs out with each other. They go to the same mics like after being in like New York and LA for a while. You figure that like the scenes are even bigger. You know, they're like 10 times bigger than it is in Philly. But it also like fragments off. Like you'll see some people at some people go to some mics. You know, like there's like a Manhattan scene of Brooklyn scene. Like people are going to quit like so it's like in Philly. Everybody's going to the same mics for the most part pretty much. So you're seeing the same people most night to week. And you're just getting to know everybody and getting to know their jokes and making good friends and connections. And what was the motivation to to keep writing to keep doing stand up like what drove you to keep going back. Like what did it be good at it? Like if like I don't want to be. If I do something I don't want to be bad at it. Right. It'll it'll it's just yeah. Oh, oh, it's just back in a bite. Yeah. So I knew I was bad and I knew I wanted to be better. And I knew that I knew that I liked doing it. And since I liked doing it so much that I had to be good at it. And I just knew, you know, from from knowing Pat and like getting to like talking comedy with him. I knew that just the path to getting better. It was just doing it all the time writing all the time, creating new material, finding something that works. And then like crafting it, you know. So I at the beginning I was doing a lot of like just throwing stuff away throw like doing new material all the time. Throwing new stuff at the wall seeing what sticks trying to develop that, which is the probably the best way to do and develop stand up. Yeah. But I was just doing it because I was like, ah, this sucks. Goodbye. This sucks. Yeah. When do you realize that you're starting to get good at something? Because I kind of took that same approach to this podcast. I started it on a whim. I was having a conversation with a friend about an early story where I just, I was actually shooting a reality show in Philly. And I forgot to hit record. It's like the number one thing is what does it do when you're filming something. And I filmed it. Yeah. Yeah. Because actually I got yelled at by the producer before I fucked up because she said, hey, make sure. Like, are you stopping in between takes? And I was like, yeah, yeah, just preserving the tape. She's like, we got plenty of tape. Just keep recording. I said, okay, sure. And then that next take. I didn't record it. Yeah. And I was like, oh, my God. And I didn't say anything. I just let it go. I was like, well, they're never going to hire me again. But I don't want to be humiliated in front of these people. And it just happened to be the take she was looking for. It was like a crazy mom that was like the pageant mom. Yeah. She just lost her shit. And the producers in my ear saying, that's brilliant. That's perfect. We got it. Perfect. Let's cut. And I was like, ah. Well, actually. Yeah. Let me tell that story because I feel like I've been. I was having a lot of filmmakers ask me about my experience filmmaking. And yeah, it's not all smooth. So I wanted to start telling some stories about my experience. But I was like, it's going to be really bad in the beginning. Yeah. And I know that be like becoming good at this. It's more than 26 episodes. Because that's where we're at right now. But I don't know. It's like at what point you kind of have this vision you had. We're like, oh, when I get the 50, I'm going to be really good at this. When I get to 100 episodes, I'm going to be like, just smooth sailing. Yeah. Do you feel that? It's so hard to get a perspective when you're on the inside. I feel like with stand up, there's always, this is the way I've described it before. You always feel like you're hitting a new plateau of comfort and like level that you're at. Like, and it's probably different for for everybody like when they'll feel that way. But like, I would get to a point where I'm like, oh, I feel really comfortable on stage. And like, I feel like I'm coming into my own. Like a few months later, I'd be like, oh, now I really feel comfortable on stage. And like, I'm coming into my own. What the hell was I talking about back then? And then, you know, six months later, the same thing over and over again. So like, I think it's like constantly developing and getting into a place where like, you, at least for me, like, I feel good. And I think I'm in a good place. And then later, I'm like, oh, what was I talking about? Probably in the beginning, you're, you're just trying to create a solid five minutes. So you're trying to create like enough jokes that you can stay on stage for the full amount of time and open like night. Yeah, each one is getting latch ones. Yeah, it's doing well, the whole day. And like you were saying, you throw them out if it's not working. Maybe you try a different way. So once you get that first five minutes or the first legitimate amount, you probably feel pretty good. You feel like you're funny. But so then, but it takes something else. And is this like the culture of comedians because you look at people like, Louie C. K. And George Carlin, who was the, like, the one that I think inspired Louie, Louie to do it. But it does always do new mistakes every year. And cut it out and do an extra, a new 30 or 60 minutes or whatever. Yeah. Is that part of it? Or what was it that made you want to keep like going beyond five to ten minutes? Like, where is that motivation come from? Um, I mean, I think it's, I was doing stand up so much. Like I was doing it every night. And like, you know, a few times on some nights, you know, as much as you could possibly do it in Philly that, it starts to get boring doing the same jokes over and over again. And, uh, you know, I wanted to challenge myself in that way and also build up, like, build up to having a ten minute set, build up to having a set that's worth hosting at a club. And then like, after that, build up to having 30 minutes. So you could feature at a club. So just like, just constantly like building, you know, and all you were, you know, I've heard people say that like, you know, your new jokes are always going to be better than your old jokes. You know, and the fact that you are always like learning more stuff as a person and changing as a person. It's like the jokes that I write next year will hopefully be from a smarter person than the jokes that I write this year. You know, that's a really, hopefully I'm not getting dumb or hopefully I am. I'm learning more things and becoming a better person and that will reflect in my jokes and my joke writing and things like that. Yeah, and I think that probably trends like through most creative professions. And I see that with filmmaking where I look at videos I made two years ago, three years ago. Yeah. I like, I can't even look at them. Yeah. Like some of the things that you loved at the time, and you thought were great. And like you might have like held up is like, oh, this is like the best thing I've done. And like, yeah, jokes that I wrote years ago. And I was like, oh, this is great. This is killing. This is doing really well. And then I watch a clip of it. And I'm like, oh, this isn't even doing well with the audience. And I thought it was doing well with the audience. You know, like, sometimes then you look back. And everyone's like, I look back and I'm actually did good on that one. You know what I mean? But it's like one in 10 or one in 20. It's more rare than it is that I look back. And I'm just completely proud of it. You get really close to something, too. And then there's, you could always go back. I can always go back to a premise that I did my first year of comedy that I was doing a joke about. And like, look at it from a new perspective now as hopefully a better writer with, you know, and can craft a joke better. And like, maybe take a joke that was doing okay back then and turn it into a better joke now. All right. And a new bit now as long as I still feel the same way that I did back then. And I'm not embarrassed by what I was saying on stage. Like Seth Rogan wrote Superbad in high school or at least started it. Like the first draft of it, him and his writing partner started when they were like 13. I keep thinking and like, come on. I just read a story about that. I read it because it's like the 10 year anniversary is bad. And they had like an oral history on on the ringer, I think. And they were talking about how like they were just like, him and his writing partner were watching a movie one day. And they were like, we could write a better movie like then this. Like that people probably always have. And these 13 year old kids instead of just saying it and tossing it off actually started doing it. Yeah. And wrote a movie and then revised it. They must have revised the shit. That's right. I mean, that's got to be how they, oh, yeah. It got revived. Like a ton over like the 10 years between when they first wrote it. And when they when it got made. But like that's how they learned how to write. And like the process of making a movie. And they did that between the ages of like 13 and 23. And that's like ridiculous like experience and knowledge. And then the movie got made. Yeah. And the movie's awesome. It's one of the funny movies ever. It's one of my favorite movies. I saw in theaters. Because it's, it feels like it's inside, all inside jokes that you have with your friends. Oh, my God. This is like, yeah. I didn't think other people thought like this. It feels like you're hanging out with your friends. And it comes across. And it's like genuine and it's like heartfelt and also really funny. And like a good movie about friendship. Yeah. It really is two main characters. Yeah. That encouragement to make it. They saw somebody else's movie. And they're like, well, this is shit. I could do that. I feel like that also applies. So because you can be motivated in two ways. I'm curious how you are motivated. And it's probably both. But you see somebody that's really bad. That's doing amazing things. Like they're on Letterman or whatever. You're like, like, I could do that. Yeah. But then there's also the people that are so good. Yeah. Yeah. It's discouraging in a way. At the same time, it's like, man, I got to set my shit up. And I got to start. Like, both things are discouraging for me in different reasons. Like, when I see somebody who's amazing. And it's just great. And like, has a joke about a topic that like, they do the joke. And I'm like, I thought of that. Why didn't I turn it into a joke? Like, especially after doing comedy. You know, it makes me feel like I'm bad as an artist. And then when I see somebody who is who is not my cup of tea at comedy, or I think it's bad or, you know, it's subjective. But then they're like, they're careers great. It makes me feel like I'm bad at marketing myself. Yeah. So it's like, so one way makes me feel like I need to work harder and just make myself better as an artist. And the other is like, you need to promote yourself better. Like do more to like find, I don't know, make connections in the business. So both ways. And both things make me feel bad in one way. And it's like, you need to do this now. Yeah. Everything makes me feel bad. Yeah. But I think that's a lot of people feel that pressure, like the self promotion stuff. Yeah. Yeah. It's also just be projecting. Yeah. Because it's just, I see a guy who I don't like a comedy and they're successful. And I'm like, well, he just must be good at marketing himself. Like, yeah, yeah. Not thinking that other people think he's, yeah. People obviously think he's funny. That's always successful. Yeah. Yeah. And he put me go, oh, he's probably just good at my space. Yeah. Yeah. He got lucky. He got a break or something along the way. No. He's obviously funny to some people. Yeah. It's a lot of people. There's a successful. Some people that make it without working hard and just get very lucky. Probably. Probably a couple. Probably. Yeah. I mean, without working hard, you could have like a natural charm and like like a ability. And like, you could be. Yeah. Especially with comedy. Yeah. Some people who are writers and like have to toil over every word of every joke that they say and then some people who just go up there and goof around and be silly and are naturally funny and likable. Well, then there's that that's very true. And it also translates to people who would put stuff on the internet versus a lot of comedians, a lot of people I know. A lot of people who make videos. They will not put anything online. No stands. There's still like working on it. They're always working on it. It's always in development. It's never perfect. Yeah. So where do you fall on that line? And do you have problems with that in the beginning? Put in stuff? I don't put a lot of stuff on YouTube, but it's not because I'm like tinkering with it or like, I don't know. I just don't. I don't have a lot of. I mean, I don't have a lot of stuff to just burn. You know, I mean, that's not like anybody's. It's not like anybody's coming to see me. Like, I'm not a draw, you know, but if for any reason somebody is coming to a show and like sees that I'm on it and like looks it up, looks me up online. And I have like every set I've ever done online. Because I know some comedians who do that. They tape all their open mic shows and put them online. Like every single open mic and set that they do. And it's like, well, you've already seen all of these jokes. They're going to think that that's all I do or that I don't do anything. Right. It's a bit repetitive. Yeah, first of all, especially if you're putting the same sets over. Same sets over. Yeah. That doesn't make any sense. I mean, it might be interesting because then maybe you can watch and see how it's evolved. But I don't know how many people have the patience or would even care. Yeah. But I do have some sets online. I have some like I would usually put my like Philly's funny sets online. Because that's always like a it's like you're doing your best five to six minutes. And it's in front of a full crowd. And you can get a good tape and put it online and then like send it to festivals and stuff like that. So I'll put I'll put sets like that online. As like clips as samples. Because you need some stuff out there. Yeah, maybe put like one up a year and like hopefully the jokes are mostly different. Or like hopefully they're all different over here. You know, from one year or another. And I'm actually. I'm going to be recording my first album soon. Oh, that's amazing. Yeah. Doing comedy like 11 years and I just decided like I'm going to. I'm going to record a longer set and put it out as an album. Where would you release or read you just I'm going to sell it on iTunes. Yeah. I'm going to put it up digitally and I might do hard copies or maybe vinyl as like a special. Like yeah, I might do vinyl. If I was touring more, I don't do a lot of like road touring stuff. And I am trying to like figure out a way to make that happen. I would definitely do like vinyl and CDs because it's a great like merchant like. Great thing to do like sell after shows to like make extra money, especially if like you're trying to. Make it as like you know, where you're not making a lot of money for like the actual show that you're doing. Yeah. You sell CDs for like 10 20 bucks after. That's what's great, which is probably way different from when you started like what Yeah. 11 years. So back then you couldn't just get something on vinyl if you wanted to, right? No. Like, but now you can do it. You would have to be like, yeah, I don't even know if they were making vinyl. Like it was in that dead spot like vinyl wasn't it wasn't cool. It wasn't cool. It didn't fully come back. Yeah. It might have been just with people who were cooler than me at the time. Right. That those are the ones that push that movement. Yeah. Yeah. But now you could do vinyl if you wanted to. My sister just she's publishing a book on her own through create space through Amazon. Yeah. She's $2 for a book. She just had it one delivered to her house to like check it out. And it's like, yeah. I mean, yeah. Well, she's a designer. So she designed it herself. But you know, we could do that. If we wanted to write a book. You could write a book. Do you? Everything can be the DIY. Yeah. You can put out an album. You don't need like the gatekeepers are gone for better and for worse. Yeah. Obviously, there's going to be more people doing it. But I still think that there are so many people that still aren't doing it. And certainly aren't keeping up with it. Yeah. Because they have the thing called podcast fatigue, which is your podcast doesn't reach 20 episodes and it burns out before that. Oh, everybody. Yeah. You start a podcast and yeah. I just drop it right away. Yeah. It's like a blog, really. Like blogs. You know how many blogs are like, they're last posted. Like, hey, sorry. I haven't written in a while. Like apologizing to the audience. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You don't want to do it after a couple weeks. I don't know about you, but it's way harder than I thought it was going to be. Yeah. Like it's at least more time. Oh, it's definitely higher. Yeah. Especially when you're trying to get guests, you know. That's the tough thing. Yeah. I mean, I'm doing a couple podcasts where for the most part it's just me and a friend who co-hosted it. And even that, you have to coordinate with somebody else find a time. Real clock every Saturday. You know, it's like a little bit flexible and make sure that yeah, just the schedules are on point. I listen to, I think it's episode 10 of have you heard this. Oh, yeah. Which is the podcast. I mean, you haven't done any recently. No, that one's done. Oh, you've done it. I've liked it a lot too. I really liked doing that podcast. So have you heard this was a podcast I was doing? And it was basically an interview with a comedian where I would have them bring a premise something new, something that they haven't really done yet or are still working on. And then I would interview them just on that topic specifically. And I would try to get really in depth on that one topic and that premise to like figure out like why they think it's funny to like under the premise of like, oh, this is going to help you write the joke, you know. And I love doing it because it's like so hyper specific with every comic. And it's like, I thought it was a cool way to interview somebody because it was on like a topic that they're picking. And then I would try to unlock things and like trigger things with them that they might not have thought of yet. You know, and it also kind of simulates the kind of writing group experience that comics will have that I always loved. Like getting in a room and like pitching ideas and kind of adding on other people's ideas, tagging their jokes. Yeah, there's like an energy to it. Things like that. Yeah, yeah, and when you really get like on on a roll with something, it's a lot of fun. And then I was doing it in Philly, which was easy to do because I was friends with people in a established area and everybody knew me. And then I moved to New York and I was like, well, I can't ask people to be a guest on my podcast. And be like, I'm going to help you write a joke when they don't know me. You got my new guy in town, yeah. And then after I lived there a while, I was like, okay, I think I know people enough to ask them to do this. And I did a few episodes there and they went really well. And then it was hard to schedule and like get people on the same page and everybody's busy all the time. And then those are my excuses. Exactly. And then I moved here and kind of same thing again. And I also, I'm doing two other podcasts. So three weekly podcasts would be really tough. Yeah, that would be a lot. It would be great to get back into it. I wondered if it was that it seems like really challenging. I mean, the interesting part about it. I listened to, I went listen to one episode. But first of all, these kind of podcasts where you have a guest on is really great because then you just get to meet and connect with new people. Yeah. And that was another thing. I would ask people in New York who I like kind of knew, but like wanted to. I was like, they seem like a cool dude. I could be better friends with them. Ask them to do a podcast. Yeah. They appreciate it. Yeah, they're like, most of you are. It's like an opportunity for them to, you know, be a guest. Like, even if it's not like a huge listenership or anything like that, it's like, yeah. Yeah, I think most people are, are flattered by it when it comes to like saying, Oh, hey, I want to meet that person, get to know him. What are their options do we have as adults? It's like, hey, you want to get a drink? It's like the new let's hang out. Yeah, let's be friends. Like, do you want to be on my podcast? Yeah, yeah, yeah. You can ask them everything that you like would want to ask them like on like a drink. Yeah. It's a good day. I've got the sketch idea. And actually, I was going to do this have the more of a drunk cast and just like drink every time. But then I like how many times can I do that a week where I'm like, I did like, I think I've done three. I've just been terrible for you. I know for my body. Yeah. Just like beating myself down. But that's what you do is like, hey, let's go out for drinks. Yeah. And then like, what else would you go out for coffee for the day? Yeah. I feel like the time has to be out to lunch. Yeah. Yeah. That's like stepping it up a little bit. That's a full commit. That's when you have like a job with an expense call. With an expense card or something. Exactly. Yeah. That would get really expensive. If you're trying to meet all these people and then every single time you're paying for lunch for them, I don't think that's really sustainable. But yeah. I think the podcast is a great way to meet people. You went from Philly to New York. What drove you to New York? I just felt like, um, eventually, if you want to make a career in comedy, you kind of have to be in New York or LA. And like, some people are proving that wrong. Some of our friends. So that we have in Philly, you know, with like, you know, like, like a proper guy. Yeah. These guys are like, they're killing it and they're like in Philly. But they're also like, you know, they are taking meetings in New York and flying out to LA every once in a while. So I didn't, I felt like I would be better served if I like live there. You know, to kind of be in the place where the jobs exist. And like New York and LA are still the places for that. You know, even with everything that we've talked about, like the gatekeepers being gone being able to do everything yourself, put out albums, put out, you can film a special if you want, like, try to sell to Netflix on your own. But I mean, being in New York, being able to do stand up there every night and like having the opportunity to like meet all those people. It really pushes you, you know, like as much as you can do it in Philly, you can do it five, ten, even more times more in New York. You know, with more opportunities and more people kind of with more people in the scene. Right. Like you don't need to be in LA or New York. No, especially not to develop as a comedian and to like to develop as a comedian and like become a better writer and performer and like artists. You can do that anywhere. You know, you can as long as they're stage time and like Philly, there's plenty of I Philly's great. I love Philly so much. Yeah. Like the stage times, there's a ton of it and it's great. And there's more of it all the time. It's pretty big. Have you done Philly stand up in the past couple of years? I haven't been to Philly in about a year. But yeah, the last time I was in Philly was last October. But I did a bunch of shows when I was there all weekend. They're all great. They're all, you know. Yeah. It's the Philly comedy scene is is awesome. It's been really great for a long time and it's only getting better. It's got to be one of the best smaller. The smallest. I haven't been to a lot. I've been to Austin, which has a great comedy scene. They say, I haven't been to Portland Portland. I think that's more like improv and like, the air base than stand up, but there's still a lot of stand up there. Denver, I've heard, has a really good scene. I'm probably missing some others. But yeah, I don't think Philly gets the credit that it really deserves. I just heard on Joe Rogan podcast. He actually shot it out helium. Oh, yeah. Yeah. He's at one of the best comedy clubs in the country. And helium's like a chain now. You know? Ever six Heliums and it started in Philly. Philly has two major clubs in the city. Some other like smaller clubs like around and outside the city. They've got like at least three like theaters completely dedicated to comedy. Mm-hmm. And then just, you know, the independent shows that comics run themselves. It's ridiculously like great town. Yeah. Yeah, comedians. And yeah, just the real reason why left Philly. I absolutely love it. But yeah, just feeling like there isn't the like industry there to make a living full time at comedy. Yeah. That was my goal. And it's still my goal. Yeah. So it's still an happen that we're moving to Philly. Yeah. Because how do you make a living as a comedian? And what are the different options? I feel now that it's best to to be diversified because I feel like the amount of comedians who are making their living just doing stand up is so small right now. Like they're only, you know, for as popular as comedy and stand up is again. You know, there are only so many clubs in so many room for headliners. And like if you're a regular feature, you're barely scraping by and like maybe breaking even and stuff like that. But I always wanted to do something where I could always keep doing stand up. But like maybe also right, you know, like maybe get like a staff riding job on a TV show or do punch up on like movie scripts. Things like that. I always said the, and this was before he was, he was as, but it was he was still huge. But I think he's become way bigger since I've said this. But like Pat and Oswald was always the kind of like, oh, that's like the dream career. And like saying that now he's like so big. So big that it sounds like I'm like, yeah, I want to be a huge big, you know what I mean? But like when he was at the point where he was like a, he was like a minor like supporting character on a TV show, which allowed him to do stand up when and how he wanted to to crowd who are coming out to see him and support a tour with his friends. And create the comedians a comedy tour where they like toured and did like rock clubs and like smaller venues. And like didn't have to do clubs if they didn't want to do clubs and like basically did it their way. And then also he was like riding his own scripts and doing punch up and like appearing on TV shows and small parts and movies like that would be amazing. I think you do have to be in New Yorker LA from most of that. To do stuff like that. Yeah, right. To write to write to like get parts. And it seems pretty challenging considering how many comedians and comics there are. Is it pretty nuts? I have no idea how to make it happen. Zero idea. My only so far for my 11 years in comedy. My only attack on it has just been. Be as good as you can. I don't know how to, I don't know how to submit. Like I don't know how to write a script and send it to somebody who can read it. And then be like, I want to be your manager or your agent or I want to give you a job. Like my only resource has ever been just be as funny as you can. And eventually someone will see you. Yeah. And I don't know. I like that as a, I like that as a course of action because it leaves me focused on what's most important. Which is being really good or as good as I can be. But it also gets frustrating because. I don't know how to do it. Let's see me. Yeah, it's a, I think that's the best advice that you can. Maybe I just need to be better. Maybe I'm not just good enough. Go away. Or quit forever. I think that there's the, that's like step one. It's just keep working your ass off. Keep pushing forward. And then if stuff's not working and not sticking, just like in rewriting a joke or throwing it out. If it's not working and throw it out, try something else. Try something real. What's like the podcast off doing podcasts. You're like, all right. Let's try this as poker on here. This might work. And then because you're always developing that course set and you're always getting better at the course set, which is the writing is maybe improv doing stand up. Yeah. I think it does come back to that. But other than those. I think it's just like, you have to just be ready to get lucky. That's, you know. Yeah, who's somebody, Donna Glover said that. Are you quoting him or are you just on the same wavelength? No. I think that's some function. Yeah. I think that's called from him with that. Yeah. He said, you have to, you do have to get lucky. But when you get lucky, you have to be ready. Like he was like his first major like job was writing for 30 rock. And he said, he had to get lucky to have somebody say to Tina Fey. You should look at this guy. He's really funny. But he also had to be ready in having a great pilot script that he wrote. And examples of a ton of sketches that he wrote and made. And like an act, you know, he did all the work along the way. And then still had to get lucky. Yeah. So that's, yeah, that's it. That's it. You have to work until you get lucky and then capitalize on that look. Yeah. I just want everybody to like, that works hard to make it, right? Yeah. Including me. Yeah. Like I want to be part of the crew that makes it. I want everybody to make it. I really do. And whatever you want to make it at. Yeah. As long as you work hard. If you're not working hard, then like I don't care if you're making it. Yeah. Only if you work hard. Yeah. If you want to be a basket maker, work hard to make it. Yes. And we want you to make it as a basket maker. Yeah. Yeah. I think there's, there's make those baskets. Baby. Yeah. I'm thinking like weaves the basket. Oh, you know. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. That's the first thing that you thought. I'm a standard basket. You know, you're classic basket. I was like, classic basket. I was like, classic basket. Yeah. Well, yeah. I want basket. I want basket. I want players to make baskets too. Unless you're a defender, then I want you to stop people from making baskets. That's true. It's hard. It's, you know, you can't win. Whatever your dream is, live it. Yeah. So where do you go from from here? So. Yeah. That's the question. Isn't it? It's the yes. So I'll try and answer. How do we make it? How do we say as podcasters? How do you? What are we doing here? How do we, like, get seen? Well, right now my plan is I. So I'm, I'm new to LA. I started a stand-up show. Okay. That's my plan of action right now. With two other comics. Both start in Philly. Luke, your Donald and Pat Barker. We start a stand-up show. So we have a place to do stand-up every week. That's not just an open mic. Also book comedians on the show. So we can get to meet them. And also hopefully build it into a show that becomes popular. So it gets a crowd every week. And maybe, like, somewhere to mouth. And it kind of starts building a buzz. And more people, you know, and just kind of become self-sustaining. Like, one of those shows that, like, people just know about every Sunday. I have to do a bar. Yeah. Friendship buddies comedy show is going to be there. And it's just like, hey, this is a great show. People know about it. People show up. And then comics want to do the show. Like, get to know them and meet them through there. And then use them. Use them. Use their resources. Resources of connection. No, but just, like, kind of, like, that's how I heard on that podcast. I mentioned, have you heard this? That's the name of it, right? Have you heard this? That you have a deadline of, not like a internal deadline? Is this, is that over? No, it's not. No, I haven't passed it up. Okay. No, it was just the 35 and the 45. No, I still have two years. Wait. Oh, I have a year. So. Are you going to do it? You can't do it. I have a year and a half until I'm 35. And then my plan was, my plan was to quit quit my day. If I still the day job of 35 quit my day job. And then focus solely on comedy until I'm 40. And then if I have not made it as a comedian at 40, quit forever. And then be a teacher. Something like that. I mean, that's just like, that's like a fake funny deadline. It's not like a real deadline. But it is something that I probably at some point half seriously considered. Would you consider doing that? Like is there a plan to just go 100% all in? I have a good money. I would love to be able to not have a day job. I am way too anxious about money and stuff like that to do it. And I also, I'm not. If I was like 20, I would do that because at 20 years old, acceptable to live in a house with five other guys and pay like $200 rent a month. And you can scrape up $200 a month rent doing anything. But like, I have like a girlfriend now. And we have like a home together and a cat and a car payment. And things like that. I'm more of an adult than who's had a regular job for a little while. You can't go back. No, you can't go back. No. That's a funny thing too about when when my girlfriend out of the night. She would have to sign on to go back. Like, I would have to be like, hey, can we be poor together? Can we do that again? Yeah. And she's much more successful than I am. So either she signs on for it or just keeps growing and becoming more successful. To the point where I'm just living off her. And why does that not work? No, I joke about that way too much. Yeah. She's going to get concerned about how much I joke about living off her. I did actually tell Natalie. I did this documentary last year. And it did pretty well. And I was just excited about making original content and going from doing client work, which is what I did mostly is like start up and tech companies, making videos for them, a lot of industrials, commercials. And then I did this documentary and I really enjoyed it. And I was like, that's why the podcast came about. I'm like, I really want to start making my own stuff and continuing to do that. And like, that's the dream to, you know, now we're working on pitching a series to Netflix. And if I could continue to do that for the rest of my life, I would be incredibly happy. I'd be happy doing the other stuff too. Like it's not a bad life. But it's just really cool to push yourself. Yeah, you're own. Yeah, I'm being able to work on what you want to work on other than like taking jobs. Exactly. And then there's always a stress that that comes with that. So I told Natalie, I said, hey, I'm going to, I think I'm going to do this. And I'm just going to focus on this for like three to six months. Like you got this. Like just a case like I don't have any money coming in. Yeah. You take care of me. And she was completely supportive, which is great. And we'll see how long she'll be supportive in that realm. Like if I go two years without making any money, she might, Yeah. Step in and have an intervention with me. But it's, it's tough. I feel like you do need that time to actually see if something's going to work to develop it. Dreams cost money, but money cost dreams. Wow. Wow. That's as, you know, how I make teasers for these things. That's, I think that's going to be just an excerpt right there. That's a quote from the Hold Steady. A friendship buddies podcast. What is this podcast about? Just whatever. It's just kind of very free flowing. Luke and I talk about current events, random stupid topics. Just trying to riff on stuff and be silly and funny. It's really, there's really no format. Yeah. It seems super random. It is very random. Do you guys plan any of this stuff out? Or is it like, will plan segments or just like topics of like what we want to talk about? And then just kind of go like, you know, mostly it's like, we'll talk about stuff that's happening in the news or stuff. We've done recently. We've recently started doing like dumb like segments like hypothetical like situations or stuff like that. You know, like one that Luke just came up with that. I like a lot is he calls it super groups. So he picks like a stupid task or like thing that has to be done. And then you pick a super group of people to to complete the task. So it's like if you were assembling a high school. So it's like the oceans 11 like assembling the high school for things that aren't high, you know, like he said. One one of them this week was. One's this week we're weird. He had the one was the first one was musical to it in a tribute to super group. But it was like, what's the ultimate super group to make like a baby boomer baby boomer moms. Just horny as fuck. Yes. So we had to pick like a singer and like, you know, all the band members to like just moms would go ape shit. Yeah. And we did one that was like, uh, what team would you put together if you had to infiltrate like North Korea? And we did two like one was if we were going to infiltrate them through like friendship. And one was if we were going to like take them down through violence. That's really good. And we did stuff like that. And then yeah. That's sort of the interview on my favorite movies. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Because Luke didn't tell me the topics going in. Like I had to come up with these teams blind. And I was just like, okay Seth Robes. Yeah. Yeah. Like that was so easy. We've already seen him do it before. Yeah. How do you name stuff? Because I feel like the names of your stuff that you make are pretty good. Like I bang my head off the wall trying to name shit. Do you hate all the names of your stuff or you actually like him? I have most of the things that I've done. I'm pretty happy with the names. Like I've had a few stand-up shows. And they've all had pretty decent names. My first one was hey everybody. And these some of them have been like suggested by other people. Like Philly, now New York comedian Carolyn Busa told me to name my first stand-up show. Hey everybody. And I was like, yeah. Yeah. You're right. That's perfect. That's super smart. Friendship buddies came from just like back in Philly. I had like a... It was like a half joke that I thought it would just be really funny to get super excited and just about the concept of friendship. And like nobody knew if I was serious or if I was joking. And I think I didn't even know. I didn't know if I was serious. But I would just like try to organize people to get together for no reason. Just like hang out or like have a picnic like for no reason. And just like hashtag stuff about friendship and like start friendship chance. Yeah. It was funny because it's just so basic. It's such a basic concept. Like just friendship. Yeah. Yeah. Friendship is great. For like a dog. Yeah. Because it isn't like a kid would think of it. Yeah. And it was before like my little pony was all like, yeah. And I just thought it was just as very like stupid like innocent. Yeah. And that's like my whole like, I think that's my, my brand. My brand is like, why did I do this? Yeah. Yeah. Like innocent idiots. Like I think that's how I try to come off in like my comedy. So just like being like, yeah. Friendship. I thought was so funny. I love the intro. It's just you guys can't change friendship. Yeah. We did like a bunch of voices and stuff. Yeah. But yeah. At one point, I bought the the web domain friendship buddies.com. As a joke. And I don't have it anymore. Our website's friendship buddies dot pizza now. Which is better. Actually, yeah. I think you remember you guys talking about that in the first episode. That's that's amazing. And like your the designs around it too are pretty pretty. Look, those all that. He's really good. Yeah. He does all those illustrations. And they're really cool. Yeah. He's like, come up with like his own kind of unique style for it. And everything. It's like a retro style. A lot of pizza. Yeah. Friendship buddies dot pizza. That's really good. Yeah. I'm always bad with names. Because I keep a list. If I if I hear like a like in my notebook, I have a list of like names for stuff. So if I hear like a cool phrase or just something that I think fits well together. I'll write it down on a big list because I'm always you know, I'm always a couple weeks away from joining the new improv group. Yeah. You never know. You know, or start a new show or something that needs a name. I'm bad. And name and stuff's awful. Every like group I've ever been in. That has had to like come up with a name like sketch group or like, you know, stuff like that. It's been such a chore coming up with the list of names. Yeah. When you have to do it. Yeah. The best thing that I ever did to in terms of my business, my freelance film business, was actually creating a name and not having it be Matt Diavella videographer. Yeah. Which was it was not good for forgetting money and getting budgets. Because they just see you as this like wedding videographer. Oh, yeah. That's all. Yeah. So like even the fact that I knew and I didn't like outright lie to anyone and set pretend. Well, besides phrasing on my website saying like, we. Yeah. I do this subtle stuff like that. But eventually it is weed because I hire other people and I collaborate. And there is a sense there where I can deceive myself into believing that it's a weed. But it was a black box films was my first company name. It's a very corporate sounding. It was like because when you're starting to remind people playing crashes. Yeah. It's a good feeling. It's good vibes. People are like, why is it black box? I think a lot of people say, well, it sounds like a porn product. It's the only thing that that survives a playing crash. Yeah. Your videos. Black box films. I will see. No, but it was because when you're starting to edit a video. It's the black box. It's like the blank canvas. Yeah. That was my idea. But that I came up with that idea when I was probably still in college to just getting on a college. But then that idea. I just I loved it when I first thought of it because it's like black box. It's just got this. Yeah. It's like strong stuff. Yeah. Yeah. I didn't want to be soft. And then I just got the be real hard. And then I didn't like. And then I just got sick of it. And I was like, I got to change my name. And then I think I changed it. The next one. I just kept that for wow. Because I had the LLC and I had all the business stuff to it. So it's very hard to change. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And then I changed it. My current one is catalyst. Which is like same kind of phonetic. Yeah. It's hard. But it's still I got sick of that one. But that's what I have now. And I'm like, I don't really care anymore. Yeah. It's just a name. Yeah. It really is just like a watermark that you put on something. Yeah. All my names are the same. The ground up. Unless it's really bad. Yeah. It probably doesn't matter. You might have to move your car. I know. It's probably about like 10 minutes left. We're coming up on an hour. But I like to do another 10 if we could. Yeah. No problem. 15. 15 now. 15. Alright, we're back. Cars moved. Yeah. Part part. LA. The driving scene. It's uh, is it? Get pretty stressful because I've only been here for like a month. So i haven't really. It can be. I get. I get the most angry that I get all day when I'm driving. All right, but mostly because somebody like other people are doing things that I'm like That's not safe. Yeah, you're just like other people are being overly aggressive. And I'm just like, let's all just get where we're going safely. That's actually the most frustrating thing about driving around here is there are just so many Assels. Yeah. Like just flying for no reason and like weaving in and on a traffic. Yeah. Okay, I did something really bad. Because I just I saw that people were doing this where they would. You know, you have a left turn and there's a left turn lane. And sometimes before that, there is other like right turn lanes. Yeah. And then there's a little medium where you could if you're pulling into the, you know, into traffic. You can cross over and stay in the middle lane. So I've seen people drive over that. Like and I didn't think I was driving over like just like fly up and just go like a mile. So I was like, I look in the GPS. It looked like I was right next to the light and I was like, all right, I'll just do that. And then I started going and I was like, oh fuck. It's like really far away. I have to go and it's all this traffic. I couldn't merge in and then a car pulls in to go from the other way. Yeah. And then I'm the asshole that we're talking about on the wrong. Because I'm in the wrong. I'm in the middle. I'm in her lane. Head on. And then this woman, she like let me have it. She wrote down the window. She just starts screaming at me. I'm sorry. I just got to apologize. I was like, I'm so sorry. That's what I've learned. And like reasonable people are okay with it. Yeah. I've almost like like in Hoboken, I remember once like turning in. If they know you're not being an asshole, if they know that it's an honest mistake, then you feel bad about it, then they'll like back off. Yeah. And sometimes those have been some of my like most human interactions with strangers. Yeah. Where like I almost like, I didn't see her. She was, you know, when you're turning right, and somebody may have walked in before like you saw them. And then they're right in your blind spot. And then I almost hit this girl. Like not going fast. But I saw her. I was like, oh stop. And I wrote down my window. Oh, I'm sorry. She's like, it's okay. But like having her forgive me on the spot. Really nice. And do you listen to podcasts when you're you're driving around? Mostly podcasts. I have I subscribed away to many podcasts. I just started getting crazy with it. What I'm driving or like I'll go for walks and just listen to them at the gym. Like I got into one or two podcasts. And then it was just a gateway into like this is even before. I think I started listening a little bit to podcasts. And then once I started. Once I moved here and had a little bit more. More driving. Yeah. More driving. Yeah. It's kind of hard to drive and listen when you're not used to your route. If you have. Yeah. If you have to use GPS. Yeah. You can't do the 1.5 speed or the 2 times speed. I don't know if you do that for any podcast. Do you always know? I don't. I just don't. I'll listen to it on one time speed. Or I'll be like, I don't have to listen to this. Yeah. I need to speed it up. I know. I don't know. I do that because maybe just because I'm so excited about listening to podcasts. And I want to listen to it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But if you go to 2 times speed, it's only half. Yeah. And that's my mentality. Although it's like you. You ever notice where you just like, Bob, I'm thinking about something else. I'm not even listening to this podcast. Yeah. I realize I haven't been listening for like five minutes. And then it's like, do I rewind and listen over to it just quit? Just quit. Yeah. What are your top podcasts that you'd recommend? Moons. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I realize I haven't been listening for like five minutes. Yeah. Yeah. I just recommend Moons. I listen to my favorite podcast right now is by Ian Carmell. It's called All Fantasy Everything. It's great. Ian is a great comedian. He's a great dude. And he does this podcast is such a cool idea. It's fantasy drafts. So like fantasy sports. But for just random topics. So just any, any just crazy random stuff. More sense than others. You know, they've done like, they've done like songs that make you cry. I think the the latest episode is like movies that just have one word in the title. You know, they'll really pick anything. They've done like the mall. So like, not just stores at the mall, but like concepts about being at the mall. So like somebody picked like, you know, like hanging out with, at the arcade without your parents or something. You know what I mean? Stuff like that. Right. Yeah. And it's just like an opportunity. So they pick a topic and it's like him and three or four other people. And then they they each go and make their picks. And then it's just an opportunity to like tell stories about that thing or concept or like riff on it and make jokes for a few minutes and then like move on to the next. And it's the really fun podcast is like one of those podcasts that makes you feel like you're hanging out in the room with those people. And like makes you want to like jump in and like talk and like give your story when they're in there. Which is like the sign of a really good podcast, I think, when you want to like put your like two cents into it. Yeah. It is kind of strange to like laugh along with people. Yeah. Yeah. You have a group of people that are cracking up on a podcast and you forget that you're not with them in the room. But yeah. I think that's what you strive for. That's my. Yeah. That's my absolute favorite podcast right now. And then I've all, you know, comedy bang bangs great. That's always really good. Yeah. And then I just gave a podcast. Those are the, the Philly peeps. No, comedy bang bang is it's Scott Orkerman, who is done a bunch of stuff. He was a writer for like Mr. Show back in the day and like had a TV show on his own and like produces a bunch of stuff. But they've got like a podcast network and it's, it's great. It's like, they do basically a mix of regular guests and then like comedians who come on in character and like they improvise like a complete character and like interaction with them and like it's pretty crazy. It like it can go to like some crazy places. And it's one of the most consistently funny ones. And then I listen to a bunch of like sports, doork podcast like a lot of basketball. A lot of basketball podcasts. Right. I haven't been into sports much lately. I want to get back into it. I started getting back into playing sports. Yeah. It's a softball hike out here in LA, which is going to be I'm pretty excited about. I'm in two different basketball leagues. Oh, you are. And like a regular Saturday basketball. It's too much basketball. That's a lot of basketball. I play as much basketball as probably professional basketball. Yes. You play three or four days a week. But it's great to actually do something that you're not trying to accomplish anything but just have fun. I mean, it can get really competitive in some of these leagues. I mean, when I was talking about not doing something and getting mad if I suck at it. It translates to and I don't get like super competitive outwardly. Like, I don't become a dick with people I'm playing against. But I get really mad if I'm not playing basketball well. Oh, really? Yeah. And I'll like, like, I go with the gym and stuff now. Strictly for my adult wreck basketball. No, you know, you like doing motions that are like doing like, Yeah, I'm like, I got to strengthen my core and work on my vertical jump and quickness. Because I can't suck a basketball. Do you do the 33 year old man? You know, do you do the steps where you kind of hop up and then hop down? No, I don't do that. Yeah. Other plyometric exercises. Yes. I got to say that I remember I haven't done gotten to this point since college where I was playing floor hockey. But where I've gotten like really mean and angry at other people. Because that's, it's, I mean, but basketball is very physical sport. But like when you're pushing up against somebody and something overly aggressive with you. Yeah, that's like, you know, there are always those basketball players who are like, All right, dude, relax. Yeah. I get it. You're playing defense by how many dudes in this like, Burbank adult wreck league are like, Dickheads about it. Like, we'll like push you and like hit you and like, want to fight you and stuff like that. And it's just like, dude, we like, we all paid 50 bucks to be in this league. Yeah. So the refs will come and. Exactly. So the refs can make a couple bucks for being here. Oh, man. And rent the gym like calm down. Like, yeah, nothing pays me off more than people who give the reps a hard time. Oh, yeah. It's like, dude, I had, and it was somebody on my team once. Where he gave the rep. He gave the umpa hard time. And then he's just like, young at him and like, It's, it's, hold me back. Hold me back. Like, come on. And this guy's basically volunteering. He's making like five bucks to be here. And like, he's spending like five hours here to like, Reft these gate. He doesn't get the call every time. He's the best dude in this building. Yeah, seriously. Because like, of course he's going to make some mistakes. He can't, it's one guy for a whole field or a whole court. Is I how much can they actually see exactly. Give him a break if he makes a mistake. And I mean, regardless, like you said, Most, if, if somebody, if's at most, if somebody's doing something that's danger, like if somebody's being a dickhead and like hitting people on the slide that the ref's not at most go up to the ref. And like, hey, this guy's like hitting people. And then he's going to look for it and call a foul or whatever. But don't like complain. And be like, why are you doing your mission these calls? Yeah, yeah. It's very, I mean, it's easy to do. To have brought up in the moment. But like, I, I, I, that's a filter that I have. Yeah. Where it's like, even if I'm upset, I'm like, All right, that's fine. Whatever. Like, well, you missed a call. Oh, okay. Yeah. You wanted to do quick questions. Quick questions. Is that a segment that you do? Yeah. This is the jingle for it. I feel like you out of all people would like this jingle. I think like all jingles. Yeah. I'm a jingle man. I feel like anything that's whimsical. Yeah. Yeah. It's like, big fan of whimsy. Yeah. This is one of this yourself. Did you play with some of the keyboard? I wish. No. I got this from, you know how I get a lot of my free music. Free music.com. Yeah. I wish. I wish it was that easy. It's actually pretty similar. I did. I just Google free music for YouTube videos. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Like royalty free. Yeah. Because like, I'm very sensitive and cautious about using music. That's not royalty free. Yeah. As an artist yourself. You don't want to use something about that. Oh, you just don't want to pay. I don't want to get sued. No. I guess it's. It is actually. It's less motivated by the artist or that I could say that. And I'll sound like a better person. But it's more so. Yeah. I'll go with that. But it's also the fact that I. I do it for living through the. I pay for video like music for videos. And if I'm doing a corporate type video, you know, you pay based upon the reach based upon. It's weird that sometimes they'll charge based upon. How many people work at a specific company? How many employees does this company have? 500. Okay. We're going to charge you $2,000. And it's so it's like it is anywhere from like $200 to $2,000. For like really good music. This is like really well curated. So I'll do that for anything that has a budget. But if it doesn't have a budget and it's just me. I'm like, I can't spend $200 on. Yeah. I use for. So if you watch in a YouTube, you'll hear the same songs. Over and over like the same kind of intro music. Yeah. Like beats that like people use because it's all from that. Like royalty free stuff. Yeah. It's because YouTube actually has their own library built in. And there's certain artists that are more popular. And they kind of rises to the top. So there is. Yeah. That's the one bad thing where it gets repetitive. But it's time I'm like, I'm like, I'm not going to pay for this. Yeah. Yeah. Once like, you know, I get some more views. And then I can. Would you add? At what point would you guys start advertising on your podcast? Whenever somebody wants to pay. Exactly. And I need to. When anybody wants to pay. Or they don't even have to pay us. They can just give us their products. Like if me undies wants to give me me undies. That's it. Me undies. And then you get cash for matches. Yeah. I shouldn't have said that because now they're not going to pay me. No, no. Yeah. You're all. I'm promoting it regardless. You need a guest mattress. Yeah. That's a good one. So let's do quick questions. Quick questions. That's good. I could make you. You know, I got to give you the royalties. All right. So how quick. Actually, it's quick questions. It's not quick answers. All right. But I mean, you can do it as quick as you want. So here we go. What's easier said than done? Working hard. It's really easy to. It's really easy to say that you're going to work hard. And to want to work hard. And then actually working hard is hard. Working hard is. I just came off real dumb. Everybody watching this. That's it. It's over. Hey, what's easy. What's actually hard. Working hard. I shouldn't have done it. I shouldn't have done it. Yeah. That's how dumb I am. That's how stupid I am. You could simplify it. Just do it. Doing it. Down and starting. Isn't it. So we're working and working. Yeah. I did have that today, though. And I have it all the time. Sometimes it's easier to sit down. But it's like, well, I really need to start writing the script. I really need to start working on this. Yeah. And then I'll start cleaning the house. And obviously just basic procrastination. The first five minutes. So the most difficult part when you're sitting down. Opening it up. Just getting your brain in the right gear. I get ideas that I get really excited about. And then I like start out lining them and like putting them together. And then when it actually comes to the work part. I'm like, fuck this. And then like get another idea and get really excited about it. And like, same process over and over. So yeah, just actually like doing work. I'd be heard of the depth. I talked about it. I talk a big game. But sometimes I don't. I don't back it up with my work. And I think, you know, that's what I'm because I kind of hover on the self development world with this kind of podcast and some of the YouTube videos I make. And like, I'm big into it. Like, I love Tony Robbins. Tim Ferriss. I'm just guys that they give me a lot of inspiration motivation. I think what it's lacking is doubt. Like, these guys are like, Gary Vaynerchuk never has doubt in his life. But maybe that's because they know they're talking to people who are filled with doubt anyway. So that they're just trying to get over the doubt. So I'm like, all right, let's give this down a rest a little bit. Yeah, that's actually kind of what I was thinking. And it's because that's what actually inspires me. And I don't know if it would help to be like, yeah, or I don't know. Maybe it maybe that's not what you should do. Well, I think I think if you have a good amount of doubt like naturally, you don't. Your filter is going to be there already. You know, like if if I'm working on something and I'm going to think it's I'm probably going to think it's bad or garbage, you know what I mean? And if I can push through and like finish it, it's probably not as bad as I think it is. And then if I can finish it and like get feedback from other people and like, you know, even if it's a joke, do it on stage and like kind of figure it out there. I'm going to, it's going to be worse in my head than it is in real life. Right. Because I'm a terrible pessimist filled with doubt. Yeah, me too. And it's a daily struggle. Yeah. Just to like wake up in the morning. Yeah. I mean, a lot of people, especially like it's something I've heard from a lot of people who are trying to do like creative things. It's that like feeling like not right down the middle, but where like, you feel like you suck, but you also feel like you're better than everybody else. We're not better than everybody else, but can do it just as well. Right. You see somebody like, I can do it. I'm also capable of doing that. Yeah. I think that's the bare minimum confidence you need to have. I am capable of doing. Yeah. All right. So let's say that you're stuck. What do you do to become unstuck? Whether that's creatively, whether that's getting back into a workout routine or eating better when you're just kind of running into a wall. Yeah. I think for different things, it might be different. Different methods of it because for like, for like an idea, sometimes I feel like there's, there's a point where working on it too much is going to fuck you just as much as not working on it enough. So I think there's, I think a good method is kind of, I like to write everything down like do like a really in-depth deep, like brainstorm on it and like just like, if I have one idea, just like write everything down that I can, no matter how dumb it is, no matter how stupid it is. If it's often a tangent, if it's not directly connected, just write it all down and then shut my notebook and let it go. Let it go for a day, let it go for a week and then like, maybe go back, eventually go back to it and like the good stuff will stick out. Maybe it'll come to me subconsciously. That's a big one. Like, I will work on ideas and get stuck and hit a wall and then just be like, okay, I can't work on this for now. Like kind of, it's in the back of my mind and then eventually it will, like I'll have a re-commoment with it. But with like creativity, so like, I don't know. Like every idea is different and I can't do the same process for, you know, sometimes things come to me almost fully formed. And it's probably because I've been thinking about it either consciously or subconsciously for a while anyway. And then the idea seems to be fully formed out of nowhere when I get it, you know, like one of those driving or shower ideas where it's like, oh, this is great. It's probably something that hasn't, it doesn't actually come in that second. It's probably been like slowly building and coming through over time, you know, but trying to trigger that somehow. Right. And I think like brainstorming writing outlining is a good way to do that. That's the hard thing to turn off is the continuous ideation that you have. Yeah. Yeah. I noticed that doing stand up, but even if I'm, if I'm in the middle of a project or especially like during pre-production of a project and say creating a, and developing a series, like a doc series, I am just in a continuous state of brainstorming. If I'm not doing anything, if I'm driving or if I'm on the subway or wherever, and it's just very hard to tune that down. I don't think that you, you can or should. I think it's kind of one of those things that you have to deal with. Yeah. Even if it kind of kills you sometimes. But you're like, I just need a break. Yeah. I just need the goal of vacation. Yeah. Just always think about it. I have a notebook all the time. So when you have an idea, you don't lose it or forget it. It's just having a way to document everything. So you make sure that you have it and can hold on to it. Is, uh, is important. Um, so I just got two more questions here. Are they quick? Question? They're quick questions. Uh, one thing that people should read before they go to bed tonight. Before they go to bed tonight. Tonight. Why me not tonight? Cause like, well, yeah, whenever they're listing this, whenever they're listing to this, one thing, actually they end their day. Could be a blog post. By reading. By reading. Oh, man. I'm reading. Right now. I'm reading a book about Magic Johnson and Larry Bird. Oh, wow. I just. Hey, there it is. Oh, man. This is my girlfriend, Natalie. Hello, Natalie. This is Aaron. She's, she just did this two days ago. Hi. Hi. Welcome. Yeah, we were just on the last question, too. We had the, the outro on the music playing and everything. Um, yeah, wow. You just totally ruined it. She, this is actually a segment on the show. It's called Natalie and her ups. That's great. It's perfect timing. I think the second or third time. It's, uh, it's happened. But it's, um, that's what happens when you do the podcast at your house. Yeah. I've had that happen. Yeah. Um, Are we still reading the magic Johnson thing? No, I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not. I'm not reading. It's just that what I'm reading right now. I'm not recommending to people because it's very specific. It's a book about Magic Johnson and Larry Bird. Which is really good. Is it a book? If you're in a basketball. Yeah. It's called When The Game Was Hours. It's called like the careers of Magic Johnson and Larry Bird and how they, like, if you, if you know anything about basketball, they, like, had these, like, parallel careers where they were like, one was in LA, one was in Boston. They had this, like, rivalry and became friends. And it's like really fascinating story. All right, sweet. And lastly, how should people get connected with you? Find you online. Um, my website is AaronHurtSug.com. I'm at AaronHurtSug on Twitter. That's, yeah, that's probably the best. Cool. All right. There's links to all my stuff on those places. I'll put it in the, I'm not going to put it on the website. There's like a place to put that stuff. Wherever you put that stuff. Put that stuff. I'll put it there. Thanks for coming on the show. Yeah, thanks for having me. This was a lot of fun. Thanks for listening to The Ground Up Show. If you like this podcast, there's something you can do right now to help. Head on over to iTunes and leave a quick review. I print out every single one and I put them up on my mood board above my bed. Okay, that's not true. But I still notice and appreciate everyone. For more on The Ground Up Show, including behind the scenes videos, check out groundupshow.com. Thanks for listening.
