# Thinking on Your Feet // Ground Up 065
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_FH0rQeOFSU
Find Blake here... http://blakewexler.com

Blake Wexler is a comedian & writer. His latest album with Todd Glass called “12 Years of Voicemails from Todd Glass to Blake Wexler” peaked at #1 on iTunes. I'll let you guess what the album is about.

On this episode we cover...

1. Self-distribution vs working with producers & production companies.
2. How he got started as a comedian & improved his craft.
3. One of his earliest & most memorable experiences bombing on stage.
4. How to face rejection & doubt.

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** 
**Date:** 2018-06-20

## Transcript
 Hey everybody and welcome back to the ground-up show on your host Matty of Ella and today I'm sitting down to speak with the very funny comedian and writer Blake Wexler his last album went to number one on iTunes It's called 12 years of voice mills from Todd Glass to Blake Wexler and I'll let you do the math there to figure out what the album's about It's a incredibly funny, very creative. I recommend everybody check it out on This episode of the podcast we talk about self-distribution versus working with production companies He's had experience taking both routes and was very informative on that We discussed how he got started as a comedian how he improved his craft and one of the earliest experiences he can remember is bombing It's pretty bad. It's pretty brutal but it taught him a lot about how to take things to the next level and How to deal with doubt and rejection. So very very good podcast. I think you guys are going to like it Let's waste no more time. This is Blake Wexler You For a lot of Comedians specifically you kind of have to be any other New Yorker at a light, right? I think there are certainly exceptions and there are certainly ways to kind of break through a part from that But it's such a part of being a comedian is the community right and connecting with people in person Yeah, I think I know three comedians who have made it work without being here But they did spend extended Series of time in New York or LA. I mean, it depends on what you want to do to like you could live anywhere and make a living off stand up You know, but if you want to write or if you want to act God forbid You could you have to live like in New York or LA. Yeah, I actually had a similar trajectory where I was doing freelance work and all the gigs I was getting were weddings like local TV commercials and all that stuff has to be you have to be local to be able to do it Like I'm traveling between New Jersey, Philly and New York filming weddings and I was pretty much I was locked I was locked on the east coast, but then like as I grew my business and started to do more tech clients If a tech client couldn't pay to send me to California or Atlanta wherever I was shooting Then they probably couldn't afford me period, right? Yeah, so I think that's the thing is that when you're starting out I think it's certainly helpful to be around an area where you know, you almost are kind of locked in place Because who's flying you around or you know, you can't really make it as a traveling comic before you actually Build up your experience first in a city. Yeah, I mean you really just can't make it as a traveling comic period Not an ideal situation No, I think you're right like you're totally right where there is so much to be said and I started so young and I Have always been very ambitious, so I hated when people would tell me like like you're not ready for something and they'd be 100% Unequivically correct and they would be correct four years after that, you know like But I was always like I want to like do this. I want to like I want to go feature I want to like have like everybody you know like, but it's like dude you have barely five minutes And it's not that great, you know, and you're also 17 years old, so why don't you like pump the brakes and Just put the time in and get better and not being discovered in Even like a market like Philly which is so big like Philadelphia is Unormous, but it's so good where you can work and get better in a city like that and There's no agents coming to Philly like there's no TV people coming to Philly now that's kind of changing a little bit which is great, but And I'm using Philly like you sub like Chicago or Austin or Boston or anything else that rhymes But yeah, I think there's it's a great, you know training ground. Yeah, I guess dude I had a you reminded me because you said like no agents come out to shows and Philly I remember doing the Raven lounge like that the Raven lounge is still going right In some sort of it or yeah, it's so weird just because what was it like 10 years ago, right or so Like I was doing the Raven lounge You know, I don't even understand it for maybe like eight months or so. It wasn't a very long time But I remember doing a set there It did pretty well and then afterwards this woman comes up to me and she's like, hey, I'm You know, I'm a book shows and this and that and I'm like, oh, you shit. This is it This is my break Beyond comedy central tomorrow. It's got a huge and I don't know if you ever did this show But she like ran a show out of Manianka. It's something like restaurant Probably yeah, it was it was really bad. It was it was like a it was just like a a dining restaurant That wasn't supposed to have comedy no and I got there and I was like, oh, this is really really uncomfortable and like I did two minutes and then Yeah, I got off and you get off stage. I like there was a stage oh Don't you got off the floor the carpet in areas. Yeah. I left the kitchen She stepped around the crumbs. I'm good kitchen I don't know when you stop doing those shows like because I know So I probably been doing stand I first did stand up Maybe 13 years ago for the first time and I still Everyone's around to a show like that still and it's just like how much Time do you have to put in and we were kind of talking about this earlier where it's like what you got to say no after a certain point Don't be like a no part like it's just I've tried to say yes to almost everything but it just started occurring where they're like Hey, here's this is where my show is and I'll look it up and it's you know like a buffalo wild wings or something You know, and I'm just like dude you've worked too hard You're I'm gonna be in a bad mood driving there. It's not gonna go well I'm gonna be in a terrible mood coming home and I'm gonna like hate my act, you know for the night and it's just like I don't I've worked too hard to do that anymore Right, but I still do it. I still I won't do it 100% I mean the thing though is is you're right in all those counts, but also like what are you getting out of it? Like does it actually help your material just the fact that you're getting on stage and like You know you're able to kind of work with things and maybe adapt to a situation that's more challenging is that helpful? So there is it can be so there's a different range of not ideal stand-up gigs where there are some where You could have like enough tricks by now or like experience where you could work like turning a Hostile crowd or an indifferent crowd like back to you is a really great thing because it gives you confidence It gives you like you'll also pick up tricks where Even a thing where if there's like you hear chatter in the crowd I learned this from Todd glass where I'll drop the mic away from my mouth So it doesn't just sound like ambient noise anymore. You actually hear someone speaking and people will Lower their voices because it'll be like oh someone's talking you know, which sounds weird because of course You're talking you have a microphone, but people if it gets lower they'll be like oh we don't realize how loud We're being and then they'll hear you say something funny and their attention like goes to you So working on those skills is helpful, but it's now you know like Recently in my career. It's like oh I have those skills now. It's just a waste of time You know what I mean, but then yeah, I mean everyone's one you can be surprised like oh I got some I met a friend You know who is in the crowd or something you know like I know that's an odd Like I don't do stand up for friends you don't like to get friends Yeah, we're gonna give you three friends tonight You know a couple drinks, but yeah that I think they're I would say nine times that attend you don't get anything out of it Right, which I think I think I think the tough thing though is you probably look at it like well I'm not gonna do anything else tonight Right, yeah, yeah, you know, so I might as well do that over nothing But I guess you could replace it with something else Yeah, you could replace like I'll replace it so that's the thing where I'm like all right if I say no to this I have to write tonight, you know or if I've been doing a lot lately I have to you're gonna go to bed and like recharge, you know like because that's a thing I won't take care of myself often where you just want to do more and do more and do more And I'll Realize that oh, I'm I have bronchitis now because I didn't sleep for three weeks, you know because I've just been working so hard So I think that's a thing to have just self-care Is I just found out about self-care and super important intriguing I'm trying to figure out where I stand on it. Hey Now I do I feel the same exact way especially when you're like in the middle of a really big project And you're you have to grind it out sometimes and you'll work late nights early mornings and You when you come through the other side once you're done with you know say that big project Then you can start to sit back and be like hey, is there a way to do that where I don't feel like Complete shit during the whole process. Yeah, and also like are you a fucking psycho? What did you do the past month? It's insane because I'll look I had a crazy April and then I will I looked back on it and in my mind going in the April I'm just like April is gonna suck you won't sleep and afterwards I look back on it and I'm shocked that there wasn't some sort of permanent physical ailment that occurred from you know I mean it's just a very strange But yeah, I don't know if that goes away or once you reach a certain level of success or ambition But I would imagine it doesn't I think that the ambition is the key word is like if you're ambitious You know if you have an extra few minutes to prepare for a show or to prepare for something You're gonna use all that time that's available. Right, so that's a hardest thing to do is just been all right I need to turn off like I'm not gonna work this day over the weekend whatever it is I think you have to be very intentional about I think sometimes being in a relationship Definitely helps with that because they're gonna like Yankees and you're like hey take some time off We got to you know go to Malibu for the weekend Yeah, be a human being for five minutes. Yeah, is it weird that we just like started the show without an intro or anything? No, it's perfect got got just got running into it. I love it. Is that what you've done a lot of podcasts? Thank you for saying that Well, it's like I got a lot of people know it. You're done. That's about it You're my real podcast real Bunch of podcasts guys I'm gonna give you like an actual intro before the show cool. We're gonna make you sound like really really good It's gonna be like extra stuff besides the 12 podcasts huge recorded. I love it. Thank you Like what are your days look like now because I know you you've recorded a couple of specials and you've been at a couple of albums But what's like the the day the day over say like the past month? I think I've focused so much on stand-up throughout my life Where it's taken me so long to get where I am with that where I think I've made like a lot of great Strides in the past two years with it, but I mean, hopefully I won't be where I'm gonna be at you know for a very long time But I think I'm finally getting you know groove with it and that took like 13 years, you know, so It's a that's a intimidating Large number right people who are like just getting into it. Yeah, but I think it's also cool like hopefully cool, you know where Stamped medium billbar for instance like he didn't get anything for 10 years in and then Louis black We're reference but like I love Louis black growing up still like him and he was in his 50s, you know like Mark Marin was in his 40s before he got so I always think it's cool when people who are like older, you know like yeah, I Get the things so yeah, I also was so young when I started when I was like 15 so I can only be so good at something I feel like at 15 so those were years where none of the material was gonna stay I wasn't mature enough to have a point of view really worth speaking about yet But that was time learning about the business and how like what not to do like oh I learned when I was 15 not to run the light, you know where when people who start Later, it's like oh, I ran the light at like you know in my 30s and then that's just a bad look So all right, so that's that's the the red light that it flashed when your times out Yeah, so when you're like usually if you have a minute left and you're staying upset They'll like show you a little light in the back and then you're supposed to like get off stage and and it's not a Rude thing it's you're a lot at a amount of time on stage just say you're doing 10 minutes They'll give you the light at nine and you start wrapping up, but when you don't start wrapping up, it's fucking rude And it affects everybody else because people who go on later, you know the audience will be more tired or Their time will have to be cut, you know, so it's just it's just out of respect You wrap up and I learned early on seeing how people would react to people who didn't respect That light, I feel like oh, even as a kid, I know that that's a gospel you can't do that, you know Have I done it since then? Of course, but I have really funny things to say But yeah, it's just stuff you learn about the business and like oh, if I hang out here Then I have a better chance of getting a spot, or you know that sort of thing right like it doesn't matter How good you are like maybe matters if your Dave should pal like oh, I let you pal go Not that he's coming to open mic nights, but like he will randomly come in on a show where they usually have Even like a show you have certain time limits, right? Whether it's yeah 15 minutes half hour yeah even with hint like I've seen my favorite thing in the world is one of very famous Successful comic drops in on a show and only does 10 to 15 minutes because they could do 45 they could do an hour, but it fucks with everybody else on the show where I heard about a show that was like this showcase for Montreal, which is this a norm like the biggest comedy festival and for Newer up-and-coming comedians. It's one of the biggest things that you can get early in your career and comedians like like Moshe Cacher who's incredibly funny and like successful and then I think Kumeil Nanjiani was on the showcases well who just hosted SNL was incredibly funny and successful They were showcasing for that and they remembered I Legendally do not remember what the comics name was who's way less successful than they are now Dropped in and bumped all of them back on like one of the biggest nights showcasing for this of their lives and they don't forget it like you never Forget that so if not to be respectful towards others, you know To be you know just because that's the right thing to do Don't be an asshole because it'll fuck your career up because years later these people are gonna be making Oscar Or nominated films and you won't get an audition for it because you're a prick. You know Yeah, it's very easy to screw up your reputation. All this is one thing. It's true. And then people even if that was like a Like I think you'll get by with an honest mistake, but if people's peg you as oh that guy's an asshole Oh, that guy doesn't like respect other people's time Then it's very hard to you have to work extra hard to get rid of that reputation for sure for sure And I sometimes Cheer for people who actually do turn that around and put the work in but it's rare You know like if you're an asshole, generally You don't grow and become not an asshole right you got a little eyelash right there. Oh, do I thank you Yeah, I'm a sucker for the details. I love it Yeah, you got it. Okay. I did a interview with Dan Harris for Minimalism and he had a piece of hair on his shoulder for the whole interview It was horrible when I was looking I didn't see it in the moment and then later when I'm editing because I was interviewed Dan Harris I was like nervous right when I'm like just thinking I'm in my head my whole time And I'm like oh shit like the hair is a hair there. Yeah, I know always whatever else occurs with my body If you're at this police feel free to point it out Your eyes leaking. Oh, yeah, no, that's that's I'm just crying Don't worry I'm crying. It's totally normal. Yeah Why like what what got you in the stand up at 15 like why did you decide to pursue it? I loved it and I had incredibly supportive parents and still do They really did a 180 after my first album they stopped for help. Yeah, they I live it's funny a lot of comics they say oh my my parents, you know, they were fucked up and that's why I'm this this comic or whatever and not necessarily in that voice, but I had incredibly supportive parents and My mom was trying to give me a life skill. I guess or a thing to do and my options were there was this thing called Mainline school night Outside of Philly where it's for adults really at night to take night classes at like a local high school or whatever They bring in some sort of teacher and For me my options where I could learn how to play golf Like for you know to make business deals I could learn thank you. Yeah, they wanted to give me something and they were like all you can learn to play golf or You can take like a dance class or something like getting into dance is funny. These are my I'm involved in football Or Beyond right right yeah, we're very limited We're working within a frame where and then the other option was they offered a stand-up comedy class and I always watch Like premium blend, you know, it was the comedy central show for up-and-coming comics at the time and I love stand-up So I'm like oh, I want to take this class Which was really now thinking back on it Shocking that I thought I could just do it. I guess but where but that would be my advice is if you wanted to stand up just do it So I took this class and it was taught by like a local, you know comedian and at the end You don't really learn much, you know, they make you like right jokes and come to class and perform them and then they also Teach you like oh the first on a three person show the first person is the host and they do 10 minutes And they warm up the crowd the next person's the middle and they do 20 to 25 Oh, it was just very logistical stuff which Was a good lesson and then but the most important thing is they made you do a graduation show and That's when at the end of it you perform five minutes at like they produce a comedy show It'll like the attic of a local bar and then you and all the new people perform and then they have like an experience headliner like the local comic and stuff So it was a really good thing because once I did it I was like I baked shit Like a maniac but I was so into it like I didn't even know like or care that I bomb it like I am a stand-up comedian now And I would do an open mic once a month because I was still in high school So I couldn't drive some my mom would take me to and you know this when you first start out doing stand-up You were talking about that like weird manny young thing you don't get to do the best shows like you'll perform anywhere So at I did a show when I was a sophomore in high school at Fuck what was it um in a basement at the show started at 10 30 at night on like a Tuesday And it was in the basement of a bar in Philly my mom took me there and it was called bar noir Do you remember that place? It was strange. It was so strange. It was this weird variety show It was an open mic also and it was hosted By a trans person named needles Jones and it was like just a culture shock But my mom just took me and she was like hit on by some fucking drunk at the bar because who else would be out at that part at time? Right, oh wow there's no woman right right over the fuck is that The hell I'm a mom yeah The dress properly right. Yeah. She's not wearing a fucking shredded band T-shirt So um and yeah, I started doing that and then I did a thing called a bringer show Which is when you first start out. It's a very predatory fun thing comedy clubs do where They'll have new comics you have to bring at least four or five paid audience members There's somewhere you have to bring up to 20 and like New York and they pay $20 a ticket to watch terrible stand-up comedians for like you know and obviously so many people have become successful from that But it is totally predatory and younger comics, but you need stage time So I brought for my friends and like their parents because they couldn't get into the comedy club without their because they were also like 18 or nine What 17 I guess at the time and I did like New Talonite at Rascals and Cherry Hill New Jersey I don't know if that was there when you were there, but Excuse me um they yeah, I did it with a now one of my best friends Pat Barker who was who's his first show You know like comedy club show too. So Yeah, I just kept doing it and then eventually I was able to drive myself to shows and I would do it like a few times a week I guess like after school and then Yeah, I just couldn't stop doing it Were there any early bombing experiences that stick with you that were particularly memorable of course? Yeah, there was one I think I made an email to you about this, but like there was a show that I did where you just I get like this is the Ambition like where my skill was not caught up to my ambition where I was I saw like an Post in this silly comedy group or whatever about a show in the pokingos and And they were looking for a feature act which is someone who does 25 minutes to a half an hour Usually before the headliner and I said I can do that and they're like can you work clean and I didn't like have any dirty jokes really I'm like yeah, of course. I may have had five I may have had five minutes At most so I had to do five times that but in my head I'm like oh I can do crowdwork, you know Whatever ever I know but never in my mind was this a bad idea right you know I'm like yeah, I could do crowdwork for 25 minutes I can't do that I can bear I can maybe do that now and it won't go well, you know and that's like an An additional eight years of skills big build up so and also the pokingos They're not gonna fucking like me, you know, so I was like some like just kind of sending 19-year-old you know From the suburbs so I go up there and The headliner was a ventriloquist why wouldn't it be sure? And the host crushed with just like Homephobic racist awful material and I'm like I and that's when I'm like oh, I'm in trouble And I went up and I did my five minutes of material and I was really trying to stretch it and it it was over My five minutes were over in three because that five minutes was factored and laughter of which there wasn't any So oh and it was in a like a lot of ski lodge in the fucking pokingos Boken is it's just a horseshit area. Yeah, it's hard. Yeah, it's really bad. I'm gonna poke in a zoo not go there And I just ate shit and I did another like I just did really bad crowdwork no one was listening I was being heckled and I was it was so bad and I was being paid in cash like that and I had to do that material and I did Maybe 11 minutes at most and I just got off the stage and Afterwards This first of all the man who booked me He goes like You told me you had 25 to a half an hour. You did it like barely to 10 and I'm like I'm really sorry and he paid me anyway Which was like the most devastating I think oh my god. Oh, you won't have to Like it was and I've been not paid for gigs that I Murdered at you know, it's like later in my career, but it was just like it was just so devastating and then The man the ventriloquist Like started giving me shit that like backstage Through one of his puppets so he was being mean to me He goes like oh Jimmy like oh Jimmy what would you think of that sent me like oh that guy fuck it sucks And I'm like you're making fun like I understand the puppet isn't making fun of me You're making fun of you know, it was just like such a That's just an icing on the cake. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I think I like died three years ago Yeah, it was just a such an experience where I did the wrong I think that was the worst part where I bombed So many times, but that was a hundred percent my fault, you know and I think that's where I was like Reckless and irresponsible with that shit right there are gonna be times when there are always gonna be times We have to push yourself. I remember Bill Bertalkin about this where he's like you're always gonna be doing shows Where you feel like you're not prepared or you're not ready for it. Yeah, but you always have to push yourself to do it Maybe that's one of the cases where you It's like the exception to the rule But maybe push yourself the extra mile, but not like you know across the country Yeah, like maybe an extra of you know five minutes on top of a 20 minutes set that you're All right, maybe I can like not five to five times longer five times longer. That's tough. Yeah. Yeah. It was bad Yeah, but it's really whatever It put me through college right. Is that how long did that like sting for did you like Did that have any effect on you as as a comedian or were you like keep going put your head down Get the work it didn't that I was I like you just said put a a ceiling on shows gigs that I would claim that I was able to do so before that I mean obviously I said I could do 30 I had five we're now on like yeah, you know like if they say 10 You know I could do eight You know what I mean so that made me never do that again. Right, and yeah, even when I like started doing colleges and shit I didn't know if I had a clean hour and that was the thing where I could stretch like that at that point I had the skills to stretch but I Was like nervous for my first show where I was like oh shit is this gonna be a poke in a situation and that was like eight years later You know, so yeah, it was it's definitely had a lasting effect where it was a huge huge lesson One hour must have been a huge milestone to be able to get that much material Although I guess at that point does it just creep up on you where you're not really as impressed with yourself I feel like probably the first five minutes you ever create that work Are probably way more challenging to do than once you kind of push it to an hour I think what it is is that when you have in a lot of the amount of time you get the light earlier than you think You know, which is really good. So if you lose track if you still have material left over and you see like oh I have two minutes left and you think yourself oh shit that went by so quick then that's when it starts getting pretty cool So for instance when you first start out you have shorter sets So you usually do like five to seven minutes when you first start and I remember I remember Jesus What accident is that? Know what in my family it's from wherever people speak like remember all the rest of my words are normal But yeah, we just say premium. Yeah, I'm gonna have to use the word recall instead just simplify it But I yeah when I first had that five minute set and I still had material that I planned to do leftover where I couldn't do it. I was like oh cool I don't have to be nervous about hitting my five minute mark anymore and then that happened with an hour And now recently like maybe in the past year and a half I could I mean I have two hours recorded you know like for purchase soon so it's not only do I have you know that hour I can do like 40 minutes without I mean I'll sweat from like being out of shape But like I will like it's not that's the thing that actually I've issues Accepting like or being in the moment and being like oh, this is a cool milestone I should appreciate this but that I did appreciate where I remember to the time when I would stress out about not being able to hit You know the amount of time. I was a lot of to do and now I can hit it without you know Even really thinking because just from building up that material over the years it just goes by quicker I want to talk about This album that you have called 12 years of voicemail from Todd last year. Yeah, yeah, what do you think about oh One of the most creative things I've ever seen. Oh cool. I finished listening to it this morning Fucking hilarious. So funny. Thank you What how do you even describe what first of all? Why you don't pick up your phone ever? Like how many was the percentage? That's great the times that you picked up your phone when he called you're like Shit Todd's calling again. Oh better. That's really fun. What we're now like I never want to pick up my phone no matter who's calling I mean Todd's in like an exception because he's one of my close friends, but Then because it's I started out saving them because I was 15 or 16 and I met Todd class after a show at helium and fill it, Elfia and I was a huge fan of his from last comic standing and He's always been very supportive of younger comics. So Chipped-chantry introduced us chip was just hosting back then and he was oh, this is you know Blake he's Young comic just started doing comedy and Todd was like hey here's my number if you ever need advice give me a call just so nice So I started saving them because he was so famous to me that if I missed a call from him I had a heart attack like I was just like oh my god I missed it my careers over you know even at like I'm in my parents house. You know so I saved them initially because I was Thinking holy shit this community and this comedian that I love has left me has left me these boys males and I just want to keep them and show them to my friends like I would like you know faux bragglers Hey Todd glass off me another boys male, you know, so I save them and then I also just save voice males in general like my Kind of morbid, but it's oh if this person dies I want to have their voice, you know, so I save all my parents. I've saved Sweet ones from like my best friends and stuff so I do have a catalog, but Todd's were different in that they were also so funny that I started saving them as like oh How cool is this Todd glass is leaving me boys males to oh? I'm gonna listen to these later because they make me laugh, you know and I kept Saving those and then I guess like it got to the point where I mean he would call me because if there was a time difference I was still living on the east go So I guess he would call me it and I like he was high in board so he like all he knew how much is like High school college kid would appreciate it so he just leave a long boy's been when I'd wake up, you know To it so that's how it started and then I just kept saving them and I like put them on a hard drive and After a certain period Todd was actually rift I don't think we included this one but he rift on a voice male and then like totally forgot about it Goes like like I hope you're saving these we can make millions and then that became I'm like oh shit We're not gonna make millions but this could be a cool CD or an album at some point and then I just kept saving them and after a Period of time we talked about Releasing the thing and then that's actually when I we stopped including them kind of in the album because he became slightly Self-aware or self-aware enough where we didn't want it to like hurt the album You know what I mean? Yeah, the worst thing in the world would be is if I released an album where the person knew I was saving it, you know, so Todd obviously didn't know for our album But even later he'd be like oh like actually leave a voice male totally naturally and afterwards He'd be like oh you got to put this on the CD But even though it was still natural I didn't want that thought to creep into people's head so I just didn't even include those So there were probably 20 or 30 that weren't included either because There were a few for that reason or he like we talked shit on a comedian I was actually wondering if there are certain things where you're like you ran it by I mean you you guys all like listen to it and Kind of put the structure together, but then realizing I probably shouldn't put that in the album Yeah, there were a few where we made fun of like a comic and a bad comic and We obviously weren't going to include that and then there were a few where there were some jokes that like Would make sense between like you know, it would be like an edgy joke between friends, you know But for someone who didn't know like our politics or you know how progressive we are with certain things if you heard it in a vacuum Over those guys making fun of the right thing, you know, so we're on why even like include something like that so Yes, so we would cut those I'm trying to think if there's anything else we cut But yeah, it was mostly like oh we don't want it like make fun of anyone and We just if it's out of context we don't want people because that was the thing too where When you joke around with friends you say things that you would not say in front of other people and Like not because you believe in it, but you'd be making fun of someone you know But people may not get that so they were voicemails that were for one audience and I think that's what made it kind of cool Where Todd would leave voicemail. This wasn't for the masses He literally just did this for me, you know, so he could make references like name like a best friend of mine You know that like isn't in the entertainment business? You know he works in office job You like oh, yeah, you know, and then that guy comes in and I'm like how does he know that like he's making fun of my friend But if he did it on a special heat-happening a famous person, you know, but it was just totally Specifically tailored to me So yeah, and but also I think people appreciate that and then a bunch of other Kind like Roy Skobel who's incredible had texted me afterwards and he goes dude I saved Todd's voicemails for two years and I lost it like on a phone So I think he's done this with so many other people, but I'm the only one neurotic enough to Right well, I Right we have to I think I want you to kind of describe How these voicemails are so funny because I think it also probably helps to describe Todd glass his personality his humor Just so insane and over the top and just so good at like riffing and And there's almost like a dynamic to these as well and like obviously as like the mentor mentee Like giving you shit like I would yeah, maybe describe Todd and as well as the relationship between you guys very good hosting So Todd Todd is like one of the silliest people in the world and he loves the best way I can put it is that he loves to play and He can always like We've had incredibly you know like intelligent philosophical, you know like conversations and serious conversations But he loves to do bits and be silly all the time so We he'll call me and pretend to be like like he's crying after our audition and then you're like Like I'm so sorry I'm crying because I just went on audition They said I couldn't cry good and it's like oh he just did that like he woke up and then had this bit and but there was no one around for him The like had like be silly with so he just called someone Does it it's not going in his act like he's now it's literally I think he has all this pent-up silliness that he needs to get out He did it in the form of voicemails so it would be ones like that where he would do a character or he would act Like pissed off at me where early on He I was going back to Philly maybe a year or two after I moved out here and he was doing a podcast with It's comic I believe it was Julian and then James Husky who's hysterical and Todd was doing their podcast and I couldn't do their podcast when I was in town And Todd basically leaves me a voice might go but I got a bone to pick with you You're canceling on people you're you aren't you ain't shit I could do this podcast so you could I'm Blake waxed all right come back to Philly now I'm canceling on people You know, so it's a really funny thing where it's like oh this really successful comedian is Just making fun of me like he would make fun of me for being a college, you know He would like bully me for not dropping out and just doing stand up, you know, so yeah, I would say it's part Crazy silliness part him silly bullying me and then also part just him getting really high and then just talking for five minutes Then the album did really well. I mean, he went to number one on iTunes. That's got to be pretty cool. Yeah, it was cool Yeah, I think it charted it on the billboard chart was really cool like I don't know if it actually I didn't follow up on that But yeah, it did it was just really cool. It's just a thing where that had more sentimental Qualities to me I guess because it is a thing that two people because it also shows the chronology of a friendship where like you said the beginning is Like mentor mentee and then it ends where you know like Todd and I are like incredibly close now and he even gives me There's this voice mail where he gives me this amazing like breakup advice where I went through you know a brutal breakup like everyone does But he just left this really really sweet voice mail and it's just a cool thing where it starts out where he's leaving tickets for my dad and I at helium And it kind of gets to the point where oh He's not just some mentor anymore like this guy is calling his friend to like help him through like a tough Situation and that's obviously intermixed with like just the silliest bullshit in the world, but there is like some sweetness to it too Yeah, yeah, and I think that's kind of I think that's like the nice thing that's a balance is like You could just be hilarious and then at some point like oh shit like this is this is real like yeah Vice in here one of my favorite ones is the the Markmarin one after he's a Markmarin podcast Favorite one too. Yeah, because like pretty I don't I didn't follow it when it happened But I guess is that when he came out? Yeah, Markmarin's podcast. Yeah, so Todd is like incredibly Inspirational to a lot of people where Todd came out later in life So and he did it on Markmarin's podcast because and think some of the reasons where Todd is such a Funny like personal comedian on stage, but he would never talk about you know He would say oh like my girlfriend might you know like whatever whatever And then he wanted to come out on you know this great forum and he was So nerd like he was so nervous about the drop of it and he had never like we had never really discussed it before Obviously, you know just like oh yeah, like I mean I have so many friends where I don't meet You know their girlfriends are like their partners or whatever So and also like don't give it shit. So oh yeah, I'm at Todd's and we're just hanging out and I never you know had any idea or care You know like which You know about a sexuality or whatever so He calls me Leading into the like after he had recorded Marin like that podcast where he was gonna come out because he wanted to come out to me before it Released and he calls me because like I have something you know big to tell you like like long You come over night and then we'll go hang out at the improv and in my selfish mind I don't know if I ever told the story before I thought that he had gotten a TV show and I was gonna write on So I'm like I'm like already like ready to buy sneakers and stuff like I'm like already have like my funds All okay, so I'm going to spend it on and I'm going over there. I'm like I'm a fucking writer This is the shit and I go over and then Todd Like you know he goes like like I'm and then he like was nervous about even saying and I'm like The proud new one of a television show like what are you like what are you and then he said I'm And then I'm like and then it hit my mind like oh and I just like went over and gave him a big hug He goes like get the fuck away But yeah, it was a really really fun thing and then he started doing this bit about When you came out on Marin's podcast that Marin had actually tricked him and that he wasn't Actually out of the closet so he like at the improv that night Mark Mark Marin was actually there and I was like eating dinner with Todd and Mark came over and he goes he says the title goes Oh, Todd is this I mean as I'd like just to give Todd shit and then Todd like only a few people knew what Todd was talking about But he was wandering around the improv is going like by the way everyone just so you know Mark Marin lies He lies and the people who got it like the four of us who understood what he was talking about We're crying laughing because it's the most vulnerable silly thing in the entire world if you haven't listened that episode When Todd did Mark Marin you have to do it's like really really vulnerable and personal and great So yeah, but that's the Mark Marin boy smell that you were talking about where He leaves the boys. I was just going like Mark Marin tricked me and I went on there to talk about how much I love girls And he edited it like to make it so you know how we worked Barrett's obviously a guy that I've a huge fan of and like had so much respect for so that was a cool thing as a fan of comedy also where you just kind of do You know like a high shot like on to your life and just be like oh shit Who would have thought when I took that class you know in lower marion Pennsylvania I'd be sitting at a table with these two like heroes of mine at some point and then hopefully I have that thought over and over and over again It's like you know my career keeps going, but yeah, that was a moment that was really really super cool and Also just incredibly you know kind and Todd to involve me and so yeah, it's a cool it's a cool thing. I'm glad it did well. So you released that album self-published Right, yes, yeah, and then is that the same for the past two albums that one that you just recorded and then the previous one They're all the previous one. I released myself as well This next one. I'm doing through a label So yeah, what's the decision making there? Why do a label versus Creating it and putting it out yourself so the first So when I did it the first time myself I I don't think anyone want it to release it or I didn't ask anyone I think to I think I think for my first out my ask comedy central if they do it and they said no So as they should have and The album's great, but like I had not been on there in that work yet and just wouldn't have made sense So like all right, well if they're not gonna do it. I should just do it myself because Are they gonna add more than they're taking away? I think is the question that I asked myself so I was ready to do it I didn't really want to wait. I wanted to do it. It was just ready. So I worked with a guy named Alex Dingley and Philadelphia who's great and I think he does the sound for the Eagles and he's produced like a couple stand-up albums over there and Also control to help where I just like spent all the money myself, you know, and It was the kind of thing where my goal was just to break even so it was About making money at all actually a very few of the things that I did Taking money and yeah, that I did because I had total control over it and it was my first one and Yeah, so it was both my decision and decision was made for me as well just to do it on my own and I love doing it I had like Experience producing things so I knew how to produce which was good and that came out well and The Todd and I thing his manager shop did a few places, but it was just ready to go and I mean this album We also kind of got a little impatient where we've been doing this essentially for 12 or 13 years You know, and we've been working on it for a year and a half of like we'd get busy And we didn't want to sit down and you know go through it. So I think the point came where why don't we're splitting it? You know like like whatever the numbers are splitting if it's between each other You know the profits where it's like well, why split it another way? You know like already especially if I know how to do everything so Yeah, we just released it ourselves and for me selfishly like The album I helped make that album great, but the album's gonna sell because it's Todd you know So Todd has such a large following that Whatever PR a label could put behind it. There's you know Todd being retweeted by like Sarah Silverman or you know Jimmy Kimmel or something No one is going to match that or be worth you know the 50% that they would take for doing that. So It just made sense to do ourselves and We released it through this thing called like tune core. I guess is what it's called where it's the service If you want to put out like an album it's fucking easiest. I mean like it has to sound good But yeah, you just pay 50 bucks and they distributed it to iTunes Amazon YouTube Pandora and it collects royalties for you, which is great. So yeah, we just did that and then this album I didn't feel like paying for it myself and I wanted to see what the experience would be like to release it with a label So yeah, that's what I'm curious about Like technically speaking why decided to put it on Spotify was that immediately right away You put it on Spotify as well as everything else or yeah, and then because obviously I mean, I was gonna buy it But then I was like oh, it's on Spotify. Yeah, no, and then I didn't support you No, I'll probably got a 0.05 cents from that so don't worry about it No, so it's also I think when people offer to pay an exposure. It's also it's often incredibly insulting But yeah for me for that first album I just needed more people to know like what I am you know where I don't do sketches like I don't have a vlog or you know Some week with YouTube shows so that for me is people Stumbling across me if they're listening to you know Pandora or Spotify and they see my stuff like that was a thing where as long as I mean So my goal was for me to have something out that people could hear Where I don't put it now I've put like clips from that album online You know because I didn't want to burn the material, but also It's yeah, it's how much money can I make in the long run versus how much is it costing me so that probably costs You know in Spotify, you know like terms where that's gonna cost me you know like hundreds and hundreds of dollars Probably but so many more people are gonna hear about me where Probably now or a few years for now. I wouldn't put it on Spotify where it's like oh people know who I am And I'm putting this out for people who like my stuff and to make money, you know, so that was my goal was not to Keep that I tune you know or someone would buy it on iTunes. I make more money off of it Yeah, and it's interesting like people you know have found me through that album, which is a Mystery to me, you know where I can see where people listen to it on The service that I use and I like people is oh shit Surprising amount of people listen to me in New Zealand on Spotify and I don't know if I you know Tour in New Zealand, but it's cool at some point where if not symbolically that oh yeah people So many more people are hearing it. Yeah, makes sense. No, I think it's a balance between exposure and money Yeah, I'm in that same boat too where right now I'd rather have more exposure. I'd rather have more people listening to the podcast Right then you know try to make money or try to like say all right, maybe if I optimize this a little bit I'll make like an extra couple hundred bucks a month. It's like let's just put it out And that's a that's the decision you make anytime you're gonna distribute something whether you put it on Netflix If you're lucky enough to get there or Hulu or wherever you're like all right There's a bound if I put this on Amazon Prime It's probably not gonna get as many views as if I put it on Netflix right the money might be different right like these other platforms that aren't as big Might be willing to pay more money. So I think that's a decision you have to always make and like you said once you have an audience built up Then you can kind of put it anywhere because your audience is gonna find you. Yeah, you know, you then you're sacrificing Oh, I can make more money, but I'm probably not gonna get a lot of new audience coming in from it Yeah, and it differs for Ed like for everyone like for where I'm at you know like like what's right for you could change in Weeks or months, you know after a certain point is like yeah, I don't I'm not gonna put this out for free anymore and you don't have to but Yeah, it's a bad example what you said is just do I want to make money like what do I want out of this and I think that's the most important thing for people to Think about when they're creating things where just what do I want out of this and it sounds like such An easy question, but it is it totally influences like how well or how happy you are with the way You know does right because I think that's you're you're setting your expectations for it as well And then stuffed boy that I did the real label because I want to see how that affects my career where Will more people listen to it so Also, I didn't have to pay for anything up front, which is really great like they paid for my audio engineer They paid for the girl designing it where and these are people who have done free stuff for me in the past Like we were talking about earlier, but now I could get them money which meant something to me because Again, they were probably like I don't even fucking remember doing that for you But I'm like I need this person did something for me four years ago. They deserve money for that And now I can afford to get that money. Does that make sense? So that mattered to me and then also The quality of the audio engineering the quality of the design of it are going to go up because where if I was paying it for it myself I'd be like and do I want to pay $500 this person or could I get it done for 250 you know, where I don't even have to think about that So it's through rooftop comedy which is owned by audible and they have a lot of money to do PR and stuff Which I don't have the same PR. So for instance, I can ask Todd to retweet You know like o-ling to the album, but I don't have access to that next level where like with the Todd album People with millions of followers would tweet it out, but for me I get bump down to I mean bump down to like 100,000 or something you know, which is still incredible But they can help me reach a larger audience than I would be by myself so that mattered a lot to me I think I had another question But I can't remember That's okay because I just swallowed directly into the mic I gotta stop. I gotta I'm trying to get to a point where I just I'm so good where I don't have to edit things out Yeah, I had it on strong stuff right like this. I'm gonna edit it out. Right, right Probably but now that we said it. I'm probably I think you have to keep it in now You said that in your album. I think you're like totally cutting this out. Yeah, and you left it in Well, that was the thing I did with this album. Is that how it was mostly just straight material where this next one that's coming out stuff to boy is Is a lot of riffing like I actually do mater like not even jokes that I haven't done like I'll comment on things in the moment of Something I fuck up or some sort of I reference Todd in the beginning, you know, where You don't hear any of Todd stand up all you hear someone introducing me and then I riff about Todd for a few minutes where that was a thing for this album that meant a lot to me to one of the things I my like writing with stand up has like gotten pretty good, but I think what separates me is my ability to riff and like being the moment and You know, just be really loose on stage. So if I just do straight material like I'm not gonna be as good as I am if that makes sense So there's a there's I'm so proud of all the material on it, but I think it would have I would have done myself with the service in terms of my skill set to not like riff and stuff and I think that'll make it Better and I didn't do that on the first one. Was this one night one recording? Yeah, and like a lot of times Especially if it's a film set right comedians will do three to five yeah a lot of pressure to just have one show Yeah, well, I mean obviously not easy to just fill up Multiple shows right um, but There is added pressure there right yeah for sure with that so even the audio record I'm one of the only people that I know who only does one Okay, I only did one in Philly and I only did one for this one and it is a thing where I prepare so much that In my my ideally I could do more than one so if I didn't fill it, I would probably do multiple shows Now, but I didn't know I and I was telling you before I was worried that no one was gonna come in a light and it was selling out thank I but if I did too like oh, what I'm gonna have you know a hundred at one and then 20 What's the fucking point so for me personally my head is if I'm not gonna nail this by now I'm just not gonna you know what I mean like that's why it wasn't nervous about it either because it's like all right This is either as good as I think it's gonna be or I'm delusional and no matter what it's gonna suck So let's just fucking do it right now I don't rooftop has to deal with it. Yeah, all right. Let them add in canned laughter, you know, applause That's their problem all right Let's do let's do some questions here. I took some questions from Instagram. Hell yeah If you guys want to ask questions, this is you could follow me on Instagram follow him on Instagram. I have to follow you I think I don't even know I think I added you today and I didn't follow you. I'm gonna Let me see I love it following you now my favorite like my favorite bit in the world is To like like be following someone on Twitter and then like as they're having a conversation walk up to them Hit unfollow That's really good. It's my favorite. It's just weird. Yeah, you could just do that randomly and screw with them Or you could also do it when like they said something you didn't like right all right You know what I find them. That's it. How's that feel? I love people that are like can you believe this person this person and follow like I've been a couple people like get really upset right. I'm like I think I don't know I don't even look at that Especially on Instagram. It's kind of hard you have to go through and find out if somebody unfollow you Yeah, yeah, that you can't even know but yeah It is that's a maturity thing. We're now. I'm like you can't let that affect you because it does like It used to get in my head. Oh my god Yeah, if it's like a comedian or somebody respect they follow you and you feel is really great And I'll send you like look back later and you like right they unfollowed me what did I do? What did I say? I have to reevaluate my last however many years when did they unfollow me? Was it years ago? Was it recently? When did I fuck off? Yeah, I've had people call me out for it. Oh, did Matthew villagers unfollow me? Yes, I did. Yeah, I did because you act like that. Yeah, exactly because you're yeah You'd get upset about it. I had there's a couple people like you know you do my do this for X's or whatever I just like block them and mute them. Yeah, yeah, but then I'm still like well, what's the point? Right just unfollow but I'm non-confrontational. I don't like getting in confrontation So I'm like I will just just just to save that awkward all right like I literally saw one of my X's In like my hometown. I was walking with my girlfriend and then I saw my X With a guy walking down the other side of street and I was like, oh, we're gonna turn around and walk the other way Yeah, why don't you do a bit and it was a loop and then we ended up running into it You just walked around a traffic circle for three days. I was like I've got to go. I got to go into this cigar shop I got like the band needs to get out of there to start smoking Yeah, and then I've been smoking for eight years now. Oh, wow. Yeah, I got my habit right all right I got a question here from Henry where is he from he doesn't say he's a filmmaker He said we'd love to know how comedians figure out where the line is people always talk about how good How good comedies getting close enough to the line, but not crossing it, but I've always found and I've always found that similar To documentary interviewing we both get the most effective in genuine responses for my subjects audiences by finding that line getting real close to it But not crossing it for me personally I've a different opinion on this where I do think you can talk about literally anything I don't But I think a comedian can make literally anything funny if you're responsible and you people know what your point of view is So I think being the more edgy a topic is the more difficult it is to make it funny So say like You have a joke about like a national tragedy or something like that you have to put So much work into you need to make sure you're Not making this is this is my opinion this is how I would approach that and also I just wouldn't tell the joke is this is too much work So you would have to make sure you're not hurting the victims You need to make sure This I would make sure I wouldn't be hurting victims. I would make sure that Someone who just saw it in a vacuum wouldn't be like oh what the fuck is this Blake wax We're promoting you know like bombings and stuff and then I would also make sure that It's like more clever than it is Edgy or like shitty does that make sense? So right is because especially early on It's a tendency to be like oh, let me here's my abortion joke here's my 911 joke And then you just kind of like do it because of shocking or it's it is crossing the line in a way Yeah, but it's not Like yeah, if you're if you're writing a joke about a tragedy like that it needs to be So funny you can't not tell it. Yeah, it needs to be real like a brilliant and for me I don't talk about that stuff because I'm like it's hard enough to come up with material that is funny, you know like and and like Even I'm not like an edgy comic, but like or like I'll like swear and maybe say something like I shouldn't say everyone's a while But it's always silly or whatever where it's hard enough to come up with that material that I wouldn't have to defend You know where why would I put all this effort into a joke where even if done perfectly it could still hurt someone So for me, I just don't shoot at that basket. You know, I just I think that you can I just think it's too much work Totally I think it's too much work and I think the the lack of benefit does not or yeah I think like the harm that could do totally outweighs any benefit because to me is like oh best case scenario You just told a great joke like I have a lot of great jokes. Hopefully, you know, so why tell that one? That's just my point of view, but I think with comedians in general You have the right to say everything that you want and I think that people have the right to not like it Are there certain comedians that can get away with stuff more than others can where it's like They can approach certain topics That it would be more difficult for others to approach yes, and I think there's two ends of this spectrum I think um one is shitty edgy comedians who you expect shitty garbage from and they're audience like shitty garbage And they'll love it and they can get away with it because they're not losing intelligent fans You know, so I think a lazy comedian can get away with it and I think the opposite in the spectrum of brilliant You know progressive intelligent comedian can get away with it as well Because you know how smart they are you know where they're coming from and they have the skill set to make it funny So I don't know is a weird example, but like I don't know if John Mulaney has oh John Mulaney did a really funny bit At the IFC awards I think that he hosted with Nick Crowell where they did a Harvey Weinstein joke and That's a tough subject because this kissing bit made so many great Because he is at all monster, you know who is ruined people's lives But they took him down where I I'm gonna butcher the joke, but they made fun of him in a way Where like oh, yeah, you know like Harvey Weinstein's tombstone is just gonna say XXL on mark Something and so they're making they're punching up. They're making fun of the bad person and They you know where they're coming from where I believe in the same Monologue or act that they were doing like they were pumping up, you know like women's rights and the me two movement So they accomplished two things they said something very funny and clever You knew where they were coming from because like you know their politics and they know that you know They're like pro women and anti harassment and They punched and took out the monster and we're making fun of the victims So yeah, I think that's probably the best example. I can come on Yeah, I think Ricky Jervais is most recent album or his special on Netflix. I'm seeing that. I haven't watched it Yeah, yeah, there's a lot in there. Well, he's he's he toes the line. He definitely crosses the line But I think that's a nice and funny, but I think also like you said when you know the person and you know They're joking. You know there's sense of humor. You can get away with a lot and it's I think Yeah, it's hard to say like I feel like there is no line. The only line like you said is If it's funny people you could say whatever you want to say yeah people can react how were they when we react? If you're just getting started out maybe They're in the same question because they may not know like that goes from to the point of them knowing where you're coming from Because if you just started they're not that familiar with you yet So you can accomplish it over like your career where oh, I've seen his work or her work I know where she's coming from or he's coming from or in a set if you've established credibility 20 minutes into a 40 minute set. They'll be like, oh, I trust this person now you can make that joke Or if you made that joke early on in the set it probably wouldn't do well. Yeah, and you the crowd might turn on you right right All right cool. We got Andy here He said was literally just thinking about this in the shower Okay, that's good now. I just want to set the context right. What do you have for me now? All right, let's think about you Where's the line between a similar joke another comedian has used that you can use and one that could be seen a Stolen even if by honest accident. Yeah, so that's That's another thing where how much do you love this joke so with that If I have a joke that's similar to another comic, I'll be like nine times at it or like nine point nine times at a ton I'm like, I'll just stop doing it because it's just wow. I'll just write another joke. You know like if it's close I just don't want to deal with The people coming up to me me like oh your joke similar to once this faces and I'd be like oh actually here's why it's different and even Starting to say why it's different like this is exhausting I want to fucking deal with it all right now the joke But I think in general it's pretty Point of view base so if I had a joke about School buses and I'm trying to think of a different and like Dave Chappelle had a joke about school buses Let's just say we had the same level of talent Our jokes would just be different because I have my point of view of how I grew up and like my life and he is his point of view So if it's I think point of view totally changes everything because if you look at some like if you look at Jim Gaffing and said It's all shit that like all comics talk about but the way in which he talks about it is so original that it's you know Like kids food, you know, it's just oh that if you look at his set list you like this is the worst Fucking community. I've ever seen but then you hear him talking like oh he speaks in such a way from his own unique point of view that it like you know is different Like it's changed a lot in terms of how to make it today as a comedian to even when you first started like 12 13 years ago or so Like what has changed in your mind and what's stayed the same like to be able to actually make it as a working comedian I think that they're in about like I'm like I guess relatively young compared to most comics But I do since I've started doing I've listened to billions of hours with a podcast read so many books So I do in addition to doing stand up. I've like I must have become a student Comment which is disgusting. Yeah, it just doesn't sound right. No, it's really bad I get to sentiment that we have to edit and I'm so but I've just consumed so much comedy where Hearing people more successful and experienced than me talk about it. It seems like the difference and from my own point of view that When you used to get a late Oh, I'm sorry. I'm very emotional talking about letter men and a leno You can't see but he's crying. I am very upset when like a Like a late night show when you got like letter men or leno or before that Carson you have a career So if you got that five minutes you were famous and you had just had a career You can tour for now on you can get TV shows where now It's an interesting thing where other things can launch you into that either So no one really cares about late night sets anymore kind of where I had a buddy do cone in in the past few years And he went up to his like reps afterwards and it went great and he's so funny and he goes up to his reps Afterwards and he goes all right guys like what's like okay Where will be where are we meeting next? You know and they're like what the fuck are you talking about like oh No, no, we're gonna set up meetings. You know now because I just did cone. They're like no one cares and my buddy Yes, or Lester who's hysterical had a really really funny comment where he had his own show on MTV and Just he like no like even bookers in L.A. for just unpaid free spot because you know like I had this show on MTV And they're like okay Book you in six months, you know, you just doesn't that doesn't matter but So traditional means I think are way less effective in terms of Launching you to the next phase of your career, but on the flip side because of The internet and because of like you know YouTube and be able to create your own stuff that has even did out if not helped even more where You know the fact that you can do your own podcast and get your own Your own listener base and then also just put something on YouTube and they can go viral or whatever and they can launch you If you have the skills to that next place, so I think it is also very is a weird tangent that I feel very strongly If I put I think YouTube stars are incredibly talented people at that thing so there was a recent over the past couple years a Networks of giving YouTube stars shows and pilots because like A plus B equals C where they're like oh Here is a person who does this B equals they have 10 million views see that will translate to their show that skill and those Audience members, but the issue is that YouTube audiences people who watch stuff online don't necessarily watch it on TV So it's a different totally different medium and The skill set where they're why they're so good on YouTube doesn't translate to a classic you know half-hour show or 45 minutes show So these things kept bombing where there were like a couple of very very successful people because they were great at a bunch of different things But it's you know, I think Mitch headberg had a joke about this or something where it's like if like oh like your Comedian like why don't you can you farm also or whatever? That's not what it is but it's just a totally different skill set Yeah, it's like when he's got to stand up. It was that was he thought that's all he had to do But I had to write I got to produce. Yeah, I got to do all the shit. He's like yeah, exactly what it was so I do think it's cool where Yeah, like you can find that audience and If you're doing it if you're putting the right stuff out there, you know like that will bring in the right audience for you Because I don't think you can just throw anything out there because if you're doing something that you can't sustain then I think that that's That doesn't like help anyone. Yeah, you brought up a good point just about like the paying respect to people who are doing things on certain platforms like YouTube or other rides social media If they do it well like is that something that generally looked down upon with most comedians where it's like oh You're a vine comedian or you're an Instagram comedian. I think like obviously there's certainly people who Just no taste at all like it's like right why is it shit funny like Cuck cuck cuck cuck cuck lean on me like there's quick choppy videos Yeah, and they make a funny face and then the video ends and you're like that's comedy right there Yeah, well comedians look down on everything Like particularly each other like we just constant shit talking So if we hate each other we hate a stand-ups hate improv people stand-ups hate sketch people stand-ups hate fucking vine and all this shit and I like for me It's there people are there's great everything, you know, stand-ups my favorite thing So in my opinion, I think you can be incredibly talented and great on vine or anything But my opinion is that like a bad vine is like or an untalented vine person is Exponentially less talented than an untalented comedian So I think the ceilings are equal but the floors on certain mediums are lower does that make sense That's great. That's a great way to look at it. Yeah, it's like because like it actually says something if you go out and perform stand-up Versus somebody who's just making vine videos that are horrible in their apartment Yeah, yeah, you've been really taking an effort right right, but I would love to be proven wrong like maybe something like Yeah, I guess if you do stand-up you were able to walk and make your way to a stage, you know Like that's where the bar is All right, let's do quick questions and then close up the podcast If you could go back to college graduation What would you change like what would you do differently from that point? Be less hungover Probably I think you could even take it back to drink less Yeah, yeah, no, no, no, no, I would have the same night, but less Bad in the I would yeah Browarder not where like a shirt underneath the robe. I was sweating a lot Um, yeah college graduate. I don't really regret Probably like stop eating and drinking later. You know, um, yeah, I think like I wouldn't change really anything I really lucked out with Emerson where it was so supportive to like people in entertainment and like you know artists where I could go I lived in a dorm and I could go to the basement of my dorm literally taken elevator for 15 seconds and perform in a beautiful black box theater sold out 200 people in in like My pajamas like I we literally did that and so many college students could do that and then you know a so many Emerson kids could just make their own films Cause they had all the equipment and Boston was right there. So I think I was really lucky with that and I I would maybe do even more stand up in Boston I did a lot of stand up around the city, but I think I would have gotten even more into that scene than I did Yeah, that would be the thing I'd change What universal skill that you've learned you think has helped you the most? Um, I think Listening which is weird where or Judging a room so That's the thing from doing this so long that you can tell if something's off and how it affects that where Even if I'm hanging out with a group of people like telling a story just like a bunch of friends Yeah, and I'm telling a story about like some weird thing I saw I can I have a six Sense and I think a lot of people do where I can tell when people start to drift a little bit, you know And that's helped in social situations where it's not a career thing. I'm just less boring And like if I'm pitching a show which is different from stand up in the room I can tell like oh, they need to change like I need to change my energy or keep them engaged somehow So I can tell when people aren't really being engaged, which is a hyper awareness that is often not worth And knowing where it's just if I'm on the phone with a Like a Tech support person if I'm explaining a problem I hear them stop listening to me as I'm talking about why my iPhone doesn't work And I can tell on the phone and then I'll start getting frustrated so it's just the thing like in a perfect world I would just not know that the person in Bangalore doesn't like is bored by me But I'm like I'm like anyway, so how are you you know, and then my thing doesn't get fixed so yeah It's just a stupid. Yeah, I would say that it helps for the most part. Yeah, I almost like a Social awareness I think right like just in the social competence to it's like When you're emailing somebody not trying to get something every single time you like reach out to somebody Right, I think there's just some some basics there. Yeah social graces too. Yeah How do you get through doubt like you've had these experiences where you bombed and you don't do well What keeps you going like how do you get through those periods of doubt? I think just having the next thing Always where I'll always have the next show booked. I'll always have like another idea that I'm working on where I just pitched to show that like didn't go anywhere and I put so much work into it and it did not go anywhere But I had I'm like, okay, I already have the idea for the next one. So like let's just flush that and if I'm famous someday I'll be able to sell it or something. You know like I still have that show, but there is a negative to that where when I Do have successful things. I don't sit in them and appreciate it where I'm programmed to move to the next thing because There is just so much inherent failure in this business where I'm programmed to be like all right That was the thing now. It's like hurry up. Let's do the the next thing before you feel The pain of this failing but even with like my You know like that album that I record stuffed boy like I it was great. It was an amazing night And I literally have not thought about it and It's a thing I need to do because I'm so programmed to but like I've had like a lot of lucky things go My way like I've had like you know enough success that I'm doing well, but You know just by doing this I've had so many failures that Even when something goes well I haven't sat down to think about how great that night was and it happened like a month The go you know, so it's a thing I need to work on yeah, well, that's what we interviewed Rick Hanson for Minimalism and that's one thing he said he's like a neurosecologist, but yeah, basically if you want to be happier It's actually it's easier for us biologically to Have these negative memory stick with us longer. It's like Velcro for the brain like you if something bad happen to you You're like I don't want that to happen again. I'm never gonna forget it and then the good stuff It tends to just bounce off like Teflon and just doesn't it doesn't connect but in order to be happy all you have to do and it's it's easier So then done, but it's a practice of taking those good experiences and just Letting them like sit in them a little bit longer and but wow that was really cool like I'm really appreciative And where it's like you know journaling Frequently where you can like write down like what you appreciate and expressing gratitude Those are the things that are gonna make you happen the long run Easier said than done, but you don't even know but definitely practice yeah, that's really yeah, it's like the thing it's a lot of advice It's just not It's not so straightforward or it's not very easy. It's like, oh, just do this you have a starting point and an end point But you need to get between those points and what will we're a fuck do you go? Yeah, is there any like advice that you've gotten over the years that's really stuck with you to this day my friend Daniel Kino who's a stand up and He gave me advice early on of just when you go into a meeting Be it like a coffee or a show or a podcast like whatever you're doing know what you want out of it And that has just been such great advice So if I'm if I'm doing stand up It's like what do I want out of this set? Do I want to record it for a late night set? Do I want to record it for my college agent? Do I want to work on this new shit that I've never done before and riff and be super silly and record it and listen back to it? Do I just need to get back on stage and get like my legs under me again because I haven't done stand up in a while So let's just do your material and like that's all we need out of it So with stand up it's that with a meeting It's like oh, I want them to know that I'm funny or whatever whatever or is it? Oh, I would need this person to try to buy something from you or you know what I mean or recommend me for something So it depends I think just asking yourself what you want out of something before you do it Is is like the right thing for instance that I want it You know nice coffee in a two waters and I've gotten that you got yeah, I got really that's yeah It's a setting the bar You really yeah expectations so we're there. Yeah, I think what that actually comes to is it's also the action that comes after that Which is your more prepared a lot of people. I don't think prepare enough. That's great going to a job interview Like you need to stand out from everybody else that has taken that job interview interview before you and the only way you're gonna do that is if you prepare Yeah, that's a really good point. All right Two more questions here and we'll wrap up One what's one thing people should start reading or read before they go to bed tonight? I'm just a I just need to shut my head off everyone's in a while and sports help me do that And I've been reading it's a really popular book It's a by this great author Shay Serrano and he writes about sports in a very funny Accessible way where it's like oh, this is a hilarious person who happens to be talking about sports So he I don't know if it's called Book of basketball. It's not called Book of basketball. It's a book about basketball, but like he asked things like oh, what is you know Like is Kobe a nerd you know and he just does this deep dive into everything that He's ever done like is that something a nerd would do you know like oh, but this is a thing that a nerd wouldn't do so It's really really smart and funny. I just realized recently that I should probably stop doing that question before this and final question It's because now I'll ask you what's the best way for people to find you online. Oh I already we already just told them to go somewhere. Oh, it's cool. Yeah, they should go. Not good. Um, all right Let's wrap it up. How should people find you online? Uh, they can find me at Blake Wexler on Twitter Instagram I don't really use Snapchat anymore, but like that also Blake Wexler.com and Yeah, my albums are out there 12 years of away smells from talk last week. Wexler the Blake album is my stand up That's up there and yeah, I think that's I think that's those are the places cool man Thank you for coming on the show. Dude. Thanks for having me That's the podcast this week. Thank you so much for listening don't forget to check out Blake stuff He's super funny. He's got an album coming out very soon All right, see you guys next week
