# Ground Up 022 - The Brightside w/ Michelle D'Avella
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_n5Nq4unupc
http://www.groundupshow.com

Michelle D’Avella is the founder of PushingBeauty.com, author of the upcoming book The Brightside of a Broken Heart, she’s a breathwork teacher, and she’s my sister. We talk about the early days when we first started our businesses, how she approaches change, and she walks me through her breathwork practice.

For more Ground Up go to http://www.groundupshow.com.

Thanks for listening!
**Keywords:** 
**Date:** 2017-08-30

## Transcript
 I'm gonna do it like an intro. Have you ever listened to the show before? I haven't listened any years. I was thinking about that like we don't listen each other shit. Maybe. It's because we like to be like talk to one of those. My guest today is the writer of BehindPushingBeauty.com. She's a breath work teacher. Author of the upcoming book, The Bright Side of a Broken Heart podcast or Instagram or blogger. She's a Twitter or Facebooker. And she's my sister, Michelle Diivella, is in the building. This is the ground up show episode 22. I'm getting good with that. Pretty good. That was good, right? Yeah. And like the music's legit. Yeah, yeah, I like the music too. I like the music too. I don't know, this music's not really nice and so I'm probably gonna get sued. I think the guy's name is Passion High-Fi so check them out. He gives away music for free on, I think it's mostly for YouTube videos. But I'm kind of repurposing it for podcasts slash YouTube videos. It would be happy to get a shout out probably not. That's a whole, it's a very strange world which most people don't care about or even look into is like the licensing of content. Yeah. And unless you're a musician or producer. Right. And then you do look into that stuff. But I know somebody who used to work at one of these old like the licensing companies that's still around today. And he's like, they don't, they don't have legal teams that go out and try to find people to sue them over using content stuff. Yeah. But I think the artist found it, then you might get in trouble. Right. So anyway, thanks for coming on the show. Yeah, my pleasure. Are you excited? I know. You're the first person here in LA last episode. It was my friend Jesse, who you know in Brooklyn. And it's been a while since I've recorded an episode. It's been like three to four weeks, but it's good to get back into the grind to it. Well, because I didn't, I didn't have any word to do it. And as you know, I'm helping Josh and Ryan start up a podcasting studio. But like, that might not be open and ready for another three to four months. Yeah, got to make do. Show must go on. So we're in our dining room. It's pretty nice dining room. It's not so bad. It's okay. It's really not great. Honestly, like, if you look back at the other episodes, I think the visual is a little bit better, even though. Well, I'm interested to see what the lighting looks like too, because your other space was just darker. I mean, there's lights right here. So be interesting to see if it's a little bit lighter and brighter. I don't like that. See, I don't, you wanted to feel dark and gloomy. I, you had not dark and gloomy. I like living in a very bright apartment. This apartment is like leaps above what we were living in, just because there's so much natural light. It's just very, it's more updated. Like, my old apartment or our our old apartment would have these woods splinters sticking out. And I would like be like happy and sliding across the floor. Like, really excited about my day. And then I would hit one of these splinters. I would get splinters wanting each deep into my foot. You know what that's called? That's called karma. Why? Because I was so happy about life. Because I have a childhood story. Okay. So when I was like five, no, I must have been a little bit older than that, because you would have been way too young. So you're like three and a half, four years younger than me. So when I was young and you were old enough to be around, I was on the back decks. I remember the back deck had like crazy splinters. Like, it was like, I don't know if you remember when we were kids, that back deck had like tons of splinters. And I was like running outside to like go play in the yard and got a huge splinter like the size of my foot. And I was sobbing outside like screaming and you come running out, you are more come running out. And you guys are like, what's wrong? And I'm like, go get mom, go get mom. You're like, okay. And you guys go inside and start playing video games. And that's outside. Which I don't know why I didn't think to like get up and hop into the house, or something, but I cried until the ground came out. I mean, Mario is a hell of a drug. And it's hard to say, no, to Mario. Apologize for that. Apparently even holding a grudge for the past like 25 years. For this podcast to show. Yeah, so that's good. We can work through that on this episode. I want to talk about some of your work in a little bit, but we can get into it. Because it's funny, we are very different in so many ways. You're very spiritual. I'm very not. We really have all these arguments and fights of recently about like fact versus feelings and that hold the bait, which has been fun. And we have gotten nowhere. I don't know if we're going to get into it on this. Well, I was like, what are we going to talk about in like two seconds or if I'm probably going to be debating to politics? Oh, yeah, yeah, I was like before the show, I was like, okay, don't say that. Don't say that. Because once we go down these rabbit holes, I know we get lost. We can't get out of that. Three hours later. But anyway, so your story to come coming to LA. Like, why did you first decide to come to LA? You've been here for about four or five years? Five and a half years. So weird. Oh, well, you're involved in this story. So we were living together. So in Philadelphia, we had gotten a place together. You were right out of college. I was in a place where I was like, I was like, I'm going to live in this place for like five years. You know, when I had more money, Matt will move out, I'll end up living here for a while. And I think we were there for like three months, maybe two months, but I actually was traveling. I was on like a around the world ticket that JetBlue had done at the time where it was like $500, you could travel anywhere in the country as much as you wanted for 30 days. And I was like hopping around visiting friends. And I think I was in LA at the time, actually. My first time visiting, I think. And you called me and you're like, I want to move home. And you're like, I'm broke. And I was like, so pissed at you. Because I was like, no, I told, I think I had a talk with you before you moved in. Like, you're going to be able to pay your rent, right? No, okay, okay. I did a quite workout like that. Because I remember you persuading me. And because like, back to that. And then together. At this point, we were like, you were a few years into your graphic design business. I was maybe a year and a half. Like, I was in college, but I was about a year and a half into my videoography business. And I wasn't making a lot of money. But we would encourage each other at the time and like mentor each other through a lot of troubles that we had in terms of acquiring clients and the troubles that you go through with a client-based business. I'm pretty sure that you were encouraging me. Like, you can do it. Like, you can, come on, man. Yeah, yeah. Because I just, I was just graduating from college. And I, I don't know if the notion of moving home with mom and dad was the forefront. It's certainly not something I wanted to do. But I was like, let's give this a shot. And how do you run a business where like most of your clients were in filly? Yeah, so, but the problem was I didn't have a car. I didn't, also I wasn't making money. I got you another car. Rent was like $700 a month at this place. Yeah, I remember that. Yeah, it was like $700 a month each. Remember those days when we went with that team? I was making, like, seven to $700,000 a month. How do you remember this? Because I remember at the time, like, I remember that a project I did with the Philly cheese steak teas. Oh my God. Yeah, like that, like your sketch comedy thing. And I got $400 for that video. I got that was my rate at the time like to shoot an edit of video. Was $3 to $400, which is crazy because I was probably making $10 an hour. But so if I did like two to three projects a month, I would be able to pay rent and have like a little bit extra to eat. But after like a clearly didn't last long, those two months. And then I called you up and said, hey, I need you going to be pissed. Because we just moved in. I was so pissed. I had a grudge for a while, too. I was like, I'm not moving anything. Because it meant that I had to move home. Because I wasn't. I didn't have a situation where I would be able to live with somebody else. I didn't want to live with a stranger. And it ended up being, which I think I just think to for this the other day, that like some of like the big, um, I think experiences in my life are big shifts in transformation. Some of them have come from like, you sort of nudging or pushing me in that direction. In that case, it was a little bit selfish, but it's okay. You're welcome. Yeah, I don't think you can like, I don't think you can, I don't think you can. You can thank me for that because at the time it was like, uh, it was really a low for you. Yeah, I was traveling and I was just like, I mean, I didn't have a choice. That's what you wanted to do. And it wasn't just, I think it was a good choice for you because you want to, you were just thinking about your future and wanting to pay off debt and go live at home. And I just had a huge aversion to living at home with mom and dad or it just not being independent. And but the night we did it and I was at home. I think I sucked for maybe a good week. And then I was like, I was more than a week. Okay, I don't remember. There's a couple of months for a little bit. No, I think it would hold that long. Yeah. I was only home for maybe two or three months, I don't remember. And then just was like, okay, I'm gonna like use this to my advantage. I remember like buying some, I was a graphic designer at the time. So I like bought the whole Adobe Creative Swee, spend money on that, bought a new computer, you know, just kind of put myself in a better position. And then decided, okay, I'm gonna move somewhere. And I was like, actually looking to move to like Mexico or something and just be adventurous. Maybe Spain. And Crystal, who you know, my close girlfriend, she was living in Hawaii. And she was just posted on Craigslist. Oh, I have an open room, not really to me or to anybody. I think more to people who are living on Maui. And I decided to go. I was like, this would be super fun. And it was like very spontaneous. And I think I probably, you know, talk to you about all of my big decisions before I make them. And actually remember talking to you and you were just like, can I swear on this? Fuck you. Fuck you. Fuck you, do it, you know. And so I left two weeks later and went to Hawaii. So that was like the start of the journey of like leaving these coast and knowing that I wanted to live somewhere warm. Ended up being there for like eight months. Was really good for the time that I was there, but knew it wasn't like a long term thing. It was really far from you guys. And then went back to Jersey with there for maybe another month or two and then decided to come to LA. Just mostly because of the weather. I really just wanted to be somewhere warm and because I had a location and dependent business is like why not try it. Oh yeah, and you also had a friend Colin who was living here. So it was it's nice to have some rooting. Yeah. Where are you moved to that can help at least. Establish it. Give you an idea of what it would be like to live there. And I talked to somebody because like that's that's the hard thing is that when Nat and I were looking for different places to live. It's like we could kind of live almost anywhere. And because we're you know as long as it's a major city she could find work and I could work from you know pretty much any city I wanted to but it becomes pretty daunting to really understand what it's like you have to live somewhere to understand if you're going to like it or not. Yeah and that's why actually I was like and I realized that when I moved to Maui that was just like an experiment to but after about three months there I knew that I wasn't going to stay there long term and so I realized okay I'm going to do that in LA. I'm just going to give it three months and I told my friend Colin that I was moving in with. I think I said I would give it six months so that because I was on release like I'll do six months and I loved it. I did not think I was going to love LA. I thought it. I just thought it was going to be superficial. Just all the stereotypes stuff that I heard about Hollywood and I just met some wonderful people. I've had such few bad experiences living here that I can't even really remember much of them. And so yeah so I've just been hanging out here for the past five and a half years. It's just hanging out that's so funny though because moving to LA and just talking about LA with other people everyone says well the people suck and the traffic's bad and like the kind of cliche things that you hear but honestly in my experience so far and both of us have a kind of freelance we don't have the typical nine to five world like lifestyle so the traffic is usually not that bad because you can usually schedule around it and the people thing like if you can't find 10 people in a city of 10 million that click with you and connect with your your values and what you want out of life and it's probably probably you that's the problem. Yeah I mean I think that the stereotypes about living in different places like you can really make it work almost anywhere you are I feel like I think there's some places that are more ideal like I one thing that I love about living here in terms of like going out to eat being like a vegetarian is that I never have to worry about it where I was like I forget that that's actually a thing if I go to fill in visit it's like oh can I actually even eat anything on the menu that's not a solid a lot of things. Yeah so you see somebody asked me yesterday like about the do I like the culture in LA culture is such a hard thing to identify and to experience because it like it's I'm not in the arts in theater and I don't know if that's what people mean when they say culture what do people that's not true I play softball I play softball I love weather these are inside jokes I love weather yeah concert no that's my my my grub with concerts is that they're not fun maybe I'm just kind of awkward I just never know what to do with my hands and at the time when we went out to all these concerts when we were younger we were of drinking age so there was no way for me to loosen up absolutely yeah I mean at a concert like we went to M&M 50 cent right that was the weirdest thing ever we're on the lawn in the way back and what do you do at a concert like that you sit on the yeah you listen to the music you listen to the music they're on stage smoking weed and like pretend to shoot guns in the air that was the bad concert because they were like super late so you got a very similar experience it's a good concert but it's like yeah like you can you can't really hear him that well I could listen to this stuff like on like my headphones it would sound better okay we'll back to culture I think that so you don't want to go out and go into the concert debate because you're gonna lose because most normal people like listening to like anything that's this is like the idiot abroad do you know that show yeah oh my god I forgot about that yeah that's still on they've done quite a few seasons but that's how I feel sometimes we're like you go to Egypt and you see the pyramids and you're like it's alright like it's not like it's cool but this is it I think it's all about like your mentality going into something like sometimes it's expectation of something being like this hue like what at whatever fun is to you yeah I mean I think some things take a lot of effort and maybe the payoff is not much worth it like for example going to a big concert like Jack Johnson I think it was a lot of effort at the time where we were living you have to drive all the way to the location which may have been 45 minute to an hour drive dealing with the parking dealing with getting in dealing with like seven dollar drinks or seven dollar water and and then you're sitting really far back because you have really crappy seeds and then you're waiting forever for the performance it feels like a lot yeah those are all bad they're all yeah there are all things that like can make it not enjoy it well listen to music that you've already like overplayed which is part of why like I don't know I was there's some you know I was talking about echo park rising which is like a really big event that they do in the neighborhood next to where I live every year and they support all local bands and I like don't know anybody ever is and it makes me like feel a little bit disappointed in myself because I'm like that's awesome there's so many incredible artists in LA and this is where I live like I want to support them and I want to know you know I want to go out and listen to them and I went last year and like there were some really wonderful artists that's actually how I discovered so far sounds which isn't an artist but it's the experience of it's a company I guess that created this event where you you can go they did it at this location but like you would basically go into people's living room so like stands for sounds of our living room and you go in and you like listen to a little bit so far sounds stands for sounds of our lives yeah it's like not exactly precise but that's like I think what the oh I didn't know that sort of an actual one to one with us in Brooklyn right did you know I think I told you guys about it when Brooklyn begins yeah yeah Natalie is one that told me about it that dragged me out and she's dragged me out to a bunch of them but they're cool yeah like they're they have to just listen to the music you know a lot of talk you know a lot of been your fun yeah they have very strict rules because you know they I guess they the founders of so far sounds were just kind of second tired of going to these huge venues and these big music events where nobody was paying attention to the music and it wasn't intimate and that's the thing I liked about some of the concerts that we went to the more intimate smaller ones you feel a little bit closer to it and you feel you can vibe with the music more and that's where you get a so far sound which is which is pretty great it's like in living rooms it's less than 100 people in the audience and it's usually bands that you've never heard of before I think that actually maybe what it is for you you probably appreciate some of like the smaller venues here in LA a friend of mine just went to I think it's called the True Bedore which I haven't been to I haven't done much live music here but it's a tiny little venue and he said it was really wonderful and just like super intimate and you just kind of feel the music and it's you know probably more of the experience that you'd be interested in yeah I told you this is just gonna be a really great way off topic do you remember were you originally we were talking about why did I move to LA or what do I do or why did nah we don't know why I don't tell I yeah why you got to LA and you've been here for five and a half years you just fell in love with it where when you moved here or was it kind of some growing pains in the beginning well I didn't have a car for the first year it's nowhere to think about that yeah well I borrowed Collins car oh my god no I'm like how did he let me do that I would never let's bring my car for a year I think he just didn't do a lot of things he needed it for work sometimes sometimes he didn't and I didn't use it very often and I think like I was dating some of the time so like drive to their place but you usually get them to pick me up but you had a chauffeur that explains yeah no but for not that not for that long and then just the grocery store so I wasn't doing a lot I just kind of was around my neighborhood walking to yoga and whatever and then got to the point where was like okay I need to like get if I'm gonna stay living here I need to get a vehicle I think that was it right you you were just coming out your temporarily so why buy a car right away especially when money is a little bit tight there was actually a footnote there that I wanted to bring up which is the the moving home like it allowed you to do a lot of stuff that you wouldn't have been able to otherwise it wasn't obviously an intentional decision to move home but you're able to buy that it'll be sweet and kind of invest in in yourself and your business in that way yeah and I think actually that experience for me helped open me up to like let life be what it's gonna be like don't try to control so much like I had this idea that I was gonna be in filly for five years and then I don't know getting a relationship and live with this person in that particular place and then I realized oh my god there's all these other things that I actually want for my life like I want to travel more I had always wanted to like live in another country for a little bit which I still haven't done but at the time I was like look that's why I went to Hawaii because I was looking actually other places and then I was like let me just take some opportunities that are coming into me and be a little bit more um just open to what life has in store for me instead of planning it all out you didn't have a choice to move here I mean you know my perspective on that would be that like I was guided so right this would get into our differences of this is gonna be like noxious mac comes out yeah this is like a cheesy radio show like it's a sound effects I hope you could get that out yeah I won't I can't I felt we've done good I don't need to cut anything out it's okay so yeah the way that I feel is that I moved to LA and then about less I think probably a year maybe a little bit less than a year after moving here I found breath work and ended up and was kind of you know in this journey of figuring out what is it I'm here to do because I knew it wasn't to be a graphic designer and I knew that there was something else that was calling me and I didn't know what it was and I asked really suffering because of it and found breath work and then had all of these series of events that led me to to breath work and then to you know teaching breath work because I didn't think that I was ever gonna be a breath or teacher and and that kind of led to pushing beauty becoming actually like a brand and a business which I wasn't really expecting either and that all sort of started to unfold so a lot of it actually comes back to kind of moving at home opening myself up to like whatever the journey was gonna be for my life and then actually moving to LA and moving LA everything opened where I you know I would doubt that I would have kind of been introduced to breath work anywhere else this is kind of a hub that's spiritual hub I would say there's a lot of openness and that's a big part of I think the dialogue in Los Angeles I mean if you listen to overheard in LA here a lot of like quote unquote woo you know spiritual talk and yeah so I would say for myself I definitely think that looking back there were all of these things that kind of lined up to create the life that I'm living now something shitty happens to you in life or something unexpected happens to you I don't see where it makes sense to just kind of remain stuck in that misery because something happens to you like you have to move home with your parents or somebody breaks up with you suddenly you can sit and stew in that forever or you can choose in that moment to say you know this this thing was bound to happen you know clearly if a relationship ends at least at that particular time that meant that it was supposed to end I could sit here and stew on it for the next like five years or I could push forward and move forward I mean this is like an interesting thing for you to talk about you just wrote a book about a breakup that you had and how did you approach that yeah I think it's it's difficult for a lot of people to accept when things don't go the way that they think that they're gonna go because I just think that's sort of the nature of the mind we get on this path and we're like okay you know I'm gonna do this or this is happening in my life you know I've moved it's gonna work out I started this business it's gonna work out I'm in a relationship you know we're moving forward and your mind starts to create this whole future that doesn't even exist the person that I was dating at the time we were talking about moving in together and so when you're like speaking about moving in together it feels very solid you know it feels like your mind starts to create this vision and you're talking about it and it's it's actually bringing it to life so a big part of the ending of that relationship was also mourning the future that was never going to exist of course a huge part of it was actually mourning the loss of that relationship not being you know him not being a part of my life anymore but another element of it is actually mourning you know the future that no longer is going to exist so for me there there are other situations that I would have that I do manage very well you know and I think over time becoming more and more open to life kind of guiding me and also like with my own personal development spiritual development I trust much more that I am always supported and so when things happen that are sort of unexpected for me and and this break of was a big part of me like learning to really trust deeply that there's more for myself like I don't think that that relationship actually was the relationship for me and I don't think that I would have left it maybe not for a very long time like maybe eventually but it wasn't actually one in which I could have truly been myself and and explored more and become more of who I was so it feels almost like I'll just speak in the terms of the language that I'll use is that like the universe we're gonna like I'm just like how am I gonna say that I'm not dumb at down but I guess like the way that I think about it is like the universe kind of like clear this out because I wasn't willing to do it and it wasn't my path and I needed to kind of let go of that to to become more of who I am and that's really what my book is about it's like the whole journey of accepting okay this happened it really sucks it's really painful how am I gonna use this to learn about myself to heal to better my life because I'm not gonna sit here and misery for the rest of my life and let this ruin me breath work was one of those things for you that you discovered this is something that's radically transformed your life I would not be who I am right now if it wasn't for breath work I you know it's funny because mom wait can we set back what the hell is because this is a new thing like you you drive around L.A. here and you see billboards that say breath work on it breath work classes yeah it's actually the place that you do it at the one down dog where we saw that metid the laughing meditation guy oh hyper slow hyper so they have a billboard on top of it that says breath work $50 a class or something really is that you is that your classes no I'm not there yeah yes they have but anyway you come to L.A. and you see these billboards like breath work and you hear a lot of people talking about it and I see it more and more online but I think outside of L.A. it's probably very rare yeah I mean it's it's even here it's grown tremendously when I first started practicing myself I couldn't find I couldn't find it I mean I was like Googling it trying to find people and actually at the time I was like kind of I don't know why maybe it was like a little bit embarrassed sort of like a closet meditator a little bit and I'd remember not because I think I didn't know what this thing was right so my first experience of breath work was I went into somebody's space I laid down on like a massage table and he told me how to breathe I closed my eyes music was playing and like I remember it being pretty powerful I don't think I cried or anything which is pretty common for a lot of people's first sessions I did a couple times and I remember feeling really like light and then also I'll say like I had major like control issues trust issues like very kind of deeply wound or tightly wound where it wasn't easy for me to let go so it started to gradually open me up a little bit more and a little bit more and then went through a breakup with somebody else and was like hadn't done breath working a while and I was like I think I need to get back to that thing that I was doing I was really powerful and I told a girlfriend of mine and I remember like feeling like I don't know if I can tell her this because I don't know she'd be open to it and she was like oh my god I went to a breath work class like the other day and she gave me the person's information I started going to those workshops now almost every yoga studio in LA is teaching breath work like you can you can find it very easily okay so why don't you walk me through like a three minute breath work like this is what normally a 45 minute thing can you walk me through a breath work yeah meditation I'm going to get a music oh okay you know am I are you have Spotify open I have playlist oh okay yeah let's do that let's do that Spotify okay we found it and which what do you want to do the first one is that slow motion for me all right so just let's do three minutes what are you taking your glasses off for so I can breathe oh you gotta lay down well I'm not gonna lie down but this is like normally I would lie down yeah that's too loud is that good no that's great perfect okay so yeah if you are listening to this or watching this and you want to have a little taste so just lay down somewhere anywhere that's comfortable and close your eyes and you're going to breathe in and out of your mouth that's smoking so you're going to breathe in another mouth so let your jaw be nice and loose and you're going to breathe once into your belly once into your heart and then you're going to exhale belly heart exhale so keep your eyes close and you're going to just keep breathing like that you might feel a little bit lightheaded and that's fine normal you're just going to keep on breathing into your belly into your heart and exhale in your pace doesn't really matter you're going to just let it be a circular breath so you're not going to pause that's a top or the bottom and as you're breathing like this with your eyes closed you can just start to let your body relax and you can just imagine everything opening up imagine your heart opening make sure your legs are on cross you can have your arms by your side palms facing up and just give yourself permission to let go of your mind and start connect your body if you're feeling any type of anxiousness coming up if you're feeling really lightheaded you can just say out loud it's safe for me to breathe and just keep on breathing all right wow you feel like I had it I do I feel really lightheaded oh my god so that was only like that was like two and a half minutes yeah I feel transformed so I feel very lightheaded right now and that was only two and a half minutes yeah so you and usually the lightheadedness is like the mind is resisting letting go so the more you work with the breath you wouldn't feel so much of that sensation actually it's kind of like when you drink alcohol enough you kind of get to sensitize to it it's totally exactly like it's totally different so if you wanted to do that you would admit a mum around seven minutes so you would lay down and breathe for about seven minutes that's when the mind starts to let go and you actually begin to feel sort of tingle sensations in your body and your fingertips I felt that I did I did feel that already I didn't eat much so I don't know if that plays into it at all depends depends on the person and health yeah and you're drinking coffee too so I totally did this wrong again that that's all right but that that was normal so you do these sometimes 40 minutes yeah they're typically typically be breathing for about 30 to 35 minutes and then resting for about 15 minutes 10 to 15 minutes so I meditate a bit and I know a lot about meditation and the idea of meditation is that there is not supposed to be a purpose you're not supposed to be trying to accomplish something you're not supposed to be trying to become enlightened because if you try then that defeats the purpose you're supposed to just observe the thoughts and then let them go breath work seems to be related in some ways but entirely different in a lot because yeah yeah no it's really interesting actually I haven't talked too much about this but coming from you know I kind of studied more traditional sort of eastern philosophy around meditation and then lighten mitt and with breath work there's not so much of a conversation around and lighten men or maybe the intention behind breath work is a little bit different even though it is actually like an ancient practice so yeah I mean it's it's very energetic it's about healing and releasing pain stored emotions limiting beliefs from your body from your energy system so it has very different results I would say for most people then like a sitting meditation does a lot of people I know myself included have really struggled with sitting meditation because our minds are so active and I think also probably because of the ways in which we're kind of addicted to technology and being on our phones all the time I think our minds are even more wired to go go go go go go that it becomes very challenging to sit free even five just to sit still for five minutes so breath work is actually really powerful in that you're you're doing something so it's an active meditation you're focusing on your breath but you're not just observing your breath like you would and maybe a sitting meditation where the object of your attention is the breath you're actually using your breath to open yourself up just to so people who have no idea what breath work is like sounds interesting but where does it go from those initial couple minutes yeah like in my private session so usually I'll talk to the person for 15 to 30 minutes depending about like what's going on in their life where they're feeling stuck so this relates to what we're speaking about before or you're like I'm not gonna let something keep me stuck there's a lot of things in our lives that actually do keep us very stuck and most people are gonna have some area in their life that they're feeling stuck so we'll kind of talk about that all get clear on what's going in their lives usually pretty much everybody has something from childhood that has wounded them in some way we tend to think about things like you know oh I look back at my childhood and you know I was teased or like this horrible thing happened to me and like I'm kind of over it if it wasn't like a big trauma like sexual abuse or physical abuse we kind of you know will be like well I was a kid and like I get that and that sucked but you know that doesn't affect me anymore and actually it does so like I get kind of clear about those things I'll have them lay down yes I usually person some sage I'll kind of you know clear the energy in the space have them start breathing I'll put some music on and then I usually you know I have to kind of watch the body and see what's happening in the body as you're breathing the body will start to respond in certain ways that actually can kind of give you some signals as to what's going on emotionally and spiritually with the person and it totally depends it's different in every session but sometimes I'll have them say something you know yeah gratitude will kind of come into play usually further towards the end but usually some of the pain that's been stored so you know you could just say for example you know being we'll just say heartbreak because that's you know what my book is about so if you go through a breakup and like you feel betrayed by this relationship ending or by this person that is stored you know in the emotional body in the physical body as well and so I'll have like I'll basically maybe say something like they'll say the person's name I really see your pain from my body and usually they'll release a lot of emotion a lot of sadness sometimes I'll have people yell which can be really therapeutic because we don't really get to do it very often and also it helps to release some of the stuck energy in the body and a lot of times people will be like sobbing and and have some realizations about how much actually like these instances have actually affected their lives and more importantly there are sense of self so it all really comes back to self love like these different things happen into our happen in our lives that make us create make us believe that we're not worthy of love and it doesn't matter how much you're you seem to be a confident person in your life no matter how like independent you are no matter you know how successful you are on some level there can be something that makes you believe I'm not totally worthy of X Y R Z a lot of time too people can be super successful in their career and you know not feel worthy of having a a wonderful partnership and so those things actually can become healed in a breath work session usually several sessions when you're working through healing something in particular so yeah people will release a lot of emotion and then once the emotions release typically the heart can start to open and that's when people will start to feel like deep sense of gratitude for their life, for the people in their life, their life, for you know themselves, for all of the work that they've done a lot of times people will get like you know insights into you know how lovable they actually are or how worthy they actually are creative insights will come in and inspiration so it's a full range but really powerful transformative work I know you know how much I always talk about it changing my life and I'm sure you've seen me change over the years but also you know the people that I've worked with I see them transforming very quickly after only a few sessions and then people in their lives will be like you know I have clients come in after a couple sessions saying like my coworker saying something so many different about me are like my mom or my boyfriend or saying like how you know much more open and just happy or I feel so some people might be listening to this thinking being skeptical breath work as I have been for my whole life I mean I can see the difference that it's made in you though I say like well it's probably like I don't need it in my life somebody who's skeptical of this some people might say like I did or question you with like isn't it isn't it just like hyperventilating aren't you just like draining yourself of air because people do get a little bit high tingly and have these sensations how would you address that I'm like not to concerned with like skeptics like to honestly like my the work that I do it's like if you're open to it and this feels like it resonates with you cool come to a session try working with it um I feel like you have to be you have to be open enough on your journey to try something to do be open enough to trying something usually when people I've actually had some clients who were like gifted a session and they'll come in and be like you know I have no idea what this is but my friend recommended or whatever and then they're like absolutely blown away by it um I will say from my my own first experience breathing I don't remember being incredibly blown away by it like I was a little bit later and I think a lot of it is because I was so um guarded and I was so close off and I wasn't very trusting even of the person that I was working with so yeah I think that a lot of it has to do with like your level of openness um in terms of like the hyperventilation I like when I first started teaching I was like so afraid of like getting it wrong or like not like I've always felt this way I was just like like you're saying like getting it wrong like if you accidentally told somebody to hold their breath and then you forgot to tell them to keep breathing and then these they died I don't think that would happen though but I was just thinking like it seems completely safe and it like nobody's died from doing breath work and hyperventilation itself I don't know much about it but it sounds like it could be dangerous but it doesn't sound like that's what you're getting. No I mean the research that I would get a lot of questions like that in the beginning and what's interesting too is I definitely think there's something to what you're afraid of we'll start to come in so like when I was really afraid of like you know maybe not knowing everything that I needed to know or not understanding all the science I would get a lot of questions from people that were skeptical or were not sure that it was safe around like are we hyperventilies so I was like doing a lot of research on hyperventilation and from what I read hyperventilation is like I guess when the exhale is like longer than the inhales are and like you if you're like pushing out your exhale so what we're doing is like a much more controlled breath that is a gentle exhale right because hyperventilation happens when you are say having a panic attack you literally can't catch your breath but if you're in the middle of a breath work section session you say at some point after 30 minutes you stop breathing I mean and so people probably would start a little bit slower too like you said you might even do seven minutes 10 minutes to start after 10 minutes do you feel like like out of breath or no yeah not at all so as soon as you're done breathe you're basically just activating your energy so like you're starting to feel your energy moving and that actually takes the forefront like the breath eventually it's almost as if the breath is like breathing you the breath becomes something that starts to move on its own and you're not even paying so much attention to it it's sort of just happening I think that the the fears that come up around it are so much about where the person's at in their life and how and actually what their relationship to life is so if like you're terrified of breathing you're terrified of a lot of other things you're afraid to let go you have trust issues you're probably a pretty controlling person you might have you might suffer from anxiety so usually that is like an indication that there's some deeper self going on in breath or go actually really help you usually I have everybody start breathing by saying it's a for me to breathe and I think I said that in the little two minute and that helps to affirm that like it is completely safe to breathe I've had people who had different you know illnesses or different things going on it's really all about their comfortability and it and this is what I always say like if you feel comfortable breathing it's going to be fine it's all about if you're terrified of it you might start feeling like you're having a panic attack or something like that but usually when somebody lays down and especially when I'm guiding them they feel safe enough to start to let go here's my problem with life in general and you can be my therapist exactly I struggle between the balance of skepticism and open mindedness and it's a constant push pull from me and there are times when I can let myself be open to try something new and to explore something that's a bit uncharted like breath work that you know it's so new there's no science on it meditation there's science out there there's ways that I could justify and there's like a lot of people like Sam Harris and others that that Dan Harris that write about meditation and the positive effects it's had on their life and like okay I could try that like Dan Harris's book 10% happier was definitely one of those books for me the power of now was the book I read in college I think you had lent it to me I read and I say okay yeah like this stuff really clicks for me I can start to let me try to bring this into my life and let me see it seemed like there was a deeper truth there that I was able to connect with but then I'm also as an atheist extremely skeptical of everything that's not fact-based science based how do you you don't really have a problem with that because you're so reminded about everything do you draw a line anywhere do you have that same push portal because you have to be skeptical of some stuff right there's some shit that you listen to and you're like all right that's like like you should like bathe your baby and milk like I just made that up but like say if you heard that from somewhere you might say that sounds crazy I don't think I'm gonna do that but then you read a article on medium and you're like okay maybe all everybody's doing it's like the new I mean there are fads like that right where everyone's doing it like lemon water and stuff um as you were just speaking what came up for me and we haven't talked about this but that skepticism is actually um a lack of trusting yourself so I sort of feel like the more you trust yourself and develop a deeper relationship to who you are and like your orientation to life so for me like I I very spiritual so I feel like a connection to what I call the universe um spirit god whatever you want to call that I know you wouldn't call that any of those things but whatever it is for you I have this this um deep trust in life and in in in myself and that I'm gonna know when something doesn't resonate with me and so if it's not resonating I guess that's what I would maybe say like I might be skeptical of something I don't tend to ever describe myself as a skeptic and I don't I don't even know really what the true definition would be but I don't think that I really am at all I just feel like if it resonates with me I move towards it if it doesn't then I just kind of let it go but you said a skepticism is not believing in yourself or not trusting yourself but coming from somebody who was raised Catholic mom's totally gonna listen but somebody who's raised I listen to that one yeah I mom being somebody that was raised religious and then moving away from religion and becoming an atheist I feel like I was tricked by an idea by people who believed in something that I believe to be untrue now so it's less of trust in myself but trust in other people it's like hey you guys lied yeah that's actually I think that's like totally valid and I had that I mean I was like kind of in a cult and you know I thought you brought that up I actually did bring it up in the last podcast which I say yeah because we were talking about postmodernism and how you guys kept saying like you it was a whole crusade against postmodernism yeah yeah wait let's talk about the cult because that's this is actually really great parallel to what I was talking about yeah so I got and so I was but it's okay so raised Catholic felt like does not make sense does not make sense I actually remember when the bubble burst of like um man in the sky God for me and it actually was post college so but I will say that I always felt like there I had a lot of questions about Catholicism and religion that weren't ever really satisfied so there are all of these kind of holes there and I always felt like there was going to be some other religion that I would find that would resonate with me like in college I took I think a intro to world religion or something like that and I learned about all different religions and I always assumed like Buddhism would resonate with me at the time it didn't and so yeah I think that I I just always felt like there was something more and like I just kind of took what I had and felt like um I don't know if I would say brainwashed but like I just felt like I was living in a bubble and then like you know going away to school and starting to kind of study different things and kind of expand my perspective led me to um to an organization that was led by a guy in his 50s who um white guy in his 50s from New York who had went to India and had no awakening basically you know became in Lyin and started this organization and um he was really fusing Eastern spirituality with science with evolution and so that really resonate with me because I was also very rational and into you know like very fact-based science-based things so for me looking back on my journey it was the um the opening for me to become actually a spiritually open as I am now because like I never ever in a million years would have been like into like crystals and burning sage or anything like that because I think I was I don't even know why but I was just not open-minded to that at all and so like I really needed like a bridge so something that was a little bit more rational or a lot more rational that could kind of help me get into spirituality and that's what that was for me turns out um it it just it was an organization and so they had you know and I don't think there's anything wrong with money I think there's a lot of actually unhealthy relationship um or a perspective around money and spirituality that like we shouldn't be charging for like spiritual teachings and stuff which I think is all nonsense um so but there was um a big emphasis on commitment and so once you're a part of something you know group think is super real and I'm still like because of the experiences I had I'm super conscious of that because you know I am part of you know a community a lot of you know friends of mine are part of the breath work community and I had a huge aversion to like even saying that I was like part of a community even though it's such a loose thing right it's like wherever I'm at I feel like I'm a part of whatever that community is or I would like to believe the at least um but because of the way that group think it's so dangerous you know so what ended up happening in this organization was that so many people were actually unhappy I was deeply deeply unhappy and I was involved for probably four to five years um and not even as in depth as some people were like there were some people who were like living in an aweshrom and um their experiences were much different than mine you know our good friend my good friend and you know you know Fred as well was living there for ten years and it really fucked up his his life you know he I won't speak for him but like you know he he's suffered from a lot of just own personal things from being a part of this isolated community I was on the outskirts and you know with involved in going on retreats and um doing workshops and doing like trainings or whatever their programs were but because commitment was so emphasized I felt judged all the time I felt like um everybody was always watching me to see if I was doing something or involved in something and so you know things were quite pricey and there was like a lot of conversation around like your level of commitment and it actually to me felt like very militant like what was it like Scientology yeah I mean watching going clear was Liz my friend Liz and I we were both part of the organization and we watched it with her husband who was also part of it and gotten a huge debate after watching going clear because of the parallels between that and what we were involved in. Well that the funny thing is how do you define Colt versus religion just a Colt is just a smaller religion a Colt is just not mainstream yet and I don't even know I mean it's been so long that I really have been talking about this and and delving into the concept of a Colt but I think there's probably some clearer definitions around what that really means. Look at that we got what could be right here. Go ahead do it. It's one of the great things about the internet. Colt a system of religious veneration and devotion directed towards a particular figure or object. There's more here a relatively small group of people having religious beliefs or practices regarded by others as strange or sinister. I don't think there's a very good definition. A misplaced or excessive admiration for a particular person or thing. I think they're really good. I think this one's really good. A relatively small group of people. So I mean Colt's are never very big. There's never like millions of people who say all that they're at Colt. You wouldn't generally define it as that. But anyway, relatively small group of people having religious beliefs or practices and I think this is the big thing regarded by others as strange or sinister. But that's what I don't like about it actually. Because it's like, well, just because other people think it's strange. Why does that make it a cult? The way that I think about a cult is like your brain washed. Like you, you, just because other people think it's weird. Because I would say people then breath works weird. But it's a combination. I think it's religious belief or practices. I mean everything, I guess because you could say everything is regarded as strange or sinister as a big word. Because Colt has a connotation to it. That you, like you said, brain washed into following somebody without regard for your own values and beliefs. Well, and what I would say would define maybe in hindsight would be that you're a part of something that actually isn't serving you. And I think that that's actually what happened where everyone's sort of actually call it a cult. Was that, oh, everybody in this community was saying I lost my autonomy. So when you're losing your autonomy, that I think that would be a great definition of a cult. Like when you have no autonomy, you're basically making decisions based off of what, you know, a leader or a group of people say that you should do. In this particular organization, like, I actually remember people saying to me about relationship, like, I actually believed at the time that I could never be in a relationship with somebody who wasn't a part of this organization. And there were not many young dudes that were a part of it. And so, like, I started to contemplate, okay, and my life is going to be single forever, and which actually was kind of an interesting thing to start to contemplate. But it, it, it, I eventually got to the point where I realized, like, I'm miserable. And for me, personally, it was about, like, we would have, like, these intellectual conversations. So it was like very intellectually driven. And I felt like I couldn't be myself because I needed to be, because I felt very judge. And, and I was judged. I mean, people were kind of watching you. They had, like, tears. And so, like, people who were at, like, the certain tier were kind of looking at you and listening to you to see where you were and, like, where to kind of group you when you would, like, get together and have these conversations. And so, I remember just being, like, oh, I'm actually fucking miserable. And, like, I don't even, like, my life. I don't even like going to these things. Like, why am I doing this? And I don't remember, like, what we, I think we were talking about skepticism. So bring it back to that and, like, the lack of trust. Like, when you're, because, oh, I think you were talking about, um, be, like, part of why you feel skeptical is because you were born into a religion, essentially. And then you were like, oh, it's, yeah, that's a big part of it. And then also, uh, coming out of that and then learning and, and, you know, you have mentors through the form of books and through documentaries and stuff that that helped to push skepticism, um, as a positive value. So what I will say is that to to support my theory that skepticism is about not trusting yourself, though more you actually get to know it. Like, I got involved in that, like, quote, unquote, quote, quote, because I didn't actually know myself very well. And I definitely didn't love myself. And so I was looking for something outside myself to give life meaning and to make, make the world makes sense to me. Like, I felt very frustrated and confused about the world and the suffering and the pain that people were in. And so being a part of this, you know, organization that was like talking about spiral dynamics and like the theory of the theory of human development, understanding why people are the way that they are and understanding like, you know, different levels of human consciousness, it inspired me and excited me. And I think there were a lot of things within it that were really valid and interesting to be experimenting with and and just learning about. Um, but my sense of self was being, um, defined or being validated by this group and organization instead of me, me feeling reliant on myself. So the more that I've developed a relationship with myself and learned like to give myself validation, which essentially is another was saying like, learning to love myself and be okay with who I am, no matter what I'm involved in. And this is why I actually were an article not that long ago about like, um, stop trying to find your, I forgot how I phrase is like, stop trying to, not your people, your, your tribe. Everyone's talking about like your tribe and I'm like, stop trying to find your tribe because it's actually about trying to find yourself. Whenever we're trying to find like this group that we fit in with or like this, you know, um, tribe of people who are like your people, it, it actually, I feel like does a disservice to us because when you're trying to fill something typically, um, outside of yourself, but too, it also kind of like creates these compartments that don't allow other people in. So it's like, I'm in with this group and then that act that automatically makes other people like the others. I agree. Um, in terms of the skepticism and open mindedness, I kind of position it originally as a either or when I, and now that we're talking about it, I'm thinking about it more because this is the first time. I, it's something that's been internally going on, but I haven't really talked about, but I don't think it needs to be either or I think it can be and I think you can be open-minded and skeptical or maybe put it first, you're skeptical, but open-minded because, in a lot of ways, you are very open-minded about ideas that are tend to be, uh, like Eastern medicine practice, like certain stuff, um, but you are very skeptical of conservative ideas. And like in terms of religious lean, or not religiously, but in terms of political leanings, you're, you definitely sway liberal and you're very skeptical of these other ideas. So in, in that regard, you, you do have skepticism and you do have a bit of both and, and maybe you would use a different word than skepticism, but, um, that's, that's how I feel as well. I think you always have to be a little bit skeptical of new ideas, but always open to the fact that you, somebody could change your mind. If new facts become apparent to you, or if you experience something that changes your mind, uh, you should be open to that and allow yourself to change, and not hold on so tightly to these ideas that you've had just because of the experience you had before that. Yeah, what came up for me when you were saying that is just, especially in terms of like politics, what I'm leaning into more now is like, I want to be like a better listener, and I want to, um, be able to hold, like, just hear more and understand more. So like, definitely in my past, I would come to things like, I just like, feel like I needed to know, and I needed to come into things with a fixed position. Like, this is what my position is. This is, and like, you know, growing up, I was like, I would debate all the time, and like, I'm not really interested in that as much anymore. It's funny to think about like, if you were to debate a younger version of yourself. Like, when you, you thought you knew everything, and then you're like, dude, child, shut up. I'd be so frustrated with myself. Yeah. I don't know. Do you have to be informed? I don't know. Well, this was like an interesting thing, because this is, I've been listening to, never before with Janet Mock. It's like a, I don't know if it's a newer podcast, what I just found out about it. Lena Dunham is the, I think, executive producer. And I don't know. She's, like, I'm totally feeling her and like, she, um, interviewed Maxine Waters on it. And I didn't, I didn't even know who she was. And I was listening to this yesterday. And I was just like, you know, listening to podcasts. I think are a really great way. And like, like, I watch it by its news. And it can be hard. I think to read a lot of things now. Like, I can put on podcasts and stuff when I'm cooking or whatever. But I've been feeling, like, I need to be more and more educated. The more I am aware and understanding and hearing different people's perspectives, like, you know, especially around, um, like the kind of, uh, pronoun use for different people and like the trans community, um, I think we were talking about the other day. It's very confusing at first. And like, the more that I'm listening to things, I was just listening to auction on, um, never before. I can't remember what this girl's name is. She's like a 15-year-old girl who's on, um, girl meets world, which is like a spinoff of boy meets world. It's like a Disney show. But she is so woke. She's like, you did not just act this. You just, Michelle, you're 30. You're over 30. Yeah. You can't use woke. Of course I can. So like, so she's basically really, um, uh, educated about like just feminism and, um, what's going on in the world. You know, especially a lot of issues around, like, you know, she's using the term queer and she and I was, and I'm like recognizing that there's so much that I've kind of stepped out of and don't know about. And I'm just trying to be really curious and really listen and hear and, um, understand more. And I think it's really, really important because it feels like things are changing really quickly. And so to be, I want to be somebody in the world who is, um, who is open and loving and accepting. And that means that I have to listen more and I need to understand more and be willing to, um, hear what different people's perspectives are and really it's about the ways in which they experience life, um, because it can, it can be very easy to, um, to see everything through your own lens, through the ways that you are raised, the experiences that you have and make the assumption that everybody else has experienced is somewhat similar. You know, maybe we don't assume that it's exactly the same, but we think it's in this sort of certain realm, um, and, and actually people have dramatically different experiences in life that shape the ways in which, you know, they view different issues politically and stuff. And I think that we need to really start to listen to that. Continuing to grow into learn, it's something that I've just kind of reignited in myself in terms of listening to podcast. Like I'll do the podcast two times speed. It's like the matrix like downloading into my brain. It depends like if it's something that's like really, um, like, heavy and really complicated of a subject, like the, something about the universe and black holes and stuff. I'll go 1.5. Yeah, yeah, 0.5 speed. I'm slowing it down. But for the most part, if I can keep up with the conversation, like listen to Joe Brogan podcast, I can go that two times speed. Um, and because I do even do that. On the podcast app, you can do it. You can. Yeah. Yeah. You can cool. It's pretty easy to do. Look at I'll show you. Um, click on the podcast, which one I was listening to the dark side, Sam Harris, but right there. Oh, shit. That's awesome. And the half, that's the weird, the half is weird. But it's, uh, it's, uh, I can't do it when I'm driving for the most part, not around LA. It just gets kind of crazy. You have to pay attention to the road. And I can't do two times speed. And like for, so, so, but for certain things, it's just really, uh, rewarding. And I feel very stimulated. And I think it, it kind of steps up my game a little bit because we get so, it's, uh, the older we get, we, we tend to get complacent. And you don't, most people don't read period. I try to read. If you don't have time to read, that's why I do the podcast or the audio books. And I think just the continuous pursuit of knowledge and, um, moving away from ignorance is, is really important. Yeah. I actually, I always butcher this guy's last name. I forget it, but Neil Perisha or something like that. I forget his last name. But I'm on one of his list. I should probably know actually how to say his last name being then almond is mailing list. But he does like a monthly, um, book list. Here he's a shit ton of books a month. And I read one of these articles he wrote somewhere about Stephen King inspiring him. And I just read, um, on writing by Stephen King. And Stephen King reads like 80 books a year or something. He's like, I read pretty slow about 80 books a year. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Here's the thing though. You do what you enjoy, too. Yeah. He obviously enjoys reading. Um, if, and if you start a book and you don't like it, it's like luxury. Right. Don't, you don't have to keep running it. I know. That was a big lesson. I learned I started reading gold Finch last two years ago, I think. And it's like, I don't know if you see that book, but it's like a chunker. It's like this big. I don't know. 800 pages or something. And I got like halfway through. And I hated that book. Yeah. And my, I was with my ex at the time. And he was like, just stop reading it. And I was like, really, like, there's this feeling of like needing to finish a book. But it's like, life is too short. There's only so many books that we can read, put it down. Yeah. And there's so many other books out there that you might actually enjoy. Yeah. And so anyways, what he was saying, um, on one of his things was like, he reads so much now. And I think he does the same thing. Like, if he's not feeling it, like a little bit in, whole like, he'll put it down and pick up something else. But he's like, my life is so rich now. Like, he feels, he's like, I feel so, so much like smarter and so much more, like, just a vast of things to talk about. And I feel the same way. Like, now that I've started to listen, I go through phases of like listening to tons of podcasts and then I take breaks or reading a ton and taking a break. I tend to read a lot. But, um, but then I like, I feel like I have like all of this like interesting stuff to talk about. And it's just kind of, yeah, I think it is just about like expanding your, um, your interests and your depth of knowledge and the ways in which, um, you think about things. And also, I love memoirs too. And that's a big part of I think understanding like different people's perspective. I've always loved memoirs. I think you read about things that resonate. I'm actually a really big fan. I have a new series on my podcast called, um, it was called currently reading. Now it's called, I don't remember. We'll be reading. We'll be reading. No, it's your podcast. The pushing beauty podcast on iTunes. Yep. So I cut you after you were talking, you talk about books that you, you. Oh, so yeah, I have a series that's about like what I'm reading. And I was just talking about how, um, or like what I've just read. So I was just talking about how like, I tend to read books that show up for me, like over and over again. Like, I'll just keep seeing them or they'll be referred to me by somebody or they'll be these weird synchronicities. And then I feel like, okay, I need to read that book and I'll pick it up. So that was one of them. Yeah, I think when it's somebody that you respect and trust too, like it depends where the source is coming from. If like, somebody says that this is a book that you really need to read this book changing my life. Oh, I'll read it. But sometimes it may hit you at the wrong time. Like, say, book about spirituality. I was talking about it in a podcast with Jordan, uh, Lijuin, who was the founder of Futurism or the founder of Futurism. And he was talking about how the book Zen and the art of happiness was this kind of amazing transformative book. So I picked it up and I started reading it because I was like, oh, that's cool. Because like, you know, if I had that profound effect on him, then like, I'm like, oh, maybe it'll affect me. But I kind of got that same stuff through the power of now. I'd already read it. I'd already, you know, had those experiences of learning and feeling an idea for the first time. So I think I was listening to Tim Ferriss's podcast. I think he was talking to Derek Sivers, but it might have been somebody else. And they were talking about the same thing. They were debating like a book, one particular book. And like this one book had a huge impact on Tim Ferriss. And then I think Derek Sivers was like, yeah, I was feeling it. And like they were sort of talking about this that what it depends on where you're at. And I actually say, I get people that email me a lot like what books do you recommend. And I'm like, it totally depends on where you're at in your journey. Because the power of now was like a huge book for me. I read it when I was like 22. I actually want to reread it like 10 years later and see, you know, how I feel about it. I think it's one of those books that you get like more from at each time you read it or depending on where you're at. You kind of hear more and feel more into it. But it does. It depends on, you know, what other books you've already read, how open you are, you know, what you're most interested in at that time. What? What is this? Oh my god. It's a new segment we've got called What's the Rock Up to? Does this mean when I should have been listening to your podcast to know? Yeah. Yeah. This is the second time I've done it. It's not, it's a little bit different. It's not what the rocks up to as much as progressing on my journey to get the rock on the show. Do you know this? Do you know what this is? So I remember hearing something about it. So I don't even know anything about him at all. I almost just said like, what's the rock? What's the rock? But I know. I think Dad told me you wanted to do a documentary or follow him around or something like that. Yeah. Well, that was an idea I had. It was like, it would be cool to do it to do a documentary with the rock. And I think maybe that's one of my kind of, that's when I wear this idea stem from. That has been an idea. Like, yeah, maybe it might be cool down the road. But obviously, that's a wave crazier idea. I think a bigger commitment. But this is still pretty crazy to get the rock to sit in that chair and find me in my apartment or wherever the hell it happens today. To interview the rock on this podcast is one of my big goals I'm striving to do. And I do have a big update. I got an email today. Okay. I'm not going to, from a former guest in the show and he's got contact details from the rock's team. Really? Yeah. He worked on a movie with the rock. He's a business partner and producer, phone number, email. What does it say over top of that document? It's like the watermark? Yeah, because I think this is like the call sheet for the, I don't think he's supposed to say that. I don't think so. It has a water big watermark. No, I mean, I think that's, it's not like a watermark is in Don't send this other people. That's probably just the design like the design of the call sheet. Maybe. So what? You're going to contact, whoo? I don't know, man. I don't know what to do with this. Now I got this information. I got email, I got phone numbers. We got assistance in his part business partner. Holy shit. You got to send them like a little segment like a little clip of this. Like a one of your things we were talking about having him on and send it to them. Yeah, I think that that's, I don't know if that's going to work though. Holy, try. But this is a good way of doing it. I'm like, there's something that I can't remember who it was, but somebody did something like this where it was like a public camp. I think they made a movie. Wasn't it Drew Barrymore? Oh, my date with Drew. Yeah, like didn't he like publicly start talking about like wanting to go on a date with her or something and then all these people started to like help him. Yeah, maybe I should probably get that guy on the podcast. I think he's from LA. Yeah, I think it would Drew and then maybe he can, this is like my date with the rock. Yeah, so I'm pretty excited about that. But I guess what I could ask you is what what advice would you give me to get the rock on the show? What? How should I go about it? Because I don't want to be too eager. And I don't want to, if I have these contacts now that I could reach out to, but is it too soon? Too soon. I'm only 20 episodes. And I don't have a big following. Do I go for it right now? Nobody seems to care. I've never heard 70. Nobody tweeted at me about the rock yet. So I don't even know if people are listening or falling. What can I be tweeting about it? No, I just bring it up in every episode. I would say it's never too soon, you know, because it's like you can always ask again later if they're like you're not big enough yet or whatever. You can always ask again, but definitely do it now. Why not? You got good quality content. I'm got to get a bigger chair. Yeah, he'd be singing on too. Yeah, I'll get a bench for the rock. And you don't even know much about the rock. He said, what's no, I don't think I've seen any movies with him. Dude, he's the biggest movie star in the world. No, he's not the bigger. I mean, I know he, what are you talking about? He is. Absolutely. I mean, within the past couple of years, he was, I think it was 2016 or so. Yeah. He was the highest-grossing movie star in the world. Subscribe from WWE to being one of the highest-grossing movies. Yeah. Are you kidding? I don't know anything about him. Like, I know what he looks like. That's pretty much it. You have. I'm not into like those action movies. So I don't think there's anything he's been done. Doesn't matter. Why do you like him so much? Oh, God, everybody asks me this question. Everybody's confused by it. Doesn't make any sense. He's the, his journey. He was trying to be a profile player, gotten injury. His father and grandfather were both wrestling stars, but nowhere to the level of him. And then what he was able to accomplish. He rose to the top of the WWE, became this massive celebrity in pop culture and through wrestling. And then he makes this transition to doing film where he does the Scorpion King. It's a spin-off of the mummy with Brandon Frazier, if you remember. And propells him into Superstardom. And he, like, that was so long ago. And he's still, and like, those were pretty bad movements. And he's, he's worked his ass off. And you look at this guy where, like, by all measures of the imagination, he has made it. And this is what everybody gets obsessed about. It's like, like, oh, I just want to make it. They just keep striving to climb the corporate ladder or to make enough money to eventually the point where they can be happy. And he has clearly gotten to the point where most people would want. But he works harder than anybody in show business, anybody period. He buss his ass. He wakes up at like 5 a.m. He's got the rock clock. Yeah, which is an app on the, an alarm clock app where you can actually set to wake up with rock every morning. Yeah, it's a little bit creepy. But basically, he uses his alarm clock and it sends that data to everybody else. So it's like the rocks wicking up at 5 a.m. this morning. The rocks wicking up at 4.30 a.m. this morning. But you just see, like, this guy hustles. And he doesn't have to. He could sit at home and his mansion and just do whatever he wants. But he buss his ass. He, he works out like a machine. His, his diet is unbelievable. The amount of calories he eats. There was this reporter that tried to eat the same amount of food he does, which the guy shouldn't have because he's so scrawny. And he was throwing up by 12 p.m. And through all of that, he just seems like the most humble, nice down to earth guy. You could imagine it always takes time for fans. And he just seems like a really good genuine dude. And I'd be interested to hearing his, that story and delving into that and understanding. He inspires you. Yeah, I think that there's, like, hearing you talk about his, like, basically commitment to life or like dedication to like himself. I think that people, you tend to hear that when you're inspired by somebody. Like, they, you know, they do this thing that seems like maybe almost impossible to us or, or it's something that we really aspire to. Um, that's always cool. I mean, I love when people have like, like motivation for life. Because, because so many, some of you will struggle with, I remember people always saying to me, just about running my own business. I can never do that. I can never do that. Like, we have this belief a lot of times that we have to like have other people give a structure for, you know, but it's like, all of this is made up, you know, culture, the way, you know, going to school and going to work. It's like, we're all like making it up. We have this idea of like, it has this certain pathway. And that is what feels easiest to just show up on at the time. People tell us to show up. But I think there's so much, um, it feels really good when you actually create it yourself and you're showing up for it just because you're choosing to. That's great. I completely, and my board was there. And I think this is a good time to do the final segment. Okay. I didn't even know you had segments. Yeah. Yeah. Pretty cool, right? Yeah. This is, um, called quick questions. You have some pre-prepared questions for me? I do. These are questions that I ask everybody. Um, I choose, it's not always the same questions I have to everybody, but I kind of direct them towards the people I think they're going to be able to provide the most value to the audience. All right. So question number one, what drives you? Oh, wow. That was a perfect segue. Um, what drives me? That's such a vague question. Um, I'll answer the way that I feel about it is my soul. So I've always had this feeling in me that I describe that I would describe as my soul or that resonates with me as my soul. So it's this feeling of like you need to express this. You need to write this. I've always been creative. Um, I mean, you know, we were kids. We were like making little movies and I was writing scripts and writing little books and making songs. So I think there's always been this feeling in me that just wants to create. Um, and then there's also another feeling that like wants it to feel purposeful. And so for me, it's all about just kind of satisfying that feeling within me that feeling of my soul, my soul calling. Let's say that somebody's stuck and they don't know which direction to head. What advice would you give them to do today to help them get unstuck. Breath work. And if you were going to tell them just to do breath work, how would you encourage them to get started? Um, I have an audio on my website that they can use. Um, that will give them literally just press play and lay down and start breathing and things will start to open up and you can take it from there. But I think that if you're feeling stuck in any area of your life, it's a really powerful tool to start to open yourself up to recognizing what is it that's keeping you stuck. And, um, yeah, I mean, I work with people to like kind of give them more tools, but it usually has to do with what specifically they're stuck with. And how do you face doubt? Self-doubt. I mean, I think that a big part of my journey has been about letting go of self-doubt and learning to love myself and value myself. So again, breath work has really been the tool that's helped me do that, helped me connect more and more deeply to myself. I don't think I have any really like specific things that I like that I do if I'm like doubting myself. Usually, like if I'm stuck making a decision, um, it's like just kind of make the decision to move on. I'll feel like I'm resisting in some ways. Um, like that will sort of start to keep myself stuck. But I don't have any like big profound way aside from like breathing and just part of it being my journey of learning to value myself, value my worth. What one skill have you leveraged in a way that you think others haven't? Ooh. Damn, these are hard questions that others haven't. Well, I mean, the skill I would say that I have developed as like an entrepreneur has really helped me. I don't know. I wouldn't say that like others haven't necessarily, but I will say like doing the work that I've done. So like having been an entrepreneur from a very young age, owning a denim store, you know, when I was right out of college and then creating graphic design business, owning a clothing line, like I've had so many different experiences that have not worked in a lot of ways and that's actually helped shape my ability to run pushing beauty in a way that's really serving me. And then also having a graphic design background like I just wrote a book and I designed the cover and I designed the interior of it and laid it out. And so it's like I actually have a lot of skills that are helping me move forward with my business in a way that looks professional, but also, you know, isn't keeping me stuck in terms of like needing to hire a lot of people to do different things because I can do it myself. Yeah, I think it gives you a lot of power and that's the same thing with the podcast and the video stuff that I do. If I had to hire somebody to do all this stuff, if you have to hire a graphic designer to do all the work for your website, it would and for your book, it would be challenging to, because then you have to come from the mindset of this needs to be profitable. I need to actually make my money back on this thing. I can't keep spending thousands of dollars on this. So yeah, that's a really good point. Develop some skills they're going to help you in your journey that will outlive that specific skill. If that makes sense, so like if you learn how to be a graphic designer to serve clients later on, you can use that superpower to serve yourself. Yeah, and so much about people's experience on my website, for example, like they're hanging out on my website reading articles and so I can, I've created in a way that feels good to spend time there. Like it feels really shitty to be on a website that doesn't look good or doesn't work the right way, too. Like you click on things and it doesn't bring you where it's supposed to bring you or things are just kind of disorganized. Like it doesn't feel very good. You're not going to spend a lot of time there. So yeah, I think I judge people about my website. It's like if somebody reaches out to me and says like, because usually, you know, I'll get a few emails a week where people are like, hey, I really love the documentary. Like, we'll love it if you check out some of my work or check out this in that. And I usually like, or sometimes they don't even do that, but they have the email where they have their website attached to the end of it and I'll copy and paste it and just to see if they're legit. Sometimes I do that before I even read the email. I'll just be like, all right, is it legit? And legit is, is it nicely designed? Is it thoughtful? If it's just, if it's a filmmaker, I'll just play the real that to me is, is just the same form as a nicely designed website. It's a professionalism. Like, are they legit? Are they professional? I'll click on people's things too to see, like, you know, how, what is the quality of of their work, how are they presenting themselves? What mindset do you need to have to make it? To make it, I don't even believe in making it. I think that's bullshit. But I would say, what mindset do you have to be happy or to, I mean, I think it's that it's actually redefining for yourself, what it means to make it. And that's essentially another way of saying to be successful. So I'm sure a lot of your listeners are, like, more like entrepreneurs and maybe creating their own businesses or aspiring to create their own business. And I even get a lot of my clients who are, a lot of people feel this feeling of like, there's something that I want to make that's my own. And I would say the mindset would be to believe in yourself, to trust yourself, to believe in your worth and your value and that you have something unique to offer every single human being. I think we get really caught up in, I just wrote actually a little Instagram post about this, like, we get really caught up in comparing ourselves to other people or saying, like, I don't have enough experience. I don't have, like, I haven't studied this enough. I don't know all of the answers here or whatever. So we get really fearful and like putting ourselves out there. And I think the more you can trust that like wherever you're at, you have something to teach somebody. We are all teachers, we're all students. One more question. And then we'll wrap it up and you got dinner plans. You got a good party. You got a pool party? Yeah. LA. LA, it's beautiful to be in this city. This beautiful city of LA lost, how does one thing for people to read before they go to bed tonight? The first thing that came to mind for me was actually a poem, but I don't remember what it's called. I couldn't be able to get it. That's it. That's all we got. It's all a time we've got for this episode of The Ground Up Show. Thank you guys so much for listening or for watching. This is a temporary set up. I'm here in the dining room of my new LA apartment, but we'll be upgrading soon to a bigger studio. If you want to try out breath work, if you're interested in Michelle's work, go to pushingbeauty.com. Yeah. Twitter. Yeah. Michelle Devella, but I'm not Twitter that much. Instagram. Instagram. Fishing Beauty. Pinterest. Pinterest. Pushing Beauty. Sure. Facebook is pushingbeauty now. Just Google Michelle Devella, Bradthwork. Yeah, or just go to pushingbeauty.com. We're going to pushingbeauty.com. That's probably the easiest thing, right? Just go to pushingbeauty.com. Thank you for being on the show, being my first interview in LA. For being your sister. Thank you for being my sister and being there and always supporting me. Oh, thank you. Thank you. Likewise. Okay, that's it. We're done with the show. All right. Hey, ground up listeners. Thanks for tuning in. If you've been keeping up with my work, you know, I've been working on a 20-minute film called Unstuck, the five steps to change. It's my personal story of paying off over a hundred thousand dollars in student loan debt, as well as the lessons I learned from our 25-plus interviews in minimalism. The film is finished, but it's only for my email subscribers. So sign up for my newsletter at MattDevella.com. I don't send out that many emails, probably about one a month, maybe less. So it's only when I have really great stuff to share. Check it out. Watch the film. Let me know what you think. And thanks again for listening.
