# Everything you’ve been told about money is wrong.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_NgA9dZC5qo
Get the full 75 min interview:  http://patreon.com/mattdavella

🙊 Here are the goods I mention in this video:
(Some are affiliate links. All are my genuine recommendations)
Get Ramit's book:  https://amzn.to/38EDJ2I

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** minimalism, personal finance, minimalist, minimalism and money, finance, minimalist living, minimalist money, financial minimalism, finances, minimalist lifestyle, minimalism finance, minimalism money, minimalist finance, minimalism personal finance, minimalist finances, minimalism and personal finance, minimalism and your finances, minimalist personal finance, minimalist money management, minimalist money saving, saving money minimalism, minimalist budget, 
**Date:** 2019-05-14

## Transcript
 Is it possible that nearly everything you've been told about money is wrong? From the messages we see in movies and music videos to the advice we get from our family and friends, it's impossible to escape. Everyone wants to give you their two cents on your dollar. And most people have no idea what they're talking about. Think about it. Out of all the conversations you've had about money in your life, how many of them were with someone who could confidently explain to you the difference between a 401k and a Roth IRA? Well, our constantly sharing myths and misconceptions about personal finance despite the fact that they themselves are buried in credit card debt. Instead of talking about asset allocation, automation, and safety nets, you'll hear them talk about discounts, credit card points, and being frugal to the point of deprivation. Don't worry, everyone watching and listening, I'm not going to tell you to cut back on Montes. By as many lattes as you want, that's Remiets Sadie and he really loves lattes. He's also the author of The New York Times Best Selling Book, I will teach you to be rich. You can focus on five or ten big wins in life. Get a good job and go shade your salary. Invest every single month automatically. Make sure you have a solid credit score. Just get a five to ten things, right? You'll never have to worry about the cost of appetizers or lattes again. His approach to personal finance focuses more on the big wins than tracking every last expense and more on how to increase your income and on pinching pennies. This is a whole part of the equation is missing in money. All they talk about is cutting back. I'm like, what about the other side of the table? You can earn more. I was honored to have a chance to sit down with him to talk about how you might be able to earn more money, create healthy spending habits, and change the way you've been thinking about money for your entire life. Get instant access to the full 75-minute conversation by becoming a member at patreon.com slash matt devilla. I hope you get as much value out of this conversation as I did. Why don't you just start out, give me a little bit of an introduction to the kind of work you're doing right now and what you've been up to. Sure. I decided years ago to take my college scholarship money and invest it in a stock market because I thought that's what everybody was doing in 1999, 2000. I lost half of my money and I realized it wasn't as smart as I thought I was. So I started learning about money and at the same time I was learning about psychology. And over time I basically got really interested in learning how to change my own behavior with money, with careers, and with negotiation and all kinds of parts of self-development. So I started a blog called I will teach you to be rich. I was sober when I named that, I don't know if I was able to say name again. But start a blog, ended up writing a book called I will teach you to be rich, which became an instant New York Times bestseller. And now we have 20 different courses on money, business, psychology and careers, all different parts of living a rich life. A lot of people online in the personal finance community like to talk about being frugal and cutting down on every possible expense. And I know this is something that you've been going out of gas for probably 15 years now. 15 years. I mean how much tape do we have? I'm about to go off on this forgotty stuff. Yeah. The most classic thing is don't spend money on lattes. Okay, everyone, first of all, don't worry, everyone watching and listening, I'm not going to tell you to cut back on lattes. By as many lattes as you want, this is a fundamental misconception that if you cut back on $3 or $5 every single day that somehow magically 200,000 years in the future, you're going to have enough money to live your rich life. First of all, who wants to live like that? Kind of all if you run the map, that's not even that much money anyway, $3 a day and third, it simply doesn't work. People buy more coffee than ever. I wake up in the morning, I want coffee. What they ignore is that you can focus on five or ten big wins in life. Get a good job, negotiate your salary, invest every single month automatically, make sure you have a solid credit score. Just get a five to ten things right? You'll never have to worry about the cost of appetizers or lattes again. One of their sum sacrifices that need to be made though because, sure while I love lattes, I love going out for a cup of coffee every day and I don't want to sacrifice that, can I apply that to everything in life, can I have it all? I would love for people to develop their sense of what they truly love and what they don't really care about. In my life, I love convenience. That's something that I call my money dial. I can turn that spending way up. When you think about convenience for most people, maybe they have a dishwasher, maybe they send their laundry to be done or they have somebody maybe come and help her on the house once in a while. I turned it way up. I doubled triple quadruple in my spending. I have a personal assistant, I wake up in the morning, my counter is like perfectly organized. It's like my art, I love it. But my computer's five years old, I just don't care about it. When I bought a car, I bought a Honda Accord. Again, don't really care about that. When I, we hardly ever eat out as a couple, we just make food at home for a lot of people. If you ask them, what do you truly love spending on? They're tend to be some clusters. Wellness is one and that could be organic meat, it could be training, it could be going on a retreat to to loom, whatever. Food, classic one, relationships is a big one. The point I'm making is ask yourself, what is the thing that I love and what if I doubled my spending on it? Well, in order to do that, which would give you joy, you probably have to cut back on the things you don't really care about. And instead of just spending a little bit here and a little bit there, I'm a huge fan of going all in on one big thing and then saying these things are just not important to me. It seems like your definition of living a rich life and the concepts and minimalism are very intertwined. It seems like it's just like different words, different ways of not even different ways of looking at it. Essentially, it's about when you talk about money dials, finding what you value most in life, investing in that, and then just letting the other stuff go. Minimalism and I will teach a bridge, we want to find the things that we love that we value that we care about and then like you said, we want to let the other things go. How you do that is up to you. You can truly let them go. In the book, I talk about the fire community, financial independence retire early. Some of these people choose to basically retire with like 100 or 200,000 bucks. They retire in their 30s and they live a very, very simple, minimalist lifestyle. Very simple. That's not for me. That's not my style, but I respect that they have done that. There's like the fat fire people who choose to retire early and they want to live in Manhattan and have like a fat apartment and send their kids to private school. Maybe not also for me, but you can choose that. But I want people to do is to decide what their rich life is and then use the money to fuel that. And half the battle is really getting congruent with yourself and saying, what do I want? Maybe I need to dream bigger on some of this stuff because I've been playing small, but some of this stuff I just don't care about, so I'm going to get rid of it. When it comes to money, so many of us dream small and we play small. So we spend our time debating about lattes. We worry about a small amount of debt. But when was the last time we actually lived a life of imagination? Where we said, hey, what if I had $25,000, what would I do with it? And if you have never even thought about that for five seconds, then how are you ever going to know what's exciting to you with money? And that's why most of us dread money. We don't want to talk about it. It's always something that at the end of the month we look at our bills, oh god, I guess I spent that much. I want to flip that because I will teach you to be rich is about saying, hey, money can be exciting. Let's start with what I want to do. I want to take a trip to Thailand. I want to stay in an amazing place. I want to take a food tour. Great. Let's start there. And when you start with what you want, then you can work your way backwards to, all right, how do I get there? But if you're stuck in latte land and you're stuck saying, I shouldn't spend money on this and I shouldn't do that, you're never going to get out of that. What about somebody who might say, like, remit that's easy for you to say, I'm working to jobs. I'm $30,000 in debt. I've got car payments all this. It's hard for me to even imagine a world where I can get out of debt, let alone pay my bills. How do those people, the ones that are struggling the most, live a rich life, and get out of debt and set themselves up to be financially free? I'd ask them one question, what's your debt payoff date? Almost nobody knows. I get these emails every single day, they're like, in small amounts of debt or huge amounts of debt. What is your debt payoff date? What that means is, what is the exact month that your debt is going to be paid off? If you know that answer, you're in really good shape, even if it's 5, 10, 15 years from now, because it means you have a plan and you're automatically paying it off. But of course the vast majority of people don't. They live under a cloud that's, I'm in debt, I have some of them think that it's existential and they have $3,000 of debt, I'm like, you could pay that off in a couple months, it's not that big of a deal or maybe six months. Some of them have significant amounts of debt, but the commonality is, if you just have this dull, throbbing pain in the back of your head, oh debt, suddenly you start to identify yourself like that. You follow people on Twitter who are like right these really depressing things about macro, economy and there's no way millennials are ever going to get out of debt. You read subreddits where they think that they talk about everyone being in debt and we're just about, you don't make a plan. What I want people to do is go to a debt pay off calculator, you can Google it, put in your amounts, you would be surprised that probably 80% of the people I know who are in debt don't even know how much they owe. So step one, find out how much you owe, step two, plug it into a calculator. You might discover that paying an extra 20 bucks or 50 bucks a month can cut that down by years. And then three, once you have a plan, it's like, you have a big sigh of relief. Now if you want to take an extra job or you want to negotiate your rates or you want to do XYZ, you can affect that plan. But until you actually have a plan, you're just just sitting here like, oh, this is really depressing. And that is the worst place to be. Well, I do have to personally thank you for writing this book. I remember getting this book, I was $97,000 in student loan debt. I had just bought a brand new car, which was before I read the book. So at that point, I'm about like $1,150,000 in debt and it did feel overwhelming. And it felt like there was just no plan because a lot of times people aren't really teaching this stuff. It's not being taught in school necessarily. If your parents are bad with money, it's not being taught to you by them. So you have to go out and find this stuff for yourself. So I just do want to just thank you for that because it really set me on the right path and helped me out a lot. Amazing. What is it about the book and about these methods that work? Because a lot of personal finance, it can be driven on just the numbers, but lecturing you. But what I really loved about yours was the more of an approach on the behavioral change. I sit in front of a computer all day and I get emails. We have hundreds of thousands of people on my newsletter and I love the emails I get, but there's nothing like hearing one real person who used it and hearing why you decided to start using it and what you know. I love it. This is the highlight of why I do what I do. When I started writing this book, I was getting questions like, what's a 401k or like, I have $5,000 in debt or I have $5,000 in my checking account. I don't know what to do with it. And the typical things that people had heard about money were lecturing. They were kind of depressing because it was like living a life of a monk which they did not want to do. I want to go out with my friends. I want to pick up around of drinks for them. And also it's just confusing. You're like, who do I trust, Wall Street's trying to screw me, but I don't even know how. But I know I'm being screwed. And I have a soft spot in my heart for ordinary people who want to do the right thing, but the world is too confusing for them in personal finance. Because I spent years learning this stuff and for the ordinary person, super hard. You hear these phrases, expense ratios. What's that? Back-end load. Huh? Even 401k. What the hell is that? And I wanted to find a way to break it down for people and not just focus on compound interest charts because we've all seen these charts. It's like, dude, if you started investing at age 17, you'd be rich by now. It's like, yeah, well, I'm not 17 and I didn't start. So what do I do now? I wanted to integrate this psychology. And I think all of us, you and me included, probably have something that we claim we want to do more of, but we're not actually doing it. I think for a lot of people that's working out, for a lot of people that's money, might even be relationships for people. And when I wrote the book, I wanted to start in chapter one. Instead of saying, let's track your spending for the last month, blah, blah, blah. People are like, super, they don't want to do that. They're like, I don't know what I spent and also I know it was probably bad. So I don't think I'll read this book. I said, here's how the credit cards are mistreating you. All these numbers read these words off the page and you will get your fees refunded, like magic. And especially millennials and especially in America, everybody hates the phone. So they were like, I don't want to pick up the phone, but they did it. They get their $37 fee, $37 fee refunded, boom, they're like, this thing works. And for the first time, they actually take control of their money. Soon by the end, they're negotiating $10,000 raises. They are automating their money. And I think what a lot of people would love to be able to do as they learn in chapter five is to spend one hour a month on their money and that's it. And it just goes where it needs to go. Savings, investments and my favorite part, guilt-free spending. So what are some of the updates to this book and what can people get out of it now compared to maybe when I read it 10 years ago? So I was really proud that 95% of the investment material stands the test of time. In fact, 99%. This is stuff that's timeless. However, there are a lot of things that have changed. New tools. There's questions about robo advisors, crypto. I saw one of your readers ask about some crypto stuff today and better credit cards. So I updated all that to tell people exactly the accounts that I'm using. Also the worst accounts to avoid. I name names. I tell people, can I name names right now? Absolutely. Yeah. Okay. Don't use Wells Fargo. They are predatory pieces of shit. Bank of America. They also suck. They know that I don't like them. I talk about them everywhere. They're the worst. Yeah, you're like on their head. They're headless. Yeah. Bank of America. But they deserve it. Yeah. And I have no financial ties with these companies, but I wanted people to know exactly what I use. Because the fact of the matter is, most people are not going to spend hours and hours cross-tabulating all these different accounts. They're like, let me find someone who I trust and let me just see what he does. So, you know, I talk about great accounts to for checking, Schwab Investor checking, and guard for investments, they're the best. And there's a lot of good savings accounts. In my experience, if I find someone I like, like if I was going to buy a camera, I'm coming straight to you. Like, dude, this is what I want to do, what should I get? And whatever you tell me, I'm like, done. That's what people were looking for when it came to the book. So I updated the tools. I updated lots of insights on money and psychology. I'll give you an example. Do you ever remember any conversations that your parents had about money when you were growing up? A lot. Really? Yeah. It wasn't always good. It was always the conversations around not having enough money. Like, do you remember any phrases that they said? Wasn't cheap? That was like, when we got at Christmas gifts, wasn't cheap. And what did that mean to you? I think whenever there was always, it felt like we just didn't have enough money or is it how much did that cost? Yeah. This is a very big question. You buy a new computer. Everybody wants to know how much it costs. It was like the prices right in my house. Exactly. And like, if you say the wrong answer, for example, let's say you said it was 2,800 bucks. What would the reaction have been? It would be in shock that you spent that much money on something that maybe they didn't see the value of it. Yeah. And so like, you did it wrong. Oh my god, I couldn't have scripted this bed of this amazing. So growing up in that family environment, the messages that you are receiving are it's bad to spend a lot of money on things. If I spend a lot of money, I'm probably getting ripped off and frugality or low prices is the best value of all. Now imagine for people who grew up, I'm sure there are a lot of people watching and listening to this, they're like, oh my mom and dad said that every day or phrases like, we don't talk about money in this family or easy come, easy go. Those things carry with you for 20, 30, 40 years. And suddenly you're going to buy a car and you really want one type of car which you love. But you say, you know, I don't know, I should probably get the cheap one. The one that you will hate every day for the next 10 years while you drive it. But you save the next $700. Why? You just think that you did a rational analysis. Really if you trace it back, it's the phrase you heard when you were eight years old with your parents. And so in this book, I show these crazy money messages that we absorb from society. And some of them are good, and some of them are bad. And some of them are just appropriate for the time, but we're in a new place. My parents were immigrants. They came here, they needed to save money. And that made perfect sense. I still retain some of that frugality now. But I've also turned the chapter in my financial life. So now I don't want to be living the life of what I was learning at eight years old. I want to be rewriting my financial story now. So I added that to the book. And for everyone listening, if you've ever thought about your own money behavior and you've ever wanted to have a magnifying glass on why do I spend money this way? Or how come I can't seem to stop feeling guilty about spending? You will find the answer. The quickest way to pay off your debt is to make more money, right? So what are some of the approaches that people can go about making more money? Say, as a freelancer, and then also as somebody who's working a nine to five job. What are these ways that people can make more money? Okay, first of all, I love talking about making more. Do you know why most personal finance experts never talk about earning more? Because they don't know what they're talking about. They don't know how. Yeah. That's as simple as that. That's why this is a whole part of the equation is missing in money. All they talk about is cutting back. I'm like, what about the other side of the table? You can earn more. So I have chosen to focus. Yes, I manage my expenses. But when it comes to managing, I basically spend the same amount on most things, except I have two areas that are, I tend to over spend on them. One is travel, and one is clothes. Those are my two. So I know that if within these parameters, it kind of flags it red or green. Aside from that, everything else is like, pretty much taken care of. If you want to earn more at your job, there's some straightforward ways of doing it. And then we can talk about freelancing, which I've done. The typical way people think about earning more at their job is they just wait to be given a raise by their boss, or they kind of build this thing up in their head. They're like, I'm going to go in my boss's office, give me some more money or I'm quitting. And then, of course, the boss is like, get the fuck out of here. And then they just like, they don't know what to do, they're like, ah, not a good situation. A better way is to be really strategic about it. So here's a quick suggestion on how you can get large raises. And this works very well. I will routinely be walking down the street in New York. People will come up to me, they're like, I got a $16,000 raise because of what you taught me. But the magic is in the details. So what you do, you send an email to your boss. You say, I would love to discuss some of the projects I'm working on. And I'd love to get some time with you. Okay? So you walk in and you talk to your boss. You say, you know, here's what I'm working on. I wanted to kind of sync up on my role. My first question is, what can I do to be a top performer? Your boss might be a little confused. They might say this or that. It doesn't really matter what they say. You need to simply go back to your key message. What does it take to become a top performer? Because I want to exceed expectations in my role. So by the end of that meeting, you're going to have three or four crisp things that you walk out with. Write them down. For example, you need to boost conversion from 10 to 12%. You need to hire XYZ person and you need to do X, whatever. Write it down and say, you know what? These sound great. I'm really excited about them. Now, if I hit all these goals, I'd like to discuss a compensation adjustment. But let's deal with that later. First, I want to focus on this. So the boss is going to love it. Because you're coming in when everyone else just floating along the river of work, just showing up to work every day. And you're saying, what does it take to be the best here? And by the way, I'm going to help you, my boss, exceed your goals. Let me take it on. Great. If you walk out, you think about how you're going to execute on that. You send an email saying, here's what we talked about. Compensation adjustment discussion later. But for now, I just want to work on these. And the time period for this is typically like six to 12 months. So you're sending an email every one to two weeks. Here's what we talked about. Here's an update. Now, let's assume that you hit those goals. If you don't hit those goals, then maybe you don't deserve a raise. But if you do, you set up another meeting. Here, we are six months later, like to sit down again and update you on the goals. You walk in. This is the best meeting of your life. You walk in. You say six months ago, we talked about X, Y and Z. Well, I'd like to show you a couple things I'm really happy. Smiling. Boom. You talked about 10 to 12%. We actually have a confirmed 13.3%. I'm so happy. You talked about hiring one person. We actually were able to hire two people. We've got a third on deck. You talked about blank boom. The boss is just like loving it. You're giving each other paths on the back. Great. You say, you know what? The other thing we discussed was a potential compensation adjustment. So I'd like to discuss that now. Boss getting a little nervous. Whoa, what's about to happen? But the boss has been updated along every two weeks. So they know it's not a surprise. Now you pull out your salary research, which you pulled from salary.com. Based on my role, you know, I'm currently paid 58. For my role, it looks like I should be paid between 63 and 67. I'd like to have an adjustment based on my performance of exceeding these goals to 67,000 dollars. Now, let the silence fill the room. Stop talking. Just shut. Follow my STHU technique. Shut the hell up. And let the boss think. Boss is probably going to come back and say, look, I can't do 67. That's above your current pay grade. But you have done a great job. We can talk about 63. OK, so first of all, you just made 5,000 bucks. But now you can have some negotiation. You can use some of my videos on how to actually go through this. But you walked out taking a proactive role in your career. You set a goal with your boss. You confirmed it every step of the way. And then you walked in and said, this is what I'm worth. That is how you negotiate. It's totally different than what most people imagine. And if you do that once a year, you can probably do that consistently for your career. It is incredibly empowering. I hope everyone just does that one thing. You will watch your career soar if it works for you. So if somebody is a freelancer, they have their own business. What are the ways that they can grow their business? I know the common thought for most freelancers, I would imagine, would be, I need to go out and get more clients. That's classic. And sometimes it's true. But I did a lot of client work years ago. There's like three ways to really grow your business. You can get more customers. You can raise the average order of value, or you can increase the purchase frequency. That's like a very different way of looking at growing your business, because most people only focus on one thing. The classic thing I know a lot of creatives, photographers, writers, et cetera. And they just go through this, it's not even feast or famine. It's like famine, maybe get a little more soul and then back to famine. They're constantly dealing with low value clients. So they're like getting 400 bucks here or 4,000 bucks there. And they just like keep on, they spend all their time just like chasing. It's horrible. Have you experienced this or do you know people like this? Yeah, I mean, early on, a lot of my friends were trapped in the music video game, making music videos where historically very low budget, especially for the DIY guys, people who work wedding films. Like there's usually a certain threshold of where you can go. And for me, I saw a lot of people doing that. And just kind of scraping the barrel, but not being able to get out of them. Yeah, they're just in this vortex. Yeah, stuck. It's like quicksand. In order to get out of that, you have to make some really different and often difficult decisions. And if you ask the average freelancer who's stuck in quicksand, would you like to instead of charging 400 bucks per client charge 4,000 or like, yeah, I'd love that. And you're like, okay, are you willing to do things differently? Yeah, of course. And then you show them a couple of things they need to do. And they're like, fuck that. I'm not going to do that. So what I would say is if you were in a creative industry, know that there are people charging 10 times more than you. Go find them. Look at what they do. And don't scoff. Don't de- disparage them. Instead get C, curious, D to C. Why is this wedding photographer able to come in $15,000? What do they do differently? Let me look at their website. Let me look at the way they talk about their services. Let me see what they offer. And I'll give you an example from a travel agent. I recently went on a very long honeymoon six weeks. And I started researching travel agents. Now, first of all, have you ever used a travel agent? No. Who the hell used a travel agent? It's so weird, right? Exactly. So, but this was a very long complex trip to multiple continents. And I was like, you know what? I think that I could use the help. And I started learning about the travel agent industry. I would like to challenge everyone to do this. Go Google travel agents. Click on whatever you find and just look what you see. They literally all say the same thing. They literally say, provide you service at value blob. It's just like this all bullshit. They all look the same. That's how you look to clients. If you're a wedding photographer, I also hired a wedding photographer for our wedding, they all look the same. So we found someone totally different. So let me give you a couple of examples. Once you do your research on all the travel agents, you're just going to be like, these are all the same. They're commodities. They're like salt. I could buy this. I could buy that as a commodity. I found two that I thought were phenomenal. Now, for us, for the clientele, we were, we wanted to take a luxury trip. It was very complex. And we wanted everything to be handled. So that's the clientele we're talking about in this scenario. Go look at a couple of brands. One is Scott Dunn, who we ended up using. Mikato is also a really good luxury travel agent. Go look at what they say in their positioning and branding. And they charge way more than the typical travel agent. Why? Go study that and see what they do. For everyone who is stuck on finding more clients, realize this, if you're currently charging 400 bucks or 4,000, whatever you're charging, getting more clients is just going to put you in the same position, unless you radically increase it. Unless you find a way to 2x3x5x. So think about what you need to change. If you're only offering wedding photos, maybe you can do same day photos, because your wedding couple wants to post it on Instagram. Maybe you can do different types of edits. There's a million different things you can do. What your clients probably don't care about is you talking about all your technical camera, F-stop equipment. They don't give a shit about that. You've got a really interview your clients to say, what is it that you value and who else are you talking to? Study those people, change your service offerings, and then constantly tested. That's how you get out of quicksand. You can really see where these money stories that we tell ourselves and our parents tell ourselves as kids could even influence your business. And I think sometimes we get advice from the wrong people. Oh, from a bunch of broke entrepreneurs. You and your broke entrepreneur, photographers, all in the same subreddit. Oh, there's no way life is so difficult. It's like you're getting advice from other people who are not succeeding. Why are you listening to that? And you're even thinking about yourself. I would never spend $2,000 for a wedding film or a wedding video. If you're not the client, exactly. I'm so glad you say this. If you yourself don't value what you're offering, your clients can sniff that out from a million miles away. So I talked to a bunch of photographers. It was amazing. When I got on wedding photography calls with my, at the time, fiancee, dude, it was insane. We get on the call and it was like they all must have read the same book. And I was like, whatever book this is, it sucks. Because they start, they go, what's your love story? Oh, good. Like what the fuck? First of all, what's a love story? And second of all, why don't you tell this love story? To some random, I'm never going to talk to you again. So we had a 30 minute call, right? And like, I'm punctual. And we're 16 minutes into the call, talking about how we met. And I'm like, I'm just like, this just bad strategy. You really, I didn't say this, but I'm like, you really want to be using 16 out of 30 minutes on our love story. And I later realized they're trying to build rapport. And usually they're like dealing with the, in my case, my fiancee, but I was like leading the call. The calls were not going well. Finally, we talked to one photographer who we loved. And she was just like, she asked this question. She could read the room. And she realized, okay, like, get to the point, talk about what we want. We had a multicultural wedding. So like, oh, I've done that. I've shot an Indian and Jewish wedding. Dada, da, da, da, na, we're talking. We're looking at her photos. But like, what did not come up? I never asked her about her equipment. I don't give a shit. I just look at her photos. I'm like, how fast can you get them? How do you guarantee that you don't lose the film? And I want this, this, and this, done. Price was irrelevant. When you nail the right client and you nail the positioning, I always say price is a mere triviality. So if you're busy worrying about things, and you kind of know when it's not working, it's like, you're trying to convince these clients and they're just like, ah, they're not interested or you feel like you're really having to put the cell, you know something is wrong. When it clicks, like it just fits, that's when you know you've nailed the right client and the right position and the right offer. Let's do a few questions here from Twitter and then we'll wrap up Christian Crisolo. How can I become financially free while being an average day job owner? That's how most people do it. So don't handicap yourself by saying, oh, I'm just an average day job owner. The vast majority who have become wealthy did it through something that you have access to, which is the stock market. So let's flip this. I actually, one of the most powerful things I learned from one of my mentors, J. Abraham, was to take a weakness and turn it into a strength. This guy says, I'm just an average day job having guy. I'm like, you are set up, man. You can take the money that you make and you can put some of it into a 401k. If you've got a 401k match, that's free money, do that. You've got an IRA, you can set that up. It's all in here, it's the latter of investing. Where does your money go? You can start and I know it might seem small. Maybe you don't have thousands of dollars, but you start off small. Any raise you get, take part of that, put it in here. So now you've got that flywheel turning. Every single month, you've got money automatically investing. The stock market we know on average returns about seven to eight percent per year. That means your money is doubling every approximately 10 years. That becomes phenomenal as you're adding to it. So don't discount yourself. You're in a really good position. And of course, if you want to accelerate that, you can do something on the side. When you come home from work or early in the morning. So that's a possibility as well. Cameron Moore, oh, this is good, okay. So he says, if you only had $50 for me, lost everything and had zero influence, how would you get back to where you are now? And I wonder how long you think it would take? I don't know if my next path would be exactly the same path as I took. So first of all, when I was in college, I remember one of my professors said something to me. He said, I'm really jealous of you students. Because every quarter you get to erase your life and start over a completely fresh. And I didn't really understand what he meant. But think about all the entanglements you now have. You have a house or you live somewhere, you need to show up with this or that. If you could just wipe the slate clean, you might not end up in exactly the same place. Now, you love what you're doing. I love what I'm doing. But I think it's an interesting thought exercise. Maybe once a year. If I could wipe the slate clean, what would I be doing more of and less of? To answer the question, I would start off by going to everyone who I knew, and again, in this fantasy world, I don't know me, but anyone I know who's doing interesting stuff. And I would briefcase technique, the shit out of them. I would come to you, I'd say, oh, I love your videos. That it here's some marketing things that I have done in the past that worked really well. In fact, I did one for you. It boosted views by 40% love to see if we can set up time to talk, right? And I would do that with everyone else in LA and I would take one trip out here and knock out like 20 meetings. Boom, I have three clients right there. I would do the same thing with writing. I would start writing for people. I would do it for free. I would also get paid. Ultimately, I would also start an email list. This is a huge, huge thing. It's probably the biggest business mistake I made was not starting an email list early enough. Now, we have 4,500,000 people on that email list and people buy on email. I would make sure that I started an email list and I would make sure that I thought about the topics that I was writing about. I write, so that's the kind of way that I communicate with the world. When I started out, I was writing a lot of different stuff but it was important for me to realize that if you want a business, not just a hobby, you need to be also writing about topics or people want to spend money. Otherwise, it's just a hobby. I had a product that was a abysmal failure called the Scrooge Strategy. I showed people who wanted to save money, all these cool techniques, $8 a month. Well, guess what? It turns out people who want to save money don't want to spend money in order to save it. Sort of obvious, in retrospect, I would make sure I avoided those mistakes. I think that's about it. Anything else that you want to add here before we post things up? I just want to say thank you for having me and honestly, my favorite part is just hearing how you use the book to create your rich life. So thank you very much for having me. Yeah, honestly, like when you reached out, we had a mutual friend, the connectus. And I was like, that would mean, I was like, oh, sick man, that's amazing. I mean, honestly, your work really did help me out massively, early on and you're writing as soon as you're trying to find some of the people I know. So thanks for the work you did. Thank you. Thanks for watching. If you enjoy my videos here on YouTube, you might also enjoy my newsletter. Every Tuesday, I send out a short email on minimalism, habits, and productivity. You can sign up for that at MattDeathella.com. See you next time.
