# I keep making the same mistake.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=a8XqBEMA_Lk
http://slowgrowth.com/master-youtube
☝️ My YouTube course is open for one more day! Click here to learn more :)

Hi there 👋 If you're new to my videos my name is Matt D'Avella. I'm a documentary filmmaker, entrepreneur and YouTuber. I've made a couple documentaries for Netflix. I also teach courses on everything from filmmaking to habit change. If you like to nerd out about self-development as much as I do, you can subscribe for weekly videos.

🔗 LINKS
Enroll in my habit's course:  https://slowgrowth.com/simplehabits
Enroll in my YouTube course:  https://slowgrowth.com/masteryoutube
Get my weekly newsletters:  http://slowgrowth.com/newsletter
Follow me on Instagram:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Follow me on Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
**Keywords:** Matt D'Avella, matt davella, self-development, creativity, health, wellness, lifestyle design, lifestyle, advice, 
**Date:** 2022-04-25

## Transcript
 I'm not saying that I'm having a full blown mental breakdown, or a minty bee, as I like to call it, I'm just saying that it's getting close! Do you ever feel like you keep making the same mistake over and over again? And no matter how hard you try, or how many different ways you try to tackle the problem? You keep ending up right back where you started. Same piece. Hey everybody, it's Matt. Before I get into the main topic of this week's video, I wanted to let you know that my YouTube course is only going to be open for enrollment for the next 36 hours, and then we're going to close it until later this year. So if starting a YouTube channel is on your bucket list, if you've been struggling to gain momentum with your channel and you feel stuck, then I would love to have you. Enrollments closing soon, so go to slowgrowth.com slash master youtube to sign up or learn more. Or you can click the link down in the description below this video. So this video is going to be a little bit different. It's going to be a little bit more stripped back and a little bit less polished than my normal videos, and that's because I'm kind of still processing and figuring out what the hell is going on in my life. If you've been watching this channel for a while now, you know that I've struggled with anxiety, I've struggled with the pressures of work in YouTube and all that stuff before, and I'm kind of going through that again. I've just realized over the past week that I have completely taken on way too much. It might be the fact that I decided to coordinate this launch of my YouTube course while moving halfway across the world. It could be the fact that I decided to grow this business higher all these employees and take on all these extra responsibilities as well as try to maintain relationships with my family and friends in two different places on two different continents. Could be part of the reason why I'm a little bit stressed out right now. As I have a complete mental breakdown right now on camera, I keep going back to this conversation that I had with a friend. He said sometimes when it comes to burnout or working too hard, you have to go across the line to find out where it is. And I keep crossing that line. I'm like dancing on that, like back and forth. And I'm like, what are you doing? Why do you keep burning yourself out? Why do you keep pushing yourself past the point where you feel would bring you fulfillment and happiness? I know that working too hard is not going to make me happy. I know that it's going to bring upon too many sacrifices, whether it's time with family or friends or my mental health. And yet, I keep crossing that line. I keep thinking that I am some kind of robot. And that if I just push across this line, if I just get to this place, if I just make that video, if I just release that course, then I'm not going to have any problems. I don't know what it is. I mean, there are days where I feel totally fine. Where I'm like, this is this is great. Life is fine. Everything is running according to plan. And I say in a high pitch voice like that. So that means that everything's definitely totally okay. And then I have these difficult days and it's usually at night when I'm just like, oh my god, what did I do? Like I took on way too much. I'm doing way too many things. I'm working way too hard. I'm way behind on everything I want to do. Why do I feel this way? I want to feel better. And that's just a cycle. It's like over and over and over again. I'm like, all right, I wake up next morning. I'm like, oh, I feel good. Okay, great. I can actually get to work. I can make some headway on some of these projects I'm working on. And then the night comes and then I'm like, what did I do? And it's kind of hilarious and completely ironic because a couple of years ago I started a business called Slow Growth. And it was this whole idea that it really takes small steps to get to where you want to go. It's all about the marathon. Life is not a sprint. And so whether you're chasing your personal or professional goals, we can do it in a way that's sustainable that doesn't burn us out. And here I am, burning myself out again. Really, I think though the reason why I even started the company Slow Growth was because I knew that I needed that reminder. And if I need that reminder, I'm sure that there's thousands, if not millions of people that need that reminder to slow the freak down, let me try that again, to slow the fuck down and to to pace themselves. And to really think about their own mental health and their mental well being before they go after a specific goal and figure out how to do it in a way that's sustainable. That's not going to get you all the results in the first six months and then you can't keep going because you're just so exhausted and so tired from working your butt off. I'm going to try again, working your dick off. Just trying to be wrong. Just trying to be authentic. So yeah, I'm at a place right now where I've just realized that I have taken on way too much and I'm trying to figure out where did I go for wrong. At what point did I stop taking my own advice? And how can I get myself back on track to figuring out how to pursue my goals in a more sustainable way? The plan that I've started to come up with is tuval. One, try to remove as many commitments as I possibly can. Just really doing all it of my life and figure out what are the things that are essential, what are the things that are an essential. Most of the stress that I feel comes from my work. And so really I'm looking at my work. And I'm saying, okay, what is actually not helping my business, what's not helping my mental health? A lot of it's social. I'm just making so much social content for no freaking reason. I'm like, why am I spending so much time doing this when it actually benefits me very little and it rarely benefits my audience. It's just busy work. You know, it just starts to feel like, oh, I'm just doing things because I'm supposed to do them. And so no more, no more of that. And then obviously find other areas that I can just really focus on what's the most important things. And so the most important things would be YouTube as well as courses. Those are the two things that drives the most revenue for my business, but are also the most fun and enjoyable for me to do. And so I'm like, I don't know, I just focus on that. That's my plan. The other thing that I've done is come up with a goal. And the goal isn't monetary. It's not to get X amount of followers or grow my business by 10X over the next six months. It's to be as happy as I can possibly be. How can I make every decision around that lens? It sounds selfish. It is selfish. I don't care. We're allowed to be selfish every once in a while. And so I really want to focus on my mental health. I really want to focus on just really enjoying everything as much as I possibly can. And focus on finding fulfillment through my work instead of trying to cross an arbitrary finish line. When I create a goal like this and when you create a goal like this, it helps to think of it as a filter. So like every decision that you make, think about that goal and how can you filter this through? And so is this gonna make me happier or is this gonna stress me that hell out? If it's gonna stress me out, forget about it. Like push it to the side, it's not that important. Because I truly do believe in that slow growth message that we can achieve everything that we want if we pace ourselves and take our time. And so I'm gonna be putting this into practice and taking my own advice and taking my own medicine. That was a very loud beep. And so if you have been feeling in a similar position, I just want to let you know that you're not alone. Yeah. So I don't know. I never know how to end a video. Like when I think it through and I'm like writing my videos, I can like really plan it out. Like to have a really cool ending. Like ends on a really smart note. And it's creepy and it's got a call back from earlier in the video. But at this point, I think I'll just end it. Yeah. Yeah, no, I'm having a fake phone call with myself now. I think it'll look cool in the video. Can my look corny? I don't know.
