# Would You Follow Yourself?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aRZ3rgwNBF4
Full Episode: http://mattdavella.com/051
Behind-the-scenes: http://instagram.com/mattdavella

Christian Crosby asks poses some important questions on episode 51 of The Ground Up Show. Would you follow yourself? Would you hire yourself? Watch the full episode at the link above.

Find Christian here: http://instagram.com/christiancrosby
Live Life Nice: http://livelifenice.com

New videos every week! New podcast every Wednesday!

Subscribe:  https://goo.gl/nzS5ri
Instagram:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella/
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella/

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** ground up, the ground up show, film, filmmaking, follow, followers, instagram, twitter, christian crosby, matt davella, Matt D'Avella, interview, conversation, 
**Date:** 2018-03-22

## Transcript
 It's not easy right one of my favorite quotes. I don't even know who made this quote up, but if you want something You never had you got to do something you'd never not you'd never done. I think it was Einstein is that I I don't know Yeah, I don't know you want something never had to do something never done. Yeah, it's certainly really true And it's It's really simple, too, right like it's really simple It's not it's as hard as people think People create excuses and make it much harder and much more difficult than it really is It's not it's just a matter of like you said trial and error Be having the strength to keep going when you have nothing left and if you It's all mental. It's like just know that you're gonna figure it out And if you can just continue to reassure yourself that through the trial and error you're going to be successful It's really that simple like It's you can only fail so many times unless you're just It's your bad luck Unless you really enjoy failing and you keep doing the same thing and you just don't want to accept a truth Just sabotaging yourself right like if you just don't want to accept a truth But if you accept every truth that's thrown your way and you learn from every failure You're going to get better and you're going to succeed. It's just it's just natural and like as long as you are accountable You're gonna be okay like it's really not that hard unless you're just making excuses for yourself You want it or you don't you have to give yourself that opportunity to grow and like you said It's like that first day going to the gym You know in New Year's everybody has the resolution to go to the gym and get in shape But it starts to kind of weed out and people don't stick with it and that's the number one thing like if you just First if you if you get there, but then how do you stay there? How do you keep going? How do you and I guess that's a question too? And I don't know if you have the answer for that one, but it's like how do you keep that moment? I'm going when you have doubt when you feel like How am I going to keep this how am I going to go from A to B to see yeah I think The whole create your own luck thing is is the best way to put it. It's like Ask yourself like take yourself out of your own life for a second and ask yourself would you hire yourself would you follow yourself would you listen to yourself like would you buy a product from yourself like And be honest with yourself and then ask yourself okay, well, if I wouldn't why not like what's what do I need to improve and just improve it It's like it's it's really that's like All right, let me let me explain It's a couple of things, right? It's like ego number one people got to let go of these egos For some reason we as people It's it's tough you have to separate knowing Your potential and knowing your worth which is great. That's good do that But separate that from like reality for a second You got to you got to tap into your reality people stay too much over here and they're like well I know I'm going to be this one day and I know I'm going to do that and what they do is they don't want to take step one Because they just want to be this right now and they're so scared that people are going to look at them and be like oh Man they're starting down there or they're doing that like I thought they were cooler than that who cares if someone's saying that about you? Are they going to pay your bills? Are they? Are they going to do anything for you? Are they going to live with the results of your life? No, you are like don't worry about those people and Probably those people don't care about you and why are you worried about what they think anyway You
