# The Power of Constraints // Ground Up 069
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Av6kETpo0u8
Mango Street!! https://www.youtube.com/mangostreet

Daniel & Rachel from Mango Street create YouTube videos & tutorials without the bullshit for over 670k subscribers. On this episode we cover...

1. Why constraints will help you become a more efficient creator and help you develop your visual style.

2. How having too much gear can distract you.

3. Why you should ask for forgiveness instead of permission.

Submit to the tentatively titled "Get The Rock on Matt’s Podcast Jingle Competition". Email your 5 second jingle to hello@mattdavella.com.

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** 
**Date:** 2018-07-18

## Transcript
 Welcome back to the ground up show. My name is Matt Diavella and today I'm sitting down with film makers photographers all around good people It's Rachel and Daniel from Mango Street They create YouTube videos and tutorials without all of the unnecessary bullshit for more than 600,000 subscribers on YouTube Some highlights from this episode include why constraints will help you become a more efficient creator and Help you develop your own visual style How having too much gear can distract you and why you should ask for forgiveness instead of Permission a couple of things before we get into this week's podcast one announcement If you've been following along on my YouTube channel then you've probably seen the most recent update in my quest to get Dwayne the rock Johnson on this very podcast hashtag get the rock on Matt's podcast I don't believe I have mentioned it yet on this show But there was breaking news that happened a couple weeks ago The rock himself tweeted at me for the second time and this time it was even bigger I'm not gonna get into the details here But if you want to see that exchange if you want to see the entire journey so far You can go to get the rock on Matt's podcast calm The reason I even bring that up is because today I've got something Important to share so I talk about the rock quite a bit on this podcast and I've realized that there is something missing There's something that could bring this entire journey together and that's a jingle So I had a music producer named Ellie Vaughn reach out to me recently any asked to make a jingle for the show and It got me thinking what if I held a competition for an epic and whimsical jingle that I could play Every time the rock is mentioned on this podcast. So that's what I'm doing Are you a musician? Can you make an awesome jingle? Well, you can submit your riff to the tentatively titled get the rock on Matt's podcast jingle competition trade mark Pat and pending It's basically gonna be like the American Idol of Podcasting so I'm accepting submissions now if you are musically inclined Please send it via email to hello at MattDevelop.com. There's no restrictions Except that we ask that you keep them short So keep them to around five seconds or so it can be a capella acoustic There can be lyrics there can be no lyrics I'm leaving that up to you guys to decide but I I'm very excited This is very important and I think it's gonna really help the show as well as Just I think I just think it'll be funny So yeah, send those to hello at MattDevelop.com, and I look forward to hearing from you Okay, so I do want to clarify one thing before we get into this week's podcast On this episode we talk a little bit about lenses So I want to clarify a technical definition for the non photographers the non filmmakers out there Because I don't want you to get lost and I also think that what we talked about is gonna be very helpful It's almost like a metaphor for creators creatives and anybody who's following untraditional path in general But I'm guessing that you know what a zoom lens is It basically allows you to get a tighter shot of the subject without moving But there's also something called a prime lens. It's a lens You can attach your camera that has a fixed focal length Like meaning that you can't zoom in or out. So you have a zoom lens and you have a prime lens And there's a reason why you might want to restrict yourself with these lenses And that's something that I talk about with mango street on this week's podcast Okay, that's it. Just wanted to make that clear. So I don't lose any of you guys during this Let's get into the podcast. This is mango street I have a question to start off this podcast So this fell off my tripod today. It's from the man photo tripod. I don't know if you guys use those What is this? I was gonna just throw it out. I was like. Oh, I don't need this. Okay. I just Wait, can I see this yeah I think I had that too and I forget What you like utilitarian purpose it's for but why do I have to be to throw it away? That's what's gonna do your minimalist middle of it just start getting no use Well, that was my instant reaction this morning because it popped off and I was like why do I keep putting this back on whenever it falls off And for those that are just listening to this it's just like this like half like a sea clip Plastic it doesn't look like it has any function. There's actually a nipple Yeah, maybe it might hold a tool or something and they throw it out throw it out If I want to film school, I might know the answer. Sorry I do that a lot you guys throw out like the packages say that you buy camera You throw out the box and all like the not for cameras and lenses, but for everything else because you ever want to resell it people want the box The box is a serial number on it. Yeah. Oh, it does. Yeah, but you can't just buy any box. I've gotten I've gotten much better any time we get here now I throw it out unless it's a lens or a camera box Yeah, right because it's those are the most expensive things and if like you're buying something that's a hundred dollars It's like you know Nobody's gonna demand the box and the value isn't gonna go down that much in my high school days I would keep everything because I was like I might resell this because I was like and even I've been so very recent of it. So it's just a mindset of like like when I when I sell this and I realize like Oh, I don't sell anything. I just use it into the ground and then I get rid of it So right you sell it at a point where it's been like five years that you've had the camera and at this point Like you've gotten so much value out of it. Yeah, it's not a big deal. You don't make a killing off of the resell And I I need to I don't know. I think I probably should keep my body. I throw everything out Mainly because it's it's just hard to find a space for all that you can fold it up and even like I'm not gonna keep a TV box You can you don't you don't keep a TV box I don't keep any boxes except for camera. Okay, like lenses and then the camera case or the camera box We've gotten much better at Making the most of our space. I think um because we do have a lot of gear now and we really only have room for like that gear And nothing right like a thing you have like something has to go Yeah, it's like it's like when you're kidding, you're probably going to give away a toy You might go buy get a new toy. I'm that mom right so it's just it's mostly camera Like when you look at all your possessions that you own would you what's the the percentage in terms of personal Take here look at our closets. There's four closets one's food one's all over gear and then the rest are like clothes and then other stuff That we've had yeah It's a work in progress It's a working progress to become a little bit more minimal And it's like hard because we both have sentimental attachments two things So I'm just trying to like let things go just like because we've moved we've lived together for a long time and we've moved Probably seven apartments. Yeah, and so every time we move I'm like I have way too much stuff And I always do a good job of getting rid of stuff when we move I think and I still realize I way too much stuff So I'm working on it. We've been doing like when we get rid of something take a photo of it So when we saw like the sentimental You know, yeah, you can feel better about yeah, and then just get rid of it What are the sentimental items that you have now that you're either would want to get rid of or you're like oh no I really like this. I'm going to keep this yeah. Well, I have a my mom when I was like 15 she made me like a clay Like it's like a mug and it had My the guitar like my favorite guitar that I owned it had that like she made that on the mug and I kept like a tarpix in there And then through the years it like kind of broke off a little bit and so it's just sitting in a box and I can I don't think I could ever get rid of that I don't I have a lot my mind almost like clothes that like I have memories wearing them like Do you know just like can we throw any shoes because they're just like kids that are just totally weird There's a more than like eight years. Yeah, but I'm like no like I met you in those kids You gotta keep it. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, this is actually a sentimental item right here It's a Winston cup series from NASCAR And it was my grandparents. I call it grandma's mug It's not like one of those sentimental items that I couldn't get rid of or like say if I dropped it and broke it It wouldn't like destroy me, but I'm like oh it's cool. I like it It's I think the thing about sentimental sentimental items too is that there's like character in them There's almost there's like something extra to them Especially when we live at a time when like everything is focused on just beautiful aesthetic design and like I'm but I'm like all in on that too Like love west-down love getting like really nice things But then at the same time it doesn't carry that same kind of connection as something that's like been passed down for generations Agreed yeah, yeah In terms of you were talking about your your camera gear like how much stuff you own if somebody wanted to be More of a minimalist photographer or filmmaker What would advice would you give them like and where would you start with yourselves because I know you said you have a lot of stuff that you you may be Don't use yeah, well when we travel sometimes like lately I think we've gotten good at realizing what gear we actually don't use and don't need a brain because maybe the first time we Went to Iceland or something we brought like four or five lenses on like that's ridiculous And then the next time we went we brought like two lenses So for us Having like Realizing that we can just share one camera body We don't both need to be like taking photos at the same place this same time So one camera body for the two of us and maybe like two lenses. We shoot prime lenses So they're set focal lengths so if we want one wide and one tight and that's about it For other people It's just depends on what you like to shoot, but I think if you have a favorite lens And that's like the lens you shoot like 90% of the time just bring that with you and in your one body and don't worry too much about everything It's kind of not the same thing but a lot of people always reach out and are like I don't have like this certain gear like what should I do and we always are like well like the less gear you have the more creative Your force to be so I don't think it's like a super problem to not have a lot of gear and so yeah whenever we go out Just with like one camera body and one lens We're just forced to use just that and so I don't know bringing too much kind of like Takes away like it makes you yeah, you start to wonder like oh, should I be switching lenses? Oh, what what which lens should I use? I think we had that moment when we were pun intended we were shooting an iPhone Short film for the moment film invitational and they sent they had a bunch of sponsors and they all sent us a bunch of Mobile filmmaking gear and we had a ton of gear and I was it was like too much gear and I should have been So simple because you're shooting on phones, but It was you know, we brought like everything pretty much and we're like I don't think we didn't use like half the gear, you know So it's I don't know it's I don't look like I don't think gear should like get in the way of the creative process So anything you can do to make it more simple for you to create I think this way to go. I think that's what prime lenses did for me as well because I grew up doing I mean first camera was a Sony handy cam and then I had an xh a one which is like a cannon. I think I believe that's what it's called a cannon Pro-Sumur cam corridor and then eventually you go into the 5d Mark 2 when DSLR film making started to become a thing and Still started out with the zoom lenses and then eventually somebody told me like what a prime lens was and it's funny Even think about a time when I didn't know what a prime lens was. I thought at that time I knew what I was doing But prime lenses really got me to think about how I Set up my shots how close I am to the subject. I mean, it's it's a totally different ball game than when you're working with zoom I think it helps you think About photography in a different way like why don't why you talk about like when you first started buying gear When I like my first My idea of like the perfect setup was having like every focal length covered so I had like a 16 or 35 24 to 70 and then 70 Yeah, and then I was like why aren't my photos like why don't they feel intimate like why Why can't I take the same pictures of things like photography as I love and I realized all those photographers were shooting Primes and so we switched everything out for primes and then like I feel like that has that changed everything Yeah, and then it just helps you when you're framing you like you know you know what a 35 looks like And you know what an 85 looks like and then you know when to You know which lens to use for what application when you use the zoom you know you kind of can like mindlessly just You know turn change focal lengths without anything in about it and I think that can handle you Yeah, and it just doesn't feel the same yeah Like a 35 close-up feel so much different than like an eight or you know Yeah, so many 200 zoomed in and I actually for the same way about That's like what you see with the intimacy in YouTube videos is that it's very often Wide-angle lenses and you're very close to the camera and it does feel like an intimate like we're right here with you Versus if you shot it with a 50 millimeter or an even at 85 or like you're so far from the person and it works Was like sketches and you know shows and certain things that you're doing But when you're trying to create that kind of Intimate feel like a connection with somebody. It's very helpful to have those wide lenses It is funny the like just that having the idea and I think this is a common Idea that most people getting into photography and filmmaking have is that I need to have every focal length cover Isn't it like I never even thought about that until now is like what what where does that come for? I think it's you don't know you don't know what you don't know need you don't you want to be like prepared for everything like But then as you get the more experience you're like I actually don't need 40 millimeters and I don't need 90 millimeters like maybe I'm fine with just 135 millimeters instead of 200 yeah, just I think that comes through experience and that's why It's really important to shoot go out and shoot as much as possible and as Not to shoot ourselves in the foot, but like I think a lot of beginner photographers should maybe Step away from the computer and just go out and shoot like get off YouTube and shoot because that's all the way You're gonna get better and also edit your own stuff You know like there's certainly a lot of people that are editors or it may be that just shoot and then they hand their stuff off to somebody and they cut it But like you really start to understand how you should be filming or how you should be taking photos When you actually have to deal with and fix the mistakes that were made out in the field. Yeah I'm sure you guys have experienced this yourself. Yeah, I mean I have a post-production background and I'm that's That was like my wheelhouse and I learned production kind of later So I'm used to dealing with other people's mess ups and everything like that And then when you deal with your own there's no one else to get mad at except for yourself, but it also It helps you realize your shortcomings like if you're missing focus if your framing is bad if you always shoot a little crooked It helps you know what to focus on when you're actually shooting yeah when I was shooting minimalism I kind of had that same idea because I was like, well, I'm making a documentary about minimalism I should be very simple and very intentional with the gear I use So originally I was like I'm gonna shoot this entire film with two lenses and that's it It was gonna be like a 24 and a 50 and then I started I started that way try to be as simple as possible and then eventually There were certain shots that I wanted to get like people going into Stores and just kind of like just generic b-roll and I was like, I don't I don't want to get that close to people and like make them feel uncomfortable and like I'm sure you guys know shooting an L.A. you can't get anywhere filming Luckily I didn't film much in L.A. Like we'd actually try to film at a couple coffee shops Right when you get to the welcome that they're like already being like no filming get out of here Okay, so then I was like let me get like a seven to two hundred to like get some of those shots that I can Kind of you get off from a distance and that's why experience and getting out and actually doing the work is what's going to be helpful Yep, we get kicked out all the time Like that's a probably L.A. is biggest downside for what we do is everyone is so everyone wants their There yeah, everyone is so they hate film people filming Even just like on the public side walk like a and perishing square. We always get kicked out of there Yeah, and it's a very nice very sounds kicking us out now. Really. It's very frustrating. Yeah because you're not You're at least we were trying to be respectful of other people around we're very you know usually like one little camera on Maybe like a one handed gimbal like I don't know we try to keep a little low profile and like not disrupt anyone It's a gimbal that That automatically gets a shutdown but I would say even with because I've been running around with these cameras Like a little Sony but people know now Yeah, they know that like oh that's small camera that's a professional camera I actually shot the video in the whole foods up here I'm just gonna go in it was a little bit about the paradox at choice making good coffee and like I was just one of the show The array of the kind of coffees that you can choose from so I did a little shot coming in and then when I got over there I'm like I just got I got one pan and that was it and then I got they shut me down and he's like you can use your iPhone if you want and I was like All right, so he's my iPhone That's what I always say is once once phones get so good They're not gonna be able to stop us because What you can't just shut down people with a phone all the time because there's plenty of like tourists just wanting to take photos or People snapchatting their way through life. So I mean Once the phones are good enough. I mean, it's gonna be Interesting. Yeah, I don't think they can stop it It that's the one thing I liked about living in Hoboken even New York People really didn't care that much even if you walked into a store and you're like shooting people really wouldn't say much I mean I've definitely gotten kicked out of Whole Foods before or maybe just Whole Foods doesn't you know I think the big chains are a little bit more strict and like small mom pop shops But I think a lot of people realize that like this is kind of the world we live in where everybody's Taking Instagram stories everybody's shooting video all the time and photos and you're not gonna stop it And isn't it helping Yeah, that drives us nuts because like we were making a video of like our favorite places in LA and we would normally charge you for that Yeah, like this is Unsponsored and we're like highlighting your business in a very like five minutes of like unobtrusive filming And they kick us out and you're like, well, okay I get Maybe I won't recommend this place, but you know, it's kind of weird Do you reach out to these companies sometimes or like I mean I know you guys make a lot of videos and you you're putting that stuff every week So I feel like there needs to be some kind of we ask for forgiveness not permission. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah It's better just like go try to get the shot and try to get enough before you get kicked out and then Instead of asking and then just saying no then you explicitly like disobeying what they you know what they want So yeah, I like that yeah It's harder than you know, but because I've done it and I remember like just using that philosophy in Albuquerque I was trying to get a time lapse shot on top of the hotel I actually got access to our hotel and then there was like a this bigger hotel that was next to us and I was like It's like right next to them. It's right in front of my shot. I can't get a view of the mountains and this building was massive I think it was like a hilt and or something and then so what I first did was like I went to the hilt and and it took me all of Very straight up and I was like, let me just see if it's unlocked It was locked and I was like oh shit. All right. I guess I'll ask them now and then I asked them and she's like, you know The person at the front desk was like all right, you know, let me just call my manager and ask him and I was like All right, sure. There's no way they're gonna let me on the roof at sunrise Like 5 a.m. in the morning and she's like yeah, so our engineers gonna let you up in the morning and I was like Are you sure? I was the guy's the engineer let me up in the morning. He got up like 5 a.m. 430 a.m. to let me up and he opened the door and he said all right Have fun and then he closed the door and left Don't tell the insurance company about it. I know they guys should have mentioned mentioned the hilt and he said don't jump I was like I mean I had a camera and everything so I think he like that would be a very elaborate suicide attempt but for me it was just kind of opened up my perspective big you know Even if yeah you try somebody turned you down you can ask for things. I think most of the time people don't even try What are those lessons you've learned from Bring in gear on the road and I know it's like for me anytime I'm traveling for work It's a little bit more stressful. I think weddings are like that's the most kind of I get stressed Usually we have our set up in a like one pelican that we just carry on with us So I never and worried about it like not making it or but with weddings like we We just did a shoot in the salt flats where we had to check a few things when was like a movie Which is like crucial? Yes, I thought I was with Colin Samira. Yeah, yeah, yeah, so yeah You had yeah, I've actually done that check the mode. It's a huge case 52 pounds and it's over the limit right? Yeah, but we were with Colin Samira and they're like goal level delta's loyalty program and they're just like so like By association we got there Like things and queens we're like oh Colin Samira already pull in their way Like they got we brought them yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, that's true. I mean That's tough. Yeah, you want to like kind of carry as as little as you possibly can But as much as you know, you don't want to be lazy and like sacrifice production quality Just because you don't want to bring another bag But you also don't want to just bring bags for the sake of bringing bags. So now I mean We have like I think we we have like a smaller pelican first stuff and I think we swap that out for a camera bag Where we can hold our bodies and the lenses that we need and it's like a lot lighter because the pelican by itself Arty ways a lot so I'm just having something thrown your back as really nice and then and then just yeah I guess Bringing what what will get the job done and nothing more For for wedding yeah for weddings it's been stressful because that couple is relying on you to like be there with your gear and You know like we we did a wedding in Nicaragua and I had to feel like a custom Secularation form and I was like that's like the first time I had to do that and I was like Nervous that we're gonna like pay taxes on our gear because it's like if you have gear over $10,000 it's a declare it and I wasn't really sure like I was like oh no like what's you know Are they gonna charge us for this and I had no idea and I had to clear it all and then they didn't look at it So I was like okay and I thought you know Yeah, but well chillists, but there's like dudes and look with like machine guns like oh yeah We didn't get shot so that's good. Yeah, when I didn't it is also like I wanted to bring the drone and so I looked it up And I was like oh Nicaragua was actually really strict on drones like they'll kind of like hold it at the airport and you won't be able to bring it with you So I left the drone at home so just just like some basic research like that I'm figuring out You know what the country's like and also sometimes it's fun to go out and shoot street street photography and It's helpful to know if you're even allowed to where you're going Just doing some like basic research has helped I think yeah There's people that get into serious trouble I mean not not filmmaking wise, but probably but also just like going to certain countries and breaking the law Whether it's doing drugs and not knowing what the penalty is it's not just the lock-up sometimes Sometimes like you'll get put away There was a couple Australians that I got put away. I think they were in Singapore somewhere, but I think they had coke on them And they got locked up for years And it's like imagine imagine like going somewhere where like here, maybe it's a misdemeanor Maybe you get a slap on the wrist, but then you go somewhere else and it's like you've got to Follow their rules. Yeah follow their laws or you can turn up in serious trouble. Yeah, I think the just in case items is tough for like filmmaking because you always want to bring those things that in case this fails Like in case this microphone for whatever reason is like getting bad reception or feedback I better have a backup that I can use But then those kind of add up. Yeah, and then it's I think it's making the most of the the space you have So if it's a camera bag or a pelican case like for a pelican case, I installed them like the the mesh bags I go on the top lid and that allows us to keep extra lobs XLR cables batteries things like that Where it was just taken up by padding I'm previously so it's also just maximizing the space that you do have In terms of I love your guys videos by the way. I was like binge watching on last night Awesome. What I love about them is that there's a tone and a certain a tone In filmmaking is such a difficult thing to capture and that's something that when I was working with clients Was like the number one thing. It was the balance between cheesy and funny and it's like it's a very fine line especially when you're working with brands But even when you're creating your own content it's like all right, how do we actually get the message across? Make it a little bit interesting a little bit creative and not just be like super corny Did you guys have that direction from the beginning or was it something that kind of developed and you start to add some wit and some humor into your videos? I've always relied on Rachel to tell me if something is funny or not and she's a good gauge and I think that's always I've always thought she was like really funny as a person like that's one of the things that that's one of the reasons why I I think I was really attracted to her but beside that like when we're making videos And I was like is that funnier that stupid and then if she's like the barometer of that like I feel like I'm better at knowing when something's really lame Then knowing when it's really funny So I like I can be like yeah that can't go in there or like I think if we both laugh at it that passes our test and it's like You know it That's just our style and if you don't think it's funny. That's fine, but I think if we both laugh at it then that's You know That's good enough for us It's good that you have each other to kind of bounce those ideas off of. Yeah, it's like a person who's so pretty good. Yeah, I'm I don't even tweet without showing you one tweet first Oh I would probably just be making bad dad jokes in the videos if I don't have Rachel Helping guide the the humor part of it so but that's always something that we've um since like the first video The first video we actually put more into like the joke aspect than we have since So we just want to set the tone. We don't take ourselves too seriously And this is what we think is funny. Yeah, and also like just keep it entertaining Like we want to we want everything short concise like still have good info But also like we want people to be in our table time or also just gonna click away. Yeah, so it's like retaining their attention It is also like fun to actually make those and try to think of all right like yeah How can I make this funny? Where can we add a joke here like this feels a little bit too dry. Yeah, we're so we're just finished the edit for Q&A video and it's sort of it's like 18 minutes long. It's a long video we've ever done for the channel usually they're like four minutes And so we just did this and so it's like all about adding in clips of you know whatever whatever whatever we think will help otherwise we would just be exactly this boring Yeah, we're pretty low energy so it's a common safe for that by um you know using pop culture I love it. I was I was watching a video last night and then it was just randomly a shot of I forget the woman from the office getting run over by a car Like flipping over onto the hood. I just like burst out laughing because I was like just it was right at the right moment Like I didn't quite expect it. Yeah, but um I think that's great though, too because you guys are a little bit more reserved or laidback And you you Figure out a way to make that work within your videos where if you're Just going with the voiceover and then you know kind of being very thoughtful about how you script it and write it out or if you're Going to be on camera and figure out all right when do we cut away to something that might be a little bit funny? Yeah, I think um that's just one of our like we could look at our personalities as being like a restriction like oh We can't start a YouTube channel because we're we're not super high energy and like outgoing and like If we were like if we were high energy it would be very disingenuous. Yeah, we could fake it and but it'd be Exhausting for ourselves like You know, I would feel I would feel like a clown. Yeah, I would feel so stupid so Like we can't we can't do that like we're not actors. We can't we can't fake it really so we just have to rely on editing Yeah, so We're heavily edited and we add the humor just because We're not going to be this really engaging personality and that's just something we have to work with Yeah, I actually love that because I felt the same way when I was first I'm not like good Just coming up with creative create create I can't even speak words coming up with like really Inspirational profound thoughts you see because we see these videos of people on YouTube and some of the most popular ones are like just Brilliant really just off the cuff can kind of come up with these amazing Rants and but I'm like I can't do that so for me it was too. It was like all right How can I actually I can write I can let and I could tell jokes I could figure out a way to like Narrate this video use a lot of b-roll. There's so many different ways that you can create content online And I felt that's a big one people are missing yeah like when we first started the vlog we're like okay We we want to do something outside of a tutorial But we're not going to spin the camera on us and talk our way Yeah, that's so boring. I'd be bored by it So I'm not going to watch this so why would anyone else and so I think it made us think outside of the vlog box of like what everyone else does and So our vlogs are all narrated. They're all narrated and and like you said We'd rather write and you know and then just do it after the fact then try to force something on camera So it's kind of funny when we hang out with like people who do vlog them and they like turn a camera on us We're like I know What we do Did you do that for me when she was here? And I got like all nervous. I was like hi Do I look at you or the camera? I know it's right like we do this for a living but we still don't know how to do this We're the most awkward youtubers. Yeah, I'm always yeah, I need to just come up with Like a phrase or something just something cool to say in the moment when people put me on this spot like that Because I mean and everybody that I know that has done it and that is like, you know, shy a little bit of be wrong here It's we've been done the Instagram stories that to me is more stressful because I'm like they're probably not going to if I say some stupid They're just going to keep it in But for me, it's been like all right How do I just like I don't know because I I just it doesn't come natural to me to do that and actually I don't even do Instagram stories like that where I'm like hey guys what's going on I'm here. It's just exhausting. Yeah, yeah, yeah You guys don't do any of that You're interested in all the time, but I have never talked yeah in Instagram story. Yeah, that's not our fourth day I think some people force it. Yeah, I definitely have seen some people where I'm like You know I and I I think there's an element to hey just keep trying new things and you know Maybe trying to do more off the cuff stuff you probably get better and you're probably you know Learn a little bit about it, but at the same time just because everybody else is doing that format of like here's my everyday life Let me story throughout the entire day doesn't mean that you have to do that I just I think there's a ceiling on how good I could even get at that from my personality type and what I'm good at Yeah, I may back again a little bit better off off the cuff stuff, but it's only going to get so good and that's still going to be sub par right Yeah, that's great. I do I do think that people don't Think about that enough and look at the different templates because I think that maybe That template isn't out there as much the the kind of format that you guys do where People feel like they have to do what everybody else is doing because that seems like the only way to make it and There's people who do it better like I don't want to do the same format and then this is not going to be as good as someone else's So it's like why you have to get them a reason to watch your vlog and and for us I think that was just making it different well also I don't think we even knew what the norm totally was like we knew what tutorials were like like long boring drawn out things we knew it we didn't want to be that but when we first did our very first tutorial We just made it our own thing right off the bat and then yeah, we're kind of far removed from like the whole E2 we watch them now, but we literally didn't watch any I didn't know who Casey and I said was We started the channel and that was in January of 2017 that's great didn't know and then like a Several months later I started watching. I was like, oh, I don't know what a vlog was What are like two months into our channel? I didn't know what a vlog was I but I'm pretty pretty close to you guys where like people were saying I remember I was interviewed Uh, Pai uh, it was it was Craig Adams He's like a minimalist filmmaker as well and he's like oh, yeah, something about Logan Paul and I was like It was Logan Paul. Yeah, I don't know what this guy's now. I'm very upset that I know who he is. Oh great I was like I used to work at like sunset and vine there's a trade jose right there and I I went there And I saw that I think was Logan Paul sitting out front and I was like oh, I think that's like that one dude from that one And then all of sudden it's like yeah, and then someone someone at my child mentioned Jake Paul I was like no, you mean Logan Paul. He's like no, he has a brother. I'm like oh and then I was very disappointed to find out more Don't tell me these things. Yeah, because you can only not know why I was a bit Very blissfully ignorant and I enjoyed that. Yeah, and I think there's probably that's probably what helped you guys to actually do something a little bit different I mean apart from the fact that it would just be exhausting to fake it and try to do something that didn't align with with how you guys actually are in real life But yeah, I think people maybe get a little bit too caught up and what the top one percent of YouTubeers are doing or Instagramers or whatever and they're just chasing trends That's definitely what people do Yeah, and you guys see that the trend chasing with photography filming as well like it's a Dress me nuts like um just because I think it's hindering people For instance, like with filmmaking, it's all about like these travel bros You know, no offense to the people that do it like same colder. This is very good at it But now everyone just wants to be same colder and it's like you're never gonna be You're not gonna beat the original what is just copying what they do so you can learn a a premier transition But that's not gonna make your video good So I think people too too much are worried about how to pull off some trick or gimmick and not worry about The actual content of their their video or their photo or bringing something new like if you're just a copy Why would why would somebody want the copy when they cannot be original? Yeah like you're not gonna watch Someone who's I mean like you said you could just watch a same colder video if you want to see a same colder effect And that goes with like anyone who's like in the front of their the forefront of their field, you know who's creating Creating new thing like that's the hard part is coming up with something new coming up with like A new technique or a new way of telling a story. That's that's the hard part and then it's easy to like replicate that But coming up with it to begin with is the hard part and that's what makes you stand out Yeah, I think that's true in terms of style and I think or in terms of like creative execution on a video But I think there's also the thing that's always gonna make you original is your personality and who you are and what Like the way that you can deliver a message You need somebody else. No one can copy your unique perspective. I think you look at it as your unique advantage With what sets you apart and if that's your background or you know your personality I think that's something to embrace Anything else you just looked at me agree I don't want to hog them Mike here You guys have been doing you two for like a little over a year. I mean you're in a couple months Things have been going okay Not a bad first year. I think we created our first video. We didn't really know what to expect We we wanted to see a little bit of traction just to get us motivated to keep creating so We put out the first video. I hope this gets like maybe 500 views in a week And then within like I think 24 or 48 hours at 10,000 views so okay that that like validated our You know our proof of concept I guess and then we had a goal of Like after we put out the video like it'd be so cool to get like 10,000 subscribers by the end of the year Right, James Yeah, so we were aligned with our goals, but then We hit that much faster than we thought And then we hit 500,000 at the end of the year which was just that's mind-blowing and we'd never Cannot see that coming really like we did not expect that whatsoever so Yeah, it's been going okay I had the same feeling though too where I was like 15,000 was my number so I was a little bit more ambitious than that and I was like But to me like the number 15,000 for whatever reason it just it felt so big I was like there's no way I mean like if I could get 15,000 subscribers that's like it felt like speaking to like an arena And it just seemed so far fetching whenever I saw other people that had it I was like oh man Like how did they get there how did it get to that place and then once you get it you're like This doesn't feel any different Yeah, there's no Am I right? I don't know if you guys have the same experience, but like you get to this place and you're like there's no feeling It doesn't feel different to have that It it feels the same you know, maybe it it gives you a platform it allows you to make money allows you to do certain things Which is incredible, but Doesn't change who you are at least it shouldn't change you right exactly If anything you just feel more pressure because more there's more eyes on it, but Yeah, there's no You know you kind of want more people to have Like the same experience just so they can they know what they know what it's like and they know that that's not like the end-all Beal because that's just it's just to be getting really in and it's not it doesn't mean anything really It literally means nothing. Yeah, you're not gonna take that to your grave, you know like you're a follower counter on my gravestone I do want my subscriber count. That's shit. Yeah, just a joke, right? Yeah, but then you have to just like update it every week When it goes up Yeah, what does your friends die off? Yeah, that's that the Jim Jim Carrey said that yeah, where it's like Everybody thinks that money is gonna buy that happiness I think he said I wish everybody get all the money so they know it is not the answer yeah, it's not the answer and it's like You know somebody like him can say that because he's he's had everything and like we see these stories all the time Where people that are rich or famous or successful commit suicide or struggling with depression and it's like It must not be it, right? Yeah, it's not fame and fortune that you know I think you're happiness has to come with firm within that's gotta be the only way not only that But I also think that your subscriber count or your follower count doesn't Equate good work Which I think a lot of people don't people get to cut it especially in the photography field if they're worried about their Instagram account and like I only have 300 followers should I change what I'm doing and I want to say no, but My family just we did a video on like photographers. You should follow some of our favorite photographers ever They're all below like 10,000 Instagram followers Wait better than people with two million ever you know and I think in part that takes away some of the pressure to know that it's not all about The quality and in a certain regard where like if some people can just put out like shit every single day and they get millions of views on every video Whatever it is, it's like it's like all right, well So I'm definitely putting a better content than them or at least I'm being more thoughtful and intentional And I feel like there is an audience there so it kind of gives you a little bit of a boost where you're like, okay There is some space there is an opportunity for yeah, and it's easy to get discouraged When I like for us it's it takes a lot more production and post production I guess to pull off a video just because we were not that entertaining personality and We're like envious of people who Can just talk to the camera because I'm like oh, it'd be so much easier if we could just like our workload would shrink like 18 hours of Instead we have to like you know go when we're on camera We have to do a line by line because we're that bad and then we have to write a script and do voiceover and then spend you know 14 hours editing one video and then we put it out and then you're just like You know, you're like oh, I wish I could just like turn the camera around and talk to the camera for a little bit about it Yeah, and there's also people like not even giving that created bias or good tips But they're just entertaining to watch yeah, and I was like oh, we don't even have to like take up It's like you don't have to like research a subject. Yeah. Yeah, we just like turn the camera We don't have to like go shopping and get an outfit and hire a model and do a shoot We could just like talk to the camera and be way more successful Yeah, that's like comedians that are just naturally funny people I saw his Dave Chappelle here. He just happened to come in on a show. It was incredible and You could just tell that it just came so natural to him like I'm sure that some of it was prep But most of it just seemed off the cuff and you're like oh this dude's just funny Yeah, and like then there are comedians that Script out every single thing and a lot of them do but like you have to be like you can't be in the moment as much You need to write down everything and I think that's okay And that's what makes these people a little bit different and like for sure I'm like totally envious of people that can just turn record on and just be Super pump out of video. Yeah, I'm like damn and I'm not trying to do that from time to time And I experiment with it, but I'm like for the most part if I'm making a video that that's good And that I'm like I feel good about it's something that's like highly edited and very thoughtful Same, but I think that's what makes this different yeah other people out there Yeah, and I think for every you know person who's really energetic and fun to watch Not everyone can relate to that Personality and so I think having that difference having like You know our personalities I guess there's people who can relate to us People need something to fall asleep to some people. Yeah, they want to throw on our channel and take a nap. That's great Hopefully it's not this podcast. Maybe it is. Yeah, maybe it is What is it that gets you guys to keep working every week? I know when I first started out Just freelance filmmaking trying to start my own business not making a lot of money It was like just working and sitting down and Steven Pressfield calls it the resistance getting over that. It's like how do you guys continue to make stuff every week and not just like Chill with your pop and watch Netflix. We do that definitely make time for that But I don't eating because a big motivator Yeah, we set this since our inception we were like all right we'll put out a video every Monday And we put that self-imposed restriction on us because There is like a pressure on YouTube where if you're not growing or dying and I mean that's goes with a lot of things Clear-wise in life not just YouTube, but especially YouTube though you always have to feel like you know I need to be people are people are subscribed to you because they want to see stuff from you And if you're not consistently putting out stuff they're gonna forget about you YouTube's gonna push you down And when you're relying on that to eat yeah, this is both of our full-time jobs now like we're not Really booking weddings and yeah, and he's not working out doing freelance work. I I left my full-time job So yeah, it is like you know, I mean we like at least you know We we have a strong work ethic I think and that's something we've always had and When you're relying on yourself to you know support support your you know You're not just getting a paycheck just for showing up You actually have to do something so You know, I think that that that right there is enough motivation. Yeah Yeah, I think if we had a different source of income We might do it less or different like I don't think we would do tutorials anymore I think we would just do like passion projects on YouTube But right now it's just that's our job right now. Yeah, I think what's hard though if it's just passion projects And I've had many of those before that I never finished and that's what's kind of hard where There is an element so you have to just go all in we're like all right I'm gonna take this seriously and and I think it's probably the moment when you start to see some feedback and you start to see some Reception we were like, okay, maybe this is possible whether that's getting a couple weddings or it's you know getting 10,000 views on your first first video We were like okay, there's something here and If I put my everything I have into it, I can make it work. Yeah, yeah, I think that You know people we just got this question. It was like should I how can I tell my mom I want to drop out of school and make photography videos on YouTube? You're like Don't do that wait until you have no choice but to drop out of school because your chain like school's holding you back from potential you know all this potential so We just so in the Q&A video we did I told them I had a full-time job for the first 10 months when we're doing this video And it was just like staying up like till 3 a.m. on Sunday finishing a video and then going to work on Monday And like we just we didn't have a weekend that year because we had to put out a video every you know I was working during the week. We had to do We just spent our weekends working on video and it's just so it's just like you know if you want it bad enough You'll find the time to do it and you're not gonna Drop out of school and then start a channel from scratch Speaking of making money and making a living off this thing I did notice on your videos you guys get very creative with how you implement advertising and the sponsorships that you put in and it's a conversation and an ongoing conversation that I'm having on this podcast with people and I just talked to Jason Zuck who I don't know if you've heard of him he had a company called I wear your shirt Where he wore people shirt every year every day for a year and like the first day he got a dollar a second Eight day got two dollars. He made over a million dollars wearing other brands t-shirts Yeah, and this is like early on in the internet. This was like eight ten years ago Since then he's like sold his last name He's got this course where it's like buy my future and it's like every product. I'm making the future You can buy everything. I'll ever make very very creative. That's awesome And just interesting ways to like work with brands and and make a living as a creative So I do see you guys doing it a little bit differently and I actually got a question from somebody Was or not even a question. It was it was more of a comment about how well you guys are integrating advertising Into your YouTube videos and you're doing it so differently I guess I have a few questions just about that like how it started What has the reaction been from people because so you'll do like usually in intro and then it will be like a Very creative sketch almost at like an advertisement whether it's square space or skill share And then they'll go into the the substance of the video Like what have you seen the response Ben and how do you guys feel about what you've done so far? Their response is great like I've never seen. I'm sorry. There's response has been great Especially for like the more work we put into it the better their response has been but Our philosophy with advertising is the same with our videos like we don't want to waste anyone's time We want when we want people skipping through them like we want them to be entertained while they're watching And so whether that's like Giving in to filming a whole ad in like 120 frames per second with like you know fully and you know like our Skillshare grilled cheese making or you know a sketch that's gonna make people laugh And I people responded well to that. Yeah, I think it's like if they want if they want videos from us For us we have we just have to do the the brand deals that advertise and it's otherwise We're gonna have to go get full-time jobs and you're not gonna get videos So it's like a trade off. You don't have to pay for these videos and you can skip to these ads if you want But we have to do that me their way So since we have to do them We wanted to make it as you know as fun as possible so it is like We just put out a new square space ad and it's since we're we're actually getting married We're looping in like two weeks and People you know we we mentioned like we got engaged and we did a video about it in August so people know I think that you know we're getting married and so we just Slid in this new ad where it's like a wedding video like a lot, man And our vows are plugs for square space so it's something that we'd wanted to do for like almost a year now We've been talking about it for a really long time and then we find like all right It's time to go do this ad so We hired like two of our friends and we spent like half a day out in Malibu shooting it So you know it's just like you know we'll put money into it because It is a you know that is how we make money and so it's okay to invest in it and it is okay to like spend the time to do it And it was just like a lot of fun and then When we put that out like 90% of the comments on the video we're all about the ad and how much people loved it And so we sent that to square space where like look I mean here's a response from our latest ad just just want to let you know So it's like I guess it's a win win, you know if you're gonna have to sit through an ad and might as well entertain you and If we have to do it and might as well, you know, we might as well have fun doing it so It's a lot better than doing like a a read to camera because Look at us we're Very low like come on like 20 or seven kind of some someone no one wants us listen to that right? Maybe that's where it comes from too right where you guys are like that would just wouldn't feel right You would feel in authentic so let's get fun with it and also brands like agencies Don't really understand that like a lot of times we'll be like here's your talking points You're gonna read this to camera and we're like well No, like we did a video for Chromebooks and instead of doing like a super You know inauthentic ad where we are like we love a Chromebook and this is why We did like a vlog and then we just like use funny ways or like creative ways to like Incorporate it into our you know the trip that we took yeah, it's more tongue-in-cheek and more like You know if you can integrate humor into your mentions You know, I think people appreciate that because people are Sold to constantly and it sucks and we're sold to constantly and you're always weary of like Yeah, but are you gonna pay to say that yeah? And that's just like that's the unfortunate like reality that we live in and so We just yeah, we kind of want to make it clear that we're selling when we do have to sell and we try to do it in a way that's like not there People are mad at us. Yeah, it's not like we're trying to We try to make it so it's like we're only recommending things that we use for the most part And like so for instance like when wicks reach out to us in the beginning I was like no Let's hold out for square space because we have we pay for square space site So we can like genuinely recommend square square space because that's what we use So then we just we said no wicks and then we waited for a square space to reach out Which was like a while kind of like yeah, we was like you're playing hard to get Yeah, they do and then we had for square space They sponsor anyone with a pulse so come Vem and Casper yeah We could use a Casper match. We have a Casper a mattress. How was it this podcast is brought to you back It's great. I actually love it. It's incredible. Yeah, Casper would highly recommend holla Okay, so you guys you guys get very creative with with the advertisements that you you include in the videos It seems like people are reacting to them like they're actually commenting about them It's conversational like that's really a lot of value that you're providing for this brand Do you get to charge a higher CPM? Because of that do you feel like you can actually charge more of a premium than somebody that's just giving a read I don't we now we got left in for a year before we started Yeah, we so we have a year-long contract with square space because it was like It was like the safe bet, you know, I was leaving my full-time job You know It made sense, I guess so um that was locked in previously, but we think it's you know, it's pretty fair And so I would say no we don't get a charge of premium yet But maybe we should yeah, I don't know it's I don't know if a lot of times the people that you deal with at these companies They just have to like Make it have it makes sense on paper like These are your justify to their boss. Yeah, like if they're gonna spend this much money Well how many at how many views are they gonna get and that's usually like the the numbers that they care about and it's not like how well It's done or anything like that So it's you know, we haven't negotiated and it's been a few months since we last had to do that, but um Now going forward like we are like we do put we can kind of use that as like a selling point like we do You know we are kind of selected with who we work with we turned on Plenty of ads that don't make sense for our channel And so I think that that that is a selling point and that is like a Something that we're not just pitching anything and do they they pay you to make those little spots as well? Or no, is that like included and now that's just like that's just like the Like Squarespace in the past actually we would do this Malibu thing It was just like we had to do Squarespace spot and we're tired of having to you know show the one we already did And we just want to do something new just to keep people from my blown their brains out From like seeing the same hat over and over again. So um that the other wasn't Same rate is everything else and it was you know just another video essentially, but um It was just something that we wanted to do for you know for everyone's sake right I feel like down the road you could I mean even now You could get an actual budget for like commercials and like do some really crazy shit Right like I think we'd like to do that, you know, it's just anything Anything that just let's you be creative and like do something fun on on a company's dime Why not yeah, like yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, let me see here. Let's let's wrap up with a couple Questions from Instagram I got a bunch of questions here from peoples Ryan Mars he's an NYC photographer He wants to know how do I gain a YouTube following I'm a portrait photographer and one of bigger social media following But mostly focus on Instagram right now Go, I didn't know so wait youtuber Instagram. I don't know it's really convenient. Okay, but I guess is there a difference there You guys mind and like how would you grow each of them? So you have like the base of a social media of like how to grow social media And I think that's consistency and quality and that's for YouTube it's like figuring out How often you can post a High quality video and that's based on your own you know schedule what you know your own restraints for us that's once a week and So find out whatever that is for you and then stick to it and for Instagram. I think We always say engage with a community in authentic way so Instagram the I think they still do weekend hashtag projects. Yeah, so we when we like years ago We would do all the weekend hashtag projects and like they're good prompts to get out there and shoot and be creative and Instagram like featured Rachel's photos a couple times when the weekend hashtag projects on their account And also going to like the meetups they have and interacting with people Getting to know other photographers in in your area. I think is also really helpful and Honestly, and then don't chase the trends like just post what is creatively fulfilling for you and You know if you build an audience cool and if not At least you're creating something that you enjoy. I feel like chasing trends on Instagram you're actually rewarded for it though Maybe but that's a shallow reward. Right. So yeah, what kind of what's the quality? The people that will be following you. Yeah, yeah, I agree. I found that YouTube has been the easiest to build and that's just me being a filmmaker as well But then Since I grew that one I've been able to push people to Instagram from YouTube. Exactly. That's I give them like a clear incentive Or it's like hey like for me early on especially it was if you want to see behind the scenes from this video I created like a sequence of 10 Instagram stories you can go check it out like check on my page And that drove like tons of traffic my way. Yeah, YouTube's great because it's a huge search engine and so it's a it's a it's a way better way to Build a platform or like an audience I guess and then from there They can find you another social channels. It's for Twitter. Nobody's following finding us on Twitter Twitter's a weird one. Yeah, Twitter's a I asked for questions on Twitter for this one I mean my audience is probably three times bigger on Instagram, but still that I got maybe like 150 replies on Instagram and then on Twitter. I got like two. Yes Like what Twitter isn't I don't really get it so yeah, although I think only way I'm potentially gonna get the rock on my podcast So I do keep that crazy. Yeah, I do keep that top of mind Let's see here Elizabeth says I'm getting my degree in photography and we'd love to hear you guys talk about what things to take advantage of or try while I'm in college Something that would give me an advantage when I get out into the real world of photography So we didn't go to school for photography or filmmaking So I can't super speak to that but what I would like to have taken advantage of if we did would be like networking Building a community of other photographers and people you can work with in the future. Yeah, and then also gain Try to intern where you can't try to assist other people because the experience you see from The experience that you gain from watching a professional photographer Whoever do their thing do their craft interact with clients is like really invaluable and I think just like knowing how You know knowing how professional shoots work knowing how Like the inner workings of everything that's Super helpful so when you're looking for a job and you have like a little bit of experience or a little bit of Like know how I think that is really key and then it's just like It's working really hard and then being creative like taking outside the box like one thing Just in terms of like getting a job like in 2012. I want to say We created like video resumes for ourselves and this was I don't think a lot of people are doing video resumes Don't search for them. Yeah, don't search for them They're horribly embarrassing Real resumes. Yeah, I don't know if those are going to ever be a thing Yeah, I've like definitely yeah I helped my ex-girlfriend make a video pitch to a company she went to work at and his was kind of cringy Yeah, but so I made like I made a website basic HTML Rachel helped me shoot like this embarrassing video resume which had like my skills and it was like kind of creative and like I mean it's super cringy now, but um it was 2012 creative. I got that yeah I got the job. I got a job as a video editor with zero experience like Zero experience. Oh, so this video helped a video helps. We both got Rachel yeah Rachel got a really quick so yeah, so I'm just saying like thinking outside the box and there's this like This job I really wanted and it was I was super under qualified for it and it was They dealt a lot with flash for some reason so I taught myself flash and then I made a video resume based and flash They could click through and The rest of the development themed flash resume and so it like completely correlated to the job and I in despite me being Hordely under qualified. I got an interview anyway, so I got that. I didn't end up like working there But it really helped me get notice. So it's like say yourself apart do whatever you can like and if you're like a creative type person Be creative with your resume be creative with you little the work you put out there because You'll you'll track companies that appreciate that instead of I never wanted to work at like a Stiffy or stuffy corporate job so I never put myself out there as someone who is like that That's great advice for people who aren't good at interviewing or maybe shy Like I get like very nervous and I can't be myself when I'm being interviewed by somebody and they're like asking me questions I'm like I just I have I've only done it a couple of times But I just remember back just being like oh well, there's no way I'll get that job unless I could back it up with like Amazing work or quality or my creativity so it's like you can show you're if you can show your skills Improve that you're actually you can get the job done then that's all the matters In terms of networking like how do you guys build your relationships now? How do you like meet new people or or connect with those that inspire you? Yeah, so being in LA, so we're from Chicago and Chicago is like a super tight-knit city Very community based it's very easy like I feel like all the photographers know each other They have meetups regularly and coming to LA is totally different the opposite Everyone's kind of an island here and I think it's just like over saturated so it was very hard I still don't know a lot of wedding photographers feels competitive like people Competitive yeah, and I don't know if it needs to be that way because I think there's plenty of people getting married or we need to photo work But in LA there is a lot of people writing around cameras and and being our Introverted personalities where it's like hard to meet people because it's like Taxing on us like it it takes a lot out of us to go to like the social events Immediately need a shower. Yeah, that's what you guys are gonna do after the podcast Yeah, I mean YouTube's helped, I guess Yeah, I was gonna say just like having the platform and then like people can learn our personalities through that so they can I don't know first time we met with like Sarah Digi and John Hill They didn't put a camera on us right away because I think they they knew that we weren't like super like good at that Or like you know so I think YouTube just helped like people You know we follow people they follow us and we can kind of like connect over that like oh, yeah I know you're YouTube channel. Let's meet up for coffee or whatever or like even just having that platform When we reach out to anybody even if they don't know us through there If they see that then I feel like that yeah, I think it validates you a little bit which and you know That's I mean I think it's it's less about like the subscriber count or views or whatever and it's more about They people respect the quality of working put out and like oh like I these guys are super creative like I really admire their work which I think is way bigger than somebody who's just YouTube famous or Instagram famous like I don't want to meet people that are Instagram or YouTube famous for the most part Unless I really like see the stuff and I'm like oh, they seem like cool people We we had someone reach out to us who had a couple million Instagram followers and wanted to do something and I was like You know, I don't think we had the same aligned I don't think we would have been a good experience and I don't care how many Instagram followers I would have gotten from that it was probably not gonna be a good a good a good time I guess So it's just it's not about the numbers Yeah, it can it can be hard to say no Yeah, it's something that we like you think about you like oh, should we No, yeah, it just in general though too. I'm sure you guys get lots of requests lots of podcasts or lots of interviews or collaboration And you can't say yes to everyone because you then you wouldn't have time to make your own stuff So how do you guys how do you actually say no? What are the ways that you you do it in a way that's taxful that doesn't like hurt somebody's feelings Usually like if we just don't have time for it then we do Yeah, I think it's true Yeah, you could say we love to Unfortunately, you know we have a lot of different projects going on right now and don't have time And I think hopefully they can respect that and understand it because yeah, we don't you know we don't have a lot of time You know we are busy most of the time Just because We have we you know we we have a like a schedule we need to stick to because like for instance We're we're traveling for three weeks for our wedding and honeymoon and we have to get a bunch of stuff done so we can have Our work we can solve videos going out while we're gone so you know it's like we do have like a schedule And so it's like we can't just we can't break that to meet up with everyone unfortunately a couple more questions here I got it as this one because a lot of people asked it And I'm sure you get it all the time, but it's how do you guys Work together live together and do you do everything together you both work from home Um and You're getting married how we don't kill each other. Yeah. How do you guys? How are you not in jail right now? Good one. Yeah, it's a good one. Are you okay? Are you familiar with a new gram types? No, I don't think so. Okay, so It's it's kind of like Like what's the other it's like a virus break but like way more detailed and it's like a good way to know how to work with a business partner or Your actual partner and so like that has been super crucial and like just knowing what he needs and knowing how to Community like how he communicates best And vice versa has helped us a lot. Yeah, herx use for everything though is I'm a force so Right it always comes back to that it does But yeah, but yeah, we have worked together for so long first I was like assisting her when she was shooting weddings and We shot so many weddings together now. It's like we can anticipate each other. We know what the other you know I know what she wants. I know what shots she wants so that that helps like set the groundwork And in terms of like You like obviously there's you know, there's it's hard Sometimes, but just having like knowing what each person's good at and We're very complimentary. Yeah, and it's okay to divide the roles into like what suits that person best like She had her photography business and when we started the you know eventually we like we're like all right Let's wind that down and absorb it into our you know the more mango street business and I was like okay I know you hate emailing. I will do all the emails because she just hates it So I know that's my responsibility and that's fine. I don't mind doing it I can do quickly. I don't have to think too much about it And so it's less of a burden for me to do it than it would be for her to do it And then in turn like when we need video ideas I know that she's gonna come through with video ideas like I'm always sitting on like 20 video ideas Yeah, sometimes it's too many Okay, I'm a faster video editor maybe so I'm okay with like Taking the video from a lot of times he'll drive and then like when we're editing together like drive the edit Yeah, yeah, yeah, I drive the car. Dude. I drive the car as well Natalie she's from Sydney so she's and she's a bad driver. She's got into a bunch of accidents But I'm like for me it's less stressful if I drive I'm a bad person Oh, you are a passenger. Yeah, oh, yeah, that too. I'm just like I'll just drive like I'm a passenger too Well, that's just because I Yeah, I did I that's the thing is that we just It was maybe two days ago. It was after the rock tweeted me Was that yesterday? That's how I defied time. That's how I defied time It was like pre-tweet and then post-tweet and then I was like we got a celebrate. This is huge So we she like picked me up after work and then we got ramen tattoo ramen on the street and it was like It's a four minute drive five minute drive and they the whole time like you know Just watch out like you're in the middle of the way and you're and then I'm just like I'm backsy driving and it's not good So yeah, I drove for the way home Okay, so I drive the edit what we said about we went on a driving tangent. Oh just like like because you're faster So he'll be in the captain's seat. We both work on that together. Should we like oh cut that that's Too long there take that breath out take that breath out. Yeah So it's very much kind of yeah, there's shorter is because I can't handle the awkwardness of like a breath Yeah, like there's sometimes when we're at two camera and if there's like two sentences in row and we Magically are able to do two sentences in a row without cutting and it's like one take I'll be like so proud of that and they'll be like um maybe 500 milliseconds Pause in between the sentence. So she's like cut that out. I'm like you want me to jump cut my good Take so awkward. Yeah, you can't jump cut a good but she makes it a little bit of a breath. She makes me do it Man, I try not to do that because you there's this balance of jump cuts you don't want to over jump cut I think a couple is okay some people just do it with like every other word And then maybe it becomes too much. Yeah, we try to get a sentence at least at least one sentence Yeah, but yeah, having that balance and having If I finish an edit, I'll have her look at it. Make sure it's good Sometimes I'm like just too absorbed into it so It helps to have like really someone else to bounce things off of who who's opinion you're It seems like very a fluid relationship and something that's kind of like evolved and grown as you guys have done more work And it's it really is just like any relationship where you need to just find that balance of how to work together When to give each other space who should be doing which task? What do you enjoy more? Yeah Where it just kind of it it'd be a hard thing to teach because it's so individual to each person It's true and it helps knowing when to take a break to when did not talk about work? Yeah, you know when to just go see movie or something and not you know take the night off or whatever Because it's easier to just do it when you work from home and live together and you both work on the same things It's easier to just work work You could just not stop you could just work all day. Yeah, so it's good to know when you need to break Yeah, I find that too is that you will be your we are our own bosses Yeah, so and we would never treat anybody the way that we would if we like Worked how many hours a day are we working how much do we expect from ourselves? And it's like you need to almost treat yourself as if you are your own employee and like give yourself a break sometimes And a bonus tip is to find out how you can take vacations as a business expense That's genius. I'm trying to get into that too. Yeah, we're doing we're actually planning a Like a mystery trip where we have our YouTube audience choose where we go I'm picking out of a hat maybe like 10 locations and then we're going down to three and then having the audience choose which three we go to Have you fun and then yeah, and then just kind of you know like experiment and vlog and maybe similar story telling to you guys Where it's like a lot of voiceovers and stuff and then maybe do something daily or every other day and and just make it a part of the experience Which is that's always a good thing Because then you can write it all yeah, sure exactly all right two more questions here What advice would you give to people who are facing doubt who you know feel like they they don't have the confidence or they're Struggling to put their art out into the world I think everyone has doubts. It's just a matter of you know Getting like I mean it's so simple but just getting out there and shooting like just doing it You're gonna we were just talking about this the first 10,000 photos you take are your worst like they're not gonna be good But just getting out there and putting what you do like putting your passion into practice Yeah, so when I asked us about that 10,000 first 10,000 photos that they're like is that true? And I thought back to it and I was like there's no way I would want to show any of you one of my first 10,000 I remember my first 50,000 even like It is a lot of that is like experience but also knowing that everyone experiences that like I To this day. I'm like I'm a crappy photographer. Yeah, I'm like this sucks. I hate this Why can't I be as good as this other person so even people that Want to say like oh, I wish I could take photos like you even me though You know even the person you look up to probably has their own doubts, so right and also the Not having doubts is dangerous Yeah, that's what you sadness. Yeah, that's there's we were just watching a thing about like why people who are so bad I'm so confident. Yeah, you like having those doubts is what push you to be better. Yeah You can embrace them and also don't worry too much about What people say and you know, you don't have to take every comment with the same weight If you don't respect someone else's work and they Give you feedback. You don't need to listen with our feedback So it's you know you can develop a thick skin too against that and Look for advice from people who's working respect Yeah, I think doubt probably because better people Because if you're too confident if you're too Kanye no one likes that person. Yeah, I don't want to hang out with you No matter how much somebody might like your work It doesn't matter like that's not gonna be the only thing you can't base your entire life off of just like if people like what you do or like the videos or photos Doesn't define you as a person Awesome, that's a great note to in the podcast on What's the best way for people to find you online? Where should we send them? I mean, we're we're most places. I think YouTube is our main platform for Videos and we read through the comments and you can say hi there Twitter is slash mango street on Twitter. We're at mango street lab and you can holler at us there We're also on Instagram. We have our personal Instagram. So we also have one for the you know for the combined And that's just at mango street lab and our dog has an Instagram our dog has an Instagram because we're those people That's important. Yeah, I'm just gonna cut it. What's his what's his Instagram at French Carlton? Okay, I'm gonna cut out all those other plugs French Carlton Awesome. Thank you guys so much for coming on the podcast. This is a lot of fun. Thanks. Yeah. Thanks for having us this one Thanks for listening to this week's podcast with the amazing and talented mango street. Don't forget Don't you forget that I am holding one of the greatest competitions in the history of podcasting That's right. It's the get the rock on Matt's podcast jingle competition trademark all rights reserved patent pending Send your five second jingle today to hello at Matt devala.com That's hello at Matt devala.com. I cannot wait to hear from you. See you guys next week
