# We sold all our stuff (seriously).
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AvdW0YKw0XE
Watch the trailer to my new Netflix film!! 😮
https://youtu.be/jn-xbOCZOiQ

🙊 Here are the goods I mention in this video:
(Some are affiliate links. All are my genuine recommendations): 

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** 
**Date:** 2020-12-09

## Transcript
 We got rid of all of our stuff. All right, it's unwieldy, we're selling that, we're selling that, we're selling that, and that donating, donating, donating, not in a million years. Yes, it is true, big things are happening, or should I say simple things are happening. And I have decided to get rid of all of our stuff. We're donating it, we're selling it, we're otherwise getting rid of almost everything that we own. This guy is on the way out the door, so we don't have a TV stand anymore. All right, now can you explain the predicament we're in right now? This is literally every conversation I have in my life. And that's been killing it, she's doing all the selling of our stuff. We gotta head start on it, so we've got about like a week and a couple of days before we need to move out. Actually, we've got about 11 days before we move out. They could be a scenario where all four of the dining room chairs, your office chair, and the tray stump stalls all go tonight. And then we have nothing to sit on to actually work. I mean, I can work on the couch easily, but you will have an or a buy day for a standing desk to edit out. It'll be fun, it'll be like a minimalist experiment. So, see what it goes. So the question that you might be wondering right now is why? Why would you get rid of all of your stuff? And it's a great question. Honestly, even though I'm a minimalist and Natalie is very intentional with the things that she purchases, we've got quite a lot of stuff. We've collected many things over the years that we truly get value from. Our couches, our furniture, our lamps, everything that we own. We were really thoughtful about buying it, and so giving it up wasn't easy. But the reason that we've decided to do it is because for the time being, we're going to be moving to Sydney, Australia. We want to be closer to family. It's been two years since we've been back to Sydney. And so we really want to make sure that we spend as much quality time with family and friends as we can. And with how difficult it is to get into Australia right now with quarantine and hotel for 14 days. And the flight's being as expensive as they are. And us not thinking we're going to be coming back to California. That all conspired to lead us to the idea to, hey, like why don't we just get rid of our stuff? So this is currently what our bedroom looks like. We obviously sold the bed frame, sold the dresser since we don't have a dresser now. This is where we put our clothes. So I think under normal circumstances, it might upset me to have my clothes just in piles all over the ground. But considering the circumstances and how stressful this past week has been, it's just whatever. You know, you just gotta do you gotta do. And sometimes you just gotta throw your clothes in a pile and do it with it later. Well, Natalie. So what are we talking about? Let's talk about sex, baby. Let's talk about you and me. How does it feel knowing we're heading into a period of maybe a year or two where we're really not going to own a lot of stuff? It makes me feel, I mean, I turned 30 this year. Not that this should matter. But I think you have like, you put pressure on yourself to kind of feel like you're moving forward in life. And I like have to kind of work against that kind of pressure to remind myself that I have a choice. And actually there's real freedom to be found perhaps it's an experiment. It's real freedom to be found in kind of like living lighter and more nomadic and being able to travel between countries and like, you know, just feel it out. So I'm kind of like resisting the self judgment of being like, you don't have a home address. It's like, you know, like, where do we live? Yeah, I mean, it's like both exciting but also I think, you know, feeling a little bit like anxious and stressed and that like, well, if we can't settle down and buy a house and like, when are we supposed to have kids and like, you know, if I'd travel between Australia and the US and we don't even know which city we're living in half the time, like, how are we supposed to plan our lives? And I'm like, what is a year or two years in the rest of your life? The present moment I'm feeling about 80% stressed 20% excited. There is just so much to do for me to fully be excited about this move and this insanely radical change. If you've been following the channel for the past couple of years, you know that I'm one who's prone to anxiety under stress. And so I'm trying to do my best to manage everything that's happening. And I think the fact that it's been a two week process of selling decluttering and otherwise moving on from our stuff. It's really preparing me for this really momentous move. And I think by the time we get a little bit closer to our flights, it's going to flip and I'm going to be 80% excited 20% stressed. But for the time being, I've got a lot of work to do. Okay, so this is some of the gear that I'm selling. This is a C200, another C200. I use these cameras for the podcast way back when some other podcasts gear, my GoPro's gimbal. So the idea for the next couple of years is to move about the world as it lightly as possible with as few things as we can. Now, there are going to be things, of course, that I'm going to continue to need like camera gear and whatnot. And we might even make use of a small storage locker to store in Adelaide's wedding dress. Some of my camera gear may be some computers that I can't bring with me. So there are going to be some items that we decide to store away until we come back to the States in a few months. But everything else is going. All of these hard drives, these are projects from really when I first started as a filmmaker about 10 years ago. There's about 40 hard drives in total, including all these small Western digital drives. Some of the early ones, they, they're really only two terabytes or so. So what I decided to do was get about, here I got four of these 18 terabyte drives. And so I'm taking all of this footage, putting it onto three of those downsizing decluttering digital minimalism for the win. Are you excited? Because I think there's a lot of like stress, there's a lot of anxiety that's around this move. This is, we've never done anything like this before. This is like totally insane to like even by my standards to completely get rid of 95% of our stuff and start from scratch. But like there is kind of this light at the end of the tunnel that like we're going to be with family and let's try it out. I can't wait. I mean, it's been like two years since we've been back home and you know, I haven't seen my family and my parents and every year, I haven't seen my brother and my sister and Lauren two years. We've got a new niece that we want to meet. I'm seeing my friends into you. So I just can't wait to be home. Got it. So we do a head butt high five. Hey guys, so before you go, I have some very, very big news to announce for the past three years. I've been working on a new documentary. It's a Netflix original. It's releasing on January 1st, 2021 and the trailer just dropped. If you want to get a first look at the trailer, I've left a link in the description below. Go watch it. Leave a comment and spread the love. And if you can do me one more favor before you get on with your day, head over to Netflix, add lessons now to your queue. So you'll be ready to watch it once it releases on January 1st. I am so excited to share this film with you. It's been a labor of love for the past few years and I'm finally ready to share this with you. Thanks so much. See you all.
