# The 30 Day Social Media Detox
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AXInjuTkjoM
My Simple Habits Course is now enrolling! https://slowgrowth.com/simple-habits
☝️🚀

Get exclusive content:  http://patreon.com/mattdavella
Jason Zook:  http://wanderingaimfully.com
My essential gear... https://kit.com/mattdavella

The Kit link above is a collection of affiliate links. I've only recommended products that I use & fully endorse.

Ground Up 074: https://youtu.be/7urjtL-P0ps

About this video...
What benefits might you receive by stepping away from social media for 30 days? I'm challenging you to take a break for the next 30 days to clear your mind & do some mental decluttering.

With less distractions I’m planning to commit more time to creating things, reading & maybe even sitting still.

I don’t think social media is inherently evil but it’s very easy to get swept up in comparing yourself to others & it often distractions me from the work I find most valuable.

I’ll still be posting a bit on each platform but these will be pushed through 3rd party apps so I won’t ever have to log in. YouTube is critical for me to make videos, pull clips & research so I will continue to use it.

Whether you're watching this video on the day I release it or in a years time... it's always a good time to rethink our approach to social media.

💯 When your break is over, you can keep in touch here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** why i quit social media, social media, social media addiction, declutter, lifestyle, lifestyle design, minimalism, minimalist, simple living, simplicity, twitter, facebook, instagram, quitting instagram, detox, social media detox, negative effects of social media, 
**Date:** 2018-10-01

## Transcript
 I really strongly believe that social media is the next great addiction. Smoking alcohol, gambling, social media is right up there because you get the same response. You get the same dopamine responses when you're liking things, sharing things, whatever people are liking and commenting, but the more important thing to me is it's the same answer when you ask someone like, hey, can you quit Facebook for a week? You're like, of course I can, I just don't want to. That's the same answer for alcohol smoke, like all these things, it's the exact same responses. Let me ask you a serious question. When's the last time that you checked your phone? Wait a minute, are you on your phone right now? It's like, you can't even pay attention to a video for five seconds without checking your phone. Oh, you're watching the video on your phone? No, but seriously, new research suggests that people check their phone anywhere from 80 to 300 times a day. Now while you can't compare it to the lasting damage that drugs, alcohol, and gambling have on people's lives, there is no question that social media is damaging in its own way. Most of us know this to be true. I distinctly remember my freshman year of college signing up for Facebook. Unfortunately, that's what I look like in college. And I remember seeing that shiny red notification at the top corner of the screen. It didn't fully sink in right away, but the more I used it, the more I realized I had become dependent on that tiny red dot in the corner of the screen. If I opened up Facebook and there was no notification, I would feverishly click refresh until someone generously saved me with a like. Now, I rarely use Facebook anymore, but from time to time, I still find myself caught on that same hamster wheel. Whether I'm using Instagram or Twitter, I'm seeking that dopamine hit that a notification provides me. And most of us probably are in a similar situation, especially if you're one of the people that checks your phone upwards of 300 times a day, yet we do nothing about it until today. I have a challenge for you. For the next 30 days, I want you to quit social media with me. But Matt, I run my business on social media, but Matt, my grandma would get upset if I don't like her comma or post. You will likely come up with every excuse in the world. Our brains are very clever and manipulating ourselves into thinking that we need these things. Because the truth is, without it, we're going to get very, very uncomfortable. But let's look at some of the benefits you might experience by going on a 30-day social media detox. You'll compare yourself to others less often. Comparison takes its toll on our well-being more than anything else. If you get a promotion or a raise, you feel really good about that new stack of money you just got. But if your neighbor, you find out, gets a promotion or a raise even higher than you. All of a sudden, you feel like shit. All of a sudden, that raise doesn't mean anything. The modern day, keeping up with the Joneses, doesn't happen in real life anymore. You're not necessarily looking over the fence to see what your actual neighbor has. It's much worse. You're going online on Instagram and seeing the best versions of everybody else and comparing yourself to them. One of the benefits you'll experience if you go on a social media detox is that you will get more time. More time to invest in your business, more time to invest in hobbies, to read a goddamn book. I feel like an old timer. Like back in my day, we used to read books. Without social media to distract you, you'll have a whole lot more time to bring in positive experiences to your life rather than draining your battery and draining your brain. And another benefit you'll experience is that you will get focused. Without the 300 interruptions throughout the day, you'll be able to gain greater clarity and really create a vision for your life. I would pull up at a red light the first couple of days. And I would grab at my phone, swipe it open without looking, click where the Facebook was, and it wasn't there anymore. And so I would tap three times just instinctually, and then I would look down and I felt gross, like I felt almost like what is going on. And you realize when you remove those things, like, holy crap, that's instinctual. You're like, my hand knows where it is without even thinking. It's a involuntary movement. Now, if you are with me, if you are here for the next 30 days to commit to this social media detox, the next steps are incredibly simple, but they will be very challenging. Delete all social media apps from your phone. Don't just hide them away in a corner. I do this sometimes, it's not that effective, because naturally I will swipe, swipe, click, click, and get into the app that I want to get into. You can download these apps again after 30 days, and all your information is going to be intact. Your profile will still be there. You'll realize that everybody will still be online, and the world will not stop turning, because you didn't check your phone. Next, log out of all social media accounts on your computer. Make sure that those passwords aren't quickly saved so you can log in instantly. You can use a Chrome extension, like stay focused, to keep you blocked out of these websites completely. The idea is that you want to add as much friction as possible, so then even if you go through one or two of these hurdles, you might be able to step back, regain consciousness, and realize away, I shouldn't be checking social media right now. If your business is dependent upon social media, then you can use an app like buffer. I use buffer all the time, even when I'm not doing a social media detox, because it allows me to schedule, it allows me to post things, and push them to Twitter or Instagram. Without having to worry about going to these apps separately, or having to think of fresh new content every day. I cannot believe I just said fresh new content. God damn it! And then the hard part. You have to sit with yourself and figure out what the hell you're going to do with your day. You're going to have to figure out how to keep yourself preoccupied with something more productive other than social media. Now, if you're having some doubts, if you feel like you're on the fence, like I don't know if I really want to do this, try to picture yourself in the future. After 30 days, how much more productive do you think you could be over the next 30 days if you didn't have the distraction of social media or these apps on your phone? What can you accomplish? How much more clarity and focus will you have? It is the most clarity of thought during those times. It's like everything recalibrates for me. I get this whole refreshed creativity. It's like I was talking about recharging those batteries. I'm itching to get back to stuff by the end of 30 days. But I'm also really excited because it's like I've taken control of these platforms. I'm not sitting there staring at them. I'm not letting the news feeds distract me. And I'm actually fully taking a break, not just like 8 or 12 hours out of the day, like breaking up the time that I use them because that's typically what I do now. It's like, no, no, I'm 30 days without completely and then I can go back and go, yeah, I didn't, that's fine, I missed some stuff, I didn't post things and guess what? Everybody's still here, you know, nothing really changed. So the idea here is that after this 30 day social media detox, you're going to be able to go back and think about how you want to bring these apps into your life in a more intentional way. So you may choose to check it once or twice a day, which to me is a hell of a lot better than 300. Thank you guys for watching. And if you want to use the hashtag just kidding, there's no hashtag. That would be, that would be so silly. It's a detox. Uh, good luck guys. Let me know. I don't know how you're going to comment. Here's the thing, I'm probably going to continue to use YouTube because I don't YouTube is not the same kind of distraction, check, check, check for me. For you, it might be for you, you might want to cut out YouTube as well. Each of these things are going to be a little bit more dependent on your life and you're going to be honest with yourself about which are the biggest distractions in your life and which you can cut out and which you should cut out. So again, good luck and I'll see you on the other side. If you've got some value from my videos, then I would love it if you'd consider contributing on Patreon. My channel is 100% advertisement and sponsor free so I rely on patrons to pay my rent to keep doing this. So I would be so grateful if you would go check it out. You can contribute as little as $4 per month or you can contribute even more and get access to my monthly AMA as well as my secret vlog. The secret vlog is pretty cool, as always thanks for watching.
