# I learned how to lucid dream.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=B8yJeNa-bPU
Go to http://squarespace.com for a free trial, and when you’re ready to launch, go to http://squarespace.com/mattdavella to save 10% off your first purchase of a website or domain. Thanks to Squarespace for sponsoring this video.

My Simple Habits Course is now enrolling! https://slowgrowth.com/simple-habits
☝️🚀

🙊 Here are the goods I mention in this video:
(Some are affiliate links. All are my genuine recommendations): 
A Field Guide to Lucid Dreaming by Jared Chiang-Zeizel: https://amzn.to/3beGrNo

🎥 Credits
Filmed by Matt D'Avella & Joe Nation
Produced by Mark D'Avella & Matt D'Avella
Edited by Matt D'Avella & Oskar Velazquez

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** how to lucid dream, dreams, dream, how to control your dreams, how i learned to lucid dream, lucid dreams, lucid dream, how to continue a dream, how to pursue your dreams, how to re-enter a dream, how to re enter a dream, how to reenter a dream, Oneironautics, Jared Chiang-Zeizel, matt d'avella, 
**Date:** 2020-03-24

## Transcript
 Dreams. You know, the place where your punches are only half as effective. All your teeth fall out. You can only run away from bad guys and slow motion, and the source of the biggest fights in my relationship. Who is she? What are you talking about? You cheated on me, my dream. Is your dream? Out of all the things that can be said about dreams, one of the wildest claims that's ever been made is that you can control them. And I should know. I've done it. All right, I get it. I know what you're thinking. Matt has officially lost his goddamn mind. But really, I think there is something to this. Just stick with me for a second. So this whole dream experiment got started when I received a message from someone asking me to look into Lucid dreaming. And the very next thought that I had was, I'm pretty sure I've done that before. Lucid dreaming is what happens when the dreamer becomes aware that they're dreaming. That awareness is all it takes to become lucid. It's a pretty trippy phenomenon that's been documented since ancient Greek times. But it's also been formally researched since the 1960s. And that research has proven that people can have some level of awareness while sleeping. Dream researchers were able to determine this by agreeing upon pre-arranged eye movements with dream subjects. And then measuring eye movement while these subjects were fast asleep. Most people get interested in lucid dreaming to fulfill their fantasies, but some say that it's a gateway into your subconscious. So, you know, the further that I went down this rabbit hole, the more research that I did, the more I realized that I really should be speaking with an expert. So, Jared, why did you first start getting interested in dreams? Something about dreams ever since I was a kid. Do you want to do this interview somewhere else? Okay. That guy is Jared. The co-author of a field guide to lucid dreaming. Usually when we're dreaming, we're very much on autopilot. We just sort of accepted, we're just, you know, it's a roller coaster at times, but we are locked in on that track. And a lucid dream, you could still be locked in on the track, but you're like, oh, I'm enjoying this or maybe if it's a nightmare. I'm, you know, not enjoying this, but you are aware that you are not in the waking world, but in the dream state. So it starts with that awareness, and then from there, though, we could also start to begin to figure out ways to control our dreams, right? Yeah, so the awareness is kind of like the base camp. And if someone just becomes aware, they can be, you know, fully engaged, and just ride along with the dream, or they can actually decide to interact with the dream, talk with dream characters, you know, kind of direct the dream, or just change it completely. This is silly. It seems really weird, right? Okay, so just as I was about to get started with this whole thing, I decided that I wanted to set the stakes really high. I didn't want to just become aware that I was dreaming in my dreams. I didn't want to just control my dreams. I wanted to manifest something in the real world and bring it into my dream. So this is silly. It came spontaneously, but I was like, I want to smash a cake. I don't like a, like a chocolate cake, a carrot cake. I don't care what kind of cake. I just want to smash a cake in my dream. Through my fist through it, smash it with a hammer, whatever. If I can do that in my dream, I will prove that anything is possible when it comes to lucid dreaming. And so equipped with advice from my new BFF, I got started. The first tactic he suggested I use, set an intention to remember my dreams. You know, the same way if life, you're always forgetting to take out the trash, you know, on trash day. But you say to yourself, all right, everyday, I'm just going to say, don't forget to take out the trash. Don't forget to take out the trash. And, well, slightly, when trash day comes, if you've been saying that over and over, you're not going to forget. I spent my days and nights repeating the phrase, I'm going to remember my dreams. I'm going to remember my dreams. I wrote it down in my journal over and over and over again. So another night, another night without elusive dream. One night, that and I started dancing around the kitchen, like a couple lunatics chanting it out loud. Go on up from then, but my dreams, two, three, four. And then, I began to make progress. I woke up remembering my dreams for the first time. I quickly pulled up my journal and wrote down everything I could recall. I would probably say a month ago, I didn't remember any dreams. I feel like I haven't remembered my dreams for years. It's very easy for the details of your dreams to slip away. By keeping a dream journal close to your bed and writing them down immediately upon waking up, you're starting to tell your brain that dreams are important and that you want to remember them. Another thing Jared says you can do is give yourself a reality check. Just like the spinning top and inception, if you continue to check in with yourself throughout the day, asking the question, am I in a dream and combine that with a physical action, like poking your finger into your hand, it can help you to ask that same question while you're dreaming. You just try to see if your finger goes through your palm. And it's not, so I'm going to go with the assumption that we're not in a dream right now. This is freaking me out, man. I'm sorry dude, I should not have taken edibles before this interview. So I went throughout my day checking to see if I was dreaming. I wasn't. Each night for the next two nights, I remembered more and more of my dreams. Their contents weren't that interesting, but I was excited to be making progress. And then finally, I did it. I remember tossing and turning in bed a bit in the early morning, probably just before sunrise. When I sunk into my next REM stage, I woke up. In my dream. It was only just for a moment, but I was aware that I was dreaming while I was dreaming. And then. I had this feeling before this wasn't new. Like I said, I've had lucid dreams in the past, but it was really exciting to know that I could actually intentionally create a lucid dream. Just by thinking about it, just by talking about it. I was really excited to know that I could actually intentionally create a lucid dream. Just by thinking about it, just by talking about it. I realized that I could potentially have more lucid dreams. That said, I still felt like I was a really long ways off from smashing a cake. I guess, by the way, this video is brought to you by Squarespace, because dreams are cool, but bringing your dreams to life is even cooler. Can you know that now? Back when I was in high school, I had this dream to become a lucid dream. Sorry about that. Back when I was in high school, I had this dream to become a professional filmmaker and run my own business. But back then, it was crazy difficult to bring your ideas to life. Now, not so much. With Squarespace, if you have an idea, you can use their beautiful and professional templates to launch your website the same day you sign up. Use their tools for blogging, get powerful analytics, connect your social media accounts, and much more. Or keep things crazy simple like I do, and set up a website with an email sign up for. Go to squarespace.com for a free trial. When you're ready to launch, go to squarespace.com slash Matt Diivella to save 10% off your first purchase of a website or domain. Okay, I'm gonna go back to bed now. Who the f*** is Squarespace? Most people when they enter their first lucid dream, they're not gonna have sort of an omnipotence kind of god-like power. And so, in the same way we need to learn skills in the waking world, sometimes we also need to learn dream skills. And so I got back to work. This time, repeating the mantra, I'm going to control my dreams. I'm going to control my dreams. I continue to remember dreams on most nights and wrote them down in my dream journal each morning. I kind of had a lucid dream. I had something where I was in this black void of fogginess of sleep and I thought to myself, I'm dreaming, I'm dreaming, and then I didn't have a dream, it's weird. It was like purgatory for dreaming. So, that feels like something. And then, I had another lucid dream. This one about 10 times more intense and way more vivid than the first. I walked into my parents' bedroom back home in New Jersey and felt like something was off. It was exactly as I'd remembered it as a kid. I asked my mom what year it was and she said, it's 1999. As I walked closer to my parents, I noticed that there were two of my dad. And that's when I realized I was dreaming. It was vivid, just as vivid as real life. And then, I remembered the cake. I turned around to bring it into my dream and smash it, but it wasn't there. At that moment, I began to run into the kitchen to try to open the fridge and see if there was a cake inside, and my dream started to get echoey and faint, and I started to lose it. Once I woke up, the dream memory started to slip away from me as well. And I realized just how easy it would have been to just forget about this whole experience entirely. So, I grabbed my phone, ran to the bathroom, and wrote down everything I could remember. It got oddly emotional for me. I think it was because I really felt like I was there. I felt like I was at my home, back in Jersey, at a time in a place that will no longer exist. The only place that exists is in my memory, and now my dreams, and to be there, to really feel like I was there, was super crazy. I'm just kind of on the brink now of lucid dreaming and learning what's possible. This was a huge milestone in learning how to actually control my dreams. One essential part of learning how to lucid dream is understanding when we dream. And through the various stages of sleep, the most likely time to have them is during rapid eye movement or REM. What's interesting, and what kind of pertains to lucid dreaming, is that the period of REM over the course of a night gets longer and longer after multiple sleep cycles. You want to focus on that long period of REM because you get lucid, you can actually explore the dream for a longer period of time. If it's earlier, you might be elucid in it at ends before you can actually do any exploration. So, the better help me track my sleep. I'm going to be using one of these aura rings. It's actually got sensors on the inside that tracks your sleep. My hope is that by tracking my sleep, I'll get a better idea of how much time I'm spending in REM, the time in REM, it varies from 15 minutes to an hour and a half. So, if I can improve my sleep throughout the night and if I can get enough restfulness throughout the night, hopefully I'll be able to have more lucid dreams. By tracking my sleep, I was able to experiment with one of the more extreme lucid dreaming techniques called Wake Back to Sleep. The process of setting an alarm before you dip into the longest period of REM. With this technique, the idea is to wake up for 20 to 40 minutes before REM, raising your awareness, but staying on the edge of sleep. Then, when you dip into REM, you'll be more likely to have elucid dream. Hey, guys, what's up? I'm setting the alarm for tomorrow. Sorry. Sorry. Like 3 a.m. Are you joking? I'm going to head back to bed now, try to get a dream going, but this is a dumb idea. I couldn't get back to sleep, woke Natalie up, she couldn't get back to sleep. So we were both just awake for like, let's see how long? At a total of 6 hours and 23 minutes of sleep last night. I think I'm done with this little strategy this technique. And as I continued on with this experiment, I found that lucid dreaming was pretty much a role of the dice. Most nights I didn't have them, but I broke through two more times during this experiment. I'm not really sure if there's any correlation between how hard I try and how often I have elucid dream. I feel like so much of it is just a luck of the draw. What are you doing that? You're popping your head in the background. And while I can control various aspects of what I do in my dream, I'm often at the whim of my subconscious, floating from one location to another, one thought to the next. Far from the mastery that I've earned is possible. All right guys, I'm going to level with you here. I was not able to manifest the cake and smash it in my dream. I know. I think maybe it was a bit ambitious to assume that I could master that level of lucid dreaming in only three weeks, but it is what it is. At this point, I have other experiments and other videos and other things that I want to work on. So I've got to kind of tie this one up. So unfortunately, I would say that this is kind of the end of chapter one. I do want to continue to try to do it. So who knows? Maybe I will be able to do it in the coming weeks. Maybe it's in height of my night. I don't know. I just can't wait around for it to happen. But then I started to think, you know, I wasn't able to make it happen in elucid dream. But then there are other ways to make your dreams become a reality. So that did not at all work out. Like I thought it was going to. I, in my head thought, hey, I'm going to smash this cake. My hands are going to go right through it. I hit it once and it hurt. It's fine. It's fine. Thanks for watching. I really appreciate you. Stick around to watch me eat this cake. If you yourself have had elucid dream before, let me know. This is a dense cake. Shoot that carrot cake.
