# I tried daily affirmations for 7 days.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BAYw_orzBR0
Visit http://storyblocks.com/mattdavella to get access to an unlimited library over 1 million royalty-free assets.  Thanks to Storyblocks for sponsoring this video.

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** 
**Date:** 2021-06-17

## Transcript
 So lately I've found myself in a bit of a slump. I really don't have a lot of motivation. I've been doubting a lot about what I've been doing with my life. And, you know, I feel like I'm in a rut. And so I thought, hey, why not try daily affirmations? Why not? If you haven't yet been initiated into the wonderful world of positive thinking and daily affirmations, here's what it's all about. Most people go throughout their day, followed by a trail of negative self-talk. We're filled with doubt, anxieties, and we're constantly questioning our own abilities. A daily affirmation is intended to break that cycle by reinforcing positive thoughts about yourself. How do you do this? By reading a script in front of a mirror every morning? I am beautiful, confident, and strong. And the repetition is supposed to change how you actually think about yourself. Does it work? Well, that's what I want to find out. And so I'm going to try daily affirmations for the next week. This video is brought to you by Storyblocks. I'll talk more about them later. Okay, and so to get started, I need to find an affirmation. Now, I suppose I could write one myself, but I want to get started off nice and easy. So I'm just going to Google it. I'm just going to see if I can find any daily affirmations that really align with what I'm going through right now. And so primarily what I'm going through is lack of motivation, self-doubt, and perfectionism. So I don't know if I can find one that hits all three, or really there's probably like five or ten things that are going on right now. But anyway, I'm going to find one that fits best with what I'm going through. And then I'm going to do it. So let's do it. Oh, I don't like these. Okay. No. This is so good. This is gross. I thought an affirmation was like a paragraph. Ah, this is fucking hard. I don't think I can do this. Oh my god, I don't dare to do it. These are so corny. I'd rather do cold showers every day for an entire year than after read this out loud. It's fine. It's fine. This is cool. Nobody's going to laugh at me. Okay. So I have found one that feels somewhat reasonable for me. It's not completely corny and over the top. And it seems to have some of what I'm going through baked into it. And so I'm going to do it now. Hmm. Life doesn't have to be perfect to be beautiful. I am more than enough. Okay, don't joke. This is serious. Take it seriously. Peace and happiness are inside me. It's hard not to play. Okay, this is serious. This is real. Okay, here we go. If you can't already tell daily affirmations aren't exactly my thing. I'm not into woo self development stuff. And this is clearly not in my very small comfort zone. But I'm a strong believer in experimentation and testing your own assumptions. And since I'm currently in a funk, I thought, why not? In fact, I think this should actually be an ongoing series on this channel. We can call it don't knock it because you should not get until you try it. Unless we're talking about drugs because then you should definitely try it. Don't try it. Don't do drugs, kids. It's a bad idea. I accept to love myself. That's why I am. That's it. That was it. That's not bad. I can get used to that. It was weird in the beginning, but cool. All right, so I've been doing this daily affirmation thing for a couple days now. It's been going pretty well. But I feel like there's something missing. I think it's more of the personal touch. So catering the daily affirmations to my own life and more to the things that I'm going through. As as great as it feels, looking in the mirror and calling myself beautiful. I want to kind of narrow it on myself and my life more specifically. And so I figured I should get some help with this. And so I'm going to actually ask Natalie to help me out in crafting the perfect affirmation. All right, Nat. So I need your help. So I've been working on daily affirmation. Yeah, I did actually look at these of it. Yeah, look at these of the daily affirmations. Oh my god. Yeah. Do you even know each other? You want me to write one? Yeah, so this is the deal is that these are daily affirmations. I just pulled from the internet. And some of them are really corny. Like it's it's been kind of funny. But it's like, I am strong. Beautiful. I just ripped. I just pulled it out. I know. It actually felt good to go through that. But I kind of want something a little bit more personalized. I feel like you know me better than anybody. And so you'll be able to like you understand my insecurities, the things that I go through. And also your values. Like you value things like relationships and quality relationships. Yeah. So help me write affirmation and then I'm going to do it. I'm not going to look good. No. You feel good about them? Yeah, I feel really good. Great. Yeah. I put a lot of thought into them. Give me. Thank you. Now I've got an audience for my affirmation. That's right. You can just stay. I have never done a daily affirmation with an audience, but of course. Okay. Here we go. I'm trying. I'm trying. Okay. Here we go. Just because you have to shave your nose does not mean you are not worthy. There comes a day when you realize that it's actually impossible to hum while holding your nose. And you're 100% okay with that. That's like about acceptance. That's like nice. If avocados teach us anything, it's that you don't have to be rock hard to be delicious. That's really beautiful. And that's it. Those are my daily affirmations now. Yeah, you did a great job. Good. I might have to change these. No. You're welcome. That's not how you do. So this video is brought to you by Storyblocks. I use Storyblocks demand driven library to source high quality video clips for my own videos. And they are an absolute game changer. In the past, when I needed a couple shots for a video, I'd have to pay per clip. But that was expensive. Now with my Storyblocks unlimited all access subscription plan, I have unlimited access to over 1 million assets, including tons of high quality video footage. And it's really affordable. Here's a really cool thing that Storyblocks recently did. They hired six content creators in the LGBTQIA Plus community to help tell stories that are rarely ever told, especially when it comes to stock footage. By partnering with creators and underrepresented communities, Storyblocks is helping to change the face of stock footage, which I think is pretty cool. Go to Storyblocks.com slash math to develop to learn more, and to sign up for an unlimited membership today. You can use the link down in the description below. Alright, so I think it's safe to say that Natalie's daily affirmations aren't going to really work out for me. And so I want to find some daily affirmations that really resonate with me to wrap up this experiment and to see if it really can make a positive change in my life. And so what I'm going to do is because I don't want to just write these from scratch. I'm not super confident that I'll be able to do a good job myself. What I'm going to do is I'm going to look up my personality type online. Now this isn't something that's necessarily backed by science, but I have found it to be pretty accurate in the past. The personality types that I typically look at are called anyograms. And so I think there are like nine types of anyograms. And I find that I resonate most with type one. The type one anyogram is defined somebody that's rational and idealistic. Principal, purposeful, self-controlled, and perfectionist. So right there, you can already see that that pretty much aligns with my personality. All right, so I am all wrapped up with my new daily affirmations. What I've done is I've pulled some new ones using my anyogram type one here. I've also pulled some of my favorites from the old one that I was doing. I didn't take any of nuts, not even happy wife happy life. And I also did write a couple original ones that I didn't see there, but I was inspired by what I read online to make a new one. And so let me read a couple of these to you that I think maybe resonate the most with me. I release my need for control. I am perfect even in all my imperfections. I set reasonable expectations with myself. I think that's a really big one. I have enough to be happy in this moment. That's one that I wrote that's definitely deeply rooted in minimalism and really figuring out how much is enough for you. No matter how long you've been practicing minimalism, intentionality, whatever. This is something you constantly have to remind yourself that you are enough and you have enough. And so I'm going to give a crack at this, the new daily affirmations, and see how these go for the next couple days. Heading into this experiment, I wanted to hate it. I really did. I had a bias going into this. I'm not going to lie. I thought daily affirmations were dumb, they were cliche. And I was certain that there was no way that it was going to help me. And I was actually wrong. You know, I'm very hesitant to jump on the bandwagon when it comes to any of these practices. In self development or wellness that are kind of woo woo spiritual and really don't have grounding in science. They're things that are all about finding your truth versus the actual truth. And you know what to each their own. You know, if something works for you, that's great. But the whole point of this experiment is to try these things that I really have an average reaction to. And so yeah, I actually found out that daily affirmations were really beneficial and for three main reasons. So first it really helps to develop self awareness. Self awareness is such a critical skill. It's one of those underlying traits that if you build, it can help so many other areas of your life. And it can help to really build strong relationships with others. And you know yourself first when you know the things that you're thinking those negative thought patterns that you go down over and over again when you wake up to them. And for me, that has usually been through meditation. It really allows you to get clear on what you need to work on. What are the mistakes that you keep making over and over again? What's preventing you from being happy? And the second area where I found it helped was that it really allows you to be vulnerable. And I think even committing to a practice like this where you would typically not do it because of what you think others might think of you. It allows you to start to chip away. You go a little bit as you saw from this experiment in the very beginning the first daily affirmation that I read to myself. I really had to kind of break down some walls in myself to be able to try this. And so I think anything that breaks down those walls that allows you to be more vulnerable is a good thing. And finally I'd say that because you're gaining greater self-awareness, it does allow you to stop yourself from thinking negative thoughts. Now, it doesn't completely get rid of it. This is meditation doesn't completely rage yourself of some toxic thoughts and beliefs about yourself. It does get you to start moving in that direction. It takes a whole lot of work and I don't think just reading something into a mirror is going to magically change who you are. But I do think it is a great first step if you're looking to make any self-development change. Like everything within this self-development world daily affirmations is not a magic bullet. It's not something that's going to completely radically change your life. But should you knock it or should you try it? I definitely think you should try it. I think you should give it a go. Do a little bit of research for yourself. Try it for a week. A week, such a simple experiment that you may be able to gain some benefits from. Now, I would encourage you to do this privately. That's just me personally. I still find it embarrassing to do even in front of my wife. And so, wait until everybody's outside the house. Clear your throat and give those daily affirmations a shot.
