# Go for It (Advice for Living a Good Life)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bg-OnbE4wFE
Full Episode: http://mattdavella.com/049
Behind-the-scenes: http://instagram.com/mattdavella

Sara Dietschy (filmmaker & podcaster) shares how she explores her passions and gives advice to creatives. 

We talk about finding happiness in a $13 salad, how to create engaging content for YouTube & that time Casey Neistat gave her props in a video and she got 40k subscribers in a day.

Find Sara here: http://youtube.com/saradietschy

New videos every week! New podcast every Wednesday!

Subscribe:  https://goo.gl/nzS5ri
Instagram:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella/
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella/

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** sara dietschy, ground up, the ground up show, matt davella, Matt D'Avella, story, stories, journey, film, filmmaking, youtube, content, content creator, creator, create, minimalism, netflix, make stuff, 
**Date:** 2018-03-07

## Transcript
 All of my passions that I had, I just like, full throttle ran with it, and I did that until I hit a wall, I don't like this anymore, and then I moved on to the next thing, and I just like, full on did it, and that kind of led me, you know, to video, but I found video at the age of like, I feel like I'm talking like I'm 60, and I've like all this was my dull at the age of 20, three years ago, I was the child back then, but you know, it really led me to what I truly love to do at a very early age, and I think that has a lot to do with like, not really having a lot of friends, but just really searching out. Thank God. What I'm exactly, but having a few really good friends that I was able to build with and be creative with, and it really led me to, yeah, what I'm doing today, but yeah, I hate to do blanket statements of, you know, you shouldn't go to college because there's the doctors and the lawyers and stuff, but there are always alternatives. I mean, there are community colleges, like, if you have to live in your parents' house for four years, and like, save 100,000, like, that's okay. You know, I think it's really burdensome when you enter the world with debt, because when I dropped out of college, I didn't have a lot, and I didn't have a lot of my bank account, but I wasn't in debt, so I kind of felt this freedom to just go and do it. Well, when you have debt, when you're in the hole, you start to make different decisions. That's why a lot of people get caught up in the nine to five corporate route in a job that they don't love. And you have to say that obviously there's people that love their jobs. My girlfriend, she loves her job. She works in nine to five jobs. But if you have that debt, you're, in a lot of ways, trap, and I felt trapped. And even though I was doing not an untraditional path, I was working, you know, in the beginning, we were talking with weddings and stuff, and I slowly grew up to working with startups and tech companies. But I still felt like a little bit trapped where I'm like, I have to keep making money because I have $600 in student loans. I have to pay off every month. So, but once I was able to pay it off, it's just like an amount of freedom. That's why I can do this podcast is because I actually don't need to make that much money to be able to survive, to be able to pay the rent, to be able to pay my bills because I whittle down my monthly expenses so low that you can take risks. But the minimalistic life. I'm definitely not a minimalist, but I totally believe in a lot of principles with it. And I think it's, yeah, and I think people, it's almost like, people think it's just what naturally you should do. I think a lot of people fall into, okay, years go into Jeff College, it's what you do. You go into debt to pay for $40,000 wedding. It's just what you do. Oh, you have kids. Okay, you gotta get that, like, $7 car, C car. You just go into debt for that. And it's like, it's just never ending. And that's a lame way to live. You know? Yeah, you have to question. You have to ask questions of yourself. I think the problem happens when people stop asking questions, when they stop asking, like, well, what's going to make me happy? Like, what can I give? How can I help? If you're not asking these tough questions, then eventually you're going to feel trapped. I love what you said just about loving filmmaking. And it's like, you have to really love what you're doing. And, you know, like you said, eventually it's going to get to a point where it feels a little bit more like work. And there's that, that's because it's a grind sometimes. All the time. All the time. Yeah. Yeah. You know, it really is. And you know what? There's part of me that likes it. I'm not the kind of person that's like, like, oh, sleep when I'm dead. Yeah. I hate that. I'm like, dude, I love sleep. Man, I'm sleeping like, in 10 minutes. What's this podcast over?
