# Ground Up 017 - A Comedian Abroad w/ Nathan Jaiyeola
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bJJLTD-Z6WE
http://www.groundupshow.com

Nathan Jaiyeola is a stand-up comedian living in Vietnam. Eight years ago I found myself at Temple University in Philadelphia taking a class called Comedy Workshop. The course fell under my Broadcast Telecommunications degree. Yes, the same bachelor’s degree that cost me six-figures over four years.

That's where Nate and I met. We became good friends and soon hatched plans for tv pilots & sketch comedy videos. He was the subject of my first ever documentary.

He took an unconventional path when he decided to leave Philly and make the 9,000 mile journey to Cambodia and later Vietnam. He started out teaching students English, while pursing stand-up comedy to a completely different audience.

In this episode I catch up with Nate about our past and what he’s been up to since then.

Follow Nathan on Twitter:  https://twitter.com/nathanjaiyeola
**Keywords:** nathan jaiyeola, stand up comedy, stand up, ground up, the ground up show, matt davella, Matt D'Avella, film, filmmaking, sketch, comedy, behind the scenes, setlife, 
**Date:** 2017-07-05

## Transcript
 Eight years ago, I found myself at Temple University taking a class called Comedy Workshop. The class fell within my broadcast telecommunications degree and in the class, we were to make sketch comedy videos. Yes, this is the same degree that ended up costing me six figures over the course of four years and ever claimed to make the best decisions in life. In that class, I'd meet another student named Nathan Jiala. He became really good friends. He encouraged me to do stand-up comedy. We hatched plans to make sketch comedy videos. He was even the subject of my very first documentary, a 15 to 20-minute film about stand-up comedy in Philly. From that point, he took a very unconventional path and he made the 9,000 mile journey from Philadelphia to Cambodia and later Vietnam. He started out teaching English to students there, but eventually found himself drawn back into comedy and doing stand-up comedy for a very different audience in those two countries. We talked about some of those early days. In this episode, we talk about some of the struggles that he's overcome over those years. It's a really fun conversation. I had a really great time catching up with Nate. I think you're going to like it. This is episode 17 of The Ground Up Show. This is great. This is great. This is good. I have one of the founders of the name of the show on the podcast. The founders of the name. I think that's as far as we can take it, right? One of the founding creators of the name. It's like when you start with that, it sounds really pretty good. Two good titles. Finding and creating. Creating of the name. It was, there's a script, do you remember that? Oh my god, could we find that? I gave you the only copy. Did you email it to me? Email it to you. I'm going to check. Everyone, the idea of what we're talking about here is I look forward to the script. When we were both 19, we had the idea for a web series called Ground Up about a group of people who are trying to, what was it? To be advertisers? I got the script. And Matt read the script. I sent it to you. Yeah. And then you said it wasn't getting good. Oh really? Yeah. And then we, like, and then you apologize for saying it wasn't any good, it probably wasn't any good. And then I was like, oh, it's okay. And then we just dropped it. That was the end of it. That was the end of the script. No, we didn't work through any versions, but you know why that's the thing. I've always been honest. No, it's good. Probably wasn't any good. But can you email that to me? Yeah, I'm going to forward it to you right now. This is December 13th, 2012, after all of these years. Yeah, that's back. Yeah. And does it say ground up? Dude, it says ground up, but yeah, it does. But I got to say, the up is in all capitals. Oh, it's a ground up. Oh, okay. There's a subtle difference there. Yeah, I'll have my shot yourself with the foot, you know, to be honest. Legal team look at it. That was actually just a typo in the actual subject of your email. Yeah. And so there's shows your thoroughness. This is sexy face. Oh, I got him like starting to remember this. sexy face. What does it say? Um, you got to pull it out. Oh, hold on, hold on. Do you want to read it? No, I don't want to read it. No, come on, why not? Because this is 2012. Interior, house, night, ground up sexy face. Interior, house, night, Pete, Peter and Sean and Michael are standing on a poorly made set in their kitchen. There is a small table and two chairs set up. There is a large red blanket draped against the wall. It is a poor attempt at resembling a table at a restaurant. There is a wine glass in front of the woman, who's this woman? And a mug in front of Michael Michaels, Michael sitting in the table and dressed as a man out on a romantic date. There was a woman sitting on the table and there is also, and she is also dressed up. It seems to be waiting on the other three. That's a pretty good set up. It's a pretty good set up. And it goes on. So yeah, I think that's the thing. I think this will be a group of guys who are trying to make viral videos. Yeah, they're trying to even partner, like I didn't think each episode was going to be another different independent business, whether it was a jeweler or it was. That's right. I think a jeweler was one that we came out with. Yeah, I think it was, they're trying to make video commercials for independent businesses, like jeweler's, or like some guys car wash, and so they try to make these videos. Which doesn't 12. Which is pretty good concept. Yeah, in 2012, it's pretty good. And for whatever, you know what, it's funny, because this was the dream back then for me to create a show, to do sketch comedy, it's sad that I didn't even respond to it. I mean, we obviously talked about it in person. Well, did there's some unresolved issues with that Matthew? Yeah, we had with ground up because I took your name. Should have responded. Yeah, like such a script. You're like, I'm still been waiting. Yeah, yeah. They were like, it's like we're supposed to film it. Yeah, I'm really curious to, I can't believe you still have that. I should have five years old. Yeah, yeah, but dude, I have some stuff in here from 2010, because look, if you look up, remember the whole produce paradise thing? Yes. From the way away, that one, right here, 2007, there's a script there. This is, I think this is like a reporter, hey, Matt, can you get on a call tomorrow, 98 rock, FM, Orlando and Tampa, like this is all, this is crazy, there's, there's stuff back here from when my brother and I got sued. Oh, yeah. And about produce paradise. You guys went on CNN. We went on CNN. And then even, and then you know, I remember watching that, that's CNN video. And then you promoted your website on CNN. Did I get fake laughter comment? Yeah, yeah, you said in all my website, fakelap.com. Wow, look at Matt, because you were, because you're on CNN and you still know to plug your things. Yeah, like, still nervous as hell. Still nervous, but like, you're like, still getting out there. The best part about that was that I didn't have a, like a chart and tie and draw some pants. I didn't have any dressy clothes on me. We got to be. No, I didn't wear a beanie on my teeth. I wish. I was like, that relaxed. Yeah, I know. I think you, well, no one. What I'm saying, I know what you were wearing. It was like a sweater. Like a sweater with a dress shirt under it. So like a collar. No, and I was like a matching beanie. No, that's what it was wearing. I was wearing, that might have been the Temple University story they did about me, where I was wearing a temple hoodie, or I think I might have worn a beanie. Beanie's were baby back then for me, because my hair was out of control. I didn't quite know what to do with it. Yeah, you're the beanie long beanie stages. I think whole beanie college, whole hat and beanie stage. Yeah, like it was the beanie when it was warm outside, which is like literally just, it might as well just tell everybody I'm insecure. It's an aesthetic beanie. Yeah, it's an early aesthetic. Yeah, it's definitely a aesthetic, but on that show, I was wearing a blue or a red. I think it was a red button up shirt. That was two sizes too big, because it was my brothers and pants. I was wearing my brothers, literally my brother's outfit, and he had bought these clothes I believe at Coles, and he bought the same exact kind and blue and red. Yeah. To see you have every color on the spectrum, he knows what he likes. He likes that style, he wants it in different colors. Yeah, exactly, right? And so then I wore the red version, he wore the blue version. And it looked kind of like a cartoon. Yeah. You know, like a cartoon, we're like the same thing, but like maybe just like they changed the color. Yeah, yeah, yeah, I just swap it in and swap it out just to save on the program and cost to change the color or to change the actual shirt. I think I was going through, like it was like post-Janko jeans, but I don't know what I was wearing. At what in college? Yeah, at one point I remember, because I tried to dress like a hipster, but I just ended up looking poor. Because I wore one time, I was wearing a four-screen sweatpants and a red, like kind of a flannel, a glumper jacket thing, and Greg told me I was dressing like mankind, like like McFoly. Yeah, I was trying to see him hipster, but like, especially if you're chubby, it's just in your own spot pants. I think it takes a lot of kinks at that time to figure out what is appropriate for you to wear in the world. Like you look at, and I wonder now, it's like, do I have a figure out now, like, I think simple and basic is always good, but when I look back at, dude, I had a fedora staging college. I don't know if you were, you were definitely there for that. I don't know if I ever had the courage to wear it in front of you, because I would know that I would make, I don't make fun of you, but I was shouldn't of, I mean, I was wearing green sweatpants. You were in green sweatpants? And not really wearing that much deodorant. Really? Why didn't you wear deodorant? I don't know. It was like, I didn't shower a lot. Really? But if you're like, then you should be using more deodorant. I just had poor hygiene for most of your life. You don't know why that is. Is it a deeper question? I don't know. I start crying, I just start trembling. Yeah. I never like taking the showers. Yeah. No. It's just wasted time. Yeah. Kids don't like to take showers. Yeah. Kids don't like to. Yeah. So, like, I would go, and I would go in the mountains and then I would go in the bathroom and turn the shower on. I'll get out of here. Yeah. Because guys, they want to be in the shower. Yeah. And, but you're going to do that for so long. Do you stink? I smell like. Yeah. I'm sorry. Have you? Are you doing this right? I had the same thing with books where a teacher would give us all books and I just did not like reading. But I would look at the pages and just put my finger there. Hey, you just act like, yeah, and you could do that for other things. You could do that for like conversation. Yeah. Like somebody's talking. I used to do that a lot. I still do a little bit. But just going in. Yeah. And then just doing the motions of listening, but not actually listening. Actually, that's not actually doing it. You don't really have to do it. Especially if somebody's talking, if they're not, if they don't care, I don't know. And then they have a clearly, it's definitely not going to be a back and forth thing. But then sometimes you hear the tone of their voice change in a way that they pose to question. Yeah. But like, and I've been caught off guard like that many times. And then what I usually go to is, oh man, that's tough. What do you think? Yeah. And what are you going to do? Yeah. And I say, what are you thinking? And then you say, I don't know. I mean, tell me again what you think about it. Yeah. Yeah. So you weren't listening. Like, but people that know you, the best, know that you weren't listening. That's right. But there are different things you could do there, right? Because even if something, because I get in that situation too, they're like, oh, what do you think? And then you can just really act like it's a really serious, deep thing, but I don't know. Because, I mean, what are the different things you could do? Right. And then, you know, they say, oh, well, I could, I could eat pizza or hamburger. Like, what do you think I should eat? I feel like. Oh, that's easy now. We know what it is. Yeah. But if you think it's, if you act like it's more difficult, and it actually is, then you just, you're like, why were they just like a really dramatic dude? Yeah. Why was Nate so concerned about what I wanted for dinner or what was going to happen? Yeah. Yeah. I'm really excited to read that script. Me, too. Yeah. Well, I think it'll be the first time you read it. I definitely read it. I definitely remember. I remember envisioning. I remember. Yeah. Because often, at that time, I'm, like, I'm a pretty practical person. So I think a lot of times, I think about, like, okay, is this possible? Can we actually make this thing? Who's going to be the girl? Yeah. Exactly. Yeah. Do we had no any girls that we could bring into the show? Do we know who was going to be? The 2012 us, no any girls. I didn't. I didn't. Man, I was reading Pickup Artist's books. That's where I was. Well, you know. They helped. They were good. Yeah, we were all. You didn't. Did you? Read Pickup Artist? Yeah. No. I never read it. It worked. I was at a party. I don't know if you were there. And John or Wies. He said, this is my roommate at the time in college. And he said. He didn't say his first and last name. John. You just said his first name. Yeah. I made up. That's a fake name. It's called. It's just called him. John or Wies. That was a placeholder. I think we find he's not going to get any hate mail. Okay. I think I think he'll like that. He's being referenced. But in a negative light. No, he just yells at me. Because we're all drinking. And there was a party. And then it kind of got quiet. He said, Matt, you read books about how to pick up girls. As I was talking to a girl. Oh, no. And I'm like John. Wies. Yeah. You can't do them. Yeah. Oh, you get it. And you know, the funniest part about it was. And then I yelled this back at him. You gave me the book. You just don't want to give me the book. You read it. But you buy them. Yeah. I read them. Yeah. Exactly. So that was. It's funny that we even talked like a pick up stuff. That was books. Like that for me. And I think that's kind of how you boys know me. It's to be the one that reads the self development self improvement books. Yeah. But that was kind of the beginning. Like I think I read because I was always a skeptic and a cynic. I think before that time. And then I read, you know, Strauss is the game about picking up girls, which is something that interested me greatly. College, not being good with girls. And but but it more so more than just kind of teaching me some fundamentals about how to be sociable with with women. It taught me. It kind of drove me to self development improvement improvement and like just kind of reading every book I could on being more aware of just the situation itself. You know, I'm being able to like, oh, here is this situation. If you're in a big group when here is if you're a night or a daytime. Understanding body language and you're in a meeting with somebody and understanding. It's about social awareness. Like does this person actually want to be talking to me right now? Yeah. Or are they face the other direction and heading towards the door? Yeah. Those are definitely things that I picked up. But that was like the beginning. We did stand up together. We added to an introduction to you. Do you think we should give you an introduction? No. For me to introduce. I can introduce you. Okay. This is I'm sitting down right now with Nathan Jaila. One of my. I don't know why you as soon as you started. I started checking my pockets. That was a good. I just got so uncomfortable. Yeah. Checking for something. Talk about body language. So they got. Oh, God. I'm late for something. Yeah. Sorry. One of my oldest friends. We met in college in a comedy workshop class. The class. Really one of my favorite classes of colleges because we had free reign to do whatever we wanted. Yeah. And as a part of it, we ended up working on some sketch comedy videos. And then. Did you ask me to go out to lunch? Probably. I think you said, hey, you want to go. It was a commons or whatever. The lunch? Yeah. Because you were obviously interested in. Doing sketch comedy and shooting videos. Yeah. You said the time the literary at the moment we met within that class was you said a joke. Yeah. Yeah. We were shooting. Because each group had to write like a sketch. And so when the one group was performing those sketch, the other groups would help them. Like film it. And so we were in the temple TV studio. And my. I was doing. It was a sketch that I wrote. It was some kind of like satire thing. But we were shooting it. And I was standing there. And I said. And so there was like this huge, you know, those TV camera. Like crane. Who thinks? Like there's like, it's really, really long. So there's a camera in the front. I see the crane straight ahead. And so I make some kind of joke. And then I see your face poke from behind the crane. And then you laugh. And then you say something else. And then we start talking from there. Like in the moment of. Yeah. And that's probably the most. Sketchwork that we actually did. Yeah. Yeah. We literally met in the middle of a sketch. We met in the middle of a sketch. And then for the rest of our friendship, we talked about making this. Yeah. Some would say we're still making that sketch. So we're still making that sketch. Some might say we're still making that sketch. So yeah. That's how we met. Film. Video comedy. I think it was comedy workshop. Comedy workshop. Yeah. I mean, because that's cool. Because you want it. Because I wanted to take comedy classes. Yeah. Yeah. It says a lot about you to take that class. It's either. I'm really interested in comedy more. I want to get an A and a class. Yeah. Or like I don't care. Because like more this is going to be easy. Yeah. Yeah. Because there was a lot of people in that class that weren't that interested in comedy. They were just like. They're not a comedy. Yeah. Sure. Like this would be easy. Yeah. I've been there some people were really serious about it. Yeah. And then you invited me out like said, hey, let's go get lunch. We got lunch and you were. Very proactive of me. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And then we were talking about you doing stand up. You had done stand up. I think a couple months prior. Or I've been doing stand for about three or four months. Three or four months. Yeah. And I had been writing secretly by myself. Nobody else knew. But I was writing jokes for the past year and a half to two years. If not longer. And then you encouraged me to do stand up. Yeah. Yeah. You should go and do stand up. But when did you do it? It was within a couple of weeks. I think of that. It was very soon after that. Where did you do it? I did it at Helium. You were there for my first show. Yeah. Well, you know. Yeah. I remember that. The first joke everybody always does and stand up comedy. Yes. And what is it? This is my first time doing stand up. And then everybody starts applauding. And then you say how it's going to be like, first time having sex. Yep. Right. Yeah. Because there's actually the play on the length. How long it's going to last. Yours. I like yours. I still remember yours. It's going to be like my first time having sex. I'm not going to need the whole three minutes. I'm sweating. And my shirts on. My shirts. Everything is pretty cool. I think the shirts on is pretty creative. Yeah. But then you look at everybody else in the out. You look at 10 more people and they do that same thing. Yep. But this is my first time. Yeah. Everybody looks same. Helium was like one of the only legit comedy clubs other than that. It's like, you have the laugh. What was it? The laugh house. The laugh house on the last street. But that closed down. Oh, dead. Yeah. So that was. There's a country. Well, now there's a comedy theater. I call it good comedy. That's right. It seems like it's doing really well. And there's also. That's in this Helium. Helium is the main one. I mean, there are a bunch of other places that have shows like big shows. But for consistent comedy, I think Helium is the only one. I did a documentary about you. That this was the first. Right? Yes. The first documentary I ever made. And now my title is documentary filmmaker. That's how I introduce people. The documentary filmmaker. That's how it started. We were you. You weren't in the class. Were you? Was that the comedy workshop class? No, no. You had a class called documentary filmmaking. Or something like that. Yeah. And then you were. You were. You wanted to do a documentary. So throughout the term, it's like you do one documentary. Yeah. And so you asked me, because you do a documentary about me doing comedy and trying to get on the rotation at Helium comedy clubs open like that. Yeah. Right? Yep. Because I've been going for months. And they wouldn't put me on. And the parallel there was that there was this successful comedian. And this is when you found out that like, oh, I see my role in this documentary. There was the successful Kent Haynes. Yeah. He was on Gotham comedy on Comedy Central. And he'd done like a couple of big shows. So he was a very talented comedian. He's he was incredibly funny. And then there was you. Yeah. Yeah. So I was like, oh, Matt's making a documentary about me. And who else are you doing? Oh, you're also Kent Haynes. He's like, well, he's in a much better position. Comedy wise. It's kind of interesting. You think I'm at that level? You think I'm at a Kent Haynes level? Yeah. But then you start to figure out, no, no, no. Yeah. Drawing a parallel. So. But then, yeah, you made the documentary. There's about 10, 15 minutes long. Yeah. I don't know if there is an ending. The ending was probably you kind of walking away. Like, not getting on the open mic night. Yeah. A lot of the documentary was me walking till open mic and me walking away from the open mic. That showed me actually some comedic timing and knowing that you can actually edit in a way that brings out the comedy. So there was like this one scene where there's like this uplifting music. And you're like, you know, I'm pretty excited about tonight. Like, you know, I have a good feeling about it. I think I'm going to get on the open mic night. At helium. And then it's just music. You walk in and up the upbeat. And then just direct harsh cut to you crunching into a slice of pizza. And then you slowly put the pizza down. And you say, well, I didn't get on tonight. Yeah. Yeah, I remember that. Yeah. And that got a laugh when we showed it into the rest of the class. Like, probably one of the first times I showed my work. Like, a long piece of content like that to an entire group of people. And I look, oh, cool. Like, you can actually, like, even though I'm actually not on stage and doing stand up, I can still get people laughed through my work. Those cool. I mean, just the documentary itself. It's kind of like, oh, so he has making a documentary about me. Yeah. Because especially if you're not even a year in, it gives you a gives you kind of a drive. I think you were probably hesitant to do it in the way that when you first start out, there's a lot of comedians that have been doing the shit for a long, long time. Yeah. And then you don't want to see him. You don't want to show up with somebody who's filming you and say, oh, somebody's doing a documentary about me being a comedian. And it's like, oh, you haven't been doing it a year. Yeah. I mean, yeah, I was worried about how they would see me. But I don't think they ever saw me. You never got on healing a bit. I don't think that they cared. You got blacklisted from healing him. Yeah, I did. But, you know, I think I think it's cool now. I think enough time. Okay. You can go back there and do it. Because I want to stop time people like I blacklisted. Because I feel like that is keeping it alive. Mm-hmm. I like the more the more I mention the blacklist. Yeah. Or I may have just paranoid. Maybe. Somebody from healing might be like, wait a minute. He's blacklisted. And maybe they've forgotten about it. Yeah. Because you're about to move back to feelings. I'm going to be established within that scene. Trying to be established. I think you should go back to Philadelphia. I think you should talk to. I will. Yeah. I have a plan. I plan. So I want to go. And I'm going to try for two months to get on. Okay. So you give them some time. And that's more than a time. So if I'm blacklisted, I'll know. And then once I've established, I'm still blacklisted. I'll talk to them. Yeah. But if I get on, then it's. It would be. I don't even know if it's that. I mean, there are other. Yeah. There's other opportunities and. You can't bank your success on helium. And that's it. No. But it is a finest. I wish. Yeah. We love helium. It is a lot. Of Philadelphia. Yeah. I've been there in years. Really? I've been there in years. Really? I've been there in years. Well, even when I'm back now. And then when I went to Philadelphia, I was just doing mics. But not in helium. Because I wasn't there on Tuesday. That's when they have it. And they're running Philly's funniest. And during Philly's funniest, they have no mics. They have no open mics for the whole summer. Because basically Philly's funniest is a big open mic. It kind of is. Yeah. A huge open mic. I don't know. They've just expanded it now to include the competition. Yeah. Philly's funniest. That's a competition that we both have been through. I did it once. I don't know if you did it. I did it once. A couple times. Yeah. It's like for us and for Philly in general. That's like the big show. That's like the Super Bowl of comedy. And Philadelphia comedy. Have you. If you win that. Yeah. Like it's for beginner comedians. It's probably one of the only times you're ever going to get in front of a crowd of 300 people. And to get a really good video out of it. You know what I mean? So if you are in a crowd. And if you're in a comedy club and there's 300 people. And you're doing really well. Even if you don't advance. You know, you have a good video. It's a send and give to somebody. There is. There's something so interesting about comedy. That when there is like it's a small small location. Like helium. I mean, still fits about 200 people. Right. When it's empty, when there's maybe 15 to 20 people in their scattered throughout. Comedy is very hard in that. Yes. Which is something I will be saying tonight. Yeah. Tonight. Yeah. Yeah. It's. It's. I mean, the difference between having 300 people who are excited and came for comedy. Sure. As opposed to eight people who, you know, let's say they didn't know comedy was happening. Or their comedians themselves waiting to get on. Or eight comedians who are thinking about only themselves. I mean, which is just what you do. I mean, maybe you'll pay attention. But eight people who are thinking about themselves and their sets. I mean, the difference between those two moments. Those two situations. It's crazy. But also at the same time that like the packed out crowd raises the stakes so much higher. Because it's something bombing. You either crowd is. It's worse than bombing in a crowd of 15 people. Yeah. Yeah. It's 300 people have agreed that. I agree that you should stop. Right. Right. Like if there was a popular consensus that we could all disagree that Nathan should never do comedy. It's like you pulled 300 people in a row and they said, please stop. Imagine that. Imagine if like you went to 300 job interviews like the bag. Well, I mean, if you want to point out. Sorry, you should stop doing this. Yeah. But I mean, it's if you bomb in front of 300 people. It's a, why don't I mean, I just think that if it's a big crowd in there there for a competition comedy. There's excitement. I think it's hard to bomb in front of. Hard to entirely bomb. Entirely bomb. Yeah. Because this is different kinds of bombing, you know, but if you get like that sinking dead silence, or people because there's a dead silence where people don't like you. It's not, it's not just that you're not funny. It's like they don't like who you are. Yeah. So they're not going to even give you anything. So you can feel that people aren't even smiling. Yeah. So like they continue on without they were dealing before this show. But if you do that in 300 people, you should probably take a second look at your show. Like you're, you know what? Because you're, you're probably at least with your, whatever you're doing with your current routine or your current jokes that you're doing. People don't even look like you. You know, there's a difference between that and people being like kind of feeling bad for you. They're giving you like kind of fake laughs. You know, yeah. But if they don't like you, then it's like punishment. That silence is a punishment. Yeah. That's a way to quicker to learn quicker than just bombing and getting that feedback directly and right away. That's a very easy way to get rid of half your all your material. Yeah. At least if it happens, repetitively. The tough thing is though, is that like doing 300 person crowds is not an everyday thing. It's very rare. Really. How many times in your life have you done 200 plus crowds or 150 plus less than five? Yeah. And most of those were early on, like right? Like, I mean, we did a helium rooftop. Yeah. I mean, no, okay. I won't say less than five less than ten. But since I've been abroad, I've had more chances to be in front of, you know, pretty big crowds. Solid crowds. Like, went after I won the comedy competition in Vietnam. It was like a showcase. And it was a gal of it. And I was the opener for the, for the kind of pro comedians who are going through. And so there was about 300 people who's huge. Wow. Everybody was like, it was a gal of service, like wearing suits and stuff like that. So it was really cool. There's one of the, my, it was one of my top. This is my favorite moments in comedy. Wow. Just that. And this side went really well. And it was nice. That's amazing. Yeah. Let's talk about that. Because this is interesting. And I'm going to be speaking with other comedians. And I did an interview with James Husky who did comedy with us back in Philly. I didn't really say because it's audio only. And then I kind of, I'm not good with editing just audio. And I was like, when I made the pivot to doing the video stuff, I'll probably have him back on the show. It was a great conversation just about comedy and what it's like to try to make it in New York. I like to talk to him too. Even if you want to, we can talk here. You know, like sometime to talk to James. Yeah. Yeah. He's, he's a, he's a great guy. And just like all the, a lot of the comedians from Philly from back then, most of them aren't in Philly anymore. But most of them kind of either take the trajectory of obviously a certain percentage fall off, stop doing it. Some people go to New York. Some people become teachers. Some people go to LA. Couple go to Chicago, maybe. Like, Chicago is bigger than Philly. But like, there's only so many routes that you can take. Because if you want to do well and stand up, you have to do lots and lots of stand up. Yes. Your path is different from anybody that I've known from that stand up world. I don't think anybody ever thought that there was this other option where you go to Vietnam and Cambodia had to do stand up comedy. Yeah. But I didn't go to York. Sure. I went to, because I had stops. I was like, I'm done. I, you know, I just, I kind of, I didn't kind of, I definitely stopped doing comedy in the States. And I just decided it was a separate decision to go to Southeast Asia. Cambodia didn't know anything about it. Went there. I saw that there was like a comedy scene. You know, and I still missed a comedy. It stand up. That's how they only just do it. And then it just kind of picked up. It was like the momentum started up again. When did you first find out about it? You're in Cambodia doing your teaching. And you had a bar. Did you, like, see a flyer for an open mic? Nice. Somebody was just at work. There's one of the co-workers there. He's one of the, you know, is a comedian in Cambodia. And then somebody said, oh, you're the comedian. He's, they were talking to him. I mean, my ears kind of propped up. And I was like, oh, you know, and so I kind of asked questions around. I said, well, I want to get in on the comedy in Cambodia. And yeah, I got to put on one of the monthly shows. And it was, it went well. It was, kept on doing it from there. It started touring around Cambodia. And then went to Thailand. And then moved to Vietnam. And then moved to Vietnam. And kept on doing comedy there. And in between, you fell in love. The first, well, the first month. The first month you were there. I didn't, well, the first month I met my now fiance in Cambodia. So it was just, it was weird because I got there. And it's like, you want love. Boom. Here you go. How many boomers? You know, it's kind of cool. Yeah. Yeah. So is it unbelievable that just think about that? You're going to move all the way across the world. And you're going to find everything you want it. Yeah. It's like my, the two big things that I wanted. Just like in the first month. Yeah. Boom. It was like a genie. Yeah. So then yeah. And then so we moved to Vietnam. And comedy, you know, still going on there. It wasn't Vietnam. I went to Hong Kong for comedy and Korea. And then it's like a little tour around Korea for comedy. And yeah. So there has to be drastic differences between comedy in Philadelphia versus comedy in. Yeah. Just, it was in the States in general. Like there are a couple of differences. One is I noticed that abroad. I've kind of developed more of a, this is, this is obviously, this is like comedy act. You know, like I have like a little act that I do. And I do that abroad. And so I go, this is an acting people just accept it. And they enjoy it. But I found that since I've taken it back to the States. And then I do my acting people. It's top. This is an act. And you know, give us a conversation. It's a real and a sense. But I kind of like, and so that's, I was wondering about what it would be like to bring it back to America. And that's what I found. Is it people respond less to the fact that this is obviously comedy. And they kind of want, there's a lot of like ironic stuff that people want, like to say. I don't know. Like yeah. Like there's like a empty comedy kind of thing. Like alternative comedy is bigger. Isn't this, this is like, you see this trend in other places too, like advertising. And in large companies and social media. Everybody wants the guys, the disguise of being authentic. Even though it's not actually authenticity. It's still that. I mean, it's still a manufactured thing. Yeah. So yeah, it's like a commercial. And here in the States, people respond less to, you know, this is obviously a commercial with the catchy jingle. You know, where abroad, particularly in Asia, they would respond to that. Okay, you know, this is a commercial. But in the States, it would be more like, oh, this is a joke. Like, almost ironic about it being a commercial or it's almost so corny that they're acknowledging the fact that it's commercial to try to be funny about it being really corny. Yeah. It's like a joke that it's not being authentic. Yeah. Right. So here I've seen some comedians are like, hey, how about men and women? You know, like they're joking about how comedians are and have acts. Yeah. And people are laughing at that. You know, but if you're trying to do in a more direct way. It's more like you're making fun of the idea of stand-up comedy just like a commercial, make a commercial, making fun of the idea of a commercial. Right. But if you did that in Asia, you're like, oh, this is like you're making fun of stand-up. People would, they wouldn't get that. You know what I mean? Yeah. You know, so it's funny how it doesn't translate both ways though, too. Because now it's not established. Because it's not established. If it's not as established, the stand-up isn't as established. So it's less of a trope that people do. So people, you know what I mean? So if you understand the history and kind of how you got to have comedy got to its place. Yeah. Yeah. So you can't really do like alternative stuff so much. You can, but it has to be more kind of clear cut, I think. Are you going to change it if you're acting? Well, I mean, it's like in the same way that it will change, you know? Yeah. And the same way that it changed when I went abroad, it will change when I come back. You know? And I shouldn't resist it, but I should just try, I don't want to abandon certain things that I kind of learned during comedy brought. Like there might be influences there that will subtly change the way you do comment. Yeah. Yeah. I should be willing to change. Yeah. That's how you grow. You achieved a lot of success in Vietnam and Cambodia. Like you get recognized on the street now. Well, not like always, but sometimes. Like you get a, well, the community smaller. That's one thing is that the community smaller. So if some, it's more likely that somebody will recognize you from a show. But just things like that, it's, you get, you get, you get the, you get the science of success sooner doing comedy abroad than you would like here. New York, like doing comedy in New York. Like somebody asked me to headline or somebody asked me to do, to do 20 minutes. I mean, I think in New York, that takes like years. Mm-hmm. And like nobody asked you to do 20 minutes. And then we're going to recognize you say, oh, I saw you do stand up. Yeah, and then we recognize you. There's too many people. Yeah. There's too many people. So you get those science of success sooner. Mm-hmm. It's good for your confidence. I remember talking to you about a year ago, and you were like, man, I love it. Like, my family keeps trying to get me moved back, but I do love it here. Mm-hmm. What was it that got you to want to come back to the States? Well, it's two things. One is family. It's like I want to be close to my family. I want, you know, I'm getting married. So I want to, I want to start a family and like, you know, in America, I don't see, I don't think it's, I think it'd be very difficult. To start a family in Vietnam as a foreigner for me. And just, I think I've reached a point. Doing comedy abroad where I can get stage time. A little bit, but I can't practice. I need to practice and get better. Even in New York, I can do four or five shows a night. Mike's a night, and practice and get better. And I can't, I can't do that. I can't develop that much in Vietnam. You know, I can do shows and things like that, but just that practice that training isn't there. It doesn't exist. It's going to be a tough transition. Mm-hmm. What's your plan? What's the master plan? Master plan? Yeah. Okay. I feel like you might spend a lot of time thinking about this. This is a master plan. The master plan is to... I'm saving up for a year. And then in one year, me and my fiance are going to move back to the states. And I'm going to be... Can we be back and forth between Philadelphia and New York? Five nights a week. Doing as many mics as I can. And trying to... Just to... And I can get in touch with people in New York and in Philadelphia. Mm-hmm. Probably going to be taking a sketch... Right in class at UCB. Oh, great. Trying to get in that. While I'm doing that, I'm also going to be working on. Things like packets to submit. Trying to get a packet together. Just kind of doing everything. Stand up and sketch. And just seeing... And just immersing myself in that world for a year. Without working, just doing that. Yes. Like you're really throwing... It all out there. Throwing it all out there. And saying, I really want this to work. Mm-hmm. Just giving yourself the time. You're myself the time. To make it work. Because I can't... You know, I can't have a job and do that. No, I can't. With the amount of work that requires, you know. Yeah. It's going to take like a lot of self-discipline to... To wake up in the morning and write every day. And to do comedy every night. Like, I feel like... It takes you to jumping completely into it. But I honestly think you could probably get like five years If not more worth of work done in one year. And progress more in five years. By having a job and doing it part-time. Then to take one year and just say, This is it. I'm actually going to... I'm going to go for it. Yeah, I'm going to go for it. And that will... Yeah. Like, that one year will be really important for me. Just to work as hard as I can. And every area of comedy that I want to develop in. So, are... Have you thought of any unconventional ways to... To make it or to progress in comedy? Yeah, it's hard. I'm trying to think of ways because it seems... Like, I mean, a lot of people in the early... I stopped working to pursue comedy full time. Oh, you're like, that was my thing. That was going to be my thing that gave me the edge of it. Have you thought about putting your resume on a cake and sending that to... To learn Michael? Yeah. Now, I'm just kidding. What people do, like, Natalie has had people at home, who often send cake with the resume on the cake. If you were like, this is creepy. This probably goes too far. But listen. But if your resume doesn't stand alone on a piece of paper... Yeah. If a cake has to bolster... You have some credentials. You're credentials. I'd have to send, like, my real on a cake. Yeah. Oh, be something. Put an iPad switch on to a cake. Like, the battery died. Just, like, really can explode. Somebody actually went to an office. Somebody went to an office. They disguise themselves as, like, a postmates, which is, like, a delivery service in New York. They disguise themselves as a postmate delivery person and deliver their resume to the person they were applying to. And then, like, snuck out. That, to me, is borderline illegal. It's not actually illegal. It's impersonating. What? A delivery guy? I don't think that's... It's a borderline. It's a borderline. It's a borderline. It's a borderline. You can't break it. Yeah, that's a first thing. What if you couldn't impersonate anyone? Like, it's a can't pretend to be even, like, like, like, when the singing gram guys... That's actually really funny. It was like, you know, those message... Yeah, this is a singing... What was it called? Like a singing gram? Something like that, yeah. Yeah, if you can't impersonate a license, that's a single gram. Yeah, because, like, there's no law. You can't impersonate an office. No, officer. I'm proud you probably can't impersonate a fireman. Although... What about, like, the strip fireman? They can. Imagine somebody getting arrested for it. They get in, they're, like, arrested fireman. No, the bachelor, right? Ladies are like, woo! It's just another cop. Look up. But he's like fat, you know? Yeah, he's like... So, yeah. Inventive ways? I haven't thinking about them. Like, how am I going to distinguish myself? Like, besides hard work? Because everybody is doing... Well, I don't... No, I mean... Well, here's my recipe for success. And as I've kind of crafted it from reading and learning a lot about people who've built something from the ground up. And I wonder how would it be? From the ground up. It's like, fakelaft.com. When I inserted it into CNN. Yeah. You've refined your plugin. Yeah, I think it's literally not even refined. Because I've burned it into my brain. Yeah. But... So, it is one part... Hard work. Like, first and foremost, you got to work hard. Two parts. Luck. Not... Actually, I'm sorry, part two, luck, not like... This is not a recipe I'm making. Yeah. And then the third part would be changing it up. Yeah. Things aren't working. If you're not getting lucky, if you're not getting your foot in the door. Yeah. You're still working hard. But then you need to change something up because it's not working. Yeah. And obviously, that I've seen is a very open-ended recipe because it's bound to change. Yeah. Like, hard work means different for different people. And then... It's the changed up that's interesting because it's like... Because I was thinking about... All right. I'm going to come here to come to New York. I'm going to go three or four... Times a night up, but how's... How's it going to... It's going to help me get better, but what's the next step? Yeah. Plus, I don't want to get too far ahead. What's the next step after the next step? You know, that's... I want to get... You've got to get through the actual work. Like, you're like... Because then you get distracted. Yeah. And you're like, oh, maybe I should do this in that instead. But... So one challenge that I've seen is... Even in New York, you go up three or four times a night. But it's so... Everybody else... Everybody else is doing that too. So I need to distinguish yourself. I think... You start... Something of your own. You create a thing of your own. Whether it's... I think... Whether it's your own show. Like you start your own mic. Or it's like you start your own... thing online. You know... Podcasts. So I'm trying to figure out what that is right now. And I wonder... Because I want to start... Another... I kind of want to start another mic. But... But then you're also just starting another mic. No, so it's just starting another mic. And the only audience will be six comedians, you know? What about... That's the thing. Is that like... I think you have to do something outside of comedy. But bringing your comedy experience to it. So say if it was a podcast... I don't think it should just be another comedian's podcast. I don't even think it should even be like Nathan the comedian. It should just be like Nathan looks at weird stuff. Or something like... Yeah. Yeah. It's like you have to find something. I don't know. Well, see that's what I'm trying to do. Because I'm starting over in a lot of ways. And I'm going to go to YouTube channel. I have to build some cred. And so... You know, you think about what would you put in your Twitter bio. Yeah. And it does help to say like host of such and such podcasts. Yeah. It directs people in a certain direction. And it gives you like some credibility, which credibility is important. You know, certainly you could get to a point in your career where you don't need a Twitter bio. Where you don't need to explain yourself. But I think it takes a while to get there. And I think you have to have something outside of like the stand-up comedy and the... The traditional routes. Because obviously there's an untraditional route that you're taking. Yeah. And that's the thing is I don't want to be tied down to like this traditional route. When there are so many other routes you can go. Just finding the right one. And because I'm definitely want to utilize the scene in New York and Philadelphia for just getting better. Yeah. But in terms of like where to take it. And like a non-traditional way, I don't know. There's so many different things you can do. I'm not sure what to do about that. I think it's about building relationships too. And also like a lot of people try to build a relationship with those who have already achieved like success or have great credentials to their name. Yeah. But I think more so it's about collaborating with people who are doing similar things to you. It's like the people that are going to make it in the next couple of years. It's like those are people that you can collaborate with to create something. This is a thing that's just about finding people similar interest. And then they can work on stuff with you. We met in a comedy class. We had similar interest. We started working on stuff as a friendship. And it's but it also it's like. If our relationship was solely defined on creating sketch comedy. And if that was like the only if we didn't have a friendship beyond that. Yeah. How sad would it be for our business partnership that we've like, maybe created one sketch that we never released. That's the extent of it. Or one email that. That was left un-responded. Yeah. So I do think that's funny, but it raises a good point that you. If you're not like making friends and enjoying your time while you're doing this, then it's not worth it to do it. And if at the very least you can meet some people that connect with you to create something bigger than that. That would be great. Yeah. I think if you just have fun and work. Something that's okay. I think it's I think something will come of it's hard to say what. Yeah. Something will come of it. Do you hear my language? Yeah. She's upside. Oh, let me ask you a question. So do you know, have I talked about this with you? Do you know my big stretch goal for this podcast besides you? Who I want to have sit down in the chair across from me? Who? The rock. Okay. The rock. He's the guy who I want. As in like my crazy, you know, I think you have to have crazy goals. I think especially as adults, we stop like kind of pushing ourselves to do something that's crazy. That's out of the box. Yeah. And the reason everybody has why the rock. Yeah. That's okay. I'm going to ask you why the rock. Why the rock. Yeah. There's a couple of reasons why I want to interview the rock. Obviously the show's called Ground Up. And he, he's somebody who is redefined himself multiple times throughout his career. Yeah. Who would ever thought the WWE F star? WWE. It was F at the time. Okay. I think. I don't know. Yes. Who would have thought that this WWE star would go on to be one of the most successful film stars today. And all the while being apparently very humble. He seems like the most humble down to earth guy. He always makes time for fans. He also, he's somebody who has a work ethic like you rarely see. He like waking up early. He's got this this app called the rock clock. And I had it for a bit. And you can schedule yourself to wake up when the rock wakes up. You can wake up with the rock. Oh my god. Yeah. It's kind of weird. And it's kind of creepy. That's really weird. Yeah. But what I would say about that is it shows you his work ethic. It gets up at 435 30 every morning. Works out. He has like, if you ever seen like his diet, his regimen of food that he eats is unreal. Like the dude has technically in every sense of the word made it. But he still works hard. It's because I think it's because that's how we got there. Yeah. And he actually enjoys that part of it. Yeah. It looks the process. Yeah. And he pivoted a lot, right? So, you know, when he was in football. What, what university was the rocket? University of Miami. They rock expert here. Their resident rock correspondent. Like, you know a lot about the rock, right? Yeah. Yeah. University of Miami. I don't know. Just from football. Then it's like, all right. Football. To wrestling. Then wrestling tack. It was pretty cool. It's kind of like Arnold Schwarzenegger. Yeah. It's like Arnold in a lot of ways. Do you know what? Do you know what? Do you think I should go about getting in touch with him? Did you ask your last guest this? Did you? She actually. She knows the rock. Antonia. She said she doesn't know the rock. But she said that she would help me. Free of charge. Yeah. Get a hold of her. Because she's like a producer. This is what she does. She goes out and gets the story. That's what. But so, everybody that I have on the show is helping me in some way. And you know what? I hope, I hope you get the rock. Really cool. But that'd be really cool. You want to do rapid questions. Okay. Rapid questions. Not rapid answers. So. I ask you questions. I'm going to ask you questions. What drives you? Seeing improvement in myself drives me. Has there been like a moment where you have been seen the most improvement? Like, I guess what decisions have you made? What pivotal points in terms of I'm going to go out and do this have been a source for the most growth. I owe all confidence to my mother who encouraged me to do it. So I would say that. Let's say someone stuck. They just graduated college. And they're trying to figure out the right path to take the right next step to take. What can they do today? That will set them up for success down the road. I think they can start trying out what they would say like and what they don't like. Go from there. Little by little. So identify. Identify what you're like. I don't think you actually like. We actually enjoy doing what you enjoy doing. Yeah. How do you face doubt? I still have a lot of doubt for like how it's going to go on stage. But you just kind of go for it. And then you have less doubt about it. What one thing would you say of yours? Are you most proud of that's online? Thank you for sending people to. There's nothing online. You don't have much. I don't want to put stuff online that. Because I feel like I'm still growing. Unless it's like a finished. This is going to be the one thing you have online. This is the one thing you have online. Yeah. You can send people to in the future. No. For example, the variety show that we're doing in Vietnam will have sketches that will be online. It will be finished products that you are ready to show people. Let's talk about that. What's the monthly show? The monthly show is a variety show that I'm putting together with a group of people. It's a community variety show once a month. And it's going to have stand up sketches and music. And I found different comedians, some will be scratch writers, some will be monologue, and we're working together to put on a show. The first show is July 22nd. That's exciting. Is there a place where people can go to learn more? Yeah. Thank you for that. Have you typed the monthly show into Facebook? It will take you. Oh really? You've got the monthly show. We've got the monthly show. That's pretty good. The monthly show is a side gone. Yeah. Yeah. And then if you type the monthly show, it's like going into YouTube. You can see our first promo video for it. When is it going to come out? The promo is out. The promo video is out. Nice. That's great. Yeah. The promo video is out. Name one thing. I'm going to cut you off there. Oh. Name. The monthly show. The monthly show. Name one thing that people should watch, listen to, or read before they go to bed tonight. People should. Read, read a poem. Oh, there you go. Yeah. I think it should read a poem. Something nice. Didn't you use to read poetry? Yeah. Yeah. I used to read poetry. Yeah. Yeah. They should definitely read poetry and listen to some kind of nature sound. Oh yeah. Oh, calm them. Do you do that? Yeah. Yeah. I'll pick like rainforest or just a sound of water. It's nice. Yeah. Because I don't want to. I don't think people should like watch the news or anything like that. Because it's going to give you all this stuff to think about before you fall asleep. You know, I don't want to read about the situation in the series before I go to sleep. Yeah. Yeah. And it's like. It's going to be so much to think about. And so I would rather just kind of melt about. That's a great point. You need to. And that's what I try to do. Like with lighting and everything is like, how can I slowly prepare for bed? As to where I'm not watching like a stand of special or like breaking bad right before I go to bed. Yeah. With all these like that's absolutely complicated. Yeah. Poetry's complicated too, but it's kind of more abstract and it can calm me down and give you. Any closing thoughts? Any last words? Oh, nothing. Oh, I'm happy. I'm happy. Yeah, I'm happy. Yeah, I'm happy. That's good. I'm happy that you're happy. And I'm happy that you're happy. And I'm happy that you're going to have the rock here. And then you're going to be in good luck in Los Angeles. I'm happy that we've been friends for all these after all these years. Yeah. We're still we're still like, I don't know yet. It's nice. We're still working on still plotting. We're still plotting. That's how we're going to get the rock. Cool man. Thanks for coming on the show. Thanks for having me. Is that the potter you? When we end this show. Thanks for having me. It's been great. Yeah. We're going to. Great. We're going to. We're going to.
