# How to slow down your life
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bmr1-K4dfvg
Go to https://squarespace.com/mattdavella to save 10% off your first purchase of a website or domain using code MATTDAVELLA. Thanks to Squarespace for sponsoring this video ✌️

Time is our most valuable resource because it’s finite and irreplaceable. Once it’s gone, we can never get it back. I want to talk about our perception of time and more importantly... how you can slow it down (or at least make it feel like you are).

Hi there 👋 If you're new to my videos my name is Matt D'Avella. I'm a documentary filmmaker, entrepreneur and YouTuber. I've made a couple documentaries for Netflix. I also teach courses on everything from filmmaking to habit change. If you like to nerd out about self-development as much as I do, you can subscribe for weekly videos.

🔗 LINKS
Enroll in my habit's course:  https://slowgrowth.com/simplehabits
Enroll in my YouTube course:  https://slowgrowth.com/masteryoutube
Get my weekly newsletters:  http://slowgrowth.com/newsletter
Follow me on Instagram:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Follow me on Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella

🎬 CREDITS
Directed by Matt D’Avella
Produced by Emma Norris & Matt D’Avella
Cinematography by Kariza Santos & Matt D’Avella
Edited by Spencer Torok
Design by Carly Berry
Research by Janessa Tan
**Keywords:** Matt D'Avella, matt davella, self-development, creativity, health, wellness, lifestyle design, lifestyle, advice, life, time, life advice, slow down, 
**Date:** 2021-10-29

## Transcript
 In a world of consumer convenience and instant gratification, there's one thing that not even jet-fazos can buy. No, it's not a conscience. It's time. It's our most valuable resource because it's finite and irreplaceable. Once it's gone, we can never get it back. Most of us who are lucky enough to have an internet connection have more time than ever before. Thanks to Modern Medicine, Electricity, and Better Hygiene were living much longer than our ancestors did. Global life expectancy rates have gone from 30 to over 70 in the last two centuries and it continues to rise. And yet, if you still feel like life is just flying by, it's not all in your head. In this video, I want to talk about our perception of time and more importantly, how you can slow it down. So, let's get in. Let's get into it. This video is brought to you by Squarespace, more on them in a minute, which might come sooner than you think. As kids, it felt like time was ticking by at a sloth-like pace. The weight between birthdays seemed like an eternity, and an hour long car ride felt like a multi-day expedition. There's a good reason, are we there yet, is a banned expression in most households? But as we enter our adult years, it feels more like somebody accidentally pressed the fast forward button on Adam Sandler's remote from click. The day seemed to blur into weeks, the weeks blur into months, and the months blur into years. One minute, you're writing your 2020 New Year's resolution with a glimmer of hope about what the next year will bring, the next you're staring down the barrel of 2022, realizing the only resolution you have is to get off the couch. As we grow up, our lives get busier, and time seems to fly by faster, but we know that time is moving at the same rate that it did during our childhood. So what changed? Our perception of time. In the 1970s, Robert Lemlich pioneered a theory known as subjective acceleration of time with aging. The theory proposes that our perceived duration of time decreases as a mathematical proportion of how long we've been alive, which sounds really confusing, but it really just means that we perceive time relative to how old we are. One year to a 4-year-old is 25% of their life, but one year to a 40-year-old is only 2.5% of their life. So to the 40-year-old, one year seems shorter, and therefore flies by faster. But luckily, age isn't the only factor that shapes how we perceive time. For three other really important things that strongly influence our perspective, and these are the keys to making life feel longer and more full. Maybe we're hoping that I'd tell you how to live longer, but instead what I can't tell you is how to make it seem is no you've lived longer. That's David Igoman, a Stanford University neuroscientist, and the guy that's never late to your birthday party. Igoman has spent a lot of time trying to figure out which factor is to store our perception of time the most, and the biggest variable that comes up over and over again is novelty. Our brain's process familiar information quickly, but when new information is introduced, it takes us longer to organize and process that data, making the experience more memorable. This is one of the reasons that our childhood seems to stretch on forever. We're seeing, learning, and experiencing everything for the very first time. Each and every moment is novel, so our brain absorbs it all in amazing detail. It's no coincidence that this overlaps with a life stage full of firsts. First time writing a bike, first love, first burrito, first time getting sued for a million dollars for making a parody rap video about vegetables. Just me? So if you want time to slow down, you need to break up the routine and incorporate more novel experiences into your life. Now I can tell you firsthand that there is so much power in creating effective routines and healthy habits, but it turns out that in this case, there can also be too much of a good thing. If your routine gets too predictable, we might effectively be pressing the fast forward button on our lives. If every day, day in and day out, we eat the same breakfast, wear the same clothes, take the same route to work, sit at the same desk, talk to the same people, do the same workouts, there's very little pattern interruption. As a result, we very rarely are forming new memories that are key to helping us prolong our perception of time, think about the last exciting vacation you took. At the time, it probably felt like time was speeding by really quickly, but when you reminisce about it, that week long holiday probably feels more stretched out in your mind than say a mundane week at home. It also explains why your colleagues might have thought that you were only gone for a day, but you were actually away for an entire week. Now obviously, hopping from one exotic far-flung destination to the next is a great way to live a more exciting and memorable life, but it's not realistic or appealing for everyone. Something as simple as taking a new route to work, exploring a part of your hometown that you've never been to, or trying a new coffee shop can inject some novelty into your routine, or you could finally tackle that social anxiety and expand your social circle. Meeting new people forces us to slow down and notice more, as it takes more effort to process and make sense of new things like names, facial features, body language, and accents. Unless face it, you're probably sick and tired of hearing your college friend Dave tell that story about the time he chugged beer from his shoe for the hundredth time. At the very least, it might encourage you to get out of the house every now and again, which happens to be another great way to pump the brakes on this hurtling meteor we call time. To effectively slow down time, you should seek out all inspiring experiences. In an experiment by Eagleman's colleagues at Stanford, researchers found that having all inspiring experiences could alter the perception of time. Upon looking at images of what are falls, whales, and astronauts in space, participants who experience feelings of all also perceive that they had more time available to them. Now that is an awesome photo. This really comes down to mindfulness. Experiencing wonder brings us back to the present moment. When we're not ruminating about the past or stressing about the future, we can actually enjoy each moment as it comes, which helps prevent that feeling that time is slipping by. All inspiring experiences are all around us. It can be the sunset over the beach, or that massive tree that looks like it's a million years old. We just need to take the time to actually notice them. This video is brought to you by Squarespace. There's a reason that I've trusted Squarespace for years, and in one word, it's effortless. I guess that's two words, actually. Earlier this year, I went about redesigning and rebuilding my personal website from scratch. I've been putting it off for years, but I found some time to dig in and start to reimagine what it could be. In Squarespace, made the process effortless. I easily drag and drop photos onto my homepage. This one's adorable. I added an email sign-up form for my newsletter, and I shared links to all my social media accounts with just a few clicks. I personally like to keep things simple, but Squarespace is packed with lots of features like scheduled posts, detailed analytics, and e-commerce stores. With hundreds of beautiful templates to choose from, Squarespace is a no-brainer. Head to Squarespace.com for a free trial. And when you're ready to share your idea with the world, go to Squarespace.com slash Matt Dihello to save 10% of your first purchase of a website or domain. When you support Squarespace, you're also helping to support this channel. So thank you, and thanks to Squarespace for sponsoring this video. The third and final way to slow down time is to make progress towards your goals. Growth is an essential part of living a meaningful life, but it can also make our lives feel longer and more full. Whether you're building new skills or bigger biceps, the milestones and reach along the way have an interesting way of changing our perspective. In a 2006 study by Gauzez Aberman from the Wartens School, participants estimated how many months had passed since the date of big news events like Barack Obama's presidential announcement. Typically, people underestimated the passage of time by about three months. But when people were more closely following the small events that led to those bigger moments, they believed that more time had passed. That's because related events create memory anchors and stretch out our sense of time, while unrelated ones don't. So when we consistently take those small steps towards our goals, it creates little mental checkpoints that we can look back on. Think about when you first started learning a new language, begin taking a fitness class, or founded your business. It probably seems like forever ago because you've made so much progress and there are so many memorable moments along the way. The key is to make sure that you acknowledge and celebrate those wins as you go. There's no correct or universal way that we experience time. It can feel like there's too much of it when we're young and when we're older, it can feel like we never have enough. The only thing that we know for Seren is that there's a biological clock ticking inside of all of us and that we never know when that time is going to run out. And so if you feel like your life is flying by, it might be time to do something about it. Pun intended.
