# Ground Up 044 - Stories Worth Telling w/ Andrew Morgan
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Bsv5thSW0XQ
http://www.groundupshow.com

Andrew Morgan is the documentary filmmaker behind The True Cost & After The End. We often get caught up with the “how”. How will I get my project funded? How am I going to make this happen? How did I get myself into this?

Instead of getting caught up in the details, Andrew found stories that he couldn’t not tell. That drive pushed him to tell the stories behind the sudden death of his father & the unexpected cost consumerism has on the world.

Watch Andrew's latest documentary The Trust Cost on Netflix.

Watch this episode:  mattdavella.com/043
Exclusive content:  groundupshow.com

Thanks for listening! If you've got a minute I'd really appreciate a rating on iTunes.
**Keywords:** 
**Date:** 2018-01-31

## Transcript
 The story that we're living in, the system that we've created, this profit at all costs, this more and more and more and more and more, by, by this whole thing. Not only is it in very real ways destroying parts of the world, it's not making us happy. That was what kept me up at night the most. Andrew Morgan is the documentary filmmaker behind the true cost and after the end. A lot of creatives get caught up on the how. How am I going to make this project happen? How will I get funding? How will I finish it? Instead of getting caught up on all the details, Andrew found stories that he couldn't not tell. That drive pushed him to tell the stories behind the sudden death of his father and the unexpected cost of consumerism. My conversation with Andrew will challenge you as a creator and get you to think differently about the choices that you make every single day. I'm really excited to share this podcast episode. But before we do that, before we get into our conversation, a couple of housekeeping items. I'm starting to take questions on this podcast. The most common emails that I get are from creatives asking me about their specific struggles. These questions are detailed and specific and I think answering them on air will really help a lot of people. It's been amazing to see your voices and one of the best things about growing this podcast over the past year has been hearing from you guys hearing from what you're going through. Somebody emailed me recently telling me about a documentary that they were starting. It was their first one and they were just so overwhelmed and didn't know where to go and where to take it. And I want to give, I think that that answering that question will be better suited on a platform like this podcast where even more people can get the benefits of the answer. And since I am not the smartest, I don't know everything. I struggle with a lot of these questions myself. One of the best things about the podcast is also the fact that I get to pick the brains of some brilliant people. But I want you guys to be able to pick their brains as well. So send your question in, record a video, send it to hello at matdivellet.com And then myself as well as my guests and help you get to the bottom of whatever you're struggling with. Again, that's hello at matdivellet.com. If you don't know how to spell my name, which I don't blame you, I'm still learning how to spell it myself. It's M-A-T-T-D-A-V as a Victor E-L-L-A. Try to keep those videos under two minutes, but that's it. No other, nothing else. You can curse, you can say whatever you want. Let me have it. So, one more thing. Have you gotten some value out of the ground up show? If so, I'd love to get a quick rating from you. Head over to iTunes, leave a rating or a review. They really help to boost the visibility of the show. I want to do my best to keep this podcast 100% advertisement free. And to do so, I really want to grow it and share these stories with even more people. That's that. And that's the end of my pitches. Let's get to the podcast. This is Andrew Morgan. You're listening to the ground up show. A podcast that inspires creatives to make meaningful content and pursue their passions. My name is Matty Avella, and I'm a filmmaker best known for the Netflix documentary Minimalism. And I'm sitting down with creators to talk about their process, the lessons they've learned, and how to make an impact. Do you want to start this thing? Yeah, let's do it. You've been busy lately working on a new film, right? Yeah, we have a new one that's going to be coming out this spring that we're actually just finishing up on right now. Is that something you can talk about? Or do you kind of keep your projects hush hush until they're ready to promote? Yeah, I haven't talked about that one, but yeah, it's a film called The Heretic. And it is all about specifically the life and work of a guy named Rob Bell. And it uses his life kind of as a lens through which to look at religion and most specifically Christianity in America right now. And it's something that I started working on a couple years ago. We started shooting the end of 2015, which is interesting only because it was before 2016 happened. So the film sort of took this really significant turn as a lot of things in our country took a turn in 2016 and kind of all like all the knobs got turned up on religion and politics and all that stuff. So we were following this guy in the midst of all that who is incredibly controversial. Probably one of the most revered and hated people in all of like Christianity. And certain people wouldn't claim him in that circle. Is that why he's kind of, and by the way, Rob Bell, the one that's a native Californian here. Yeah, I just bought my mom his book. What is the Bible? Yeah, yeah, yeah. We're talking about the same Rob Bell because I hadn't heard that there was controversy surrounding him. Is that controversy from Christians? Yeah. Well, yeah, back in I think 2011, Rob put out a book called Love Wins and that book created a lot of waves because he kind of took on the tradition. He took on the traditional notion of hell and it became, you know, it was a time magazine cover. It became this hugely controversial thing because I guess in a lot of ways he was sort of pointing out the contradictions or the problems with like a very binary. Someone say regressive view of the afterlife into a lot of people in that Christian community that was, you know, certainly heresy. And he just, yeah, he became a target for a lot. And I think he kind of became a really interesting picture of like what does, what happens to someone when they challenge the community that they're a part of. Do they do they sort of get slapped on the wrist and go back inside the tribe or do they keep moving and keep growing and keep going forward. And Rob certainly did the latter, which made him someone who was just really fasting to me for a lot of reasons. You know, like I grew up in that, I've always managed it in religion and the way it impacts society, but specifically as we came into 2016 and just beginning to realize like I don't think you can understand America without understanding religion and the way it has kind of like the American story and the Christian story has kind of co-mingled into something really unique. You know, as I traveled in parts of the world, like that's a very unique phenomenon that we have. So anyway, we've been doing that and we are just finishing it up and it's going to come out of the spring. So I'm excited for that. I've been following Rob Bell for my friend Josh, who is in the documentary, minimalism. He's really a big fan of Rob Bell and he's like he does a lot of workshops and talks and Josh being somebody who's non religious is what kind of got me interested in him. Because like Josh is an atheist or at least agnostic and yet he's getting a lot of value from this guy. So for me, I was like, oh, I'm interested in and I started reading one of his books. It's like, be here now. He's written a lot of books. I'm really interested to see how this story unfolds because he's definitely. Well, that's what you realize falling Rob around is like that his world is so weird. Like it the people that are coming to his events and the people that are reading his books like they are. Yeah, they're they're they're just all over the map, you know, and they're. I don't know, it kind of speaks to this bigger idea of a group of people who sort of outgrow a traditional religious way of looking at the world, but are still really hungry for meaning and depth and still haven't written off the idea that there's more than we can see in touch and smell. You know that there might be some glue in the universe, there might be something that's moving forward. So yeah, I mean, he's just he's just a fascinating dude. Yeah. So when did you get into filmmaking when was the the when did it at all? It was it was pretty simple for me. I mean, I I grew up. I remember really specifically, I think I was in fifth grade and I pulled out a VHS camcorder in my house and started making some movies in the neighborhood. I did, I used to make like, you know, skateboarding videos and stuff and the. I mean, you know, how many filmmakers probably get started out making a skateboard videos? Well, that was the height. I mean, I think, yeah, there was some really good. You know, like spike in Michelle Gondri and a lot of those guys were doing some stuff then, and I think it was pretty pretty phenomenal. But yeah, I started doing that and then I started editing, you know, VCR VCR and then I started, I remember getting a computer ahead of video cards for the first time and being able to upload footage and it took days to just get like, footage imported. Well, yeah, it was like you had to literally wait. So if you shot 10 hours of footage, you had to wait 10 hours as it. That's right, uploaded. And usually crashed. And usually crashed after I threw and then you got to redo it all. Were you using what was like the editing application early on? Yeah, I was working. I remember my the first computer we had in our house was a Sony. Vio, which was like that was fancy when it came out. It was. Well, that was the problem. It was like it was trying to do more than the technology supported. Um, so it had it actually had a video card that had like an RCA input on the front, which looks so cool. Wow. You were like, oh my god, you just plug right in. Yeah. And it didn't work too well. Yeah. But yeah, I don't know. I guess I got on premiere pretty early, but I think before that it was, um, there was some other ones first that were just. I do that. I do that. I just used like Windows Movie Maker. That was one of them. Yeah. That was so bad. But I mean, that actually taught me as I don't try to do anything fancy. Don't play with those crappy transitions. Just go straight cuts. And then you can make a decent video. Of course, like everybody when they're first starting out. That's the first thing they do is I want to do something that other people. To be impressed with. So you do like the Star wipe and all that stuff. Were you doing stuff really young too? Yeah, man. I started. I want to say. Well, actually, dude, I did a lot. Very similar to you. It was like grabbing my parents VHS. I was younger brother. My older brother and older sister at the time with like play around with it. And make these videos. My older brother would make these stop animation videos with the VHS camera. Wow. We would do like horror movies. I wasn't into horror movies, but they were. So we would do these. I would be like the villain to slasher in the movie. And we would make these little clips. I don't think we have them anymore. And then that I think got me interested in it. I'm like, this is really cool. Then our VHS recorded broke. And then we couldn't make it for a make any videos for a while. But when I went to high school. It's just very, very lucky to have like a really great program there at school. We had like there was like 20 15 computers all with Final Cut 7 on it. Apple computers. Couldn't I couldn't afford any of this year. I think my parents helped me buy a Sony handy cam early on. So I would like shoot videos with that. And then I would bring it into school and edit during lunch and during my free period. That's when I got started. And then I just never stopped from high school. That's incredible. Yeah. So what was, how did your, yeah, I mean, similar. Yeah, I mean, I just, I got really hooked. I mean, I think when I was, when I was in sixth grade, I remember like making some decision to be a filmmaker. You know, like whatever that meant at the time. But I remember being like very clear about that. And I think everything, everything in my life as complicated as it has been. That's never been the hard part. You know, like I was very locked in. Like I was a kid and just thinking like this is something. I just remember thinking it was powerful. Like really, really powerful. And and I just wanted to do it. I mean, it was like really that cut and dry. So I, like I was bad student. I was bad at just about everything in like academically speaking. So I remember really early on realizing. I could go to a film school and not have to get like a certain, you know, level on SAT or get into some. And that was like. Oh my god. The tour head over. So I finished high school. And I came out to Los Angeles. I remember to go to the other film school and study cinematography. And that was really. I mean, that was just like when all the lights turned on. And it was the first time I was ever in an environment where. I just felt like myself, you know, like I did really well. It came really naturally. I just was all the hands on parts of the cameras and the lights and the gear and the. I just absolutely loved it. And I had one of those years that just like changed my life because I was studying. And we were making stuff. And then I also got really connected to some of the professors. So we would go on set for some of their movies. And I travel. And it was yeah. It was just like totally intoxicating. Yeah. I wonder if there's like obviously a lot of people talk about how the system is. It's kind of outdated the education system. Yeah. And I wonder if there's like. It's just such a hard thing to try to come in and fix. But it's like a lot of the times we're putting kids through these classes in general requirements that they don't need to be taken. I didn't go to film school, but my last two classes in college. I had to take them to graduate. So I had to say an extra summer cost $10,000 in the classes were outerboat and weightlifting. And that's that's what I needed to take in order to become a professional filmmaker. Like, how did you have to pass the weightlifting class? Was it a was it a threshold? I had to bench press. No, no. So it's funny. Well, it wasn't like it was actually just a physical education requirement. But I think it's just funny that I decided to take weightlifting. But it just kind of shows it. It's like, well, why? Why did I need to do that? Why don't you just say an extra two when it kind of plays out like that. You kind of wonder, all right, there might be a better way to go about this. Actually, I just read an article in the Atlantic about that, too, where it's like, but at the same time, a lot of times at 18, you're not ready. Yeah. You're not. You're very young. And so to start your career, first of all, people probably aren't going to trust you or believe you that you're so smart that you decided not to go to college. Because like, oh, yeah, okay, you decided not to go to college because you're already past that. Yeah. But yeah. Well, if you tell me excelled at weightlifting. Yeah, yeah, yeah, exactly. Well, that was that was the story for me, though. Really, it's like, I was really young because I came out to Los Angeles when I was 18. And I went to film school and at that time, the film program was only a year. It was like a 12 month immersive program. And so I got out and I was 19. And I remember that, like, I didn't understand some of what was happening at the time. But a lot of it for me was like, I had, I had gotten at a very early age. I'd gotten really good at a lot of the technical parts of the craft. And what had to catch up for me was just like some life. Like, I knew how to tell stories, but I didn't have stories to tell. Like, I had this, and I think it took me a number of years to get from that place to actually saying, You know, I have something that I want to say or I have something that I've experienced or observed or noticed. Because at that time, you're right, you're just kind of like, I know how to use a camera. Yeah, which I think is huge. And I like to really love it and to really be, like you said, just absorb in the craft and really enjoy editing. Because I think it has to come in the very beginning. You have to enjoy it. And obviously down the road, it turns into work in a lot of ways. And it is really hard work to put, make a film and put it together. It's not all rainbows and sunshine. But you have to really, in the beginning, like, do we're saying, push through? Like, how did you know when you were ready to make a story? How did you know when you were ready to make your first documentary? Well, it was interesting for me. So I started out, like I said, I'd gone to school for cinematography. So I started out in the cinematography world. So I was, you know, everything from pulling focus and gaffing to working as a D.P. And really helping other people tell their stories. Which, looking back with so, I'm so glad I did that path. You know, like it's interesting because I've, I've turned my attention now to directing. But I'm really glad I kind of came up through that more tactical place. Partly because of what I'm saying, you know, in regards to my age. Like, I was able to watch a lot of other people work. I was able to watch a lot of other people make decisions. Which helped a lot. And I, you know, I directed some shorts. I did some stuff. And then it really wasn't till something really personal changed in my own life. And that was that I actually, my dad died in a, in a really unusual, terrible accident that I was there to witness. We were on a bike ride. I hit by a car. And I, in the, in the wake of that loss and kind of in the throws of grief, which I felt totally unprepared for and totally ill equipped to navigate. I began to work on my first documentary, which was called After the End, which is really where I, I went to spend time with different people around the country who had experienced loss in some way and had somehow come through it as a, as a living vital human being on the other side. Because I, I really did want to understand, you know, what does it take to go from this place that I was in at that moment, which was really tough. And so I spent time with people who had lost children and spouses and, you know, and the experience was, I don't know, it just kind of happened. Like, it wasn't like I'm going to go make a documentary. It just was like, I felt this need. Like this visceral need to go do that. And in the process of doing it, it was unbelievably healing to me. It might have saved my life, honestly. And then to get on the other side of it and to put that film out and to have that film help other people, to have other people, you know, come up and say, I was, I was like in the dark. And I didn't know that there was going to be another, you know, version of tomorrow. That was, that was just life changing to me. I mean, it was like all of a sudden, all of a sudden it was like my own curiosity and going on these, you know, that could not only could it help me, but it could help someone else. That was just like a paradigm that just that changed everything for me. I feel like in that situation, a lot of people would probably want to do anything, but go deeper and think about these things and meet with other people who had experienced it. So the fact that you actually went out and did that, like you said, it did help to heal. What did you learn about death through that experience and talking about all these other people who would also felt it in different ways? Well, I think I learned a lot about being okay with pain. I think like there's so much in the way that I had been raised and perhaps a lot of us, you know, certainly living in America that, you know, when you're hurting, when you're in pain, for any reason, emotionally, physically, you're less productive. And so you're sort of taught, you know, you're taught in obvious ways and you're taught in really subtle ways to sort of like put that pain away, to minimize it, to move on, to get up, to walk, you know, slowly mask the pain too, whatever sense through coffee or alcohol, drugs. There's so many different ways that people try to mask it and not even, and I think that's what death does is death is one of those moments when you lose someone that's really, really dear to you. It's like you can't do that. Like we all experience a lot of loss in our life all the time and we all, you know, if you just look back at your life over the last year, like you had things that fell apart, you had things that you tried that didn't work, you had things that you put your heart in your soul into and they didn't become what you wanted, you know, relationship, people that betrayed you, so I'm going to hurt you that you trusted. And we sort of, yeah, just like what you're saying is right, we sort of numb ourselves to that and to be a functioning adult, you kind of just, you know, build up a certain level of chaos and then when someone dies, it's like, those things don't work anymore. And it's this type of pain that is either going to, it's like, it's either going to destroy you or you're going to find some place for it. And I think that was the difference. I mean, like all the cliches of like you don't go around that you go through it. It was like that thing of, I started out those conversations and making that film because I wanted to know how to fix it. Like I felt like something had been broken and I wanted to put it back together. I wanted to get back to the person that I had been. I wanted to get back out of this pit of, and when I learned from a lot of people was that it's like you, you just kind of, you make a space for it. Like it certain things, linger, certain things become a part of your story. Certain things are, there's not an easy boat of time. You know, certain things just like are really disruptive and sad and difficult. And yes, you can get down the road and look back as I've been able to, recently and see how they impacted your story in really beautiful ways. But also like it's okay. It's okay to just be in a place where you say this is really hard. And for me, I wasn't used to, I wasn't used to problems that didn't wrap up in a matter of weeks or months. I was very used to having challenges. We all do it. Like you articulate it. Like you have a whole story. You have a three-act story when you tell someone about a difficult thing. It's like, and then this happened. And then I ever came in. But it was like that realization of like this is bigger. This is more challenging. And this is an opportunity for me to grow. Like really to become a more compassionate person, to become a person who's more open, or to become a person who's more closed. And I think even, you know, doing those interviews, and I still remember it vividly sitting face to face with people and sharing that kind of pain. Like just being in a room with another human being. And this is where I think a camera's really powerful. Knowing it's being recorded and having that space built. I think opened me up in a way that prepared me for a lot of what I've been doing since. And I think I got sort of hooked on those interactions you can have with another human being that transcend all the bullshit that doesn't matter. They just sort of cut through. And those places where people are just really themselves, like at a sole level, I think it's what I've been looking for ever since. I think those interactions are the thing that feels most real, and most exciting to me about all the work now. Is it possible to prepare yourself for these moments that radically change your life? It's a good question. I mean, I think if there's anything that can prepare you, it's just the realization and the normalization that other people have gone through what you're going through. I think what made me feel very lost and alone was that I had not had anyone. In any of the ways life had been explained to me, this had never been brought up. You know, it had never been like put on the table. And you know, I was young and I even, you know, invincible and all those things. I think if there's anything I have a heart for as it relates to that topic, it's just trying to create more space in society to communicate stories where everything isn't working or stories where the bottom falls out. Stories where like you can actually create, I think a lot more bravery in people, not by denying really horrible things might happen, but actually saying they probably are going to happen. And yet you're a human being, which also gives you the skill set and this tool set and this resiliency that you didn't even fathom that you had. So I don't know, could I have not gone through it? No, I would have still gone through it. Yeah. I just hope that someone else going through it, you know, as we all get more honest about mental health and about all these kind of like inner issues. I just hope it creates a space where people when they go into a dark place like that or at least able to say, what is it like? I've heard about people being here before and I've heard those people also get get on the other side of this too, you know? It seemed like when making that documentary, it was the how didn't really matter that much to you. It wasn't like, how are we going to make this? I was like, well, what's the camera gear we're going to get? Like, where's my crew? It was like, this is a story I have to tell, and I'm going to use whatever means necessary to do that. But I am curious about how it did play out. And obviously, you had these skills. You had a camera yourself. Was it just you running around the, driving around the country? No, I was really like, I had a couple of people that I still work with that I, that I love who are very dear friends. I had a sound mixer, kind of Michael Flow, who I'd grown up with in Atlanta, who was out Los Angeles, and then producer, named Michael Ross, who produced that in the next, the several of the next films after that. We also had it together. So yeah, we did a kickstarter for that. And we went out, I mean, it was really small. Like, I forget what the budget was, but it was really, really, really small. I mean, it was basically like DSLRs and sound gear, and we basically just kind of reached out to people through blogs and, you know, people who had written about it, or people who had been in, you know, written op-eds, or we'd like get in touch with them, or, you know, people that were big in the counseling world, but it was fast. I mean, it was, when I look back on it, now, you know those beautiful things in your life that were very, they did come from a very, got impulse, because they weren't very planned. It was just like, okay, we need a little bit of money. Okay, we need these people, this equipment, and let's go do it. And we went and shot it, and like, you know, it was just like a month or two. Like it was a very small film. Isn't that crazy? Just how... Looking back now. I'm like, yeah, yeah. Yeah, once you take on these adventurous projects where you're traveling all over the world, it can be a little bit more challenging to put together. But realistically, even with minimalism, it was, I, a large part of it was filmed and about a month or two months, in terms of traveling around the country and filming, like, Josh and Ryan on tour. And then the rest was like realizing, looking at the footage, because there's a kind of continuous process of looking at what you have, and then, okay, well, we definitely don't have enough. We have like three good interviews. We need to go out, so that it was just trying to find more and more interviews to kind of bring into it. Hey, we haven't looked at it from this angle. Let's get this person. And I even saw from like the true cost, you know, you go back and you interview people, multiple times because, hey, we didn't, we actually should have asked them this or there's an update on the story and we need to like dig a little bit deeper. So often times these projects take much longer than two months. Well, that's somewhere, like, sometimes that's also like the, I think about this all the time. I think about it as like the restrictions are really helpful. Oh, yeah. Like on that project, it's like we just didn't have a lot. And we didn't have, you know what I mean? Like it was like by nature, it was gonna be a really small, very personal film. And that was the constraints. Yeah, I think it's harder actually as you, as you do more because people give you bigger canvases. And you, you have a little bit, almost sometimes you have too much freedom. Like you have too many options. And the hardest thing for me still now is like focusing back on, you know what I mean? Like I think the, the best example of this is super sized me. Morgan Spurlock, he saw, he saw it on, he saw commercial, I don't know, sorry, it was a news story about somebody who was assuming McDonald's because the food was making them overweight comes up with this idea. The shoots it over 30 days, the next year he's at Sundance. It's pretty cool. Because you like, you have this constraint where like, I'm gonna do this for 30 days. Yeah. And that's the entirety of filming it. Those ideas to me make me, as a filmmaker, I love it. I'm like, all right, great. There's a clear start, clear end, and then we can kind of capture this journey. Not to say that other stories that are a little bit more fluid aren't worth telling. They're just more challenging. And they require more time. And they, like he said, sometimes if somebody gave you $10 million or a million, whatever it is, all the money in the world, what the hell am I gonna do? Well, it's like the most important thing, especially for documentary is a really good premise. I mean, like to the point that, like so like for minimalism, you had a, you had a very clear unique, you had a unique idea, but in addition, you had the two of them and it gave you like a vehicle. You know what I mean? Like I've been wanting to make a film about faith and religion for a long time, but it wasn't until I started hanging out with Rob, they're realized, ooh, like this is the vehicle. Like now I just found the way in. Like, you know what I'm saying? Yeah. That's, that's interesting to me because even now when I think about new ideas or new concepts, it's not enough just to be like, here's a really interesting idea. I want to go vaguely explore. It's like, okay, that's the idea I want to get at. Now also, in addition to that, what is the mechanism? So to your point, like Morgan Spurl, it could have made a very traditional boring film, where he interviewed health experts on, like, you know, how many ways there are to make that film that they would people make today? 100%. Right? Even though, that's been out so long. You think about all the food documentaries that are out there. So, yeah, I know. There's a couple that are great, and they like really get you to think differently about what you're eating. But there's just so many out there. You've seen one, you've seen them all. So it's like, all right, can you make a creative idea? And what are the character or characters that are going to make the story speak? Well, and that's where, like, you also have to respect the fact that, like, filmmaking is a craft and it's an art. And I think the advantage of so many people having access to the tools is that we're getting all kinds of perspectives, which is phenomenal. And by and large, the positives out with negatives. But the negatives are, I think, especially in documentary space, you can step over the fact that you're working in the art form of cinema. Like, you're actually, you're making a sensory experience for people. So to your point, part of that is just like starting with, this has to be something that people want to watch. Like, you know what I mean? It's not, and this isn't a lecture. This isn't like an essay. Like, this is a film. So to be a film that has to be, so yeah, I mean, so it's like something stuff you did in the film, where it was just like really beautiful, or really thoughtful, or really, that stuff just matters. And I actually am worried that increasingly, some of that stuff is being, I don't know. I just, I see a lot of stuff that is, I don't know, just doesn't have that. It wasn't, that intention wasn't taken somehow. Yeah, we, I mean, like any film, there was a journey to get to the final edit, and many, many of these versions before we got to that final one. One of them along the way, I had steered a little bit off course. I decided to take on inspiration from other films I'd seen. Like, seen Helvetica. What a beautiful film. What a really well put together idea. But then it's like trying to take that formula. And it's like, hey, let's take that formula of how they structure these interviews. We've, from one story to the next, to pieces together. Let me just put that on minimalism. And it didn't work. It was, it turned out really bad. Even though in the moment, I'm thinking, you know, a lot of times it takes you to step back to watch it to realize when your work isn't good. How painful is that? I want you to keep talking about, but how painful is that when you, I've had this moment a thousand times where you, you, you reconfigure the whole cut because you have this idea. You have this brilliant thing. And maybe it came from another film or something. And you do it and you put all this working and you're like, you turn it on and you're like, here we go. Yeah. And like, two minutes in, you're like, oh no. It's smart. Yeah. Everything about this is horrible. Yeah, this is completely garbage. And that's, like, it, actually, there's a couple instances throughout that has happened. So the one was, we were leading up to, we called the Fargo incident. We were doing our first screening in Fargo, North Dakota. And we were going to play it to a live audience of like, 152 hundred people. And this was the first time we were going to show it to anybody. This was like a couple months before we started to go to film festivals. And so it was really important to get that feedback. And, you know, for me, as like a creative, it was my first documentary. I'm like, this is a, this is a big deal for me. Yeah, too. And we, so I recut the film. I didn't tell any of my co-producers. I was doing it. I was secretly doing it. Because it starts out. We were like, no, I just moved this over here. I moved this over here. And then like, in two weeks later, you recut the entire film. And then I sent it to them. They all sat down and watched it. It was like eight of them, including producers. And they're significant. And others. And they all just, they kind of got men a Skype call. And they were like, that's, this is an hitman. Like the other version was so much more powerful. It was so much better. This just, it just, I was, I fall asleep within 15, 20 minutes. They thought I was joking. So you're like, this is a joke, right? Like you're just, you're rocking with us. And I was like, that would have been amazing. And I'm actually going to do that in the future. I'm just going to do like the cheesyest edits. And then it's great to fuck them. But, so, so that happened. And then it was, but it, like in a lot of ways it was crushing. Because I was like, ah, yeah, I thought this was it. But also not because, because they were just so in love with the previous version. Yeah. I was like, wow, it's, that's it. It's over. Like, I'm never going to be able to make any changes to this. Right. Because we got a standing ovation with that version of the film. Mm-hmm. So that just kind of solidify. No changes to this film. Mm-hmm. But then at two months later, I watched that, that version of the film, which is the V1 in, at the New York, it wasn't the New York film festival. But one is like, small independent ones. And, uh, like, it did, well, like, people liked it. It's hard to really gauge whether people liked it or not when you're the directors in the room. People are generally very nice. Um, but I, since I had such a hard time sitting through it, I was like, oh, my God. Like, I need to change this. I need to do this. We didn't go dig deeper here. We need to do this. I knew all these things I wanted to change about it. And then from that point on, it was me trying to figure out how do I convince my producer is how do I change their mind that this is the right direction we need to head. And I had all the tools that my disposal to be able to cut and edit myself. So I think, like, obviously, there's situations where if you're paying an editor to do it. Sure. These things need to be hashed out beforehand and it's much more challenging. But I still had to change their minds. Sure. That, that struggle, it was tough. But it was really, in the end, about following my gut and about what I knew to be the best version of this film I could make at the time. Um, and you feel like you feel like the final film, like, is your film? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's that version. It is the version. It's like the 3.5 I think. It's great. Um, but we, so it started a little by little where we went, like, all right. I'm going to recut the first 10 minutes. And I'm going to show you guys what the first 10 minutes are going to look like. And first 10 minutes or two. Yeah. They really are the toughest. And I don't think you necessarily have to start in the first 10. But for me, like, that's just how it naturally went. And then I cut it together. They loved it. Great. Here's five minutes in the middle of the film about fast fashion. And let's, let's look at this scene. Okay. And then we do a few of these. Eventually they're like, all right, we need to see the entire film. It's entirety. Because we're not. They're great by themselves. But how does it all work together? And then half of the producers loved it. Half the producers really didn't like it. And they want to go back to the original version. So it's still like, it was, yeah, it was a long time. And then it was like, all right. Well, what don't you like about it? Let's look at each version side by side. Why is this strong? Why is this not? Why is this one emotionally captivating? Why is in this one doing it for you? And then, actually, we got to the bottom of the different reasons and the pacing and all the stuff which wasn't working for them. And somehow we were able to come to a man's. And we, we found a way to make everybody happy. But it's very, it's very, it's very, yeah, right? But like, this thing is like, people watch the film and watch any film. And they say, well, that's just the way it was going to be. It's just, it just seems so obvious. But there's so much so many decisions. But after, yeah, I always think about that. I always think about how, like, great choices always feel inevitable after the fact. And so, like, in a film, when a sequence is really working, it's because you can't imagine any song, but that song. Or you can't imagine any cut, but that cut. But when you're the one sitting in the editing room and you have every choice. It's like, it's, it's, it's crazy. Yeah. And I think that's a magical, that's, I mean, it's cool to hear that story. I think it's a, that's the, that's the, that's the process to me is that time and post and you're trying to figure out, like, what gives this film power? Because maybe it's different than the thing that I set out thinking. You know, I mean, like, we've been wrestling with this latest cut. And it's the same thing. It's like, what is the thing at the heart of this thing that's making it go? Like, what is it? And how do we find that and focus on that? And cut away all the stuff that's just not. Because I do that, I do that a lot, where I, the thing that I thought coming in was going to be the big thing. People are like, eh? Yeah, you're like sitting back there. You're like, this is your comments. Come on. They didn't even get it. They're not feeling tingly on the inside. It's just, it's so funny how those, the perceptions, it's also just very different from everybody that watches it. That's true. That's true. That's a whole other. That's true. That's one thing that I heard. I think it was Neil Strauss said it. And he's an amazing author. And tons and tons of books. But he'll say, if everybody keeps telling me that they hate one scene or one chapter, I'll think about removing it. But if one person, it just takes one person to say, that was my favorite part of the entire book. And then he's like, all right, something's there. You don't need to win everybody over. Yeah. But obviously there's something there if it really strikes people. And sometimes I'm so surprised when people are like, oh, that's my favorite scene or that's like that interview, really captioning a little. Oh, wow, like I didn't even think about that. Completely. Yeah, that's so true. Yeah. So you put this film out there. And then was it? Yeah. Well, after the end, we released. I remember we actually sold. We signed like we sent our distribution deal for after the end. And it was the next day that I was getting coffee. Not for from here actually. And was looked down at New York Times to saw the cover image of the factory collapse at Ronald Plaza. And I remember that's why I was saying earlier, I think the process that we went through with after the end kind of opened me up. Like I think I was in a very, I was noticing a lot. You know what I mean? Like I was just in that space of like still a little tender. And I looked down and read this article about how this clothing factory in Bangladesh had collapsed and taken the lives of at that point well over a thousand people. Mostly women, some children. And I read in that one article that at the time of the collapse, they were doing work for, you know, major western brands that I knew. And I also read that it was not the first that there had been another factory collapse just before that, a fire just before that. Like it was, it was just, I just remember thinking like, number one, how in the modern world are we doing business in this kind of way that's leading to this sort of reckless, waste, loss, lessening of human life. So really, really, and that's what second thinking, how have I never stopped thinking about where my clothes come from? And it was a chilling thought, you know, being someone who grew up in a kind of middle-class American family where when you got new clothes, you went to store and you got them and you brought them home and you wore them, you know, and growing up past that, you looked at the price for the style. And not a whole lot else, honestly, if I'm being honest, I've never come into my mind. And suddenly, you know, you just takes one thing sometimes in your life to like, like, one window gets open. Then you look through it and you're like, oh my God, like there's a whole world through this one window. You know, and I took the article back to my producer, a partner that day, and we started doing some research that week. And I remember reaching out to people and different parts of the world. Some of the people who actually ended up in the film, authors, activists, journalists, and just saying, like help me understand this story, you know, like everyone's sort of reeling from this one big incident, but like help me understand what's taking place. And by the end of that next week, I was convinced it was a film that I wanted to make. Because it's sort of in one industry, which was the modern fashion industry, encapsulated so many of the things that I was really interested in. So many of the things that I was growing restless with and curious about. Suddenly, I mean, back to that comment of like the vehicle. It was like this one industry gives me a vehicle that I think we can use to look at all these other things. I wonder why we don't think about these things. And why we don't think about the clothes that we wear and where things actually come from. And I don't think it's because people don't care. I think it's just the path of least resistance. It's like it's so far removed from our lives that why would we take an interest. And sometimes we are willingly ignorant or naive about the companies that we buy from. Because like they do so such a good job at branding and showing like what great companies they are, how beautiful. Like if the commercials are this beautiful, if the models are this happy, then it says something about H&M or whatever brand that you're buying from. When in reality, if you kind of trace back their roots to where this all comes from, it's a little bit darker than I think most of us would hope. Well, and I think that's, yeah, I mean, I have a lot of compassion for that because I think, you know, more and more, I think we're living in a totally new time in H&M history where this is the first generation in history that's been able to look at and measure the impact that we're having on the world in real time. Like we're the first generation, the history of the world that has to scroll through, you know, the stories of, you know, subway stations are mosques getting blown up, you know, on our way to see a text message from someone that we love, like we're sort of inundated. I think with information and that creates like huge opportunities, obviously, and it also creates a sense of like people's lives are just busy, like they're full. And for no fault of their own, you know, like I really believe there's that quote that said, most people are doing better than they think they are in their life. And I really think that most people care. I really think most people are genuinely trying to raise good kids and do good work, but there really is a limit that you hit, you know, and there's a sense of like, I think every day we're kind of being asked to take on more and more, you know, in terms of things to care about. And that was what I thought about when we started framing the film as I thought, like, I don't want to frame this like another problem. Like I don't want to introduce another thing that you should feel bad about, or another reason you should have like Western guilt. It was more like maybe there's not opportunity here. Maybe we I could frame this and I could introduce it to you as an extension of things you already care about. So like you already care about women's rights. You already care about the environment. You know, maybe I could just show you how this thing is connected to these other things. But also, you know, going back to what you said about the branding like these are highly profitable stories that are being told. And we're not living in a world that is organized according to like human needs or interests. We are living in a world that's organized according to profit as you know better than anyone. And I think for me that was almost like I had to go way into that to realize just how far that went. Like to realize we're living in a series of constantly competing stories about how we should organize our lives, what we should buy, what we should value, we should buy into. And these stories are funded to the tune of billions of dollars. And especially in the fashion world where you're talking about like an image and a vision of who you are and who you want to be. And it's tapping into like all these things. And being lost in that story certainly is the health of the planet and most definitely the most vulnerable people on it. So like once you open that up, it really is like taking a curtain and just pulling it back. And for me, I was just dumbfounded by what I saw on the other side of that. Yeah, for me, the biggest impact the film had on me. It was just from almost a humanitarian level. Like it wasn't. A lot of people might be motivated to downsize or reduce waste because of the environment. But for me, it's like you can't look at these people. And like you have some amazing stories in there. And the one woman stands out to me is the one that was the head of the union. She was in Bangalore, yeah, you just see people like that. And you can see like your sister, your brother, your neighbor, your friends. And you're like, this is an amazing person and how can this be happening. And like the fact that it were connected to this person as well. Yeah. I know I have friends and you know that are that are not minimalist and that shop occasionally. And I bet if I brought up the film or this idea, this concept, that I know, but I love shopping, right? And like, but if you actually hear the stories and if you see these people, and I think this is what an amazing documentary like yours can do is I think most everybody has compassion and you can feel compassion for these people. And I think that's what's going to help move people to change. The one thing I was interested there was a couple people that made the point in terms of, all right, like, so what do we do, right? That's the big thing in pretty much any documentary. What can we do to help? What can we do to change this? The one thing was changing the system. A couple people had mentioned, which is, that's one of the things I'm very curious about. And like how does that take place? But I think it's also, it's got to come from the bottom up as well, right? Is that just like you see with organic foods? That was not a thing like 10 years ago. Organic, nobody cared about organic foods, but then there becomes this demand from the bottom up. Do you see it from both of those angles? And what can people do to make sure they're buying clothing and putting things on their bottom up? Yeah, I mean that's the ultimate question. And we took some heat on it when we released a film because the film, I was pretty adamant about the film not leading to a place of, like, just text this number and buy this T-shirt. I literally sat in a meeting with a distribution partner where there were people around the table who had watched the cut of the film. And they were all offering their marketing ideas. And I got to this one woman and she was like, I just think we ought to print just a ton of cheap T-shirts. We should just get, you know, like, as a way to get the word out for the film. I'm never just sitting there being like, oh my god. Sorry. Nothing means anything. Yeah, like what the hell? Nothing means anything. But I think that's the ultimate question we do. And I think there wasn't an easy answer, and especially when we released the film, I felt like this was one of those issues that we needed to just introduce. Like, the service of this film in particular was just to say, hey, there is like something really significant happening that you're buying into that knowing so many of you. I don't think you want to be a part of. And we need to collectively start to like think about how to reorganize this. And I think it also came from a humility that, you know, we traveled all over the world to this film and you realize the scope and the extent, I mean, this is, you know, the most labor dependent industry on earth. This is an industry that records profit in the trillions. It's not like saying, you know, before lunch, we're going to figure out how to re-band the global. Let's do it. But since then, I think a couple of things have happened for me. I think number one, first of all, just on a personal basis, I think this is something that you can do something about. And I think that is really empowering because I think I interviewed someone who said something great to me. She said, you know, I don't want anyone to feel guilt because guilt is the thing you feel and you've already decided that you're not going to do anything about it. And I think I was so drawn to this topic for the very reason that you do wake up in the morning. And, you know, as Martin Luther King famously said, you've touched, you know, so many parts of the world by the time you've gotten dressed and had coffee in the morning. And I think, you know, awareness of that begins to lead you to the place of making choices like you're not a slave to the system. And for me, going from someone totally oblivious. I mean, someone just totally oblivious to where I am now. It has been a journey of buying a lot less. It's been a journey of that freeing up space, both financially and emotionally to make better choices when I do. It's made me be someone my wife and I have four young kids at home and, you know, we're not perfect by any stretch. But it's changed the relationship to how we bring things into our life. And it's made us think about the people on the other end of that item. It's also made us think about the environmental impact on the other end of the item. And not in a paralyzing way. And I think that's why I would want people to know is like, it has made my life richer, not poor. Like it actually has not been this pain, like this thing that I'm like, like I've just died and go by cheap, shitty clothes. But I don't. It's actually been like, I like this stuff. I wear more. I have more of a relationship to the things that I buy. I actually, yes, I have and I hold on to things that have a higher quality. And I feel connected. It acts as a doorway to empathy. Like it actually, this sounds so simple. But like when I put on a piece of clothing in the morning, and I know something about the story of how that came to be, it reminds me of that. It reminds me that I have a place in the world that's not just a consumer. Like it opens me up to the possibility that I make choices. And those choices matter. And it starts my day in a perspective. So first of all, from a very personal standpoint, just like all the things in our life, I think you can't underestimate the power of what can change you. Like I started out when I was younger. I was so focused on wanting to change the world that I've come full circle to this place of like, sometimes I think I have the experiences I have not as much, so I can like wield all this impact and have all this change, but like I walk away different. And when I walk away different, I start making different choices. I have different conversations with my friends. I'm raising my kids in a different way. And there's something very small but also profound I think about that. So I would say on an individual level, tons you can do. Start anywhere. Don't be perfect. Don't get hung up on. Start to think about the longevity of what you hold onto. Start to think about the quality. Start to think about the people talking about price per use. Some of the simple tools. Just just start. That's an amazing road. My girlfriend use that as an excuse to buy things. Some will price per wear price per wear. It's $400, but I'm going to wear this thing. You know, it's going to cost $10 every time I wear it. But now I think that the big thing though is like well-being and happiness. Is that. And I think that's what connects with a lot of people. Is and you mentioned it in your documentaries. I just because you're going out and buying these things. It's a very fleeting sense of happiness if you want to call it a dopamine hit. It's just like eating dessert. Are eating junk food. Yes. And I remember back to when I first started making money for the first time. And not a lot of money, but enough money that I was like oh, I can buy things now. And so what did I do? I went out to Coles and I had a shopping spree and I bought like a fake leather jacket. And all these like nice fancy clothes because I was an entrepreneur and I was a business owner. And I was like trying to be a hot shot. And then I kind of binged out for a while. And this was actually right when I moved. So I graduated college with $97,000 in student loan debt. And I did the smart thing I could think of which was to buy a brand new car. So I'm living at home in my parents' basement with my younger four siblings with like 115,000 dollars in debt. And so now that I'm not paying rent, I've stood at loans, but I can still manage. But so I'm starting to actually save up and have money. And this is before I discovered minimalism. So I like, like I said, I just go out and I just start buying a stuff. I buy flat screen TV. I just mount it on the wall. I do all these things because I was deprived of that from my whole life. And I thought that doing those things would actually make me happy. And they did for like two weeks. And then it fades away. And then I came across minimalism. And for me it was really more about this idea of success. Because actually came across Tom Shadyak. Yeah. He did exactly this. Dude, he didn't interview with Carson Daily. Yeah. I know Zach, we're talking about that. Yeah, dude. I saw that. It was at like 1 a.m. I know Zach that we were talking about. Dude, that's insane. I specifically had a, I specifically went to dinner and sat down on the front of my, and like basically re-enacted that whole interview. No way. Because it was that power from me. I didn't, I didn't see the film. The film I didn't come out. Yeah, like I was not. Dude, that's wild. That is wild. Yeah, that's shook me. That's your change of my life. Yeah. You got to hear this. You got to hear this. You got to hear this. Yeah. He had everything and then he gave it up. And then now he lives in a trailer in Malibu. Yeah. And I thought it was the craziest idea in the world. Because it was, it was contrary to everything that I had been taught in my entire life. Was, was that like he had everything that I wanted. And so it gripped me and it got my attention. And then it started, it was just like the seed, right? So it wasn't everything. I didn't like become a minimalist there on this spot. And it was a seed enough that when I started to read more about it online. I started to hear more about it. I was like, definitely like this is it. Like this is this connects with me. I had a name. It was called minimalism. So I was like, let's, let me just start to paradigm my stuff. But it was, it's just funny how like those ideas. Like you said, it's the window. It's powerful. That, course and daily, last call was a window for me to be able to, to open my mind up to this new idea. Well, that's, and that is that amazing too. Like one of the things that, that, that stuff always inspires me because it makes me think. I thought about that for a long time. Yeah. It makes me think how much we're all building on each other's work too. And then incredible. That like you have an experience where you go do something and you, you come back and you share it with us. And then it, it, it sticks like it imprints on other people and then when they go out to make their thing. I mean, there, there's so many parts of what I make or what I'm doing that are specifically pages out of someone else's book. You know, I mean, I'm like really, and I try to do it thoughtfully, but like I'm also really not apologetic about it. I'm like, I learned that from that source right there. And I just think if I can buy in that idea with this idea, then there's a new thing. And that's kind of, you know, I mean, like that's a, that's wild. But that's, I mean, honestly, that too, the other side of your question, like the, the bigger system change idea. That was one of the big things for me was when we were making the true cost, we were traveling over the world. We were having this sort of out about the experience where we'd go back and forth between very rich parts of the world and very, very, very poor parts of the world, which as, as simple as that sounds, that was a really new experience for me. And I think just the, the contrast of that, like actually built up, like just even in my body, like it built up, like just to be in the same day, like on a fashion runway in Paris or Malon or London and then to be in a slum. It, that did something that I'm still getting over, honestly. But also, I remember as we were making the film, we had this experience, and I would come home to the US and I remember thinking to myself, thinking to myself, this whole, this story that we're living in, the system that we've created, this profit at all costs, this more, more, more, more, more, more. Bye, bye, bye, this whole thing. Not only is it, in very real ways, destroying parts of the world. It's not making us happy. And that, that was like the most, that was what kept me up at night, the most is I remember just having this thought, like, it would be one thing if we were living in this really, really just like living off way more resources than we proportionally need it or, you know, all these things. If it was making us really happy, like if we were the most put together society, you know, if we were really whole and healthy as humans. But I think to realize more and more that we were not, that we were living on like fumes of addiction and a really false narrative that was showing its faded colors and we were worn out and we were. That to me, that is really what started that, that true or search for, like, what is the story that has led us to this place? And in uncovering that, some of what we go through in the film is just that process of pulling the layers back and being like. We're living inside a story that a lot of us have never questioned and it is a story. Certainly built on consumption, but it's also a story that does not have a good end, like we're living in a system. You talk to, you know, I could have the the best free market thinker in the world sitting here next to me, just, you know, markets are going to lead to. And I could ask that person, but what's the end game? Like we're consuming, we're chewing up more and more and spitting out the remains where any quality is growing and growing. Like all these negative forces that we all agree on, we all can admit are increasing and not just increasing, but like exponentially beginning to increase. It just made me go back and kind of look at like, okay, how do we get here? Where are we? And then yeah, how can we imagine a different story moving forward? And that's not like, I don't have the answer to that. I'm not trying to sit here saying like, but I think ever since that moment, that's kind of been the. That's been the the driving force for a lot of my work is what are the actual stories we're telling? What are the narratives that are on loop and repeat? And what are the ones that are leading to things that are very good for human beings? And what are the ones that are really dangerous? And what are the ones that are like holding us back from the kind of world that we should and maybe could have up ahead? Yeah, sometimes I look at my own circles and the people I'm connected with. And I get very optimistic because I'm like, because everybody that I know have heard of simple living or the many of them are pairing down themselves. They're very connected with this idea of being very thoughtful and intentional about the things they consume. They, I think inherently many of them know that it's not going to make them happy. Some of them are still fighting with their own drives and urges to still get that even though they know it's not going to make them happy. Well, let me just find out for myself. But when you take a step back and you do look at our entire society as a whole, you know, it's it's hard to be entirely optimistic because we are still very consumer driven. You know, every Christmas, every black Friday is like the bigger than the one before it now cyber Monday and it's just becoming especially with one click shopping. Like it's it's way too easy now to buy a shit and cheap shit. So I'm still like optimistic. I still think that we're heading towards the right path because like we are asking questions and we're telling stories that haven't ever been told before. And I think that if enough people get connected with these ideas, we are inherently compassionate and there will be change. I think we're starting to see the end of one story. I mean, I think that's the good news. I mean, someone wouldn't have made your film 10 years ago. They just wouldn't. So I don't even think they would have made it. I mean, it's just really interesting. Like we are in accelerated and I think that's what you're seeing. You're seeing one story slowly reveal itself to be something really awful. And really ugly. And something that's not. Something that's not neutral. Like it's actually designed to do very specific things. It is designed to gather well for very specific parts of the global community. It's it's it's not just floating around. You know, like we like this idea of. The market driven just as if we're all kind of is very specific. Like Steve Jobs had that great quote where he said, you know, look around you and everything you see was probably designed by people. And some of it were not smart as you. So like you can redesign it like you can and I think that's that's the like tension that we're living in as we're seeing the end of one story. But we're not seeing the beginning of a new one yet. And I think that's the thing that. That's the thing that I think is going to grab a lot more people is when we can transform from just I think what some of what we've been doing is like. Hey, look at this thing. This is not good for you. I don't don't do that. Like, you know, get this out of your life. Like that you're addicted to this thing and like you don't want to be in that. And all that's great, but I think that the the next step has to be. What is the new story like people are. People are craving meaning like you give someone a choice between an existence that is full of purpose and meaning and one that's not and I think they'll choose the purpose and meaning path nine times out of ten. I just think we're living in a timer for a lot of people. They've grown up in a generation where they haven't seen that as an option like so they've just picked the least bad option. I mean even even advertising is like designed to sell you on a narrative of something that means something like really like it is imitating something. So profoundly good about a hunger you have as human being. It's just adulterating it into like a horrible place and you wake up like you're saying you wake up two weeks later and it's like it didn't do the thing that but that. I don't know. I just think that speaks to the fact that people by and large are craving something more meaningful. They are craving something that is not just like how do we like Steve off the worst parts of what's coming for us as a human race. But like couldn't we still design something better? Like I mean it's like that moment in Truman Show where he's like I want to make explore and she's like everything's already being explored. Like I kind of feel like that sometimes where people are it's like we're living at the end of history. It's like we did all these amazing things and put these systems together and they're serving as well. And I think now we're starting to get to a place where it's like no the systems aren't serving as well. The systems weren't designed to serve human beings well. They were designed to do very specific things. Those things have consequences. And to your point you know I feel like yours can criticize those or can take a chip out of that. And now I think it's opening up like okay what's the story moving forward? Yeah. We have a lot of distractions and challenges along the way to find meaning and one of them which you pointed out was advertising. One of the things that I wanted to include in the documentary but I couldn't just because it was too far along in the edit. You never get these things that come up later on you're like I wish I could. Like I didn't fully tell that story in the way that I wanted to tell it or there's an idea that I'll like to inject but it's just too late to do it. The one was Juliet sure she made it an amazing point which I want to know your thoughts on because I still grapple and I don't really know whether I agree with her completely. But it was on advertising and she said that advertising doesn't get people to buy more things or buy things that they wouldn't otherwise do. That's what our social circles and peer pressure do. So especially now with social media somebody share something on Instagram that's going to be more likely to influence you to buy something. Advertising gets us to buy Honda over a Hyundai or it gets us to pick the different kinds of things. I think obviously it's it's not black and white like that like advertising definitely. I think has a huge push but I wonder if it's more leaning towards her views in terms of. I'm just like what pushes are consumption like that was one of the ideas where I was like. I was like damn like that's a really good point like I mean when I think about my own personal. Yeah circumstance that's how I feel but here's what's interesting to me about that and there's a lot to think about there but what it what it makes me think of is. That the difference though in the things that were being sold. As as items that we use and use up and throw away. So like if you take clothing we're talking about clothing right now. So if you take clothing it used to be something that was advertised to you. You had choice between brands that differentiated self as you're saying her point is. But you bought something and you bought into it and you held onto it you repaired it you maybe even passed it down. It was in your life for a long time. That advertising engine that marketing machine is now training a generation of people to think about clothing and something that they use and use up. Almost you know fast fashion as you know is that idea of like it's a disposable good now. That's revolutionary in the history of clothing. The fashion is a disposable good and you could look across a couple different sectors and say that's happening in several in the the pope talked about a throw away culture like it's a. It's a sense of moving away from things like you know we're sitting at this table which is a beautiful table that you bought that you're going to like that's one kind of purchase. And there is a type of advertising that will steer your choice on what kind of table you're going to invest in versus like the machine that's going to generate a bunch of people. To buy a bunch of stuff that's going to come in and out of their life and that's where I'm more critical. I'm more critical of like what are the systems that we're inviting people to buy into like we got we got you know there was a lot of controversy in the film. Come out and that one of the questions was always like why are you so. You know there's there's dirt in a lot of these supply chains like why are you so adam about fast fashion. And it was that was a model issue it was a it was a mindset issue it was going from something that you held on to something that you throw away and to me there is. Ecological nightmares there is human rights abuses that you just turn the pressure up on an already pressurized system there's all these you know I mean so I think it's it's it's. One yeah, sorry, and it's to call you up, but it's also they're using up like you said and enjoy a chore mentioned it in terms of kind of creating everything now has an aesthetic so you have a toaster now that's designed. That's also designed to go out of style in two years when have we ever lived in a world where you would get rid of a toaster because the decor doesn't match the decor of your kitchen well that's where that's. That's not because I have a really nice to see about the way that's the. Yeah, that's what's interesting when I talk to my friends who live in different parts of the world that's one of the things they talk about in the comes the United States is they talk about like when they come here. We don't just sell products we you know every lotion or soap or every minute news toaster it's like it's going to change your life it's going to change the kind I mean when you're making your toast and this toaster it's kind of like. That's that's not unique to America, but that's we we have we have perfected that art so that it's not just like here's some available products it's like. Every product is telling a story of. You you being the kind of person that wakes up in that kind of kitchen and you have that you know your wife looks like that in your car looks like that. To to go against that idea as well or to tell the other side of it would be. If you are just trying to buy a thing once or buy it like buy headphones until they completely wear out and then they're unrepairable. But you spend a lot of money on it or whether it's a toaster. As long as you I think it's okay to buy something that's maybe a little bit more expensive that you know where it came from you know that the company is ethical and then you're going to hold on to it for a very long time. I think it both it makes sense first of all from a financial perspective but also makes sense in terms of an ethical perspective. And I think that's happening I think people are wanting that I think that's beginning to be. I was just that the United Nations a couple weeks ago and they were doing a big summit on human rights and fashion stuff and and it was really fascinating to hear from different people and some major brands and that was one of things they were articulating was like something is changing where people are more interested in buying things that have some kind of meaning to them. That have some kind of quality that is beyond and I think that you know in a hopeful way that's some of what happens after we get through the moment of just more more more more more more you do kind of wake up the next day and say. Okay, but if I can have everything now what makes anything more worthwhile than something else and the story of that thing can be not a small part of that. Let's take a little step back I'm going to talk about the how of the true cost because this was the most ambitious project that you had worked on up until that point. You know you said day after your your first movie gets picked up for distribution the idea comes in and what are the steps to actually making this documentary and getting funding and doing all the things that need to happen to actually get started. Yeah, and I'll try to be as honest as I can because I it's funny you know when you when you put these things out there's such a tendency to like tell the like really put together story you know you have the like press version of the story that's like absolutely. And then we did this and it was a success and then we did this and it worked. Yeah, no so the story was I got. We were going to the premiere of after the end the film that we just finished and I basically put together a plan and I sat down on some people who I had known. Growing up and right before the premiere of after the end I had a little private meeting in a room and I just said this is what I want to go make I want to do this new film. Basically asked them I needed I needed a certain amount when I can't remember how much it was I think it was like 15 thousand dollars. That I wanted them each to like take a chunk of and I was going to basically the plan I presented them was with that money I will I will go and do like this really simple week and half of travel and I will film these initial interviews and I'll put together a trailer to kind of encapsulate what the project is going to be what it's going to look like and I'll use that to do a crowdfunding campaign. The crowdfunding campaign will get a chunk of what we need and then I'll use that momentum to go ahead and start and then we'll raise more of the funding as we go on basically that was my pitch to them yeah and I was that was really kind of what we did we I mean we got that initial. Chunk we went and started filming and we created what would be the crowdfunding stuff so we went to London we spent time with Lucy seagull of your first stuff in many went to New York. We did some of that initial work we pulled in some of the footage some of the new stuff that was happening at the time around a plaza. The crowdfunding campaign and I think the crowdfunding we did on Kickstarter I think that was like 70,000. Which is what kind of enabled us to keep going and then from that point it was hard the funding was hard even after that it was still hard because it was an expensive film I was pretty adamant on the fact that it'd be global from that just from the perspective of I felt like these were. Really uniquely global ideas it was actually that's something that's magical about the fashion street is one of a few things that connects the whole planet. And I didn't want it just to be a bangled ass story because I didn't want it to just be like relegated to a bangled ass problem I really wanted to kind of have this like contrast and then this collage feel. And that's not that's not easy you know as you know so. It was hard to because I think a lot of people there hadn't been a film quite like this and it's hard maybe you have the same experience it's hard when you're not doing something that's really like I actually had someone say to me like I'm not interested. But if you do like a food film. Like I'm shocked you know it's interesting how there's these things. And the biggest costs here are pretty much travel right yeah I mean it was it was I say expensive it wasn't huge but it was yeah it was just a cost of travel. Well it depends who you're talking to if you're talking to Joe Shimell oh my god that's huge but like I think a lot of times with documentary filmmakers or people in the industry. They have certain ideas of you know a couple hundred thousand dollars okay that's like a that's a decent budget that's an affordable budget. Yeah compared to you know others who might look at a different for sure no it's true and we so we basically we took some of what we had we started. And we would kind of constantly we were constantly cutting little pieces of what we're filming together like I remember the first trip we took after the kick the kick start campaign. Was we went to Bangalore and I remember we met. We met Schema I remember that I remember we met Schema and we spent who's we had a local fixer journalist there on the ground who really got. That was one of the biggest challenges in every country was it's it's a strange thing to go into someone's country and say. Yeah I'm not from here and I want to like dig into some of the worst stories of what you're so. We spent some time getting allies around the world like that that was a really powerful thing and then once we'd get them on our side like we'd go into the country and we'd spend time. Like in Bangalore Schema we spent time interviewing. Just talking to tons and tons and tons and tons of. Garment workers and in in DACA because I remember I just I remember knowing early on a few things we knew as we knew we needed a character who was kind of emblematic of. Millions of people like her and we met Schema I remember she was that last person we met that day and I just knew you know I have that feeling with you just know sometimes I should know. And so when we came back from that first trip we cut together a little bit of her story and I remember thinking that gave me a lot of confidence because I remember thinking. There's just those moments and you know this along the way where you're like this is going to work. Yeah it's challenging as this still looks as daunting as this whole thing still is. I know at the heart this is this is like this is going to be powerful you know so we would come back we would show those things we try to raise some more money and we kind of just did that. All the way through just kept going we really did I mean all the way down to the point where like it was sometimes like one country at a time. And even in post I remember even in post we were still raising some of the money that we needed just to finish the film and give them together. Yeah I don't think a lot of people realize what it takes to make a feature like documentary like you said sometime just look at it and it seems straightforward it seems so easy. But that's the one thing the advice that I give everybody is just start small if it's if it's a if you're a filmmaker and you want to make a featured documentary start out by making a trailer and like you said no matter what you're always going to have to. When people over whether it's your producers or it's the people that are funding the project or if it's the people that you're trying to interview that's one thing we did like very true. I was a unknown filmmaker at the time. Josh and Ryan had an audience they were the producers as well as being in the film so that helped us a lot because they had they had a decent audience that they could say hey well like they write for you know whether it's a million people a month or whatever it is. But at the same time when you're trying to reach out to people like Dan Harrison Sam Harris who themselves when you have a large following or your attention is at max capacity. They get these requests all the time. So for us it was hey let's you know shoot a couple interviews do some you know take some be-roll and some news clips put together a short little teaser trailer we'll put a teaser out there maybe we'll make a private trailer that we can just share with them. And say hey this is what we're working on that is like the the biggest way to build that momentum huge and that's the thing that you can do now that you can never do absolutely. No that's really true and that's well said because it is tough getting to the people you want to get to his tough. And it is like a climbing on influence on influence on influence like it's a. Yeah no that's it's really true and I also like I just I've I continue to have this very personal approach that's like. I just want to go. I want to act on the inspiration really fast like I've just found that I'm the kind of person that like when something hits me like that article hit me. Stay any I call the shop. Just having that sense of knowing having that sense deep inside of me that like I know. I for some reason and need to go tell this story. I like I want to put it in motion I want to get out. I always think about like when I go on a run like I'm an amateur runner and I want to run as far as I can and one direction. Because I'll have to come back like it's the same thing for me with these projects where like they are so difficult. And by the time they end they are so challenging that part of it's like if you knew it at the beginning you know all that like. Anyway that's what you would know but the other part of it is like not it's what you're speaking to. Not overthinking it just being like I know the next step now I know the next step now I know that and I remember thinking that like who cares. Who cares if we those problems will be solved because we will have to solve them like we will make we will make finishing easier and less costly than abandoning that's like I don't know there's a formula to that to me where it's like. Thrust the thing into motion things that are moving are so much harder to stop you know things that are just static I talk to people there's too many people that walk around and on my worst days I do it you walk around and you. Talk about an idea as if an idea is just going to magically but man when you start to just put that thing into motion you start to do those steps like you're talking about it's it becomes it then begins to have the the illusion of being inevitable and that's like a magical quality you know when you take ownership over your work and you actually learn the craft like you did. You have so much more power and flexibility so like you said like there's no way that you couldn't finish the film like if I didn't know how to edit or shoot or do any of these things or you then you would be you know you would have to really try hard to find somebody to work on a project for free and anybody who is good isn't going to do it for free unless that you're best friend even then. Yeah, they probably wouldn't get a little bit but since since we have these skills we've crafted it we learned it even if it's not the big grand vision and you're always leading to a project you have these big grand visions and picture how it's going to look and it's always going to have these beautiful. Like landscape shots before every city and it's going to be this and that and then nothing ever comes of those specific ideas because you just can't predict where projects going to take you. Which by the way the disappointment of that let down I think is what makes you go make the next one I always think that if you were to make the thing that was like you thought it was going to be you might just like. Like it was perfect. I really think I mean I always think I always think like I you know there's that. Yeah, saver that feeling of what it can be in your mind and then go make it go get law I mean that that is a good struggle. Yeah, I think come out the other side and then all the things that didn't then you could try again. Like there's like we're I feel like we quickly forget the pain that we go through on these projects. I don't know because like even within a week of finishing to like getting color grade and sound and everything I'm done never again. I'm like I always. Oh man I couldn't even imagine starting a new project right now. I always think about in that last like four days. I agree. I always think about though that's why filmmaking is so magical because you have like. You have the seasons like you know when you're in when you're in pre-production and you're thinking and you're drawing and you're writing and you're. Like the sky's the limit and it's like so wonderful and then you go make the thing and you're like you know you're you're just you're getting diseases and you're not like you're you're. Sleeping in airports and you're just you're just it's grueling in a way that you're longing to be out of it. And then you're in post and you're in nice rooms that have air conditioning and you're eating out of like styrofoam containers. And by the end of it you're kind of like I want to get back out there though like it's that you know it all feeds itself to me. I think that's what makes it so intoxicating yeah I think that's what's great about filmmaking specifically is that. There's so many different aspects to it and if you are a part of every process which has a director you typically have to be. You it doesn't get very dull for very long. So if you're you know working on pre-production and going traveling around the country filming or traveling around the world. And then like you said in the studio I had the same thing when I was doing client projects is that. Even though a lot of the stuff I would do would be solo it was nice to have the mix up like I like my solitude I like being able to edit by myself get my place. And then to go out and collaborate and people and grow and talent that to me is it is a great mix that doesn't always. I don't think a lot of professions actually have that which is great yeah. What advice would you give to people who were looking to to start out on a new project like something that's that's big that they haven't they got this idea. But they haven't really figured out how to take the first step forward. Well I mean I think break it down into pieces I mean I'm a huge I make a lot of lists you know I'm the kind of person that like I do a lot of my thinking. On a legal pad where I just have to get this thing out of my brain so like if you have something you know that that you're really passionate about if you have something that you're you know store that you really want to tell. I think you know just kind of like what you were just doing like break down break it down into pieces you know it'll become a lot more actionable if you can. You know just get it down to like the beginning parts and don't be afraid of like. Step nine ten and a lot just focus on the first few like that that's really liberating also think. I remember getting the advice really early on that I have I've constantly thought about that when you're first starting out. You you won't be as good as other people. But you could do yourself a big service by doing something that you know like do do something on a topic or in an area that you have such a deep sense of knowing that your personal. You'll get more like authority from the fact that you have had the lived experience of something and that will help out way. Some of what you're still learning in regards to craft and structure and some of those things and I think about that like when when we made after the end. You know we had no money we had no we had so many things stacked against us. And and frankly I was really new at the documentary thing so like for me structuring a whole feature like you know I wasn't as good as I am. Better at that now than I was then but the thing I had going for me was I really knew like I knew the heart of what it was we were doing so I think that for a lot of people that will give you like a. It'll give you like this immeasurable advantage if you can start have your first thing be sounds like a lot of what minimal is what's for you have it becoming from a place that's so rooted that's so personal. You can't help but get it right even if you fumble a little bit you're still gonna be in that spot that people watch and they say that's. That's the real deal you know that's not someone trying to be something they're not that's like. And I think everyone has that I remember growing up thinking like I grew up north of Atlanta I remember like just wishing I was from like the Bronx right I just remember thinking my story was so boring I remember thinking there's nothing in my experience that was unique. And as time goes on you just realize like you know I man I have I have lived through certain things certain things I know you know and I think that's true for anyone listening there's things about your story that you don't maybe realize but if you if you're if you're thoughtful about it if you listen really look at your life you'll see those things that are like. Tools they're they're your best tools you know I think that's probably the best advice that you can give it's it's not like the practical how to do this do that but it's funny stories that you can't not tell and when you find those stories. It doesn't matter it doesn't matter how it gets made it doesn't really matter whether you do a cross fade here or if you it's a straight cut. Those tiny details will work themselves out they're the smallest problems that a lot of times we get caught up on these things though and we. Distract ourselves by these tiny little details like oh I can't all I can't record a podcast for my apartment because I don't have soundproof rooms and there's going to be a little bit of an echo there and like those are the things that like yeah. For me like they they they come into my mind yeah sometimes they win most of the time though I'm like I'm like no like I need to actually just create keep making keep pushing myself forward. And then tell stories that you can't not tell well that's why I think it's so empowering about the work you're doing with this show is I think that that really is that that's. People get hung up with I get hung up that a lot and it is it has to be like. I was I was talking to my husband author and he was talking about how when he meets people and they're like I might write this book he's like well then you're not because if you might then like it's way too hard and I what you just said about like. Find a story you can't not tell it's like I always think about that now having gone through it a few times I think like it is such a difficult endeavor that at the beginning I have to be. Absolutely floored by these ideas like the curiosity has to be so high my passion has to be like off the charts because it's going to have to get me through all the way to the end quite frankly I'll have moments now where things will come on my radar. Or my works transitioning a little bit where you know you put stuff out there just as you have and people bring stuff to you and that's kind of a new thing. And I have to sit with ideas sometimes because I think like sometimes they go in the pretty good category my wife helps me a lot with that where we just are like yeah that that could be a good film. But that's like that's not enough like that that's enough to get me through like months to but like yeah man there's a point down there on the path where like that's going to fizzle out if it's not that thing that has to be and like what I love about what you're doing to is like. I love I love taking the curtain down and having more honest conversations about the process because there is so much of it that is like a great film is a great illusion it's it it's like anything creative or artistic that it is made to make you think that it is accidentally excellent by it's very structure it is designed to. You know make it feel like it just happened like you just rolled out the can like it's just here it is like and I think it's cool I love hearing and I love talking to people like you about all of those other moments because they are fascinating where it's like yeah and then this thing failed and then we tried this film and that fell apart and then this fail but you just like. I don't know it them again it's like the more you know that's part of the process you're like okay yeah cool like other people but for a long time it was kind of like maybe that's something you're. Attacking with the show here is like for a long time it was like just straighted up into the right like success and success and success and you don't talk about anything that didn't work out just the way you know yeah well that's because that's the. What we push out there and we try to put our best selves out whether it's even if it's a topic that's very hard to discuss we do want to make sure that. All right if I'm going to put this film out or if I'm going to put out this website I want to make sure that it's really well really well thought out really intentional which is I think the right way to go about it. At the same time you don't see the full story you don't see the edits and the read it's and in a lot of ways. You can't show that in a final product in a final film you can't just because you shoot hundreds and hundreds of hours of footage and then. There's no way to to unless somebody's going to sit through and watch everything with you to really fully understand the context of every single scenario. And that's one of the biggest challenges as a filmmaker is to say how can I be. Hold keep my integrity intact keep the integrity of the film intact tell these stories while also editing them down significantly. And I think yeah that's true and I think that's what's you know what I said earlier about like the complicating my life has never been. The desire to be a filmmaker it's like you have to. Like at your core you have to be the kind of person whatever medium whatever type of work you're doing have to be the kind of person that. Loves on a visceral level what it is you're doing and I made people sometimes and I think. Maybe they're not in the right capacity like I hear I hear this sometimes I hear this story of struggle of like you know how difficult it is and I think like maybe they're. And I think like maybe they're playing to like someone else's script like maybe they're maybe they're following like an imaginary role that they because I would say like you know you're in the right spot when it is like. Really hard when like everything is not working when it is not going according to plan and yet somewhere in you is like but I'm in the right place like I'm you know I mean by that like I'm I I I feel like I'm. There's a there's a piece like on a very visceral level that like this is the fight I want to be having in my life you know I mean like we're going to have a struggle I want this struggle like I really. Yeah, I don't know I think that that takes people. Time and I think for me like I've had to kind of wear different hats and figure out like what part of that process and my best at but. Man those are the best is when you're you're you're you're saying I know it's going to be hard like I'm going in now just knowing I'm signing up for something that is like. Really difficult yeah and I love it. I haven't even thought about that though it's because there are people that are struggling right now but they don't believe in the path that they're heading down so it makes it that much more difficult it makes it that much more dire. But it's so much easier to take on the challenges and the struggles because no no matter what everybody has problems in their life and without problems life would be incredibly boring. But when you know in your heart that you're heading in the right direction even if you don't know which direction you're headed. That I think is is so important and something that you can you can replace yeah. All right cool you want to do quick questions yes quick questions not quick answers so if we're to elaborate if you want but I just kind of. Put together a few questions here directed to help people who are just getting started out on their journey or they might be hitting some roadblocks. Do you have one book that's made the biggest impact on your life and got you and you think differently. I think the war of art was the one for me. Stephen Presfield yeah so good I think about it every single day really I just don't think I ever go through a day with nothing about that idea of. They're being like resistance they're being like an actual battle like when you go to make something that it's it's not like you. Pick the right medium and then you got on your path and you pick the right project and that then it's like going to sail. Is that like you wake up in the morning knowing even with all those things that we've just been talking about in place. But there is just a very real battle inside of you that there is a really a battle between facing the thing that you're supposed to be making. And all the other parts of your brain and all the other parts of you that just want to. Take a detour take an off ramp take a you know what I mean like yeah there's two two other books that are kind of connected to that similar thoughts on writing by Stephen King who. He writes about just sitting down and writing every single day like he'll write on Christmas his birthday his wife's birthday doesn't matter he writes every single day to fight the resistance. The other one is deep work by Cal Newport which I just finished amazing and it's funny like I thought about you when reading it because. Well when trying to find you online not very easy to find don't have social media from what I can see right. Imagine that's intentional and by design what was the reason was that because you didn't want that distraction or was there another no I think it was just a distraction I'm really easily distracted and I you know. Yeah and I also just like it took up too much it just took up too much mental energy for me it like I began to realize that I'm the kind of person that like I need to let stuff like. Well up inside of me so they almost like combust and if I always have a way to like let off the steam like I always have a way to like get just a little bit out here and there it takes away from some. Factor some drive that motivates me to say. For some reason I'm the kind of person like I don't need to say something every day like I want to say something every year too and I want to have it really put together in a certain way. Yeah, but there's this this is not good or bad, it's not right. Yeah, but there is a misconception that today in 2018 you have to be connected on Twitter and Instagram like if you want to be a successful. Creative if you want to be an entrepreneur run your own business you need to be on social media and I love the fact that you're not on there improves that you can still tell really important stories. It's like the fear of missing out that's like the most really real part of our. But it's the same it's the journey it's the same party may doesn't go to Hollywood cocktail parties anymore it's just like I just hit a point where I was like I'm. I'm done believing in the idea that what's lacking from my opportunities is being seen by the right person and I much more in the like. What's lacking from the ceiling on my opportunity has everything to do with the quality of my work and I have to own that and for me like I have a very simple job I have a very simple thing I'm trying to do in the world. And so to tell these stories and get better at it and better at it and better and to be in it for the long haul it's like really really. I don't know that just says something about where my energy has to come from and where it has to go and there's other people I mean people like you people like well a lot of friends we've just been talking about have all sorts of. They have a reason to be doing it I just I just don't yeah well I've I've recently decided to get more intentional because. It does act as a bit of an addiction it's but for a lot of people and for me even where. If the first thing you do when you wake up is check your Instagram feed to see how you're posted from the day before that I don't think that's a healthy habit I think that. We need to be more mindful about how we are using these technologies and for me it got a little bit out of hand because. This past year was really when I started the podcast and started to push my own original content so unknowingly that just kind of crept up on me totally and I was like I felt like I had to check. Had to respond to every comment had to do all these things but then reading a book like deep work I'm like take a step back I'm like what's the most important thing it's just making. Amazing work that can hopefully inspire and influence people and a lot of times I don't need to hear people's feedback like when you make a film you get some some close confidence to give you feedback. A lot of times you have to go with your gut though and figure out which direction you want to hit so I've been more intentional and one of the ways I'm doing it is just scheduling posts so I'll do. Even so I emailed you this morning and I because I checked my email once a day and I checked social media once a day and it's scheduled at 7 a.m. So I'll like say if I have a podcast you have to be a little bit more thoughtful I'll be like. Hey Andrew by the way I just want you know I'm I'm not going to be on email at rest of the day if you need me here's my phone number. So you can do things like that and then I don't have to be like oh I'm going to check I want to make sure oh is he is he running late oh let me check that you know and then. I do that for everything there's certain things you plan ahead you might miss some opportunities but that's totally fine if somebody needed me to respond today in order for that to happen. But it's been a lot more productive for me I'm actually more comfortable being bored and doing nothing so if I like you know like I don't need to hop away from the edit to like go on read it and see what's happening on CNN or whatever. It just makes you that much more focused on your your goals and you I think you get you become more patient when you're not always tapped into it. Yeah I think it's well said I really do especially if you're making something creatively I think you have to have that space because even if it's not social media for me it's like picking up a magazine or reading newspaper it's like. I I'm still fighting that fight of like no like I it's okay to like wrestle with those ideas that I was reading about this morning and just to think about them for you know I mean like that's a. There's a degree to which you can be better at producing as a as a creative or you can be more effective. You know would you rather spend 40 hours editing this trailer would you rather spend 20 hours but like be more mindful about every hour you put into it. Just because you're you're creating really great work doesn't mean that you can improve it in in subtle ways to. And I also think there's seasons you know I think like there's seasons that come and go and I'm I'm beginning to be more okay with that like we're going to start doing press for this new film and there will be a. A period of time during which my routines will be very different and my days will look a little different and I'll be. And that's okay you know like now that I've gone through that a couple times I'm like okay like I know what that is I know what that takes I know what that does I know why I'm doing it. And and then I get on the other side of it and I have you know I mean like that's I think that's also been part of it for me is I think a lot of people fight to get the perfect day. I used to do that only like I feel like tomorrow I'm going to get it. Yeah, I'm going to make a single thing and just realizing every week's different you know and yeah and to be okay with the days that you're not as productive totally yeah totally. What drives you. I think a sense of curiosity but I think more specifically a sense of somewhere inside of me is the. Unwavering belief that we can. Create a better future I just I've never been okay with the world that we've been handed and I think it. At moments it breaks my heart at moments it makes me angry at moments it makes me restless and frustrated and patient but but always I think I just have this feeling like. We're just on one step of the journey like we are alive at a moment of tremendous opportunity and all that but but but the important part is just that like we're one step in a journey like. All the different pieces of history have built to give us the world that we find ourselves in today and to not wake up in the morning and want to be about challenging and shaping and offering ideas for how we could take the next step forward is. Is like insane to me it's the only thing that's really interesting to me is yes context for how we got here I love history. Yes real eyes and ears to see where we are right now and that takes deep deep observation for me but then what do we do with it like what what do we how do we take from this moment how do we take from what we've learned what we now know and how do we shape something better moving forward because if we're not what are we doing like if we're not doing that like I don't really know why any of us are doing anything but if there is the belief that we could make something better up ahead if there is the belief that we can continue to. We can continue to thinker with this thing we can continue to. That that's like tremendously motivating to me. Well said where do you go when you're feeling doubt. I feel like that's like so much of. My car my home I got all the time yeah we're like who do you go to you know one things I think I do is I go to people there's only a couple of people who know me really really well and there people who've been on the journey with me for a long time and I think they do a tremendous job of affirming to me. Who who I am and and where I am you know like I've had some experiences even in the last couple years some just tremendous hit the wall failures and. professionally the very small team that I work with as well as personally a couple of relationships in my life have been people who have just said. This doesn't change anything you know you fail you you had a really good intention to make something great and it didn't work out the way you wanted it to work out. So what like so so you're still you we didn't love you because of the work we love you because of you that. I'm emotionally thinking about I mean that just that I think that's what keeps me going and I think to be totally honest even in the filmmaking process a couple of the guys that I work very closely with. I think that's the only reason I got through. I think it's the only way I push through you know even when making the true cost there were some really really really difficult parts that journey and just not just physically but just emotionally. I don't think I realized till after the fact just how much of a toll. It was taking and some of the things that we were experiencing. And it was really really powerful to have people that just say yeah like I'm here to I see it too and on and on the days that I was really down they were up somehow. You know the days that I was up they were a little bit down somehow you know so I for whatever that's worth I think about that a lot I think about. Whoever you are whatever you're working on find find a way to do it with other people and some fashion you know find a way to like crush that stereotype of the the solo artists just struggling. I just there are people who want to help you there are people that want to go where you're going there are people that really could add to what you're doing. I feel like you can learn from people that like could learn from you and like find a way to do that because without that I just I look back and I think man I would be I would be really lost I think. I couldn't have done done it without my co-producers without having a team there for so many reasons like just not being capable not having the connections not being able to execute. What they were able to bring to the table but also the fact that like there is it's like a team effort like I grew up playing baseball and I missed that through college and and as I started to work as a professional especially working as a solo entrepreneur. I kind of I crave that and like now I play softball and like I you know I do some things for fun and you kind of get that in but I also noticed I got that from working on a team through this film. You push each other further you help each other get over doubt and most of the times you're not feeling doubt at the same exact time and if somebody is then you tend to overcome it yourself and it helps you to push them and. I think that creating a team no matter how small and you know what even if like you don't have people that you can you that you can find that can work with you right now you can find friends that can. You can bring along on the journey and say hey can you help like every once in a while if I can come to you for advice that we've been helpful. There's there's a lot of people out there and people that are willing to help. Yeah we'll see. A couple more here what skill have you leveraged in a way that you think others haven't. Hmm. I think. I think earlier on than some people. I think I came to a very real. Awareness of what I was good at and what I wasn't and I have a very small skill set like it's very limited a lot of some people have like wide range I very very small range my skill set and it has a lot to do with. Being like the spark being the person who who who who believes and being the person who can because of that belief like convince other people you know whether that be. Team members are financing or you know whatever it is like I I really I'm very good at being like the heart of the project or or the work. But I'm not the smartest person at a variety of the skill sets it takes and I think very early on I just became aware of how much of my energy I could spend trying to get better at those things versus I could partner with people and trust people who were really really good in those areas and I think if there's anything I've done well as I've trusted people. I really have trusted people who are better than me and I'm not just that's not a that's just a factual statement I this guy who I work as an editor and. Producer sometimes who he he genuinely is one the smartest people that I've ever known and he from a technical standpoint and a narrative standpoint he's just really really good. So I could struggle along and like do something solo in my my you know space alone or I could connect him and in front of the beginning I've connected and with there's just that collaboration that rub that push and pull that like. I don't know I don't know other people haven't done that I assume other people do it too I just think. I am very very. Confident increasingly so about a very very small list of things that I offer and then I bring to the table and everything else is sort of like I need to find that you know like I'm not going to pretend I have it I'm not going to go learn it I'm just going to be totally honest and we're going to build a team accordingly. And I think you know from a filmmaker's perspective like there were people that I was in school with who you know you ever meet those people I'm sure you've you've worked them where you're just like I don't think you're cut out to be a filmmaker in the sense that like people know you like. It's almost like you should have been a novelist like there's something home it I mean seriously like you should be a patriot because filmmaking is messy and it's collaborative and it's a team effort and it's. You're passing the ball back and forth and you're constantly and I just happen to love that you know I think I that's part of what's so intoxicating about the process is like that's not an annoyance to me that's actually like. Part of the thrill. All right two more questions and then we'll wrap up one thing people should read watch or listen to before they go to bed. I'm reading Walter Isaacson's book on Leonardo da Vinci right now and it's just blowing my mind he's an amazing writer. He's so good and I think for anyone you know that listens to your show and anyone making things anyone the in the art of. Creating anything I think it just. Oh my gosh, it's just it's just real it is like one of a few things in a long time that has like changed my perception of just how much capacity. Human beings have you know and just how much you can also relate to it and you would do as a documentary. Filmmaker because one things he did so well he he like combined and borrowed from several different categories. And Isaacson makes the link to Steve Jobs and that but it's kind of it's that interesting thing of like math and. These things over here and science and then art and then the where he'd connect them is where he'd like find the magic you know and I think that's like. It encourages me just to get outside of my space and that's that's what I would I think that's what I would recommend anyone is like watch or read. Or listen to something that has nothing to do with what you're doing like we live in Los Angeles which I love dearly. But I'm amazed at the amount of people that are so focused on the thing that they're doing that like they kind of just everything they consume is in that like vortex of Hollywood and that kind of. And I just I find the most inspiration when I just fear like way outside of my. Required reading required in and just find something that's like you know it reminds me all over again of like why the whole thing is interesting to me to begin with. That's great. And last question how should people connect with you online. I just I just realized that I was like I couldn't even connect with you online. I had to go through a friend. That's a great question. There's if you if you really want to write me a note if you send a note to info at untold.la it'll get to me. And I'm working I actually really am working on a website. So I think this spring. I'll have a place for the first time that kind of puts my work together and organize it and makes that process a little easier. Yeah, and more importantly check out the true costs for after the end those are two great documentaries. Andrew, thanks for coming on the show. Thanks for having me. That's been great. That's a podcast for today. Andrew Morgan. What a legend. That podcast went pretty long. It was nearly two hours. Most of the time I keep these to like an hour and hour and 15. But when we get into that zone. I don't want to stop because I just feel like those are the conversations and the stories that you guys are going to get the most value from. And these are things that I create and put out there. And it's it's evergreen as they say in the business. So it's always going to be up there. It's always going to be online. You can go back to this podcast. Listen to it down the road. People who pick up this podcast a year from now can go back and listen to it. But Andrew Morgan, amazing. I can't wait for the heretic. I'm really excited about that. If you haven't seen any of his early documentary is the true cost is a good one to start with. Anybody who's in alignment with the minimalist message will really get some value out of that one. It was. It's a heartbreaking film in a lot of ways. But I opening and like Andrew said in our conversation one of my favorite things about what he stands for is that he's not trying to make you feel guilty. He's just trying to open your eyes to some new stories. And maybe you can take that baton and help him tell the next version of the story. One more pitch for questions. Send your questions to the podcast. I'm I'm really excited because I'm starting to get some of these questions and they're really thoughtful. They're really good. They're questions that I haven't yet asked on the show. So if you think that you can bring a question to the table that we haven't yet heard a topic that we haven't yet covered in the podcast, I would love to hear from you. Record a video on your phone. Nice and simple. He doesn't have to be pretty. You don't have to be pretty. I'm not. So you can record that video on your phone email at email. To hello at Matthewvillet.com. If you don't know how to spell my last name. Hello. H-E-L-L-O at Matthewvillet. M-A-T-T-D-A-V as in Victor E-L-L-A. Nice and simple. Get as detailed on these in these questions as you want. Provide the proper context. I just ask that you keep them under two minutes. Send those in email me. And we'll get you on the air. Exciting. That's the podcast for today. See you guys next week.
