# How I Pack for Travel (Carry-On Only)
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BtNAX36j1c4
❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** how to pack, packing tips, travel tips, minimalism, simple living, travel, simple travel, experiment, how to, carry-on, matt davella, Matt D'Avella, 
**Date:** 2019-03-19

## Transcript
 Packing can be a mini experiment in minimalism. You're trying to decide what you'll need over a short trip, reducing the amount of just in case items and packing just the things you'll actually use or the things you think you'll use. I'm heading home to New Jersey to visit my family for the weekend. So I thought I'd show you how I pack for travel. I'll do a recap at the end of the video to see if I actually ended up using all of the things I packed. Last year I was a partner in crowdfunding a bag called the Packed One. It was a bag that was used by Josh and Ryan in our documentary minimalism. It's super creative. I love it and there aren't many bags like it. But as my life has changed over the past year, so to have my travel needs. I've started to bring more camera gear with me for every trip I take with the weight of my tripod, cameras, lenses and accessories. I realized I needed to find a different solution with wheels. So after months of researching and testing this set up through multiple international and domestic trips, this is what I've found works really well for my needs. So this is the away travel bag. The first thing I noticed about it was that it did feel a bit flimsy, a bit light, but they did that intentionally, so obviously the bag wouldn't be too heavy and so far over the past six months or so of using it. It's worked out great. I'm going away for four days, so I got four charcoal t-shirts. I've got two gray t-shirts. It's charcoal or like my everyday shirts. The gray are basically my gym shirt, socks, my one pair of jeans. I am wearing sweatpants or as I call them my plain pants. I got them because of all these long trips that I've been taking to Sydney. I don't often wear sweatpants. They've come in handy. I got five pairs of underwear. Just a rule I've always had ever since I was a kid. Always bring an extra pair of underwear. You never know what's going to happen. 2018, Salmonella. All right. I'm going to roll these up a little bit. There's a lot of packing experts that will roll up the shirts and roll every piece of clothing up so tight, but I don't bring that much stuff with me, so I don't need to really be that crazy and that vigilant with space. So I'll just kind of throw those in there. So I'm currently doing a 30 day experiment of waking up at 5 a.m. every day. Typically, I would go home and just have my parents cure egg and just kind of suck it up for a couple days, but being that I'm waking up at 5 a.m. every day. I need to bring some legit coffee. So I've got coffee grinder here. This is my arrow press. It's got a metal filter in there. And it's everything I need to make coffee. That slides right in there, which is nice. So two pairs of gym shorts for exercising while on the road. I got one pair of mesh shorts. Like this will be my everyday walk around the house and be comfortable shorts. This is my, like a wife beater. Kind of like my pajamas, basically sunglasses. Some ribbons. Now the other side. So this is my deconstructed Manfrotto B3 tripod. And just put this apart so it's easier to fit in here. Super light, super small, great for travel. Next up, I've got my drone cases within cases. I normally wouldn't travel with this big case, but it's going to fit and also if I travel with two little, then this tripod can can shake around and move all over the place. So it kind of adds like a little bit of extra padding in here to make sure that everything is nice and tight. I've got my toiletry bag here filled up with toiletries, shaver, razor guy, all the stuff that you need. And then Nat's got other stuff packed in her bag that I can use as well. Well, stuff in nice and tight. That's it. I mean, shit. It doesn't get much easier than actually, that's not it. I lied. I have another bag. Yes, another bag. This is my backpack. It is the peak design bag. It's really clever. I know a lot of people are going to say, oh my god, Matt, you travel with two bags. That's not very minimalist. And I don't really care. I don't care what you think. This is what works for me. Minimalism has to fit within your own life. And I find that this is the best way these days for me to travel. The reason why I do have a backpack is because I always want to be able to quickly access my camera gear, like the one I'm holding right now, my drone. If I'm traveling to a hard to get places, if I'm taking a hike up a mountain, I can't have a roller bag, having a really heavy over the shoulder bag won't work either. So having a backpack has been the best way for me to travel these days. One of my favorite things about traveling with this particular setup is that when I'm running for the airport, it works every time. I can throw my bag right down there. There's a nice little paneling in there that helps to hold my bag and tie so I don't have any weight on my back, which is really good for lazy people like me. I don't know where I'm going. So this bag requires some explaining before we get into it, because it's kind of confusing, but also very inventive at the same time. It can be open from the top. Like this, boom, and you can put stuff right in the top. It's got these different latches, so it's got an overflow mode. If I have a ton of shit, you can latch up like that, but you can also tuck it in really tight. It's also accessible from the side. So you can actually have these straps around your arm, and then open these bags and have it accessible while you're carrying it. It's also compartmentalized. So you have these different dividers in here. That can be just moved around and shuffled around to fit your exact needs. And also side pockets right here to fix or stuff in it on both sides. I'm just going to tuck in these batteries down here underneath this very bottom section, just to keep everything organized. Let's just pretend this is my Sony A7R2 with my 16 to 35 millimeter G master lens. I'm using it right now. So it's going to be why we're doing that. I can tuck that in there. And then we can tuck in the microphone, little jobby tripod vlogging set up. I do have some stuff already packed in here on the side. And every pen, just in case, I have chronic utacarian angiodemo, which is really a non-severe disease, but it could cause throat swelling. So there's that, and it's there just in case. Nothing to worry about. A little hard drive. I'll pack my air pods in here. Much this guy up. There is spot here for my laptop. It's actually a couple spots in here. This top pouch right here is where I'm going to put my eyemask that at handy for the plane. Usually through my wallet in there too. It's pretty secure. Keys. There's another like little secret pouch in here that's magnet shut because I'm not going to be needing my keys on this trip. Allergy pills. This is also because of that chronic utacarian. I'm going to slide my hoodie in here because I don't really want to wear it. It's not that cold out now, but I will need it for the plane. Bose noise canceling headphones. Quite comfort for that there. My glasses. I need these to see. Charger. Which I probably put in the other bag. I'm going to put it in the other bag. Let's just pretend that I did that before. I have a packed up already. But you can see. I have three batteries. Spare batteries for this camera. So now I've got five six batteries. Total including the one in the camera. My apple. iPhone charger. And I've got a charger for the battery. That's actually installed on my bag. My other bag. See you later. And that's that. That's it. That's how I pack. Now I'm actually going to go to New Jersey and hang out with my family for four days. And we'll see what I actually use and what I don't use. I'm looking around because I'm like, did I forget anything? It's time to see how I did. How did I pack? Did I use everything that I left with? No. But that's pretty close. I think it did pretty good. Let's check it out. Yes. I did use my tripod. I used my drone. Most of my toiletries. Ooh. I actually went through all of my coffee. So I actually underpacked on coffee. That's what happens when you have six siblings. They will steal your coffee. I didn't wear this. I only worked out once. So I only ended up using one of those. There's a shorts. I did not use my sunglasses. I had one extra pair of underwear. I wanted that to be clear. I did not need my emergency pair. I did end up doing laundry when I was at my parents. That's why everything's clean. And this bag. Oh, yeah. I mean, I used everything in here. I used the cameras. I did not use the epipand. So that's another good. Just in case I had done that. I didn't use. Yes. So, you know, I didn't use a couple of things. As expected, you're always going to have a shirt or a pair of underwear that you don't end up using on a trip. But it's fun to try to get as close as you can. Especially knowing that I can do laundry at my parents that I won't run out of things when I'm there. Obviously, for you, you may want to overpack just a little bit if you don't have those options. But that's it. Let me know how you guys pack in the comments below. What bags have you found helpful? The ways have you found that traveling simpler or lighter has helped you. Can't wait to hear from you.
