# I never wash my pants (why you shouldn't either).
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C6gu_ABMvzA
Go to https://squarespace.com/mattdavella to save 10% off your first purchase of a website or domain using code MATTDAVELLA. Thanks to Squarespace for sponsoring this vid!

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** 
**Date:** 2021-07-28

## Transcript
 So, I only have one pair of pants, and I never wash them. I can explain. So whenever I'm having a conversation with somebody, it inevitably comes to the point where we talk about my pants. I mean, I just, I don't know why, it's not like I'm bringing it up, it just happens naturally. Wow, it's so great to finally meet you. I never wash my pants. Oh. Do you want to smell them? Mm. Yeah. Great. Awesome, yeah. Let me just take my pants off, so it's not weird. Have I taken minimalism too far? How can I possibly get by with one pair of pants? What the f*** happened to my mustache? I don't know, I made a mistake, you know? It was one of those things that you just, you just do it, and then you're like, it's going to look good, and then you shave it, and you're like, I'm 12 again. I feel like Jennifer Garner and 13 going on 30, or maybe 30 going on 13, it's just not a good look, and I'm going to grow it back, and I just want to, right now, apologize to everybody. It's not going to say like this, things are going to change, okay, back to talking about my pants. As with every major life decision, it started with a blog post, where it might have been an article, or maybe it was a tweet. So I don't remember all the details, but the important thing is that I read something back in 2010 that said that you don't need to wash your jeans regularly. In fact, it's actually better not to wash your jeans at all, which sounds really gross. And so like everything that I read on the internet, I applied it to my life without fact checking it to see what would happen. And what did I discover? Well, I wore my pants every single day for months without washing them. And on month one, they smelled great, and then on month two, they smelled even better. Okay, maybe they didn't smell better, but they smelled the same. I didn't notice a difference, Natalie didn't notice a difference, people down the street. They looked at me funny, they kept whispering like, oh my god, this guy's pants smell really bad. He must have been wearing them for months without washing them. That didn't happen. I was caught with my pants down, my mind was blown, my reality expanded. Have I been unnecessarily doing laundry for years? Who was holding this information back for me? Was it big pants? Was it the pant lobby? No, actually it turns out that even the president of Levi's swears by this practice. And says that he never washes his jeans. These have yet to see a washing machine. I know that sounds totally disgusting. I know it does. We go into autopilot and after we finish wearing something, we just automatically toss it into the laundry. And a good pair of denim doesn't really need to be washed in a washing machine, except very, very infrequently or rarely. You know, I think it's important to really dig into the why behind this, because you know, it's great that you don't have to wash your pants, but like, but why? Why would somebody choose to not wash their pants for a significant periods of time? First, you get the convenience. You don't have to worry about if your favorite pair of pants are clean, because you got one pair of pants and you just wear them every single day. And, you know, in the same way that wearing the same t-shirt every day, which by the way, you might have already seen, I got a new t-shirt. So wearing the same t-shirt every single day for the past few years has really simplified my wardrobe and allowed me to focus on more important things than what I wear every day. And so in that same way, just having one pair of pants just reduces the amount of decisions that I have to make every day. And when I know that I can wear them over and over again without needing to wash them, it's just one additional thing that makes my life more simple and a little bit more effortless. Second, from an environmental perspective, you're actually using a lot less water. And that's because, instead of having five to seven pair of pants that take up an entire load of laundry, you just got one pair of pants and you never wash them by not having all those pants. You don't have to wash them. You don't have to take care of them. You don't have to worry about when they're bad and you have to replace them. And so yeah, it just works out really well. And third is that your pants last longer when you run them through the wash and the dryer that obviously deteriorates the quality of your pants and they're not going to last nearly as long. Things are going to last you two, three or four times longer than they normally would. Sometimes an odor does build up, Natalie, she definitely would not let me leave the house of my pants melt. So when it does get to that point, maybe it's been a really hot summer and I'm sweating a lot. Maybe I've been traveling a lot and flying on planes. It's much less often. And that has led to a few moments where I was actually left painless. All right, let's go, we've got 15 minutes till the dryer. I don't have any pants. Are you f***ing me again? Looks like we know who wear the pants in this relationship and man, don't say that. But otherwise, if I want to clean them, I'll just do a bit of spot treatment, I'll grab a towel, a little bit of water. If I spill coffee on myself, I'll just rub out the stain and that's that. Here's where a common sense comes in, maintaining proper hygiene is important. If you think that your jeans are getting smelly after a month, then wash them. It really depends on a number of factors from how sweaty you get to how often you wear them and if you're using public transportation. Seriously, I don't trust subway seats after living in New York for over five years. I've seen too much shit, literally. So if you're somebody who's looking for that one pair of pants, the pair of pants, it's going to change your life. I want to give you some specific recommendations and advice for picking out that pair of pants because I'm telling you, it seems like an easy thing to do, but I have tried on so many different pairs. Even when it comes to the t-shirts that I wear, I go through dozens and dozens to try to find the right fit, the one that's going to last the longest. So I've got some specific advice that I want to share with you. But before I get there, I've got to thank my sponsor Squarespace. Squarespace has been a sponsor of this channel all year and I recommend them because I truly love their platform and I get so much value for what they provide. Whether you're content creator, business owner, or creative, Squarespace is the perfect place for your internet home. Why do I use and recommend Squarespace? Good question. The website builder is super intuitive and easy to use. You can select from a range of beautiful templates, plug in your message, and publish your site in no time. I can easily add my social media accounts and my email sign up for them. And I can buy domains instead of my G Suite email accounts directly with Squarespace. For me, this is great because I don't have to concern myself with the back and technical stuff. I go to that. I just want to have my vision and bring it to life and Squarespace is really great at allowing me to do that. Go to Squarespace.com for a free trial. And when you're ready to launch, go to Squarespace.com slash Matt Dihevella to save 10% off your first purchase of a website or domain. Okay, so I do want to wrap this video up with some legitimate advice about how to go about getting the perfect pair of jeans because this is not an easy thing to do. I've purchased many, many jeans in my life. I've worn them realized after two weeks that they looked terrible on me or I hate them. I got to stop getting bleach jeans. That's just, this is my mistake, you know, that's my bad. But I'd have found a pair of jeans that I love that I can wear every day and that I have been wearing for the past probably eight years. Every couple of years, I do have to replace them because I wear them so frequently. But it's the same pair of pants that I go back to every time. So first, if you're looking to get a pair of jeans, what I recommend is get something that's, that's really tight. Really when I, when I, you know, go into the dressing room to try on the pants, I get like a size that feels too small and it's just so tight and so uncomfortable. But especially if you're not going to wash your jeans after every single use, you're going to notice that the fit, it starts to loosen up. Jeans naturally loosen up and so I want to make sure I don't need to wear a belt with my pants and so they should be a little bit tightly uncomfortable when you're first wearing them. But then after about four or five days, they'll fit to the point where they'll stay for the course of months until you wash them again and then they'll end up being a little bit tighter and then you'll loosen up again. Now the exact pair of pants that I use, I have them here. These are my pants, I know, so special. And they are actually Levi's, so Levi's is not a sponsor of this video, although if the CEO of Levi's is watching this video, your flies down, Levi's are great, they're just like, they're not designer pants, I don't need like $300 pants, I think these costs, when they were on sale, I think I got them for like 60 bucks or something. But they're good, they are the five tents, so they're skinny, they're on the skin of your side and they are night shine. Night shine is like the color, so it's just the black pair of pants. I do replace my pants every couple of years, and the reason I'm making this video in that, I even thought to make it is because I recently had to get new pair of pants, and I was like, I'm just going back to those old pair of pants, so these are, this is the wear and tear after about two or three years of everyday use, it starts to get a little faded, you can see on these ones, these are fresh, look at that, a little bit of fading, the big problem for me, why I end up getting new ones is that little crotch hole, I couldn't, you know, can't be going on public like that, I'm telling you, like, I don't go out smelling it, I don't go out with holes in my pants, even though that is a style, but at this point, these pants are retired, now I got a fresh pair, life is good, I mean, what more can I say, about pants, you know, I just, I think out of all the videos that I've made, I'm going to be honest, I think this one, this one's going to change the world. No, but like, I truth, I truth, I truly think that we should be questioning the norm and whether it's how frequently we wash our pants to, hey, can we wear the same t-shirt every day, let's question the norms, let's question our assumptions, let's question the things that we do every single day, just because we feel like we have to, that's the end of this video, thank you guys so much for watching and I will see you next time, I've got to go wash my pants. Are you f***ing kidding me? Jesus f***ing high! I'm finally going anywhere, I mean, yeah, I think that's the end of that video, okay, we've got to pull back, that was so, it felt real. Did you actually get scared? Yeah. I told you, I had to deploy our animation drama.
