# A Tiny House Tour in Iceland
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cITOMzbaaMg
Get exclusive videos:  http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Could you live here? We stayed in this cool tiny house/cottage/hotel while we were in Iceland. It was pretty neat. Here's what we think of the place.

This was video is not sponsored. We paid the full rate at Harbour View and got no discount for making this video. For those interested in staying here... https://www.harbourview.is/

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** tiny house, small home, cottage, home, house, tiny, small, tour, apartment tour, house tour, tiny house documentary, off grid house, off grid, declutter, lifestyle, lifestyle design, minimalism, minimalist, simple living, simplicity, off grid house tour, 
**Date:** 2018-09-24

## Transcript
 Natalie and I just went to Iceland. You know, the place where waterfalls are made of skittles, groceries, cost more than rent, and everything is impossible to pronounce. Every mile you drive, you couldn't think this place would look any more alien, but it does. For half of our stay, we shacked up in one of these little homes tucked into the bitesound of freedom, and it was pretty awesome. This is day one in Iceland. Natalie is in the bathroom. Can I say it? Can I say that? And we are about to hit the golden circle. It's like the main touristy type loop in Iceland where you can hit a bunch of different sites. And toilet is super loud. Larger than a hotel room, but much smaller than the average home. What initially drew us to the space was the amazing view of the harbor in view. Probably why they called the place harbor view. There are 10 identical units on a property, and as close as they are, privacy wasn't an issue. It was actually much more private than sharing walls with other guests. Alright, so this is the tiny house hotel that we're staying in. It's pretty cool. I'm going to give you a little tour. The place was thoughtfully designed. It had this hidden refrigerator and a useful kitchenette with a working stove. Cops plates and bowls are stored above the sink. Extra pillows and blankets are located under the main window. Ugly red couch. Bags are hidden in here. For the record, I only put the bags in here for the shoot. Normally we're very messy. The shower moves. I don't know why it does that. Maybe one of you guys know. This is a heated towel rack. I don't know if it's necessary minimalist, but I like it. As thoughtful as most of the design was, if it lacked in one area, it would be lighting. Oh, sorry. Now, I might be pickier than most, but right before bed, I don't want a harsh, bright daylight bulb filling the room. But other than that, everything was great. As a minimalist, I knew that I would love staying in a tiny place, but would not only feel the same way. Now that we're back, tell me, could you live in a tiny house? No. You couldn't. You couldn't. No. I think you could, but you wouldn't. To find lives. Yeah. If we had kids, I don't think I could live in a tiny house. And living in a tiny house, I feel loses the opportunity to entertain. I think both of us could do it. I don't think either of us would want to, with our currently how our lives are set up. Not. Like, think back to Brooklyn, when you had to put all your cosmetics into the kitchen drawer, because we just didn't have an excuse. Like, having, not having my hair straight enough, next to the folks. Yeah. Probably not very sanitary. I mean my hair with a fork. That's multi-purpose. Yeah. That's minimalism. The idea is we probably could do it. We'd have to sacrifice and get rid of a lot of stuff, but it would be sacrifices, which isn't, I don't think, the point of living a simpler life. Yeah. You want to be able to actually still enjoy. And live a full life. Live a full life. Wow. Wow. But in terms of our vacation, how did you like it? I really liked it. When you travel, more often than not, you're locked up in this tiny hotel room, where you're kind of stepping on each other's staff. You're going to plug that in. Oh, you're doing your hair over here. Yeah. You don't get any nooks of privacy. You know, Airbnb's been great for that, but you still get the sense that you're living in someone else's space. So what I liked about this tiny home was that it was service to like a hotel room. Like, we would get 10 overs and cleanups. And it was very clean and put together. But there was a lot more space than you would get in a hotel room. I liked that we had like a fully functioning kitchen and like a fully functioning little lounge space. The bedroom was probably my favorite. I really liked just closing off the rest of the tiny home and then just having this battery size to bedroom that just felt really cozy. Especially for like Iceland, it was so windy outside. I remember that first night we got there. And I was like, I feel like my own full swing. And being able to just like, hold up kind of felt like you were a kid getting cozy inside of your TPE in the lounge room all over again. Like, it was just really nice. Yeah, I think that for something like a vacation, especially in Iceland, the idea isn't to spend too much time in the house. Or in the hotel room. But I really loved the tiny home. It just felt, it felt designed to live there. It was really lovely to the tiny home. It just felt, it felt designed to live in not to win awards. It was really nice. Can you take the backpack? I'll take the towel. Fine, fine. I'm home. If you want to see our entire trip through Iceland, you can get it on my secret vlog. Every month I upload exclusive videos to my Patreon account, giving an intimate look into my work and personal life. It's like my hidden YouTube channel. It's my favorite. I'm like, I'm like, I'm over compensating. This is one of the ways that I'm able to keep this YouTube channel 100% advertisement free. If you've got some value for my videos in the past and if you can afford to spare a couple bucks a week, I would be so grateful for your support. Anyhow, four thumbs up. Thanks for going to the video next time. Never dying this again. That's true.
