# This Completely Changed How I Use Social Media
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cNFdjP_F9sU
My Simple Habits Course is now enrolling! https://slowgrowth.com/simple-habits
☝️🚀

Say hi to my friend Jason: http://wanderingaimfully.com/

🙊 Here are the goods I mention in this video:
https://www.instagram.com/jasondoesstuff
I quit social media for 30 days: https://youtu.be/9z8_YhWoq2o

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** social media, how to quit social media, i quit social media, quitting social media, social media detox, no social media, quit social media, social media marketing, social media addiction, matt d'avella, jason zook, social detox, phone detox, 30 days without social media, no social media for 30 days, 
**Date:** 2020-05-19

## Transcript
 Just over a year ago, I'd say my social media use was pretty typical. Up until that point, I didn't place any limitations or boundaries on how I used it. I'd wake up looking at Instagram, spend much of the day posting to Twitter, and I used Facebook to see my high school classmates fight over politics. You know, how it was intended to be used. Then I saw my friend Jason Zuck make a post on Instagram saying that he was taking the month off. He was deleting social media from his phone and logging out of all accounts on his computer for 30 days. My entire identity was tied to who I was online. And I felt like if I didn't post or I wasn't there, it was like, I wasn't even doing anything interesting. I wasn't an interesting person. It's like, that is such a messed up thought. When you get to that place, like, you're no longer in control of how you're using that platform, that platform is controlling you. And I was like, I have to take the power back. Jason's post peaked my interest, but I couldn't help but think that he was making a huge mistake. Jason, like myself, runs his business online and relies on social media to keep that engine running. I looked at what he was doing and thought, oh my god, all your followers, all these people that have been waiting to hear from you year after year are going to forget that you existed. And I also thought, oh my god, you're also going to miss out on all this inspiration and value and connections that you get through social media. My reaction was similar to the first time I heard about minimalism. That's great for him, but I would never be able to do it because of, fill in the blank. The excuses and rationalizations worked for a bit. It would put my life's work in jeopardy, I told myself, I'd stop making money, I'd digitally fall off the face of the earth. But then Jason quit social media, came back and well, the world kept turning and his business was fine. As it turns out, he's been doing it for years. Twice a year in fact. It is the most clarity of thought during those times. It's like everything recalibrates for me. I get this whole refreshed creativity. It's like I was talking about recharging those batteries. I'm itching to get back to stuff by the end of 30 days, but I'm also really excited because it's like, I've taken control of these platforms. And then I can go back and go, yeah, I didn't, it's fine. I missed some stuff. I didn't post things and guess what, everybody's still here, you know, nothing really changed. It's one of those things that's so simple, yet we often never think about it. It's like switching up a gym routine that we've grown bored of, or ending a relationship that's toxic and negative, or maybe even quitting a job that you've been dragging your feet to. A lot of times we do things because that's the way that they've always been done, but the truth is that is a horrible reason to do anything. So I began to think about it some more. I mean, really how bad could it be? We'll could really go wrong by committing to 30 days. And come to think of it, Instagram had really been stressing me out lately. And as much as I enjoy the drama every once in a while, Facebook seemed like a complete waste of time. And I keep accidentally offending people on Twitter. Okay, maybe intentionally. I wondered how my days would change without it, how much more productive I would become, how much more peaceful my mornings and nights would be, and then I did it. I quit social media for 30 days, and I made a video about it. There's a sense of clarity that you get when you take a step away from the compulsive checking. It's really hard to explain. It's really impossible to quantify, but I can tell you that I simply felt better by being away from it. So I saw a ton of benefits in that 30 day period, that small window when I did the social media detox. But what was most surprising to me were the changes that occurred after. That would be the 400 days since I went on that detox until it today. And some of those changes still stick with me to this day. To begin with, it was the first 30 day challenge I completed on this channel, which led me to do another 11 in the year that followed. As I experimented with everything from cold showers, to counting calories, and quitting coffee. That alone was a great takeaway. To feed my curiosity for experimenting with new things and pushing myself further out of my comfort zone and leaning more into my own self-development that I had in years. But I didn't realize just how impactful it would be on how I used social media. A lot of times we try experiments and challenges and we attempt to build habits only to inevitably fall back into our old patterns and routines. This is probably the most frustrating thing about trying to build a habit. Yet something about quitting social media for 30 days just click something in my head. It woke me up to the problem that social media had become in my own life. I realized just how much of a distraction it was, how little I needed it, and how little I missed it once I left. And so there were changes that stuck beyond that 30 days that I have continued to uphold since then. First I haven't kept any social media apps on my phone consistently. Instead I installed them when I want to use them, sometimes for an hour, sometimes for a day, and then I delete them. These days the only app that I do that with is Instagram. Your self restraint might be a little bit better than mine, but I personally find that I quickly and compulsively default the checking Instagram when it's installed on my phone. The challenge you'll likely find is that once you delete social media from your phone, you'll immediately replace it with something else, whether it's reddit, the news, a video game, another distracting app. It's like whack a mole for apps. So to prevent this from happening, the best thing that I found to do is to actually increase your distance from your phone, so leave your phone in your bedroom, leave it in your car, leave it at home, whatever you do just don't leave it on you. After my social media detox I also decided to stop using Facebook. I deleted my public Facebook account and only used my private account for Facebook Messenger, which I rarely use at that. As much as I love sitting back and watching the high school drama unfold, it just wasn't worth holding on to. My favorite change since I slowed down my time on social, I compare myself to others much less often. I'm reminded every time I log in to Instagram just how much that little voice in the back of my head starts to talk shit. That person's a better filmmaker than you. Wow, they're much further along in their career than you. And hey, that guy's got bigger biceps than you. No matter where you're at in life, it's difficult not to have these kind of thoughts. And I find that that constant scrolling only helped to support them. On and on the voice goes, making comparisons and accusations against my worth. Yes, there are ways to control this voice, like through meditation, but I find that not feeding it to begin with helps the most. So I don't. And hey, side note, I think that sometimes distractions are actually a good thing. Sometimes we have bad days, we're frustrated, we just want to go browse Netflix, click on something that's going to allow us to turn our brains off. We want to scroll through social media and see where our friends are up to. We just want a distraction from a shitty day. And I think that's completely okay. I think what I'm talking about here is more so when these problems become so big that we start to overlook other areas of our life. We're not going to the gym as much, we're maybe feeling like we're in a negative spiral because we keep comparing ourselves to others. Now, that's where I think the changes really need to happen. When I come back to it, I then get super intentional about how I use it. So then I go, okay, I check Instagram twice a day because man, I would love to scroll through Instagram all day long because it's great. It's a curated feat of beautiful things. It's really awesome, it's really interesting, but I don't want it to control my life. I want the time that that's taking up to be creating things of my own, to be exploring, to experimenting other things. And so you really do just become intentional. You take that break and then you come back and you go, I don't want that stuff anymore to happen in my life. Like, I don't want to feel like I'm not in control of my usage of these things. And so that's why the social media detox is man, they've just been so, so helpful for me. Now here's the part where I throw it back to you. What if you quit social media for 30 days? Don't worry, the world's gonna keep turning and we'll be here when you get back. Thanks for watching and I'll see you next time.
