# Ground Up 023 - Killing it on YouTube w/ Joe Nation
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D-u_tqtZU-E
http://www.groundupshow.com

Joe Nation is a director, DP & editor based in Los Angeles. He’s the creator & star of the 2015 film: Bob Thunder: Internet Assassin.

More from Joe Nation: http://www.youtube.com/joenationtv
& https://twitter.com/JoeNationTV

http://www.groundupshow.com
**Keywords:** 
**Date:** 2017-09-06

## Transcript
 I made a new film, it's called Unstuck, the Five Steps to Change, it's a 20-minute film about my journey and also the lessons that I've learned from some really amazing individuals over the past few years. I graduated college with $97,000 in student loan debt in 2010 and did the smartest thing I could think of at the time. I bought a brand new car. And so with about $117,000 in debt, living in my parents' basement, I'm pretty miserable. I'm not really happy with where my life is going. But I took a few steps that put me in the right direction that helped me on a journey to get out of debt, to get some freedom. But not only that, to do meaningful work, to create work that I was really passionate about and I really, really cared about. As a part of that journey, I made a documentary called Minimalism with some really good friends. And the journey of making that documentary was so difficult, and there were so many challenges throughout the entire process. But I got to speak with some, and meet with some amazingly intelligent people who surprisingly enough had been through a lot of the same struggles that I had been through. So there were a lot of elements of these interviews that I didn't make its way into the film, but I thought it would still be useful and helpful to people. So what I did was I made this film called Unstock, where I used some of the deleted interviews, the extended interviews that didn't make it into Minimalism as well as interviewing that with my story to tell a little bit about my background. So I think you guys are going to like it. This film is if you want to watch it, it's exclusively for my newsletter subscribers. So if you go to MattDevelop.com, that's M-A-T-T-D-A-V-E-L-L-A.com, you can check it out. Another thing, if you could, so this podcast is advertisement free, it's always been advertisement free, it's going to continue to be, especially because it's really small right now and not many people listen to it. So even if I did put advertising, I wouldn't make much money. But anyway, I would like this podcast to grow. I would like to share some of these stories and these messages with more people. And one of the best ways that you guys could help out is to leave a review. So we've got about 19 amazing generous people who left a review on iTunes for the ground up show. If you could follow suit and just share a couple words, what you like about the show, that would be incredibly helpful in getting the word out. My guest today is Joe Nation. He is a man that wears many hats. He's a director, DP, editor, filmmaker, and YouTuber. He's the creator and star of the 2015 film Bob Thunder Internet Assassin. It's a fantastic movie. It's totally over the top and hilarious. Oh, real quick. Actually, I forgot to mention this. There is going to be no video on this podcast. I recorded video. And then about halfway through Joe noticed that the Irish shot on the camera, I looked at it and then the card was corrupt. And there was nothing that we could do to save it. No point to start recording from that point on because it was already halfway through the episode. So that's what happens sometimes. Sometimes you make mistakes, sometimes there's failure. So there's going to be no video on this episode, but we'll get back to video on episode 24. So without further ado, this is episode 23 with Joe Nation. What's up, man? Welcome to the show. I like that beat. I was about to start freestyling. Yeah, I'm freestyling. There was one guest I had on Elliott Ashby. He brought some heat. I think I actually saw this. He said, we're not going to finish this episode unless you spit bars. Oh, no. And then I said, sure, I spit bars. And then I did. And then I cut it out. Because it was the most embarrassing thing all the time. We were just talking before this. Like, hey, do you edit anything out of the episodes? Sometimes. Yeah, to protect yourself from bears. It's usually when I'm the idiot. But I will protect my guests if they say something that they want me to cut out. Yeah, can we say bad words? You can say bad words? Anything, you know, anything you want. All right. And I won't bleep it out. All right. I love it. So Joe, thanks for coming on the show. Thank you. Thank you. I love the name. Oh, yeah. It's a great name. It's completely real. It's so real. I feel like I need to rebrand. I feel like I need a name change. No, you have a great name. I think it's a strong one. Yeah. Are you happy with it? Is that the donation has that aged well for you? Yeah. I think, well, it was kind of like a work in progress because it was originally when I sort of my YouTube channel. It was Joe's nation. But then I just adapted Joe nation because my real name is very, very white and very boring. What's the end? Anderson. Anderson. Anderson. So it's not like a matrix region. Everybody would say that. I'm like, okay. Well, I get the joke. Yeah. It's like, yeah. Anderson's just so, it's just so boring to me. I can't connect to it. But I still haven't legally changed it. It's good though. But what's tough about my last name is that I have the apostrophe in there. And the apostrophe, I don't know how it works from like a public personality standpoint point, but it's really hard checking into hotels. It's really hard to like last name and then I have to spell it out every time every time over the phone, the apostrophe A, B is in Victor, E, L, L. I think this is sort of cut it just for the take. Can you give me a second off? I feel like I don't have a good memory and I'll forget who I cut it out of it. I don't think Dave L, L, L, L, L. Everybody pronounces it wrong. But I want to talk a little bit about what you do now and then we can go back and talk about your story. So yeah, tell me about what you've been up to. Up to now, will. Let me see. What do I start? I'm a random guy. I guess I guess the starting point is I did a movie two, two years ago. And then after that, I went through this weird phase. And then now I work full time for a YouTube channel, a filter Franco. And I'm a documentary and I fill behind the scenes of the building of his company and what not. And I just film all like the people in the office and what not. And I do like really random fun games and this weird gags, just to keep it interesting, because we upload three videos a week on his secondary channel. So I'm just a guy that's going around filling people and knowing people. Yeah. So it's funny. It sounds like you have a lot of creative freedom. Yeah, because I guess my background has been always been, I've been a creator, like for the beginning of like the start of YouTube. So I think what this is allowed me to do is create my own content in a sense, but for somebody else. And within their boundaries and whatnot. So talk about getting started out. You went to Taosen University in Maryland. Yeah. Taosen University. And so were you always interested in film before you went to school? Is that what you knew you wanted to get into? Yeah. So I used to make videos with my brothers with our VHS camera back in the day. We did like the skit called the restaurant. And we just make like weird contraptions and weird strange food. And we would never eat it because it would be like Plato or something weird. But yeah, I started with my brothers making videos. And then from there that trains us in Dover to middle school, where I started making it with my other friends. And then high school at an college. So I've kind of always had it. So it was always kind of just something fun that I did. But then when I went to college, I took. I thought I was going to major in psychology. And like thinking that I could bring some type of brilliant. You know, amazing like a theory to it is like algae. So then I finally sportened up my sophomore year. And I was like, screw that. I'm going to stick the film because I love it. Maybe you learned something through the first couple of years of psychology. Yeah. Something wrong with me. Yeah. You figured out what was wrong with you. And then you changed majors. Exactly. So I'm curious because talking about some of those early videos. You made with the VHS and the weird food stuff. I'm curious about some of your inspiration. Because when I think I think back to the videos I made in high school. And it was prank videos. So pranked was big for me. Jack asked was big for me. Yeah. And maybe I want to even if fear factor with the food stuff. Might have been an influence. What were some of those early? My guess. Inspirations for you. My brothers had a lot of influence on me. They were really into weird things like garbage, pale kids and naked gun. So I think that that sense of humor and whatnot always stuck with me. Yeah. But yeah, whenever I'm asked that I'm always kind of stumble because I just can't really latch on to something that was very specific to me that I was inspired by. My brain doesn't tap into something like, oh, it was this. So I'm not sure where all this things came from. But it's probably influenced from whatever my brothers were into. Because I told a brother so I was always looking up to them. And I think that's it. Everybody wants to look back and say, what was that pivotal moment that changed your life? And it's, you know, it's really epic and it makes for great film and it makes for great interviews. But it doesn't always translate in reality. So you went to Towson and then at a couple of years of psychology and then you are now going to become a filmmaker. Towson, I graduated in O6. So I started in O2. And yeah, and that was, I started. I was always making my own videos. And I had this little Canon camera that shot 15 second videos at like 320. And so it was really crappy quality. But I was like, it's a camera. It's a little video camera. 15 seconds to get the shot. And I just started making all these random videos with it. And I think the first series I made with it was called Joverse Jo, where I would chase myself. And I made three of those episodes. And I was just, again, I was just making my own stuff. And it wasn't a requirement for a class or anything. And I think that's what kind of stuck me out is that I was doing projects. But I was also like, I'm just going to do my own thing at the same time. Yeah. And that's so important. I did the same thing. So you're doing these projects outside of class, not even four class. Yeah. Sometimes probably overlap the little bit. Did I? Well, I think my mentality behind the class or behind me making my own content. Transition over and two of those classes. Because they're, I took like film two or I was supposed to make a film with actual film. And I was like, screw this. I have a crappy little digital camera. This is where I upgrade to like a mini TV camera. I was like, I'm going to make a mockumentary with this little crappy camera. And I'll splice in a little bit of film, like, you know, film, film work. But that was kind of like that little bit of a rebel in that sense. Yeah. I kind of like that. Because I certainly, I took a couple film classes. I didn't do film school. I did broadcast journalism broadcast television. But the film classes were a different breed of people. They're like the purest. Did anything digital? They would be run away from me. Sorry, we can't do that. You have to do it like this. Yeah, for no reason. The classes that you were taking. Did you see that you doing it outside of class? That gave you a leg up. Then the people that were just kind of going with the flow and doing the regular service work. And I think, especially at that time, it was before DSLRs. So our only access at the school gave us was film cameras. And or they did have, I think, at the time, we're going to do that. Well, Excel ones or something like that. But a lot of people weren't really running them out because it was only so very few of them. So again, yeah, I was just taking that little camera that I had. Filming as much as I can with that. And I guess also taking whatever I would film and create. I would start to connect to what I was already in class. So then I would take those tools and start to apply them as well. Like exposure and stuff like that. Right. You learn a little bit here and there that you can pull into it. The access to the technology, I think, is a really good point. I think it's probably starting to change a lot of these schools. They probably have more equipment and more gear. And it depends what school you go to. But still, I think there's no. No way to separate the fact that having the equipment yourself is way more powerful. Totally. Because maybe I'm lazy. But I think people in general are lazy. And like if you have a camera right next to you or if you pay a thousand dollars to buy a camera, you're going to be way more incentivized to use it into create projects and you know, do it outside of class. Yeah. And I never wanted to rely on anyone else. And for me, when I was making my own stuff, is I would be in it myself, just because I didn't want to bother a friend. You know, hey, can you act in this? I was like, no, I just put the camera up on a tripod. I say a couple lines. Then that's why I created Job or Job because it was just, it was just me. It's funny. Can you get any friends? Yeah. I mean friends. Yeah. That's really hard though to film yourself. Yeah, it is. It's so challenging. Even right now doing this. Yeah. 100 times. And then shoot a whole thing and then you go back and edit it and you're like, I was out of focus the whole time. Done that before. Yeah. Biggest pain in the ass. It's a lot of imagine guessing check and then screwing up and then fixing and correcting. Definitely definitely. What were some of the early videos that you made? This is still in college that maybe stuck or were kind of made you feel like this is, I really enjoyed this because it's something I could do. I made going back to the film course film two where I was required to make a film with film. I was in a small group of other guys that we had to team up with. I think there's about five of us. And I just took the lead on the project and I ended up creating a documentary called Styrofoamology. And in college I worked for an event staff. So we would, you know, be kind of like security for events all around the campus. And I met this guy named Randy Brewer. And he was just like this off the wall character super layers. I think he was like a Vietnam. He was like a vet or something. And he would he would talk about all those crazy stories like drinking and drugs and like women and stuff. Typical like old school like black. It was so funny. And I was like, I could, I like I want to make something with this guy. So I just restart. I sat him down one day and I just read. I was like, you're a doctor Styrofoam. And you believe that Styrofoam is the future. And it was supposed to be off the wall and something was so stupid. And he just, he sold it. He just grabbed on to, he just improvised and he never acted before in his life. So, and it was a 15 minute documentary about how Styrofoam is the future. And it's one of those projects where, you know, the quality is horrible. But if you watch it, it was very entertaining from start to finish. And because he, he pretty much lapsed on to whatever internal character he did. And just rode with it. Was this project screened in class ever? Yeah, it was, it was screened as, yeah, my film too. In a huge stadium. Wow. How did it do? It was like very well received. I was feeling, well you, I was sitting in the way back and waiting for it to start. And it was crazy because right before I was trying to export it on many TV and I kept getting an air. And I literally had to go within five minutes. And it was my last opportunity to export a clean because he had to do it live. Yeah. And from the computer into the tape, kept getting so many airs. It was my last chance to get it and like nailed it. Oh, that's amazing. That's amazing. And that feeling of showing a project in front of a crap. It can change you. And it really depends on the, the crab reaction and the audience reaction is to how it changes. Yeah. Because I've had projects where I did, I don't, I, yeah. This was actually a element where I did some YouTube videos back in the day. 2006, 2007. I made a video. I don't know if you ever heard of it. It's called Produce Paradise. So I made a parody rat video called Produce Paradise in like 2007. And it was about me, my brother, just wrapping about Produce. This is kind of like the dawn of the parody rat videos, right? It started to take off. And we did this video and then we got fired from the grocery store. We worked that. Where my dad actually worked as well. It was free promo. Yeah. And then we got super $7 million. What? Yeah. That was bad. And then that kind of made it popular. Because then it like, you got a couple hundred thousand videos on YouTube. And we were on CNN American Morning and all this live TV. It was in insane surreal experience. And then we were like, this is it. Like, we're going to be famous. And then it just like fizzled away. Oh, no. Everybody stopped caring about us. What happened with the loss? And we were still getting sued at that point. It was a long process. We got lawyers to represent in pro bono. A year or two went by. Probably that a year. And then we were able to settle the lawsuit and get everything organized. But it did ended up being a lot of money, spent and a lot of stress. Oh, yeah. I've been less situation. Yeah. So stressful. And for the people around me, my parents were super stressed out. Like, my mom got like some death threats not to her. But like threatening to poison our produce. Like, I'm going to poison your boys' produce. And she's like, not my boys. So it was a crazy experience. But the whole reason the point of bringing that up is that we try to do a comeback video. Right? Like, you got to follow it up. I was going to come back with it. And it was an M&M parody cleaning off my produce. That's okay. There's still online. That video is not online. I don't know if I put it. I think I did and then I removed it quickly. Because when I screened it in class, it got zero laughs. And I was like, this is bad. And I don't think that you should always just take people's feedback to heart like that. Because you got experiment. Oh yeah, totally. But I think it was probably good feedback. And for me, it was just a bad video. Have you ever had such a bad reaction to a video that you were like, I should probably take this time. There have been a few videos that I've uploaded. And then after I've watched it, I was like, eh, this doesn't need to. And before even getting anyone's reaction. So. But now I think on the internet, it's never really been a bad experience of uploading something and then kind of seeing how people react to it. And sometimes if they didn't like it, you know, kind of brushed it off. You have to. Yeah. Was LA always the decision. Was it always, you were planning on moving to LA once you just had to be a filmmaker? Yeah, I think in college, I had a professor, Danny Mideleck. And he was always a fan of my weird videos that I made. And he was telling me, he's like, just leave. Like, you don't need to be here. And a part of me wanted to. But I knew that my parents would have been very upset. So I just stuck out college and just learned what I could, even though I didn't really. I was looking back. I feel like I really didn't learn that much. And so then I after college, I graduated in those six. I worked for two years for a direct DP. And that was a great experience because then I, I really learned like hands-on experience being on set and to technical things and whatnot. And then yeah, I just saved up enough money to just move out here. And I never had been here before. I just packed up my car and left. Sure. And I don't, I don't think my, I think my goal was just, I enjoyed making content. And then in hopes that I can just continue doing that. And that was a blessing too is because YouTube had just started around that time. And even my professor told me, he was like, hey, there's this site called YouTube where you can upload videos. And you know, it's, don't worry about the copyright right now. And right, I was using copyright in music. So I started uploading my videos there and getting a little bit of traction. But then yeah, when I came out here, it was just, I, I just started diving into that community more. Who's that? So it was probably good that you came out here with quite a bit of experience. Yeah, that was my goal is to like learn as much as I can with that job that I had. And then I would have a lot of knowledge to be able to apply it. And I even got like a camera. I got like a Canon XL H1. It's only like a really nice Canon mini DB camera at that time. Are they all on one? Yeah. Like the, I had that my first professional camera was the XHA1, which was, Oh, that's what you had. Yeah. That was a short camera. That was a great camera. So yeah. I just, uh, I learned whatever. Or I shot whatever I could with that. And that was my selling point too, because I started working with the YouTubers. Like I had this great camera. I could shoot your videos. It really is a huge selling point. When you're good and you can shoot. Um, so is that what you started to do? You started to reach out to some popular YouTubers? Yeah. Actually, I found a Craigslist ad for somebody looking for them to shoot their videos. Like, shooting direct them and stuff. So then, uh, I started replying to it. And this was Brittany Louise Taylor. And she was an old school YouTuber. And she still makes content now. She was like, I already found somebody. But, you know, if something happens and, you know, I'll let you know. And I was like, I will murder kittens if you don't know. I was just like, I just didn't carry it up. Yeah. Did you actually say that? Yeah. I could probably love that. You're like sending like a photo of you at the can. Yeah. But yeah, after a while. I mean, she says that we're a sense of humor or whatnot. So, laughing like two weeks later. She said, hey, didn't work out with the other guy. You know, do you want to come shoot some videos? I mean, I just did it for free. Yeah. Just for the experience. And then it was great because she would throw me in the videos. And then I created, I already had my own channel. So then from there, we were just, we were kind of like swapping audiences. Oh, that's amazing. Yeah. And then from through her, I met a Toma YouTubers. Right. So that experience of working from free. Did you, was that obvious to you? Because I think it's, it's kind of difficult. Some people, uh, maybe come out. Especially if you're coming out of film school. We may be like a little bit high in mighty, like, Hey, like, I have, I actually, I need to get paid for my work. Like, I, I, I have a hundred thousand dollars in student loan. Get the job like that. Yeah. So it's kind of hard from the beginning to the free. Definitely a blessing and a curse. The blessing is that you, I mean, I have that helpers heart, where I just like to help people. Uh, so, and then I also think, well, my payoff is, I get to collaborate with people. I'm keeping busy. And then I'm also being at the forefront of this, like, new, this new website and this new, I guess, movement of creators. So, for me, it didn't bother me. It was like, like, just buy me lunch. And then if she were to ever to get, you know, sponsorship money, she would throw me a little bit too. So from there is where I kind of gained traction. But the, the curse part of it is that I did that for so long that I forgot my own value. And it was hard to be able to work with other people and be, like, instead of price to invalid yourself. So at that point, it was, it was, it became a struggle of, I need to make money, but how do I sort of charging people, you know? Transitioning in that, that stage is really difficult. And it, it's actually, there's a lot of parallels today to hear a lot of content creators that have trouble monetizing and making money, whether you're a podcaster, YouTuber. It's not always easy to turn, even a large audience into cash flow and into something that's sustainable and profitable. Yeah, especially nowadays. I mean, back then, there were, I mean, there were thousands of people on YouTube, but there was, like, a handful that were, like, at the starting of it that actually were just making content, strictly for an audience. And I, I was very fortunate to be at the beginning of that with all these other creators. But yeah, now it's just so oversaturated, anybody can upload it in a video and it's very difficult. What was it like back then, YouTube, the kind of videos that are getting uploaded, the ones that are getting reactions? Uh, it was just a mix. I feel like, at that time, if you were just known in the space, you could upload anything, and people would just freak out. I mean, if you would do that now, but back then it was, it was, it was even more so just because it was very little people doing it. YouTube, uh, when it first started out, it was like a gold rush, right? Yeah. Where was it going? Where was it going? Shit. Like, you can get a lot of attention. You can, uh, it was becoming easier and easier to upload videos, like, Pokemon, theme song, video, just go and crazy. There are a couple people built entire channels on one video. Basically, that's, that was the idea back then. I think it's starting to die down, though. A lot of people, and especially clients, but we want to make a viral video. Um, that seems like it's, yeah, it's so, that's, that idea has been around for so long. I think it started to die a little bit, but then it was like, you could hit gold. If you put, and that's probably what I was trying to do back then, was like, hey, let's do produce paradise, hit gold. Once this goes viral, then, you know, we can keep making videos and keep doing comedy. And that's the, the scary part about the whole viral thing is because we have so many, now studies of what does go viral, that people start faking videos. And that I think, uh, especially recently with a lot of pranks and whatnot, people are getting, um, a lot of backlash because they do put out a certain piece of content that they know will go viral, but they all sort of faking at the same time. Ooh, yeah, there's a lot of big controversy now. Yeah, and there's a lot of misguided information too, and, and those people are kind of also ruining what people have worked so hard to build up, which is like, you know, being an independent creator, they give us a bad, a bad rip. I think it's the same thing they drive. It's clickbait. Oh, yeah. With the news articles. It's kind of the, I think it's the intent behind it. That's the really important part because with the, the clickbait, if it's just for, like, top 10 reasons why James Franco's a stud, it's like, you know what you're getting. You know, you're getting just some, like, obnoxious article. That's, that's probably not going to add much of value. But the articles that kind of go under the guys of, of adding value, but then are just really intended to, to pull you in. Yeah. Where they read a lot of times with news articles. You can't really do this with YouTube videos. You might be able to in terms of sharing it, but they'll have 20 different names for an article, and then publish it 20 different times. So they keep changing the name with it. It's just crazy. It's just the, people are so, like, hungry. And it's companies mostly, I think, that kind of drive that, at least from the, the buzzfeed, the mic.com, listicle type websites, but YouTube's a different animal because it's, I guess it, it's, I have really commercialized now, too, or where you have the personal influence as well as people that companies that are funding. Yeah. Some channels. So how did your channel evolve? Joe Nation. Yeah. So it was, like I said before, it was a mix of working collaborating with other people. And then, just creating consistent content, which I wasn't always very good at. But I think back then, the collaboration part was, was something that I tried to focus on. And that's when I created a series called, YouTube Assassin. And I was like, how can I make a series of videos to keep consistent? And I can collaborate with people and then make some high quality content. And just, really, since you would happen. And so then I started making this series, but it was just, like, a lot of work. And I became very inconsistent just because I put, you know, like, two, three works in the one video. And whatnot. But from there, it's like, I felt like, I was at the beginning of YouTube, but I just didn't do it very well. So I was able to gain, like, a big audience for a couple of years, but I just, I didn't know how to sustain it. So that's where I kind of ended up dropping off a little bit. Right, I think, because you have 350,000 subscribers on YouTube. Is that really important? It's how you capitalize when it starts to take off. Yeah, yeah, I don't think I did. I think, for me, it's, I started gaining a lot of audience and I would upload a video when I get hundreds of thousands of views. But the consistency was my issue. It's because I was trying to keep the quality high or be creative or I would only create when I was inspired. And I think that was my biggest thing that I just did wrong is because I should have just been constantly creating constantly feeding the beast, you know, the people that want to consume or content. And my friends were always like, just make anything, make anything. And that's why they went beyond and succeeded because they just knew that if they were just consistent and kept creating that they would, the fans would just keep coming back. Yeah, and I think there's an element where maybe you have high standards too where you want every video to be perfect and want it to really kill. There is an element to that where I think is very important. And I think about this podcast in that way, where it's like, I really want to make each episode really, really good. Really high quality because you never know who's going to be listening and if somebody's going to click and say, hey, I really like, if you have one episode that just is kind of shitty and black, then you're like, fuck. I like that one up. I shouldn't even release it. But I think it's probably more important the consistency, like you said, just keep going. Yeah. You have a bad day. You have a bad video about episode. Just keep moving forward. Yeah. And then over time, you, I think an audience will get to understand who you are and the kind of stuff you're trying to make. And then it doesn't matter as much that you have a shitty day or a bad day. Yeah. And I think it's, I think it's also two is when you push yourself to create even when you don't want to create. And that's where you start to break down barriers of your creativity is because if you're always just waiting for inspiration, you're always setting a certain limit. But if you're really not want to create a video and you just say, I'm just going to go forward anyways. You want to surprise yourself. And I've done that. I used to do that a lot. Like when I first started, like the Jovers show and all these random videos I made is I didn't think I would just like, I'm going to start filming. I don't have the game plan or I have a shot list. I'm just going to go for it. And I think that's what carried me so far. But then when I moved out here, I just started thinking too much. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. The rest field has a really good book called The War of Art, where he. Oh, yeah. Yeah. He names it. The resistance. It's the thing that really cripples you. And the only way to overcome the resistance and it's really procrastination. It's everything that stops you from doing the work. It's to sit down every single day and do the work. Do it. And that's it's so important. Like you said, like it doesn't matter how you feel, you have to just keep making and keep creating. It's exactly that. And I still struggle with that today. I mean, I think everybody would. Yeah. It's very easy. Like it's very easy to talk about this stuff. But the fact is that it's always going to be a challenge and you're always going to be pressured into from your own mind from not doing the work. And you just have to keep doing it and keep pushing it out. What are the kind of big ways in which YouTubers took off in this platform? It seems like you said there's a lot of collaborations with kind of lifting each other up and a similar way that a lot of bloggers took on. It's like they created these partnerships and yeah, a lot of collaboration. And then nowadays it's tough because somebody can collaborate and be in your video and people they don't care as much because they've kind of latched on to who they watch and whatnot. But yeah, it was just people experimenting, meaning different types of content. And yeah, I don't know. It's just like it's just grown so fast so quickly. And I'm still trying to figure out what was that breaking point for everybody. But how has it changed? Like, net today, YouTube versus 2006, 7. Uh, it goes back to anyone can create and anyone can kind of create something that it could just be one video. And if you know how to leverage that one video, let's say like one video goes viral for you. What someone needs to be able to realize is to leverage that one video and then continue to create because just because you hit one doesn't mean that you're going to be able to keep growing if you're not constantly again feeding the beast. Yeah. So it just, that's the, it's the resistance. Yeah. And I see that with a lot of my comedian friends, a lot of friends that create video content. The very hesitant to put stuff up because there is the best people are perfectionists. And that really want to make every video or every project amazing. And that is such a good trait to have. Yeah. But it needs to be balanced with put it out there. The thing is is hard work will always trump talent. And so if you're saying I'm going to make it based off my talent, but someone who is going to work ten times as hard as you. It's going to like surpass you. So if I spend hours like days on one video while someone spends days on making ten videos, you know, it's they're working a little bit smarter. It's like making coffee. Like I could spend an hour on one piece of one coffee and give it to one person. Or I could spend one hour making ten coffee. So then those ten people will tell ten other people, you know. Right. But then also in that same process, you are getting better. You are working on your craft. And so you're simultaneously building an audience while getting much better. And then, you know, a hundred videos in. You're going to be much better than somebody who only made one video. That spent like a hundred times the could be amazing video. Yeah. Maybe that's actually a balance between big projects and small projects. Where it's like when is it right to take a leap and say, Hey, I'm going to spend a year or two years working on this one film or this one project. Yeah. And you know a little bit about that. Yeah. So you transitioned and took the YouTube assassin into Bob Thunder. Yeah. Internet. Internet. Fantastic job, by the way. I watched it. Yeah. It's really good. Yeah. I loved it. I thought it was great. Really funny over the top. Yeah. And like dude, you really put in terms of talking about the detail and the attention to detail. There's so many jokes that people might not even see. Yeah. It's a second time. It's peppered throughout. Yeah. So that experience must have been crazy. It was. It was very crazy. Yeah. Let's talk about how did it come about. So I made the series in 2010 and it was a six episode series. And altogether, if you lay him down, it was about an hour. And I pretty much did all of it myself. It's self-funded. And a lot of shots I've shot myself and it's just me on camera on a tripod. And then of course, I've asked friends to help out. I had my neighbor who's never hold a camera before shoot random montage. But I was like, you know what? He's never shot before. He might be able to add like a cool element to it. So I pressed record, gave him the camera and he would just shoot, you know. So I just build, head, whoever helped me, whoever I could have helped come in for a day. I had like six different DPs on it, you know. So it was just using as many resources as I could just to get this huge collaboration done. That was the film was 60 P's or is this the series? No, this was the series. So it started with the series. And then at the time, I was working with relativity media. I was promoting some of their movies and other things that they were doing. And they saw it and they were like, hey, this is really interesting project. Have you ever thought about making it into a film? And I was like, yeah, of course. Yeah, funny that. So fast forward to 2014, 15. I wrote the script, which was like the darkest year of my life. And then we shot it. We shot 2014, released in 2015. And we changed it to Bob Thunder Internet Assassin. And it was originally going to be like a continuation. But it was five years later. So I just kind of retold the story of, well, the story is, I'm a struggling youtuber. Joe Nation, who hires someone to help me collaborate and become famous on the internet. But what I don't realize is that this person is a murder. So I'm sort of collaborating. He ends up killing all the people that I want to work with. Kill collaboration. Kill collaboration. That was the main point where everything changed in the movie. That must have been so much fun. Also, like you said, very dark. And I know the feeling how a project that you love so much and you're very passionate about it. It can get tough and it can be very difficult to keep moving forward. Did you get it funded before the script or was the script written? And then you got it funded. Everything was like in the works. I don't think we can't remember. I think I had written the script at them from there. We were going to find funding. And the funding was like 200 to 250,000. So it wasn't that much. So I started watching it. Because I didn't know it was a funded project. That kind of assumed going into it that it was an evolution of the series. But it was also kind of in that same style. And then very quickly. As a filmmaker, I don't know if any other people could recognize it. But it's like obvious that there was money that went into this. And you see in so many different actors and you're seeing the color and the special effects. It's like a little bit of a step up from the series in terms of the special effects. It's like there must have been some like a lot of money. And I was curious about how you went about getting the project funded. So I worked with Relativity Media who had a bunch of context. So it was kind of, I didn't have any experience getting funding. So I was glad to have them kind of backed me up and they were the ones that knew where to go and whatnot. So from there they just had, I don't want to get to like, I don't want to get into details, but they had a contact. They were like, oh, this guy would be interested in funding your project. So yeah, from there, it's the script was written. It went through a couple of repissions. And then actually the company film on is the in Alky David. They funded the project. He plays like the villain. I thought it was unique because we wrote his company and him into, you know, into into the movie. Yeah, that was really interesting for me to watch the film. And then to dig in a little bit in research and like I see the logo at the end of the film. Oh, film on watch. Yeah, I looked up. There was a Bob Thunder, a Bob Thunder website I think that it wasn't working. I missed opportunity. Oh, sure. Is it Bob Thunder solutions? Yeah, I got the website, but we never made it. You never made it. I was I do that with like everything. If I see a website in a movie or TV show breaking bad. I'm like, I got to go and find that. That's actually a website. Yeah, we were just really going to do that. I was going to take phone calls and stuff. Oh, that's okay. That was so funny. And you could like turn that into a podcast. Yeah, that's true. Every single song you're all your problems. That was really good. The Bob Thunder podcast. But I was really fascinated to see. And I was like, I saw this company. And then I was like, looked up the founder of the company. I was like, let's the villain. Yeah, the villain movie. It's really cool how that worked out. So for people that don't know much about filmmaking and the industry, $200 to $250,000, very small budget for a film. What's like the average budget for an indie film like this? Oh, this. I was told that we could have made the script that I wrote with a million. Like, we need a million minimum. Because we have, because we shot it on the black magic camera. Only for budget reasons. I wanted to shoot on the red, but we couldn't act. I guess set pieces. We had to pull so many different favors. So we shot. We got a lot of places for free. Nobody worked for free. Everybody got paid. Not many people. I mean, think it paid too well. But we tried to be fair with everybody. Yeah. It's best you could. The stunt people probably got the most is because they were in the most of risk. But yeah, it was just a lot of favors, and I edited it too, just because there was a very little budget. That's a massive amount of savings I imagine. Yeah, and it's definitely took a beat. I definitely took a bit of a beating from it. How many hours a day would you be cutting? I think I spent probably six months in my apartment on a laptop. Wow. Yeah. With the black magic, was it like lagging? Yeah. I had some issues. Now the computer barely can edit like 1080 footage. Yeah. Like a DSLR. With the 1080p or is this fork? Yeah. It was pro rest 1080p. Now it look back. The black magic was. I wish I just shot it with the GH4. Yeah. Because I didn't get that depth of field. If you look at the series and you look at the movie, there's definitely a different feel and tone to it. It just because it didn't feel as cinematic. And so that's what it was tough because in the first one, I had more control and this one I had to bring on a DP. And we just had different styles and whatnot. And I had to trust that we got the shot because I couldn't always review. And so you wrote it and then you're directing it and you're starring in it. Yeah. It's very difficult to do. How did, how did, was that process? Because directing to me would be, it would seem almost impossible to do it while acting. But obviously a lot of people get away with it and a lot of people do it. Yeah. I think I took all the tools I learned from just making YouTube videos. And I made it like a big YouTube video. And I think that's how I got through with such a skin buzzer. So, I'm sorry. I'm going to meet a cover. It's okay. You just turned it above that. I'm just going to cover it. But then it goes. I decided to do a lot of prep. So I would have the script. I would have a shot list. I have certain notes of how I just wanted to execute a scene. And I would execute it in a way that it was, we could shoot 12 pages in a day. And yeah, it was definitely tough. I don't know if I'd ever do it again. Like if someone saw it and they're like, I want to make another one, which I, you know, have an outline for. I would definitely do it differently. I probably have someone else directed. And I'd just be part of the writing in this being it. But I would definitely step back from the directing because it is so much to, to take on so many different things. Yeah. You do another little budget project like that. Or would you, you know, I see it's ideal to have a big budget. But then if the right opportunity came along. I would probably want to do a little bit more. Yeah. A little bit more. But the same with minimalism because we actually didn't have a budget. We paid for ourselves. And that was probably, it's hard to say because there's the cost that become blurry after you create it. But I mean, honestly, like, I shot and edited everything. I had a couple of friends help out. Friends help out with color and music and stuff. But maybe there's like 30 to 40,000 for just like all of production and post production. But then once you start promoting it and pushing out there. Yeah. So quick. Yeah. Quick. I don't know if the cameras I was shot. I don't know if it's. Oh shit. When did it shut off? I'm not sure. I just think I'm going to set it. You know, have any video on yours? But the fuck. Oh, no. So I used to have like monitors set up here. But I'm like, huh, I've never had a problem before. So if you're keeping up on the podcast. You've been listening. The videos I've recording on Joe's camera. So I just stopped both cameras. That's the first time that's happened. You know, it's funny. I'll mention this is that ever since I was a kid, I've always pushed out some type of energy that would fuck up technology. So my friend, we used to play video games on this computer. He'd be on his computer for like an hour playing games. He's like, hey, you want play? Sure. I go. Press the keys for a minute. Computer with trash. Almost every time. What? There's this guy. So I said I worked at this grocery store. It's called the AMP. His name. We call him Alien. And anytime you put a watch on the watch would stop, like, that's a real thing. Like you get around technology. Does that. I imagine it doesn't happen with cameras, right? Yeah. I've had some luck with cameras, but yeah. It's just something random that'll happen. Oh, man. That's crazy. Maybe that is. How much did you spend on all this equipment? Two months. Yeah. Like much more on the cameras than the audience stuff. That's the only thing that's working. Yeah. So that's a bummer. Normally, like I said, I have some monitor set up where I can watch and make sure. Actually in Brooklyn, I have my friend Conrad. He would help out and he'd come by. That way I wouldn't have to look at it. We'd try to wire in and in another room. Don't have any friends in LA yet. I don't want to. Yeah. So cool. We're going to get this podcast back on track. And we're just going to do audio only from this point. So we're talking about the movie. Yeah. And the process of making it and directing it and being involved in it. That. So in terms of the. You. So you had funding for it. Not a not a lot, but enough to get the job done. And obviously it grinded you down quite a bit. Yeah. But in terms of finding the actors, producers. Getting the graphics effects. And like finding the people to do it as well as like directing and organizing all this. Did you do much of it or was it? It was a mix. I mean, we brought on a producer. And then he had a lot of connections. So he referred a bunch of people. Then I pretty much trusted him to bring on those key people. And then for me, like the stunts, I knew who I wanted to work with because they were on YouTube as well. They were creating their own content. So they were called the EMC monkeys. So right from the start, I was like, I want these guys to do all the stunts. And again, it was keeping trying to keep as much within the community as possible. And yeah, it was a mix. Producer referring people than people that we brought on referring people. And then me also just the connections that I had as well. The good thing about being from that world of do everything yourself. Shoot, edit, act, all everything. It really helps you when you're trying to make something on a budget. So while it can be really frustrating and really difficult to pull off, it's probably the only way you would have been able to make it, right? Yeah, because I'm very difficult to get a million dollar budget for a project. You can make four of that. Yeah, totally. In terms of the editing, it took you six months to six months. Wow. So are you at this time and even while you're doing the YouTube Zoo videos and building your channel? Are you making much money? Are you making any money? I'm sorry about that. Yeah, like, because when you're working for six months, I imagine you got paid from the film. Yeah, I got paid a little bit from the film. And then I was always pretty smart with saving money, so I had money saved. And I was like, this is my calling, this is going to be it. It'll at least bring me to the next step. You know, I didn't expect to make me like a millionaire or anything like that. And it definitely did not. But I just put all my eggs into it. I pretty much the money that I made, allow me to sustain whatever I could to finish it. Because I know that nobody else would be able to finish it. Because nobody wants to work for a free. And I wouldn't let anybody do that. So yeah, at the end of it, I definitely took a hit. But it was my passion project, and I believed in it. And then rough. That was a hundred, rough. I know exactly how you feel. And yeah. And then I guess also being having so many hats in it. And editing it, I would kind of lose track of, like, if a scene work not. So that's when. This is where it gets really interesting. Is that I didn't give up on it at all. But I said, I need to step away. So we, we need to find some type of budget to bring someone on to least do a pass on it and work That are magic on it because I can only give so much. And so we, we rounded up the some money. And then we brought on this production company. And I will not say who they are. And we gave them the footage. And I walked them through it. I said, whatever creativity you can put into it with this film needs. But they had the project for about three months. And then thinking that they were going to, you know, say, hey, we should film this scene. Or we should add this element to it. They didn't do anything. At three months later, I look at what they did. They did a couple special effects. And that was it. And so I was in a really awkward position because we, they never had time to contract Think I would. I had to go in by myself because everybody had kind of just vanished. And I was so working on it. And I said, I need my hard drive back. And it was like, it almost turned into a fight. But no, I mean, I wouldn't let it let us get escalated to that. Yeah. But it was, it was just one of those things where I was like, I need my film back. Because you guys are delaying and you're not doing anything. You're not going to give me what you had promised me. So yeah, that was just another hurdle. I went through so many hurdles to get this done. But yeah, that actually, I needed that to happen. Because it gave me like my second win to be like, I'm going to, I'm going to make this film. So what did you learn from that experience? We're working with them. Yeah. It was, it's tough. It's like being out here in LA. As much as you want to trust people, you seem like you can never find the right people to trust. And people will sell you on something. And then at the end of the day, if they might not live up to that expectation. And it was, it was a huge disappointment. Because I really, since I've done so much, I really wanted people that I can rely on. Because I felt so betrayed so many times in the creation of this. So it would have been nice to have a team that had my back. But I still felt like I was starting over. That's what's so important about finding people that you can trust. And that you really enjoy working with. It's very rare, I think. You have to put yourself out there. You're going to get burned. You're going to be more and more difficult as you do bigger projects. That the stakes are so high. You're like, that's why a lot of times you're like, I just do myself. Because like you trust yourself. Like, I'm going to get the job done. But when you do find those people, you've got to hold on to them and make sure that they're taken care of. And they know that you appreciate the work that they put in. It's the only way to grow. Yeah. You hope you don't have to learn the hard way. A lot of times I'll have mentors who can kind of coach me and guide me before I get to those points. And early on when I started freelancing, I wasn't getting paid much. But I would do some projects, say one with MTV. And I would just never get paid. And that happened a couple of times to where the point where I was like, all right, well, now I've got to start asking 50%. And thankfully it was, it was a couple hundred dollars. It wasn't like big stakes at the time. But that was like learning lessons early on where you get burned a little bit. But it just hope it's just not big. And that was, it sounds like it was a big one where you put three months back. And then, um, did they keep the money? Like how did that work out? Well, they ended up saying, I was saying, I had them show me what they did. And I was like, this is not worth the amount that we're supposed to pay. I was like, yeah. That's just, um, man. And that's one of those things. I think part of that might be communication though people are going to fuck you. They're going to fuck you a matter of what. But, um, where I've had some projects that I could have probably remedied it or like problems where if I was just overly communicated with people. And be like, show me what you did now. And you know, check in every week. But sometimes it's hard and sometimes people don't cooperate with an expectation. Right. You're like, well, this is a legitimate company. That's the problem. It's like expectations. You have to be careful about where you set them. And sometimes you can't get out of it. Yeah. Sometimes you get burned. Yes. In terms of the making money off of it. So you did make some money from that. But how did you make a living throughout this whole process of like before the film? And did you do a lot of failures work? Yeah. A lot of freelance work. I was living off of pretty much a YouTube content. So I was getting, I was getting a good amount of views. So brands would reach out to me and say, hey, can you promote our product and when you're videos. So then I would have, you know, like a rate in what not. And I make a video. And it was, it was good money. Yeah. And then also like the YouTube ads and some part of the partners program. So yeah, for a couple of years that was my bread and butter. And then I would always do freelance work and shooting for other people and stuff like that. But yeah. So then after a while, I was like, I really want to do this film. And then yeah, this one. Okay. So that's when I transitioned. Yeah. And then film finished up. You said there was a little bit of a limbo period. Yeah. Definitely limbo period because. And it's, you know, excuses excuses. It was, it was on me. Yeah. It's like I needed to leverage what I just did. But I don't think I, I, I didn't know what to do after that because I was so drained. So I didn't leverage what I had created. And I was kind of also in the transition of do I want to spend two years on one project or should I instead of focus on creating just small projects. Because for me, it's like my, I completely neglected my YouTube channel. And that's where my audience just kind of went away. So if I upload a video now, I'll get like a thousand views. It's because nobody's nobody's there. So we're, right? Yeah. Just how that works. Because that happens with Facebook. It happens with every other platform where if you just don't post for a certain period of time, the algorithm just swallows you. And then they just don't send videos to those people anymore. Yeah. It's just like, you know, go into a coffee shop if they're closed for a day, like damn it, you go back to the clothes and clothes and you're like, I'm just going to find another coffee shop. Yeah. And then maybe you'll go back eventually. But yeah. It's like, if nobody has something to come back to, they're going to find, you know, something else entertained them. Right. And I wonder if, what was part of it is getting the notifications right from you. Yeah. That you just uploaded a new video. So I wonder if you just kind of bulldozed for a year uploaded a video every day. Yeah. I would have been, yeah. You just, I wonder how that would work. And if a YouTube would start like sending people back to you. But I feel like it probably would be just starting over. Yeah. It would be a start over. I mean, yeah. It's very tough nowadays because you need a team. You need a team of people to be able. Yeah. I think you could still, you could still do it depending on the content that you make. Like if you're just mostly talking head, but if you want to make either sketches or do a little bit something more involved in production quality, you definitely need a team. In terms of keeping the quality up and keeping it going. Because you're talking about multiple videos per week, especially in the sketch in the comedy world. Because I don't think you can get by with just doing two sketches, three sketches a month. And like if you really want to make good stuff, that's probably what as much as you can do by yourself. And like it really depends. Especially if you're, if you're starting from scratch and you're not doing anything, you're not getting paid to do it. That's what is really difficult. Yeah. I think you've had to know what works. And right now what works is vlogging. So people vlogging every day. You know of Casey Nesta? Yeah. Yeah. He's awesome. Like he's broken. He created a new style of vlogging. And he did it every day for numerous years. And then what the algorithm is, which is constantly changing on YouTube, is you know, longer form content and uploading consistently. So whoever is able to do that, like gamers blew up because they would sit there for an hour and play video game and chop it up into ten videos and they have, you know, or like six videos and they have ten minutes, six ten minute videos. So then they rise to the top. So it's, it's constantly always changing. That's been a pleasant surprise for me. And a pleasant change is the fact that people are more and more interested in longer form content. Because the, the quick short videos. They kind of drain on you a little bit. And there's only so much value that you can push into a two to three minute video. And there's only so much truth that you can push into it. Like if I had a podcast where there's three minutes long, how much, how like genuine of a conversation, it's just gonna be soundbots. Yeah. And that was a, if you know, Dave Ruben, he, Dave Ruben. Yeah, he's a, he's a YouTuber and he, as well as, the Ruben rapport. Yep. The political commentator. But he was talking about that, where he's like, I think just people got drained and were like tired of short form stuff. And they were just ready for like an hour, two hour long show. And that's where you, you see Joe Rogan with a three hour podcast. Yeah. And people listen to it. And that was you. Yeah, I listen to it too. And like you just have died hard fans. And his, he's like, he's amazing. Dude, just over a thousand episodes. He just hit. I like his doing. You don't, you don't, I think appreciate what he does until you, unless you try something that's a couple hours long. Yeah. And like he does multiple in a day if they do. Yeah. He's done every once in a while. He does two in a day. I've done that. He got the two twice. Mm. I get tired after one episode. Yeah. I'm like swatin' right now. Yeah. Yeah. You do six hours of podcasting in a day. And it's like the stamina to, to maintain that. And also to have something that's interesting, engaging, it's, it's really difficult. But I have liked, like seeing that. The fact that people want longer form content, because it is, I think it, it allows you to to be a little bit more authentic or a bit more variable than you would. Less edited. Yeah. So at what point did you start working on the channel Philly D. And, and working with Philly D. That was about a year ago. So I started there. And I was, after my film, I was doing some freelance work. And then I had known him for a while. Since, you know, like 2010 or so, just being in the same. Yeah. People who don't know Philly D. He has a YouTube show where he just, he doesn't use every day. So he focuses on like four different, four stories. And then he'll pretty much state the facts on both the left and the right. Or just provide the facts. And then he'll share his own opinion. And he's been doing that over 10 years now. Wow. So yeah, he has his main channel. And then his secondary channel, which is what I run now. Who's another editor? So. Yeah. So you run this channel over a million subscribers. A lot of behind the scenes kind of. Yeah. Really talk about that authenticity. You get a feel for how people actually are. And then their personalities through that form. When you first started doing that, was there a pressure knowing that these, Well, I don't did the, did you start with your subscribers on that channel or was there a lot? No, they, they had been running it for years. Because yeah, he's been around for so long. So I guess it started off as like his personal, you know, vlogging channel. And then he's been through many different, I guess, growing through his business and whatnot. So it's always been there. And he, I think he's had a few people who would run it. And they would create content and whatnot on it. But I think he just really wanted to rev up and to start being more consistent with it. So then he just brought me on to do it. And yeah, it's definitely, it's definitely different from what I was doing before. But I've always, always like to create new things and try new things. Like I've done, I've done a little bit of it and then like music videos. And I've tried vlogging and I've done a feature on the web series. Um, doing the more documentary type thing is, is been, it, it's been a change, but I was like, let me try to do it. Do you have a, uh, a preference and is that the direction you see yourself going, doing more and more behind the camera, more dox stuff, less on camera? Yeah, um, I definitely, I definitely like to documentary style. Uh, and I think for me, it's, it's after doing my film and doing a narrative. And something that is a created story. I was like, there's so many stories that just exist by themselves. And like, why, why spend time trying to formulate like the perfect script, perfect lines when you can just go out and film somebody doing something awesome and then create a piece of content around that. So that's what kind of, um, in the direction that I would more like to get. Like what you created is something that I would love to create. You know, it was like, yeah, I was like, right, that's actually why you do up. I was like, this is awesome, man. Oh, thanks man. I appreciate a great job on minimalism, right? Yeah. Yeah. Everybody loves it. The minimalists. It's a Twitter. Yeah. It was like Bill Burr talked about it on his podcast. He called it the minimalists. And everybody said, I could give a shit less. Yeah. Like I don't, I really can't. It's the same thing. Whatever you want, if you watch it, it makes me happy. Yeah. Like we've been talking about me so much, but it's always like, yeah, I mean, I've saw your work and it was great. And I tried to dive into you catalysis, which is your, your company, right? Yeah, so that's a couple of things. This is me. But it's, um, that was a learning lesson that I had early on with my freelance film making. And before minimalism, that's all I did. I went with a lot of startups and tech companies. Great. Local TV commercials. Like I did it all. I did more myths with videos and wedding videos. And I graduated college with a hundred thousand dollars in student loan debt. Oh, so yeah, it was a lot. So for me, it was, I was motivated by that. And I was very motivated. I love the self-development stuff. Tim Ferriss. Yeah. Tony Robbins. Oh, yeah. I'm just like a... Yeah. So I kind of pushed me forward and I paying off my debt was a huge goal for some time. Yeah. So I, and so making money was important. An important part of that process. But it was never making money for the sake of making money or making money. So I could buy nice things. Literally all my money just went towards my debt. And catalyst was allowed me to make more money because people will pay more money to a company. And they will, too, Matt, be able to be able to figure out the services. And I learned that pretty quickly. And it helped me to scale and to kind of create something that was larger than myself. And while it was just me running the company, I had other people that helped out. And, you know, I had two to three filmmakers that would hire for every project. It, yeah, it helped me to grow. And so that's what I'm doing now is kind of transitioning from doing the, that type of freelance filmmaking work. And doing just more of the original content. And I think the partnership is a huge thing which you found I working with, with fill is like, It's, it's, you have a skill and something to, to bring to the table. And if you can partner with other people that have stories and have an important message, that is one of the biggest ways that you can connect and, and get your message out there. Exactly. It's just finding the right people that share the same values as you do. Because there would be a lot of people who have great size audiences that I wouldn't want to work with. Because their message is maybe a little bit flat or something like that with me in that way. Totally. Yeah. So minimalism was like, yeah, like you're saying with your project. It was hard. Because you did everything on the two, right? Didn't you edit it? Yeah. I edited it. I produced it with a few co-producers. Josh and Ryan from the minimalist Jeff Marla and Dave from a company called Spire. And I was the only filmmaker going into that project. Wow. So I was only going to have experience in that realm. So we would go to a shoot and it would usually just be me, Josh and Ryan. And they would be there asking questions and I would be filming. Sometimes they wouldn't be there and I would be filming. And interview. I'm sure you've had this experience before. Of course. You ever done it with two cameras? No. While you're filming with one of them trying to keep it fluid. Yeah. Yeah. So I was always up with one where you kind of moving it and you're like, hey, listen. I'm going to be probably looking at this camera and not paying attention to it. Yeah. Yeah. It's where I was. Look at that computer in the background. Yeah. Exactly. Like, look at my shoulders that I would normally do. But then it always ends up being, they have this weird gaze to them. It ends up not coming across in the best way. I got to patch it up with B roll. But it was, it was an experience. It was really challenging. But during the middle of it, I loved it and probably mostly hated it. Oh yeah. It's the worst thing I've ever done. Yeah. It was way up and you're like, God damn it, I got to film this whole scene. And how am I going to get through it? Yeah. You get through it and it's the most satisfying feeling. It is. Once you're done with it and push it out there, I don't think there's anything that matches that. And then just hearing from people and the fact that some people have been affected by it and it's helped people has been really great. And actually one of the reasons why I started the podcast was because hearing from other filmmakers and creatives who were just getting started out. And I was like, man, I think a lot of people have missed under estimate how much of a budget we had, how much of a crew we had. And I think it's mostly, you have to just, if you want to say, create a documentary, a featured dog. You have to build the skills yourself. Exactly. You know, that's nobody's going to do it for you. Nobody is. Yeah. The good thing is now that it's easier than it ever has been to pick up a camera and just start filming. Was when you were making that, was there anything that surprised you that if you were going into something with like a certain direction of then or like a happy mistake that a happy mistake happened. Yeah, because I think you go into a project and you have a vision kind of for what it's going to feel like and look like it's hard to say what the content is going to be. Although I start mapped out and I had all these notes in a notebook, a musk in that I journal I had and I still have that journal and it's you go back to it and you're like, yeah, none of that made it into the movie. That's the most surprising thing is that you plan as much as you can and I think that's a really good thing to do. But this is the old Mike Tyson quote where, you know, everybody has a plan until they get punched in the face. So that's what this documentary was for me. It was just going out there just starting to conduct these interviews along the process doing. You know, we maybe had five six interviews upfront a couple were good a couple. It was just it didn't really fit with what we were doing and then realizing shit we held a lot more interviews. I don't have how am I going to tie this together. So then it's like doing like 20 more interviews on top of what we just shot. How long were the interviews each about? Probably long the one with Patrick Roan was a longest. That was three hours maybe. The shortest were some of them were 15 20 minutes because they were like, we had them in a bookstore. So we just interviewed them real quick. Most of them on average were about an hour. I like to keep the interviews to about an hour to an hour and a half to get everything you need. So it was a learning, I mean, every aspect of the film, especially bringing it all together was a learning lesson for me. Of course. It was tough. But I, when I finished it, I don't know about you, but I was like, I'm never going to do this again. That's exactly it. That's the one that's documentary I ever make. And then, you know, a couple months goodbye. You're like, I guess I could do that again. Because it's about challenging yourself. Yeah, I feel, yeah. I need to do something because I've been working on my own stuff recently. So I feel like, yeah, I'm, again, to that point where there's a little boiling inside. I mean, like, I need to do something creative for myself. Do you want to get back into that? I mean, I would like to get back into YouTube, but just like for fun, you know, just creating little things here and there. Right. A couple, a couple, like a year or two ago, I just made like a small little mini doc about handing out hygiene kits for the homeless. Because a buddy of mine, Sebastian, he would collect toiletries from hotels. And then, he told me about, hey, I'm doing this little thing where, you know, I saw someone make bags of toiletries and hand out to the homeless. I'm like, that's awesome. Let's do a little mini doc. And I would love to do more stuff like that. Yeah, that's a purpose. Yeah, absolutely. Like you said, it's the intent behind it. And it reminds me a lot of meditation. And I try to meditate quite a bit. But the whole mentality going into it is like, don't have any expectations. Don't try to get something out of it. And we're just trying to make content for the sake of making content. And just because you've got to keep making content. Sometimes you can lose your way and not really make something that's actually meaningful. Yeah, I've been there. Yeah. There's videos to be dancing in a diaper. You know, there's a balance. Because some of that stuff you're making just for fun. And I think there's a place for that. Especially that's the balance between making stuff that's trying to make people laugh. First is trying to make them think or trying to make them try to get a different emotional response out of people. Which, I mean, they both have their challenges. How do you feel about the, because I feel like YouTube has a different comedy. comedic element and comedic tone than most of the places on the planet. Yeah. I don't know how to articulate all this because like when I scroll through Instagram, you'll see Instagram comedians and then you'll click and watch it. And you're like, that was fun. Like what people find funny nowadays is very, I mean, I don't know where it comes from. It's because I feel like kids are growing up with YouTube comedy, which can be also very tone down and not really structured or based off of anything. But what we grew up on was, you know, TV shows and stuff that was scripted and whatnot. So I feel like we perceive comedy. We absorb comedy in a different way. And now I feel like, you know, what people think is funny. The younger generation. I'm just like, okay, cool. That's like, yeah, I never thought I'd be that guy. I don't know. These kids, man. Like comedy does evolve. And I think that's something that people don't realize, especially the different forms. And my friend Nate is a comedian and Vietnam. And he started out doing stand-up in Philly. And he talks about the difference between Vietnam comedy and United States comedy. And comedy over there can be a little bit like, hey, I'm telling a joke. This is a joke. Here's the set-up. Here's the punchline where everybody knows that they're going to a show. And it's a little bit exaggerated a little bit more over the top as to where somebody would see him perform here and they would say it's cheesy. Or it's just like, I don't know. It's a little hacky, right? So even in different parts of the country, comedy has evolved in different ways. Absolutely evolving. All right, so do you want to do? This is a segment. Okay. And it's called, quick questions. Oh shit, okay. Yeah. Quick questions. Not quick answers. That's that. I mean, let's see why it's a big. Okay. So I can actually think about it. Yeah. Yeah. I'll take my damn time. Yeah. So the first question. How do you deal with criticism? Oh, I love it. I love criticism. Yeah. I think, well, my, my film is a, is a big example of that is that when I was screening with friends, we did a screening. And one of my buddies was like, this is so bad. I was like, he's like, you need, you're missing like an A storyline or a B storyline. Right. And at that point, I felt like out was done. And he ripped me to Sereds and it hurt. But I, I love criticism. I can take it because it's, it's an opportunity to grow. And so from there. Yeah. We, we, we shot for two days. We figured out what was missing shot for two days and, and fix it. So for me, it's a criticism is always a way to, to grow. Yeah. I feel like you have to look at criticism as feedback. And sometimes you get bad feedback. Sometimes you get good feedback. And sometimes the feedback comes from a YouTube comment. Sometimes it comes from your mom. And you have to know when to take it to horror. When to actually make change based on that feedback. The one thing I want people to know, especially when they're starting out is that like, you just have to get over that first hurdle of getting bad feedback. Because I think once you can start to accept it and just kind of shrug it off when you have to and keep making work. Like I don't want people to get held up when they first start to get some bad feedback. Yeah. You're going to get it. Like if you start making anything worth watching, people are going to shit all over it. Of course. Everybody. You can't. I mean, there's 8 billion people in the world. I grand it. 8 billion people are watching. But yeah. You drive yourself crazy trying to please everybody. What skill do you think everyone should learn? Or what do you think is an underestimated skill today? And in terms of filmmaking? It can be anything. It can be for filmmakers. But it could be across the board. Oh, damn. Well, in terms of filmmaking, I think editing. I think editing is probably what has helped me become a better director. A better DP. A better storyteller is because with, you know, when you have all that footage, you have your solving a puzzle. And it can be solved in many different ways. So when anybody asks me like, you know, what should I work on? Or I'll say, you know, work on editing because you'll be able to attack every project from a director's perspective. To add to that, I will say edit your own footage. Yeah. Because editing your own footage early on. You're like, dude, like, why didn't I hold that shot longer? I just, especially if you have a camera that's got a zoom on it. You're just going to be popping in and out. And then you're not going to have any decently held shot. So editing your own footage is really going to help you understand what you actually need on a shoot. But I think you're completely right. Editing. And that's one of those skills that is not going to be outsourced any time soon. Oh, yeah. And it's like, hey, I'm not going to edit your videos. Yeah, exactly. But that's a really great advice. A lot of people get a little bit intimidated by editing. But if you look at most of my projects, if you look at minimalism, it's straight cuts. Mm-hmm. I don't, I did maybe a couple fade the blacks. Oh. And then we'll run for each other. Yeah, yeah. But it's like, you know, sometimes people get a little bit intimidated that they really need to learn all these effects. I see the cool flashy stuff and think they have to do that. But sometimes you don't need it. Sometimes you don't need it. Let's say somebody's stuck. What one thing can they do today to get unstuck? I think the keys Nike just do it. Nike just do it. It really is. It's the times that I had been stuck. And I just didn't do anything. I accomplished nothing. But when I said, fuck it, I'm just going to go out, pick up my camera, start recording something. And then boom, I have a video and then I upload it and I just feel, I feel that release because I tackled overcame that obstacle. So it really is just not thinking about it too much and just don't even go with a plan to start creating something whatever it is. More important I imagine to associate that sense of relief and that sense of gratification from clicking upload versus getting comment, getting views. You can't be triggered by the views and that the success to me is yeah, it's continuing to make stuff and make as great of stuff as you can. Yeah, and it's being able to say this didn't exist. You know, a couple hours ago, but now I have something and how do you face doubts? Doubt. Doubt. Hmm. Give me an example. Doubt. Why guess it's something? Thank you. We're starting to slow down with YouTube videos. I imagine was there any doubt there where you kind of second guess yourself before you uploaded videos and now when you're working on a project and you're about to put it out there. How do you ever come there? It kind of goes back to just again just just doing it as well as because even in my job now, I have to create three videos a week and there's only so much goes on in an office of people constantly working. Is that what I've realized again is this when I pick up the camera and start filming, things naturally just happen. So whenever I do, I'm in like a state of like, what am I going to do with doing a film? It is just the action of you picking up that camera or are you just moving in a, I'm just just just doing it. I hate saying that. I do it. For everything consumerism has gotten wrong. I think I've got that one right. I think you got that one right. It is so true. It's because if you don't do anything, you're just going to keep sitting there. Yeah. What one thing should people watch, listen to or read for the flow. My free stock. So one thing should people watch before they go to bed. Maybe some Tony Robbins. Yeah. So the Netflix doc. Yep. Pretty good. Enjoy that. I don't know something. It's just the feed the soul. I mean, I feel like you should end every day with a little bit of something that's going to, you know, push into the next day and kind of, like a tool that I bring you for that you can start the next day with. How about read anything that you would? I love me some Wayne Dyer. You ever read some Wayne Dyer? Yeah. I love Wayne Dyer. I read a book, a bunch of his books. Yeah. Again, it's a little bit of wire. What is it about? He does a lot of spiritual stuff. Like on that on that side. But he's also, he wrote a book called Power of Intention, which I think we talked about a few times. If you go into something with intention, then you end up creating whatever that intention is. Great. All right. So last question. You're. People want to get connected with you. Oh my gosh. They go. All right. I don't do as much YouTube but when I do, you can find it at youtube.com. So it's donation TV, Twitter, donation TV, Instagram, donation underscore. Those are my main little babies that I feed. Awesome. Yeah. Great. It's pretty cool. Come on. This is fun. What's fun? Too bad we didn't have video points. Yeah.
