# Make Meaningful Content
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=d8oQWF4EhF8
http://www.minimalistfilmmaker.com

Let's make meaningful content. I don't know about you guys but I'm tired of click bate, reverse engineered titles & catchy thumbnails. We're spending too much time on being heard, and not enough time on what we're saying.

I want to inspire you to make meaningful content.
**Keywords:** content, minimalist, create, simple living, meaning, meaningful, content creator, creator, creatives, matt davella, Matt D'Avella, film, filmmaker, filmmaking, how to, 
**Date:** 2018-02-05

## Transcript
 People are obsessed with content. Do you want to start a business? You better make a lot of content. Have you seen Jill's content? She's got the best content. Oh, and don't forget to make sure you're consistently making content. In an attempt to get the most clicks, likes, and views, we've sold herself short and left out one important ingredient. Meaning. I'm interested in making meaningful content. I'm sick and tired of clickbait, shallow posts, reverse engineer titles, and catchy thumbnails. It feels like we spend more time these days focusing on being heard than what it is, we're actually saying. When I said out to make our documentary minimalism, I wasn't thinking, hey, this would be a great piece of content to share. Imagine that. How many of your favorite films, books, or songs do you think start it out with the soul intention to make the artist's money or to build, quote-unquote, their brand? I'm not saying that money isn't important or you shouldn't think about how to present yourself online. These things do matter, but I think we're spending way, way, way too much time on them. With minimalism, we had a story to tell. We had a story we couldn't not tell. The idea behind the film had such a profound impact on our lives that we knew others could also get some value from it. So we set off across the country to learn more about simple living, the people it's impacted, and really, to hopefully share those stories with a wider audience. It wasn't about making content, it was about making something meaningful. So if you want to be heard, step one, have something to say. Spend a little less time crafting your title, a little less time fixing your hair, although it's important, make sure that you got your hair downpacked, and a little more time choosing your words, what it is you're saying. The last thing the world needs is another thoughtless vlog. You can have a vlog, but just be intentional about it. Here's the good news. Nearly every creator is sprinting in the same direction and following the same formula, and people are starting to get tired of it. You can feel it. They're asking. They are begging for meaningful conversations. So my question for you is, what kind of content are you going to make? This is a new thing. It's a video of me talking to the camera, which is new. I normally don't do these kind of videos. These videos in particular are direct messages. It's just ideas that I have about how to create meaningful content, how to create work that's inspiring, how to make it as a creative, instead of just having these free flow conversations, which really helps. Sometimes it's great to really write down your ideas and think through exactly what you want to say about a specific topic. So this is kind of my platform to do that. I'm excited about it. It's been my first time doing it. I'm reporting a couple of these back to back the back. I have lots and lots of content, meaningful content to share throughout the next couple of weeks. But overall, yeah, I don't know. It's cool. I'm just experimenting trying something new. I hope you guys like it, too. If you don't fucking you. No, don't, that's mean.
