# The Minimal Van Life // Ground Up 080
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DctszGUZM8k
Minimal Millennials Channel:  https://goo.gl/iU9mRX
Support this podcast:  http://patreon.com/mattdavella

It wasn’t that long ago that giving up your home to live in a van would have been considered insanity. But today people all over the world are embracing the van life movement.

My guests Aubry & Christian, who go by Minimal Millennials, were some of the earliest to adopt the lifestyle. On this podcast we talk about maintaining your routine while on the road, the finances of living in a van & why they decided to lead a minimalist van lifestyle.

-

This podcast is made possible by Patreon subscribers. Get my exclusive AMA podcast & more at http://patreon.com/mattdavella

-

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** minimal millennials, minimalists, traveling, travel, van life, living out of a van, converted van, van podcast, 
**Date:** 2018-09-26

## Transcript
 Hey guys and welcome back to the Ground Up Show, I'm your host Matt Diavella and today we finally tapped into the whole van life movement. It wasn't that long ago that living in a van would be the actions of somebody either desperate or insane. But today we have thousands of people all over the world who are intentionally giving up their homes and their apartments to live on four wheels. It's very interesting and a bit strange but also very inspiring. My guests today, Aubrey and Christian, who go by the names Minimal Millennials online, were two of the first at the very beginning of this movement. On the podcast we talk about a lot, including why they decided to get into that minimalist van lifestyle. How to maintain your routine while on the road, how to do the gym, where do they shower, all those fun details, as well as what the financials look like living out of a van. Do they save more money than if they were to live in an apartment? Very interesting stuff and I'm really excited to share that with you but first, if you have been following this podcast for a little while now, you know that I do not do advertising for sponsorships. The way that I am able to do this podcast is through Patreon subscribers. People like you who are willing to give a couple bucks a month as little as one dollar an episode to make this show possible. It ensures that the podcast is independent. I can talk about any brand's companies that I want without the fear of losing my sponsorships, without the fear of losing the way that I make money on this podcast. It allows me a whole lot of freedom and it also means that you don't have to get bored and inundated with these bullshit ads for mattresses and underwear and everything that you already have. I'm not trying to sell you on stuff that you don't need so then you can feel fulfilled. I believe that most of you, if you have access to this show and you're able to watch it, many of us have enough to be happy and content. But right now, I don't have enough Patreon subscribers to keep this going. I haven't yet reached my first goal which would allow me to continue to do this podcast advertisement free. So I'm looking for you guys to help keep this thing going. So if you head over to patreon.com slash Matt Diavella, you can contribute a dollar an episode to keep it at free or you can contribute even more and get access to exclusive content behind the scenes of this podcast. How I make this videos? If you're a filmmaker or creative, really helpful and valuable advice on how to build something from the ground up, I also do a lot of fun vlogs and travel videos to show you more of an intimate look at my personal life and how I apply minimalism on a practical level. I cannot believe that I was able to do all that without any edits or jump cuts, that's amazing. Without further ado, I'd love to get into this podcast, Auburn Christian, we're so much fun to talk to. I think you're really going to like this episode. Enjoy. I think this is a funny experience, by the way. You mean the headphone experience? It feels intimate. It feels like we're playing radio. Yeah, true. That's kind of the part, that's what I like about it. No, I love it. It's just, I want to get real up close and talk in an intimate way, you know. Yeah, yeah, yeah, it's going to get real weird and you're like, first you want to get into ASMR, I think. Oh, I am ASMR. Yeah. I just, I just cut your, your mics and I can't talk. I was trying to figure out who is who, so then I know if somebody starts screaming. It was my first round. The ASMR thing. It's a weird thing. It's a weird thing. Yeah, that's our Patreon. That's so good. They hear me slurp. It's weird. Does that, like, have a fact effect on you guys, listening to the ASMR videos? You don't get like the tinglies. I do it badly. It's like having a bad trip. It's like having a bad trip. Yeah, yeah. It feels like ants crawling on me. Oh my God. I don't know. I kind of like it. This is my confession. This is like when everything tips for me and people stop unfollowing. Right. Like that's like ASMR. No, no, no, it is. Yeah. No, he was like, can't get it. It's so, so weird though. It's so, it's hard to get past the fact that there's just somebody next to a mic. It's true. Like with a cop or like, or like, blowing into the internet. Yeah, I can like interview over, bro. It makes my tingles up my spine. Yeah. Welcome to the podcast. Thank you guys for being here. Thanks for having us. How has your California trip been so far? It's been insane. Yeah. We've met so many people. And it's been so great. Just like, this is the first time we've been here as creators. I grew up here and everything. So, but it's like a whole new experience. When you get to collaborate and create with people, it's been. I don't, I kind of hate LA. It's all this trip. Yeah. I mean, it has this reputation of being all about posturing and about, you know, how everybody looks and everything. But coming here as a creator is a totally different experience. Because I feel like being here as a creator, you realize more is going on here. I think kind of the rest of the country combined. Yeah. And for us, we're always just struggling to find people to inspire us to connect with. And here, we're just like swimming in them. You know what I mean? Yeah. Yeah. I think that that is definitely one of the things that drew me to either LA or New York or Big City doing what we do, like making content, videos, podcasts, whatever, collaborating with people. Yeah. It's so important to have collaborators. They have people that you can work with and partner with and help each other grow. And just inspire you, right? Like, I feel like we're so full of energy with our content right now. Because this is our end of our third week here. And you're like the fifth creator that we look up to that we're getting to hang out with. And it's just like a fireman. Yeah. That's great though. I mean, it's great that you guys at least took advantage of the time while you're here. Yeah. Yeah. Let's make a bunch of stuff to work tripping. Yeah. It is. I mean, it's always worked with me. Yeah. All right. We're sitting at your kitchen table, right? We are. We don't have a life outside your work. There. Not much. No. But there is. All right. So there's a lot that I want to talk about. Okay. You got the band stuff. The minimalism. Living together, traveling all over the place. Working together. A lot to cover. Lots to cover. Where do you guys want to start? Where should we begin? Who are we? Who are we? I think that obviously, you know, we're a couple here. Yeah. And I think the way it went for us was we worked together. We got to know that dynamic. We traveled together all the time. That lettuce to minimalism. That lettuce to the van. Got it. That's it. That's the podcast. There we go. Maybe. So find yourself a good partner. Yeah. Yeah. That's amazing. I mean, it's hard to find a good partner. Yeah. Everybody that you can actually live with and love and all that stuff. And I like balances your own personality. But then to be able to find somebody that you can actually work with in a professional time. Why? That must have been a little like how did that first start? Was that kind of challenging to in the beginning? Yeah. Because we didn't start out working together. Like we started out just dating. And then we started working on some projects. We were working at the same company for a while. And then we started working on YouTube together. And so yeah, I don't know. It was really hard. It was really hard. It was really hard. Just a brawl. I was like a slug vest. Yeah. Because we're both really creative and both really driven. And so we'd have, you know, I'd have an idea. And he would think that it was dumb. And I would give my head feelings hurt. Yeah. You know, like all of those dynamics. We had to figure out how. How do we still love each other and like value the relationship? And what are our roles too, right? Because like before we were together, I would consider myself very entrepreneurial and like very ideas person. And you would consider yourself very driven, right? Which is both are true. But then once we came together, we realized that like, I have ideas, but I'm really the person who like can be a good credit and put the wheels behind something. And she's really driven, but she's really the person that's just like, but brilliant with new ideas. Like she comes up with stuff I never could. So it was like, you know, I feel like learning how to work with someone is more about just finding what you're willing to give up and trust them with. And what you can lean on yourself for a little bit heavier. So I had to let my ego go down of like, maybe I'm not the ideas person anymore. Maybe one wife is the one who's really the more brilliant of the two of us. And my goal is to just push her forward. And I think you had to let go of, you know, maybe I've got to lean on him to make this happen a little bit more. So it was six months of just like, I wouldn't let her be the ideas person. I'd fight her on everything. Or you wouldn't let me really be the one pushing it forward. I mean, obviously we still have, we were, you know, we still have our conflicts. Never gonna be her known. You didn't figure it out yet. Exactly. But I think in any working dynamic to make it successful, you've got to let your ego down a little bit and realize what they do better than you. So, you know, it was always a, I think it's helped our relationship as a whole as people to work together. But I could also see it. I don't know. We're pretty lucky. I'm lucky to have someone who's willing to work with me like that. I could see it being really tough for, you know, other people to do them. Yeah. I think that's probably part of the process, right? It is the learning how to work with each other. And whether it's just exclusively an intimate relationship or a business relationship, there's always going to be friction. There's always going to be trouble. There's always going to be problems that come across in any relationship. So it's about trying to work through those and not just run away at the first sign and things are going downhill. And it's about finding something you care about enough that you're willing to push through, right? Because for us, YouTube, and kind of the social media brand that we built, it started out as something we just enjoyed to do. So there were a little bit less sticks. So we could work together. It wasn't like we had a ton of money on the line. It wouldn't like we had our careers in the line. It was just like something we wanted to do. And we worked out those kinks. And then slowly it's turned, it's turning in real time into our careers in a sense. But we were able to figure it out before it was that when it was just a hobby. When it was just, let's figure out our dynamic and then let's take it to the next level after we kind of figured ourselves out. Do you know what I mean? Yeah, totally. So when did minimalism come into your lives? When did you guys first start to think about the things in your life? And your relationship with those things? So it started when we were dating and we were dating long distance. And so we were traveling all over the country just to see each other. And that meant that we were basically moving out of a suitcase. I was living out of a suitcase. He was kind of living out of a car. And when we moved in together and kind of combined all of our stuff, we really didn't have that much in the first place. But it filled up half of our apartment. And we were like, whoa, we've not even touched most of this stuff for the last Neo3 years of our lives. And so that kind of sent us into let's purge and let's get rid of all this stuff that we really don't need. It has no role in our life. And then that allowed us also because we didn't own any furniture or anything like that beforehand. So we were able to come in with a lot more intention with those bigger purchase items. And we just kind of intentionally curated a life and fell in love with that, fell in love with that with every aspect of our life, not just our stuff and our wardrobe and that kind of thing. But also our relationships. And how much time we spend on social media and things like that. And I think that the real push for us to be minimalist was that Aubrey, she was in LA. And she decided to move to San Antonio to join me there. And at the time we were long distance each other in Chicago or Portland or whatever for dates, right? Because like what else do you do? We lived halfway across the country for each other. When you join me, she moved in with her aunt, her aunt and uncle, just for about six months in a transition period. And I remember I moved my stuff into that room too. And the room was just packed with stuff. You know, it was like impossible to live in that room because it was just like full of all of my crap more than yours. But it was just full of all this stuff. And it was like, it was just like question of like, this is inconveniencing us to store all of this. And we intentionally put it to where it's like, she was seeing it every single day. It's like you got to walk over all of our crap just to get to bed, right? So I think when we moved into the apartment, that's what it was like, we're only going to move, you know, the stuff that we actually need here. And at the end of the day, it was a tiny little pile of things. I mean, we lived in an empty apartment for weeks and weeks and weeks and weeks. You know what I mean? And we lived in like a uncontrollably empty apartment for probably six months as we slowly were like, we're going to go thrifting for, you know, in junk stores for our table. Because we finally found our table. We're like, yes, we have a table. Like, thank God, we finally have a table. But, you know, we love that table. It was the only table we ever had. And it was like, you know what I'm saying? So it was very slow process. Yeah, it's funny how like when you first moved into an apartment, there's like almost a honeymoon phase. Really? We've got to get all the stuff. We've got to fill every single wall. We've got to, you know, get, make sure we get the couches. And then like, let's get that nice L-shaped couch. Exactly. We have ever had the misfortune of going through IKEA as a couple. Yeah. It was a struggle. Yeah. We always say that they should have like a therapy booth at the very end. After you go through all the toiletries in the shed. Because it's just chaos. Yeah. You, there's so many decisions that you need to make, which is just wearing on you. Because there's so many things that might go in a house. And like, it's just funny like all the things that we think that we need from like straws to throw pillows to ornaments. It's like, where do you draw the line and like, how do you know what to bring in and what to not? But then once that honeymoon phase is over, you just get used to your house the way it is. People come over this house and they're like, oh, wow, you guys are minimalist. And I'm like, I honestly, like, I don't look at my walls. Like I'm not like paying attention to the stuff that's there. You just, essentially, like that stuff, it doesn't even exist anymore. Like it's, it's not there. So I think that's, that's the big challenge is like, how do we just be okay with this, like having less stuff and not feeling that. Like, where does that urge come from? Yeah. Yeah. So I think for us, it was almost just exactly what you're saying. Practicing, you know, fighting the urge in the first couple of weeks to fill it up. Because I mean, like, we didn't have anything on our walls for long, so we ended up getting one set of prints, like eight months in. That was just really simple. That's all we ever had. Yeah. We had this really big, like concrete walls, concrete apartment. It was like, it was echo. It was like, you wanted to fill it up. Right? Yeah. I feel like you're in a cave. But I think we got one rug. And we were like, oh my gosh, this rug is a game changer. Like, it's not echoing anymore. This is all we need. So it was practicing, fighting the urge just like you're saying. And especially because like, I'm from Texas, we were in Texas. In Texas is known for these like, make mansions. Or it's a 4,000 square foot house. You're like, who needs a 4,000 square foot house, right? And when you have 4 empty rooms, you have to fill those rooms up. Can't have lots of rooms, right? So it's just this, like, compulsive urge to just, there's no reason to fill these rooms up. Yeah. That's the thing that I'm, when I'm looking up apartments trying to find apartments. I'm probably one of the only ones. Maybe just maybe you guys included once maybe get back to the apartment. But like, I actually search and restrict it. Like, I don't want to find a better place. I want to find a small place. I want to find a place that I don't have to decorate. And like, that also goes in the actual decor of the place. Like, if you can find a space that maybe has interior brick or a lot of great open windows, you don't feel that urge or the sense to actually throw shit on the walls. So like, just get prints for no reason. Like, it was, that's the funny thing is like, you just, you're trying to find ways to fill the walls. Yeah. You're, you're, you're struggling. All right, well, let's just look up cool prints.com or like, I just google searching for inspiration, right? Yeah. Um, Aubrey, you, your house burned down when you were a kid. Yeah. That must have been like, talk about one of those experiences where you think about the things in your life and the relationship of stuff. Yeah. How old were you when that happened? I was 14. And it's interesting to bring that up because I think that does play a really big role in how I view stuff. Um, so, I mean, as, you know, 14. So like, old enough to really process what was going on. Um, and once, I really, we lost everything really. Like, I had to close on my back for one night and then we went and bought more stuff. Um, I remember that feeling falling asleep in a hotel room being like, whoa. All I own right now are the clothes that I'm wearing to sleep right now, like literally. And, um, and I realized that everything was okay. It really was just be, you know, because we had lost all that stuff. I was still living. My whole family was still living. Everybody was fine. And so I think I carried that into, um, becoming an adult, um, in a lot of ways where I realized okay, even if I, you know, I have a small group of things that are very important to me. Like, my computer, because I like creating stuff. And I'm like, you know, being on social media and things like that. Even if I lost that, yeah, it's expensive, but it can be replaced. And it's not going to be a big deal. Or when I go on a trip, if I forget something, it's probably not that big of a deal. Like, I can wear a different piece of clothing or something like that. So I think it really did allow me to experience minimalism without necessarily being, having to be intentional in the first place in one of the events. How you react to that situation? A lot of people could react really negatively and, like, justifiably so. Right. To have your house right down as it is a horrible thing. But you can gain some sense of control and being able to actually control how you feel about that situation. And that, that really, I think, starts probably with our relationship with stuff to begin with. And if you are not so attached to all those things in your house, if you're not so possessive over it, then if something like that happens, you can almost maybe experience and think about, alright, what would that be like? If I'd lost on my stuff today, how horrible would that be to me? Yeah. And in a lot of cases, it's not going to be that bad. It's never the end of the world as long as you're alive, right? Yeah. And I think to that point, as we were dating and you were traveling all the time, I saw you practice that with how packed. Remember that? Because Aubrey traveled, like, like, did, like, 40 flights that year, 50 flights? I don't know, it's just fine. Like crazy for some time. Just for work. Are you spying? Yeah. It seems like, correct. Early miles were, like, unbelievable. Yeah. But I remember throughout the year, and you could speak to this better than me. Obviously, it's your stuff. But I remember, like, how you're packing changed, because it just became, like, like, actually, I mean, you can, like, just look at, she's pretty dandered anyway. It doesn't wear makeup. Doesn't need a whole lot of things to take care of yourself, which I like about you. But I remember seeing your packing minimize me. Yeah. Because at first, you're packing a suitcase for reprimanding most people. Yeah. And then it was, like, a bag. And then it was like a backpack. No, I think it was weird. It's like a bragging right. I had a big suitcase, and I would fill it, like, a quarter of the leg. And I was like, what am I doing right now? Yeah. And then you went to backpack. And then you basically went to, like, just, like, nothing. Yeah. And it was like a bragging right. Like, I, you know, I don't even need a carrier. Yeah. It's kind of like a bragging right. It was a minimalist or whatever, and like how a few stuff can you travel with this Zach. And then if I put out a video where I'm like packing like a bunch of shirts and maybe extra pairs shoes for an ice denner. What are you doing doing? I'm very embarrassed. Yeah. Yeah, right here. You're right here. You're like, you got married? You're like, I'm going to your wedding. I'm just saying, oh, man. I'm ashamed. Yeah. So. Yeah. Say if you're going to take a flight somewhere or go somewhere. You know, carry on. Yeah. You're going to go to London for a couple weeks. Do you think you'll take more than a backpack? No. I mean, I'll have to take equipment. That always kind of, you know, complicates. Your equipment bag is like a bag. But I'll be there for two weeks. A equipment as in like camera. Maybe a computer. I'm going to bring a tripod, a small tripod. Yeah. I'll have to bring a lot of stuff because I'm going to be making content. Yeah. But yeah. I'll probably just take my computer bag and see how many clothes I can fit. Dude. I used to do that. Yeah. I mean, I was just reminiscing on this recently where it's. It's I'm thankful that I don't have to travel as much anymore as I used to for work. Yeah. So you used to be just exhausting around all the time. Yeah. And I think it actually a lot of people think, so cool. It's really amazing. And it is in the beginning, especially when you're young. Yeah. And you haven't traveled much. But then it just really actually adds to the stress of what a normal regular shoot would be. Yeah. If I just did a shoot in New York where I lived at the time, it would be easy. I could just wake up in the morning. I don't have to plan ahead. You plan ahead, but I don't have to really think about three days ahead. Yeah. And then the packing and then what if my bag gets lost? What if the person I hired in this foreign town doesn't show up or whatever. Yeah. There's so many things that could go wrong. And not having to to travel that much is actually great. But I used to do that where I would take my camera bags. I would have a camera backpack and then a pelican case. Yeah. And it was just stuffed with clothing, which helped to actually pat it and make it more secure. Yeah. And also ensure that like, I'm like, well, I'm going for three days or two days. I only need to bring a couple of t-shirts and a couple of pairs of underwear or whatever. Yeah. I need to bring a lot more camera gear with you. Yeah. So that's just kind of one of the troubles of being minimalist and filmmakers, right? Right. Because that they're not very minimalist about our gear. Yeah. Same with me. I mean, look at this. Yeah. Okay. But here's the thing about minimalism. I hate it when people say that minimalism is like only having less stuff. I really think what it is is only having the things that add value to your life. You know? And so for camera gear, it's like, it obviously adds value to your life. This is now your career and what you're you're doing with your life. And so just having a lot of cameras doesn't necessarily mean that you're not minimalist. The intentionality, right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I feel like sometimes especially when you're new to minimalism, you get caught up in this, like, It's, it's fun to cycle. Like they have this space in your life. I have the freedom and it's like, oh my gosh, you feel like you found something. You're like, how does now I was and everyone not found this. I think you get caught up in this excitement of just like, less is, is more, which is true. But it is, it is easy to start just getting irrational about it and just throwing out stuff with the sick of throwing it out. Like now you're missing the point. Like, where that out? And then just don't buy a new one. You know what I'm saying? So I completely agree with you that I think that's why minimalism content can get a little hard to make or minimalism conversations can get a little hard to have because, like, you were saying it just becomes your philosophy. Like your house is just, your apartment is just your apartment. You know what I'm saying? And it's not about like you're always trying to take that blender off the counter because, like, that kind of needs to be just a little bit cleaner. You know what I'm saying? You're like, like, I don't, it's not less stuff for the sick of less stuff. It's less stuff for the sick of intentionality and emotional space. It's not like, you know. Yeah, I mean, less is more until less becomes less. Like you're going too far. You're not going to be happy. So if I didn't have my camera gear, if I didn't have the things that I really love, then actually truly do add a lot of value to my life. Yeah. I would be not so happy. Yeah. And I think a lot of people miss the mark and I think, yeah, maybe we need a little rebranding. I think what's nice about it, it does start a conversation. It does get people to think, oh, I could never do that. And then at least gets people to start to talk about it versus just not paying attention to their stuff at all because I think most people could use from letting go of 90%. Right. Yeah. I'm talking about the last 10%. Yeah. Do you really need to get rid of that last thing? It contributes to your life. It makes you happier. Yeah. You know, maybe we can sit here. Totally. I mean, people get rid of at least 90% and still be more, you know, be more happy. Right. Do you guys hold on to sentimental items or have you gotten rid of pretty much all of them? No. It's horrible. Like, we get that question all the time. Yeah. Actually, if people were like, okay, I have this thing. And my mom would be so heartbroken if I got rid of it. But I literally never even look at it. And I think there are a couple things. Yeah. God bless me. We wouldn't take that away from someone, but that's just not us. Yeah. We're pretty just always changing people anyway. Yeah. But also, it helps that we live in a van because now people know that, you know, like, my mom is starting to get us out. We can turn down stuff. Yeah. Yeah. We don't have room for that. And we're like, fruit ball. Right. You know, like, I'm happy. I'm happy. I'm happy. Yeah. Yeah. But my mom is starting getting us, like, gas cards. Um, like, gas gift cards. Oh, that is good. Yeah. That's an amazing gift. It's awesome. Um. Now, I feel this the same way. I mean, I'm like, well, you know, it's up to you. It's up to you. Just keep it. I mean, keep it. If it's going to cause you that much anguish to get rid of it, you should probably keep it. Because, I mean, what I'm, but also how many centimeters you have. How many things of your mom, so you're holding on to and she's saying, like, Oh, these very upset if you got rid of that and that and that and that at some point, you're like, what it feels like it's such, it's like burning you at that point. You know what I mean? Like, we have a really good friend who we talked to a lot about this. Um, really really close friend of ours. She experienced a time of her life where she was in a lot of emotional stress. So she just started compulsively buying, right? And that's how she dealt with it. But then she attached so much emotional value to each individual item that giving each one away felt like just like this. It felt like just giving a huge emotional piece of her soul and she couldn't do it. But then the root of that was that she had gone through this stressful time and her her recourse was to just collect, right? And so she needed to learn how to let some of that stuff go. You know what I mean? The tide to emotional energy, right? So it's a fine line where it's like some some of all things like, don't, again, don't get rid of them just to get rid of them. You know what I'm saying? Like, I don't think that really, if it's not going to create more emotional space in your life and make you happy a person, don't get rid of it. But maybe it feels so important because it's tied to something deeper. You know what I mean? Like, you don't know how to let these things go, right? Yeah. And you need to practice that sometimes. Van Life. Yeah. I want to talk about your guy's Van Life story. When did this whole crazy thing start? Because, yeah. Come on. It wasn't that long ago that living in a van was a weird thing. Yeah. It's still kind of weird. The more chances we have to talk about it, and so we're professionals, we're normal people. You know, like we're not freaking, we're not showering any front yard. Yeah. Oh, you don't know. Yeah. Yeah. That happens at night. You're right though. But yeah, do you guys remember? I know you guys were early at the cusp of when this whole thing started? Yeah. You know, the people were doing it. So you didn't. You had kind of just gotten into it. You were doing it. Yeah. So weird. Let me tell you what's up. You guys are weird people. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It came from minimalism, right? So that was a step towards it. So what happened was we were both working. And we come to one place where we were just really young and really poor. Just poor because we were young, right? It's just like sleeping on a couch eat, no meal, like you don't have anything. We got married. We were working these jobs. And we quickly went from having nothing. And we were minimalist. We didn't really want that. Many things to having everything we wanted, which wasn't that much. But it was like, we had everything we wanted. So we were in this place where I think we we minimize. We bought the things we wanted and we were like, okay, what's next? Like, I'm just going to work for 20 more years and not want to buy anything else. And what's right? I think just go to nicer dinners. Like, is that really what our goal is here? So I was planning on moving to Southeast Asia for some nonprofit work before we got married actually. And once we got to this existential crisis again, I started reconsidering that just for a change of, like, should we move to Asia? What should we do? We had a little bit of money in the bank finally. Other than one night we were driving home from Austin and San Antonio, which is where my parents are. And I think I just said, like, you know, what if we just moved to do a van? I really don't know where they came from. It was the van. Oh, oh, my parents were selling their van. Yeah. My parents had a big family. They had this van. They were selling their van and I was like, damn, maybe we should just buy that. And then, you know, live in it. And I was like, that's good idea. Yeah. Yeah. And the next two days was just us looking to be like, hold on. Are you serious about this? I think like, are you BS? So I was 100% serious from the start. Yeah. And I was like, okay, it's not good. Yeah. Yeah. So then we started kind of looking online and realized, oh, this is the thing people do. And a lot of people buy cart. Well, so yeah. On Instagram it was a lot bigger at that point. And so we were realizing, oh, a lot of people buy cargo van so they can stand up and then that sounds nice. So let's do that instead. So I think it was two weeks later. We bought the first Sprinter van that we came across on Craigslist. And he had kind of found this guy who had built van before. He was a friend of a friend. And this guy was like, all right, let's make it happen. And he helped us build it out. And we were on the road. Six months. We had that way to like wind or jobs down get remote. Yeah. Two weeks from idea inception to money on the table, baby. Right. So then you just we went all in. Yeah. And now you're in a van happened for a year and five months. Yeah. Three months here. That's amazing. A while. No signs of slowing down at this point. No, sorry. That's amazing. Let's get started. That's so good. So when you guys first get in the van. All right. Where do you want to go? Or is it? Do we just like stay in our parents? We were traveling the whole time. We were both working at the time. So we operated already had a remote job and had for like four years or something. Or three years. Probably that point. So she just kept doing her remote job. It worked out perfect. And then I transitioned to. It was sort of like my job, but it was like a scaled down version. Right. But I could still work. So we still had work to do. So a lot of our travels where we wanted to travel. But we also had a lot of work to do. So it was like balancing those two things. Yeah. But we weren't saying one place. We were like. Going too fast. Yeah. We were just like sipping across the country. Yeah. I was like, I'm just a bit busy with my family lives in Washington. So we wanted to like we had spent a lot of time with his family. Because they lived in our way. And my family was feeling that. So they were like, come visit us. So we hadn't visited them a lot. And spent a lot of time in Washington. And that kind of thing did a lot of the west coast. But since then we've been to Mexico. We spent a lot of time in Mexico. We spent a lot of time in Canada. That's kind of all over the states as well. So yeah. Speaking of family. Yeah. And millennials. The middle of millennials. We're all millennials. People are aged. They get it. They have a normal thing. But what about like parents? And they like, this is. Yeah. Are you guys sure about this? Yes. We're really fortunate actually. Have very supportive parents. His parents, I think, live by curiously through us. Yeah. So they're really stoked for us. And my parents. I think we're just really excited to know that we would visit them more often. Yeah. We're like pursuing something through it. We're doing our YouTube channel. We're putting a lot of investment in that. And we're seeing success in it. So I obviously, that's. Yes. It helps when you're doing well. Yeah. When you have a choice. When you're in the band by no choice. Yeah. It's a difference. People might question it. But then fuck them. Right. Because you're like, well, I'm. It's all. I can't afford an apartment. I've been living in a van. Exactly. I think that brings the friends. That brings up the finances though, too. Because I did just watch a video recently where you break down a lot of the finances. You guys are super transparent about how much it costs to live and to travel in a van. What does that look like? Are you guys saving a lot of money compared to living in an apartment? Yeah. It's interesting. Because I think people think, oh, you're living in a van now. It's suddenly like this. So cheap. And it's not. Like, we still go out to eat. And we have a good time. We don't try to just like stay in our van and not take it. You look it up. Yeah. But we definitely do save a lot more money this way. What's the most expensive dinner you've ever had? Oh, probably an Iceland. Yeah. I slept everything's four times more expensive than how much it's expensive. That's expensive. That's a $800 dollars all the time. Which isn't cheap crazy. I guess in Toronto, we have this we're vegan. So vegan food is not cheap. Crosse is moderate. Did you go there? We think that was not cheap. Did you like it? It didn't blow away. It didn't blow away. No. See, well, you guys are vegans. So we're pretty picky. We're also, we cook a lot. And our best friends also cook a lot. We travel with them all time. And everyone, I'm not a very good cook. But the other three of them are all excellent. So we're spoiled. Yeah. We were very, we were rarely find a place to go. I would say, though, like, grassiest moderate. Definitely reminded us of Mexico. And our best vegan food we've ever had is in Mexico. And, you know, a fraction of the price. There's a connection there. Oh, yeah. You're hard to please though. You didn't like that Iceland hot dog. No, man. We weren't vegan at the time. Now we're even picky now. Yeah. But like, remember that place in Toronto that had the hot dog carried. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That was the most expensive. Yeah. But it was like trying to be fine dining for vegans. Which it was. It was awesome. Yeah. And we were looking forward to that experience. Yeah. So we had an hat. I mean, we found some in LA that really are. Yeah. Yeah. We had the vegan spots. Yeah. Side track, too. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So it is a lot more affordable. It's also a little harder to make money. So we've been really fortunate to have our social media brand. And that's been growing and doing fairly well for us. You know, we're not like rolling in the day or anything. But yeah, it's definitely more affordable. And I think the most affordable way to travel because you're never paying for accommodations. And you can always make your own food and that kind of thing. So. But there is a direct trade off. Yeah. Like we were making pretty good money when we were in San Antonio. And that income was just slashed. I mean, just completely slashed, right? And so we're at the point where like our bill ratio or income ratio is really solid. But our income is nowhere. Our income wouldn't even cover our bills. Right. From when we were in San Antonio, right? So it's all relative, right? Yeah. Yeah. We have a little lifestyle now that we probably spend a couple thousand bucks a month. But we eat out. And we have a ton of entrances for everything. Yeah. And we buy good equipment. Well, there's like that. That's the pressure. I think that a lot of us face is what's your salary. Right. Six figs man. You make it six figs now. Like everybody's so obsessed with how what your salary is. And it's like, what about the ratio? What's the quality of what you're making to what you're spending. You know, and like that is to me is way more important because if you're making six figures. But you're spending six figures. It's not worth it. That's not a good equation. Exactly. Because we're breaking it down. And we, you know, we probably make, I don't know. We don't care. I mean, we're totally open to talk about this stuff. I don't know if you care about this or any of our guys. No, yeah. Of course. I mean, we probably make like four to five thousand bucks a month. Which is not even close to what you're making before. I mean, I was making more than that by myself. But it's like our, you know, we only spend two thousand bucks a month. So we are able to save. Yeah. And we hope to like buy a home that we can use as our home base. And we're working towards those things. But I don't think of van life. People have this idea that it's like, you're going to just save and cut a while amount of money. And that's why you're doing it. You're going to a van to save money. Don't do that. Like, it's just, it doesn't make any sense, right? But you're exactly right, babe, that there aren't many lifestyles. You can sustainably travel and make it a lifestyle. To where like travel is our norm now. It's our home. And that's how we know how to make friends. And we, that's just, it's what we know now. And we can afford it on a month by month by month basis. And not burnout because of what we're doing. So it is the only lifestyle you know that you can really sustainably do that. You know what I mean? If you wanted to. Yeah. Are there any hidden costs that you didn't think about before you got injured? Well, you're living in a vehicle, right? So you're car breaks down. And we live in a Mercedes. So it's very expensive. Yeah, it's a work band. It's an expensive one. Yeah. So we've had to replace our engine, which I think all told was $18,000. No, it was about 14. Well, with labor and everything. No, it was about 14. But we bought the van really cheap. So there was like, we probably had to do something to the issue. We bought 5500 bucks, which is about like seven or eight thousand below the market value. And then immediately put up 14,000 engine in it. Yeah. Even just services. It's like we have to prepare ourselves for, you know, $1500 charges and stuff like that. So that's definitely a hidden thing where like we like to have an emergency fund put away for that at all times. Yeah. Yeah. So it seems like your emergency fund must be bigger both being working remote. Yeah. Yeah. You have to really kind of head for sure. Because yeah, a lot of people say, well, what if your car breaks down, that's like your house breaking down. So you really need to make it. It's like a roof giving you something. Yeah. So we have 10,000 set aside. For us it's a must to enjoy our travels and have like emotional stability. Yeah. Yeah. I do that with. Like I'm like maybe five to six months of expenses. Yeah. Where I'm like bare minimum expenses. Yeah. Where if I have to eat rice and beans for six months, you could sort of be it. Yeah. And like there's always you kind of always push the threshold a little bit. I think as like maybe you stack up a little bit more money in your savings. But it's all about what you can stomach. And lately, especially as I get older, I can't stomach as much. You know what I mean? Like back when I was young, when I first moved home after college, I mean, I got 26 dollars in the bank account. Exactly. Imagine just having like, I literally can't have any more duty. When we were like saving to get married, I was eating oatmeal three times a day because it cost me less than a dime per meal. And it was just oatmeal and water. So I'd like to sneak my oatmeal to my work. No cinnamon. Nothing. Not no milk. I would go to the hot water dispenser and like sneak my little ball and put some hot water Stir it up. And that's all I would eat for months and sleep on a couch. And I was okay. But like now, oh my god, I'm so spoiled. We live in a van and I came and imagine that. You know what I mean? So yeah. It's all about knowing yourself too. Yeah. Yeah. What's a work situation like? Work situation is mostly YouTube and social media at this point, which has been awesome. And then every once in a while, like this summer, he worked full time for the company that we worked for in San Antonio, just remotely. And so sometimes we'll pick up jobs like that. We're going to Toronto to work for some friends. And so there's kind of random things that will do along the way. But at this point. Well, I will set ourselves. We've never had any period of more than like a month and a half. We weren't doing another job. Yeah. But I think soon we'll be at the point where we just, not just because we like to work, honestly. I think that travel without any goal is a little at least for me. It's not very fulfilling. I think that's for you too. So our social media brand is to the point where it is a full time job for both of us. We want it to be. Yeah. But I just, this summer was insane, man. It was finished like full time and trying to do everything. It was a lot, dude. It was a lot. Yeah. What was, what were you days like during that? Yeah. You two videos. Yeah. What made out of it? Well, I was waking up. It's six o'clock to start work because it was central time hours. We were like 6.30 a.m. to like three in the afternoon. And then starting at three. We were usually with friends. So we'd make videos from like three or content from like three to sundown. And then I'll go to dinner and hang out and add it from like sundown to like midnight. And then back up at six to on calls all day. It was, it was. And we had to pretend like we were having fun the whole time. Oh my god. Because it's energy. Yeah. Yeah. Because like our videos are very much like people want to see us out in nature, adventuring, doing something interesting. And so which is good because it means that we're exploring all the time. And we're pushed to do that. So you've seen so much in the last year and a half. Way more than we would have. Yeah, for sure. But sometimes it can be exhausting. So it's really hard to turn it on after you've been working. Oh, yeah. And I think that there is something to be said about grinding and hustling and working hard. But you should only grind so far that your life doesn't become a grind. Right. And it's diminishing returns at a point, man. Like I was realizing that after the summer, because it's like you put in all this work over here. But people can tell when you don't have energy. You know what I mean? And your work suffers when you don't have energy. And so that's what I was realizing over the summers. I'm not, I don't really plan to put us in that situation again. It was a great call. But it was just, it was a little too much. And I think the rest of your life starts to suffer. And a way that it doesn't make sense like why are you investing over here. What do you actually care about? This is hurting this, right? You know, it just doesn't make sense anymore. Yeah. Sometimes that's the hardest thing to do though, is to cut off a tie like that. Right. I mean, I had, I've had a couple clients come to me with like big projects being like, Hey Matt, we got a real big budget on this one. Right. And I'm like, I loved working with them. That's an amazing client. The work was amazing. The money was really good. It wasn't that difficult. It was challenging enough in terms of storytelling. But it wasn't like, it was just, I done it so many times. And I'm like, I could just do that. It would be a two week project. And I'd be in and that'd be a big nice little stack of money. But then I'm like, but then that's going to detract from everything else that I'm doing. Yeah. Everything I'm creating, it's going to distract me. And then that's, because consistency is so important with what we do, making YouTube videos. Because it's like, if you then slip and you miss a couple of weeks. Right. It's going to be so much harder to get back again. So it's all about momentum. It really is. Yeah. Yeah. Well, you were talking about that too, where you guys had this really quite climb to 100,000 subscribers. Yeah. How long ago was it that you hit that? And then you did say that there, some of the momentum kind of slowed down a little. Over the summer I did. Yeah. So we started January 2017. All minimalism content got from like no subscribers to 3,000 subscribers in five months or so. So you know, we were getting some views. A couple of thousand views of video. We were pretty pleased with it. And again, we were working full time just to hobby. And then we got in the van. And we went from 3,000 to 9,000 subs in a month, which for us at the time was a big jump. And then over the rest of the year we just gained a lot of momentum. So we got to 50,000 subs by the end of the first year. And then we got creator on the rise and that got us up to 75 pretty kind of level. I kind of love that creator. Yeah. Yeah. We just started. Yeah. I got my first bump. Yeah. It like there was a momentum growing growing growing. We're just. And then it was like I got 7,000 and then 6,000 in a day. Yeah. Yeah. Well, it's it's not as simple as it seems though. Yeah. Yeah. Because we got 25,000 in two weeks. So it was 50 to 75 just like that was awesome. But then we went to Mexico. We were doing this great Mexico series. Best engagement and views we ever had. We're going to get back to Mexico soon. This is probably the highlight of our channel. And we were partnering with this other channel who are kind of our best friends. And we were doing every other day vlogs. So one of us would be vlogging every day. It was awesome. It was blast. But YouTube, they must have given us fake subs or some sort of fake boost because over the next two months. Even though it was our best moment, however, we were losing subs. We would gain 500 in a day and lose 1200 at midnight. We were like, what the hell is going on? So it took us two more months to even stay at 75,000. You know what I mean? I had that too. Yeah. I want to say that I lost like 9,000 in a night. Yeah. Exactly. It's something like something fucking crazy. Yeah. Because it's because you're like, what? Well, because especially during that phase where it is so exciting. And like obviously like, I'm sure you guys preached just as much as I do. Like some of the numbers. That's not right. It's important. It's true. But when you're swept up in it, it's not going to be fun. It's so fun. Oh, like the whole run doesn't feel good. Yeah. It feels really good. It's really exciting. And then like so like every morning you're like, checking it. And then you wake up and you're like, I lost 9th. It's so demotivating, right? It's like what a crush is here. That's so weird that it happened to you too. Yeah. Screw it. You've blown up though. How long have you been on YouTube before? I want to say about, I started the podcast about a little over a year ago. Actually, probably a year and maybe four months at this point. Okay. And I like a lot of my YouTube videos were all just excerpts from the podcast. Because like that was my main thing. It was podcast and then excerpts. Not really understanding how people were using YouTube. Not really being into YouTubers. And really knowing nobody that I currently have in terms of content creators. Like I knew of Casey and I sat, but I didn't really like get it. I didn't understand why people followed. So, well, I'm going to like flip the interview around real quick, just for a second. Because I think something you've done remarkably well, that is so key to YouTube. And it's somewhere we're hoping to go ourselves is that the space is so crowded and noisy. You've got to just decide what you're not going to do and decide to focus in a little bit, right? So I think our momentum will get a ton of momentum in a phase. We'll be doing something right consistently. And people know to expect, but we're always traveling. So things are changing. And then we'll lose momentum. We'll be going to a phase where we lose that consistency. Whereas when I go to watch a Mattyvella video, I know what I'm going for. And I know the aesthetic. And I know the feeling and the mood it's going to put me in. And when I'm just trying to relax at the end of a day, that's usually the mindset I want to be in. Right? So I'm not necessarily going to wake up with a Mattyvella video. I know what I know. It's a great market research. Yeah. I know when I want it. I know why I want it. I know what I'm getting. And I think that's like an execute perfectly for what you're trying to do. You're not trying to be more than you are. Right? You're trying to do what you do well. That is what has been a part of your, at least from my perspective. It was part of your momentum is that you've honed in on what you do. And you're, you're comfortable within that. And that's what we're hoping to do as well is knowing what not to do. Right? You're not supposed to be everything for everyone. You need to be a Mattyvella. People know what that means. Yeah. I think for me to keep it like really, really simple. Was that every time somebody clicks a video, Yeah. I want them to know that like I put everything I had into it. Like this video is going to be really good. Yeah. And that actually goes into what I was talking about when I first started out with just nothing but excerpts. Yeah. Which is it's not me talking. Maybe it's a conversation back and forth. Maybe it's not. But it was realizing that. Oh, when I like, you know, maybe tell a story. If I have a report format. If I do a tour of my apartment. That was the first video that took off. It was very simple and concise. But I like, you know, I, it wasn't an excerpt. Right. I was like, oh, I can't do excerpts anymore. Right. It's great to put out three videos a week. You know, I'm feel good about it. But I was like, nobody's watching those videos because there's really no story there. It doesn't really have the kind of drive and the push that I want from it. The apartment video by William's home. So is it funny how those things work out? Tours are just bread and buttered. I didn't even know. I didn't know what I was getting into. That was our first video, too. It was a minimalist apartment tour. Yeah. Yeah. Our first of 100,000 is just kept growing. Yeah. It was, dude, I just broke a million on mine. Wow. That was my first meal in view video. Yeah. We only have one Miller, too. Oh, you got to win. What is your one Miller? Our expenses like monthly expenses on the road. Oh, that's the one. I was in a million people know what we spend on coffee. Isn't it so weird? It's so weird. It's kind of weird. But like, I don't know if those numbers even like mean anything because you, I know. Yeah. Yeah. Although I was just in London. Yeah. And two people recognize this street. Have this. Has it happened to you guys? Yeah. Yeah. I think you live in LA. Yeah. So people probably recognize you all the time and are just too full for school. Yeah. We get not been still there. Yeah. Yeah. Like I saw Jimmy Kim on the spot. Exactly. And I didn't even talk to Jimmy Kim. Well, I'm not going to shoot. Right. Like in the Northwest, we get recognized a few times a week. Yeah. Yeah. And like we ran a limpio one day and got recognized three times at then. I felt like a couple of hours. And it was. But I think the truth is, like, it part is a melee thing. And then part of it's the nature of our audience. And that we've got a lot of younger people who were very young ourselves. And then a lot of our audience is high school and college age. And they are even more in their developmental phase. And they're wanting to do this. So they look up to us. I think disproportionate to the number of fans we have for say. Right. Like we don't have a lot of bad scope of influence. But the people who are fans are like, Oh, my God. Guys. I just bought a van because of you. So they're going to come up to us. And they're, you know what I mean? Yeah. Yeah. How cool is that though? It's amazing. And that's really what's more important is like the connection that you're building with people. And like it comes through authenticity and through being yourself. And not trying to be fake. And I think people can see that. And you don't need to get a million views to be able to make that connection. There's a lot of creators at Cody Wanner. He's got this awesome hashtag. No small creator. And it's all about like it's like. We don't do this for views. Right. We don't do this for likes. Right. Money is important. We need money to keep doing it. But that's not the only reason it's because we actually love it. And I believe that influence translates to money. I really do. Like I, I've been talking about this a lot recently that like if you have people who are committed to what you're about and committed to what you're doing. You're always going to find a way to make money. You don't have to worry about that. You know what I'm saying? Because I just feel like if you can really focus on building a group of people who you're delivering something that they are obsessed with. The money will just come. You know what I mean? Because it's a lot easier to make a hundred thousand dollars than it is to get a hundred thousand people who are passionate about what you're about. You know what I mean? I just think that. Yeah. You know what I mean? And that's the new media versus old media where it's all mean is all about here's our budget. Here's how we're going to fit into budget. Here's what's going to translate to dollar for dollar. New media is about where is the influence and the, you know, the true commitment from the people watching. Yeah. And just because you have a million followers doesn't mean you're an influencer. A lot of people think that, oh wow. And like they idolize that and they want to be that. But it's like if they ask their audience like, hey, you guys want to, you know, subscribe to my Patreon account. And then birds chirping. Exactly. Because they haven't put in the real time. They've put up the beautiful photos, but they haven't really actually made a connection beyond that. Exactly. And I think there's something really damaging about the, just the, nothing but beauty and not talking some realness. Exactly. Because we all get a little bit swept up in that. And it's, it's kind of hard to remind ourselves that the people that we follow online have bad days. And that we all are going through this. And I think that's something you guys do well too, is on your channel. You'll talk about like, like, hey, we had a bad day. Hey, we've been fighting a lot. Like this stuff happens and it's, it's kind of part of the journey. Yeah. Yeah. We do that in a lot of ways because I think fan life is put on this pedestal of, oh, wow. You travel all the time. Yeah. It's a dream life. You, you get so live in a van. You get to wake up in beautiful places. And it's not always that. It's actually so much harder for us to go laundry and get water. And you know, we have a limited amount of electric electricity. And things like that. It's not all amazing. Amazing. And so we try to like help people understand if you wanted to live this lifestyle. It's not going to be perfect. It's not going to fix all of your problems. Right. But you're, you're right though. It's so easy to get caught up for us. You know, because there's a lot of valiant influence, especially on Instagram. That they make their whole stick is the, the perfect service level. You know, some news media company who was trying to get trendy is going to tweet their amazing picture. It just looks like everyone's dreaming about it work. Right. So there's, there's a level of appeal to that that's easy for us to, you know, want play to. Yeah. Yeah. I think sometimes it's like, it's okay to like make a fun travel video. And it's like high energy and exciting. There's nothing wrong with that. Right. But I think it's about having the balance and being able to. So the people that really follow you really know what it's like. Right. Because I imagine how long, it must have become a new normal. At some point for you guys. I want point did because you can't just be like. Woo. You know, a year and a half, two years is like every day is bliss. Exactly. So how long do you think it took until that kind of the new normal set in? We're like, all right, cool. Like we still love it. Even after it took like a month and a half because here's what happened. We were traveling, traveling, traveling, traveling. And we went to Seattle. And we were, do you remember this? This was like France. So we were in Seattle for three weeks. It was awesome. We loved Seattle. But we were just trying to, like, we were out on the road. And we felt like we, you know, we can't waste this time. Like today, you know, we have time. We've got to go to Mount Rainier. Then today, we've got to go try this amazing restaurant. And then today, we've got to do this. And it's like three, four weeks in. There's probably what six weeks into our van life. We were just wiped out. And we were like, this sucks. Yeah. If we came in with that mindset of when you go, like, we were in just a line. Yeah, you're supposed to take advantage of every single day, right? And it's like a failure of a trip if you don't. And this suddenly became our lifestyle. And we had to figure out how to balance. Okay. We still have to make sure that we're making healthy meals. And we're doing our laundry and recleaning our home. And things like that that are just normal life. But we're just, we just happen to be in a new place, meeting new people every single day. You know, right? Like, you'll have the travelers that, like, plan their itinerary out for the minute. We're just about 15 to 20 minutes here. We're going to get going, go to the bathroom. And then we're going to our next side. And just a job at that point, man. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. It's just its work. And I think for us, we realize that if we're planning to use for years and years and years. Yeah. And we have the time. You know what I mean? Might as well just dig and deep and enjoy a place. You know, we've been in a life for three weeks before this. We were in Portland for about two months. Or the surrounding area of Cape Conner, Mount Hoeder, whatever. And it's just like, it's about building a lifestyle that's sustainable. Because the travel mindset, it just isn't sustainable. You're not going to do that for two years. I mean, think about it. When you're on vacation two weeks in, you're like, I kind of miss being home. I kind of need a vacation from my vacation. Yeah. I mean, I need this consistency and the routine again. And we were like, we've got to build a routine where it's dying. Yeah, that's actually a really great point. And that's something I try to do when I'm traveling. Is like, how can I somehow bring my routine into this, whether it's eating healthy or exercising? How did you guys, you know, is there a trick to it in terms of making sure you're on a routine? Because your routine's must change living on the road. So it's like, how do you make a routine in a van? Oh, man, it's tough. I think there are natural things that happen where when we run out of water or we run out of groceries, we just have to make it happen. Or when we're like swelling each other and we need to go grab a shower. Like, we just have to go work out because that's, we have a gym membership and that's how we shower. So like, there's things that kind of just the natural course. I think keeps us on track a little bit. Um, but it is, it's hard. Like, we've not been doing a great job to be honest with you in the last few months. I think our, I think YouTube is like, helps us with our rhythm too. Yeah. When we put out three videos a week, we know our deadlines there. Is it how many of you guys put out? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We've got, we've got, we've tried to post an Instagram post every day. And then we were starting his podcast to age. Did you guys schedule this stuff in advance? You know, we tried. Three is a lot, though. Yeah. We're kind of always like, like, this morning right before we came over to here, Bob, we were five minutes late. It's because we were just exporting our Saturday video. Yeah. You know, we're, we're, we're in a good place. Yeah. If we get a week ahead of, we're like, oh, my God, really good. Yeah. Yeah. So I think that keeps us on. There's like, you know, we, I think what I realized is you can't have a daily routine quite as well when you're traveling because every day is going to be different. But you can ride the abs and flows. So if you're out nature, you know, this week is going to be a certain way. And you're going to be like, you know, changing your behavioral patterns while you're out here. I then you're back in the city. And you can just be comfortable there. And you can settle in. And you can go to the gym a little more. You know what? I mean, so you're riding the abs and flows of the lifestyle rather than, you know, because we're not going to wake up the same time every morning. We're not going to just wake up and then meditate and journal and work out. Yeah. That was one thing. Like we're in a neighborhood. You're right. I tried over like when we were in Portland. I really tried to do something active every single day. And every day that was different. Right. And we were in at the coast. And there was a sand dune. And I was like, okay, we're going to go up the sand dune three times. You know? And this is brutal by the way. Yeah. Or when we were in the city, we just biked. We like would park the van and then bike into the city wherever we needed to go. And things like that that just kind of keep you. Okay. That's one thing that I can commit to, even though it looks different. Yeah. And you guys try to stay in a place for a certain period of time. Yeah. We did it very badly our first year because we were both working. So we would just shoot, shoot, shoot, shoot, shoot. And then we were realizing like, we're exhausted from this. There's no real payoff to just going to a place for three days. You know what I mean? So I'd say a month, three weeks to a month is really probably our sweet spot for like, if you want to see a place, but you don't want to fully commit to the place. Try it out for three weeks. Because then, you know, like in Portland, we were just there for six weeks. But we went to the coast a lot. We would go mountain biking up in the mountains for a couple of days. And then, you know, we're done with that. Because right, you, you, you haven't flow a little bit. But that allowed us to like find a coffee shop that we liked. Yeah. I don't think we're living in that neighborhood for two weeks or whatever. So I'd say about a month is how long. You know, three weeks in LA has been long enough to get to know it. Yeah. Because I think you guys are, you're taking the long game approach. Yeah. You're not, you know, just trying, like you said in the beginning, you probably have this urge to take everything in as quick as possible to go ahead. Let's go to this place, this place, this place. But eventually, it's like, all right, well, we're going to, before in this for a couple of years, there's plenty of time to see the country. And if we really like this place, maybe we'll stay for two months. Exactly. You know, yeah. So you get, you say that you have a gym membership now? Yeah. Is this like a nation, national chain. Planned fitness. Oh, there you go. So there's one in pretty much every major city. There's even one in Canada. I mean, there's a few in Canada. So yeah, you know, it's 20 bucks a month on limited access to the gyms. Great. Clean showers. And you get your shot. Is that where you guys usually get your showers in? Yeah, you know, your showers. That are different in town. So we know a lot of people. So we, you know, that's good. We should be able to meet people. Yeah. It's a good way of making my showers. It's a great way of making my showers. It's like, our followers are so in, they know, Van life, right? They know what our lifestyle is like. And so a lot of them will be like, hey, I have a driveway. Come park. I have a shower. Come take a shower. And we get like 30 of those every time we roll into a new city. Yeah. 30 to 100 Instagram messages just being like, hey, come over to my place. Because they know where you are. Exactly. That's really neat. That's cool. Do you guys see that often? Uh, no. Yeah. Maybe kind of weird. Yeah. We've done it before, but never just like, okay. I'll roll in. Like like like, yeah. People are a little weird. Like, I don't know how people got my number. Some of you out in a video. I think got a friend's channel. And I got a call soon as I got to LA. Shout out to this sweet guy who called me. I got a call. It was like, hey Christian. Welcome to LA. I've got all these recommendations for you. You guys can come over to my place. I'm like, I'm not calling you back. Who is this? I'm just going to my number. You know what I mean? Yeah. I don't know. I think in some ways, I do trust our followers. You know, it's nice to have a community. And like, if we're ever in a tight situation, we can't fall back on them. But we also have our things that we figured out. We know how to park. We know how to shower. We know what we need people. Yeah. I think, I mean, and it can also be a lot to say, you just get the town if you're driving for six, seven hours. You're like, I don't want to be personable. I don't really want to talk to anybody right now. I just want to have a shower and go to bed. Yeah. And that's why I plan it. Fitness is great. It's awesome. And it costs like $8. It's like a year. What is it? Well, it's 20 bucks a month. And you want unlimited access to every gym. All the gyms. Wow. You know? That is a 20 bucks fraction of a cost. Yeah. Yeah. And it's losing chance. Yeah. Yeah. Try to plan a fitness baby. Yeah. No idea. Not sponsored by China. I don't like plan a fitness. You think, you know, what I don't like about plan a fitness. For you guys, it seems. Yeah. It's true. Plus we're not in very good shape. And we don't like to. We don't like to work out that much, especially me. So it's pretty. It's pretty hard. It's mostly for the shower. Yeah. Like, let's be honest. No, it's the gong. I don't like the big gong thing they do. Somebody. The gong. You know, the gong. The lunk alarm. Oh. I've never heard the long alarm. Did somebody pull the alarm? I think somebody wants it on me. I think. I think. I'm pretty sure they were testing it. I'm not a grunter. I don't grunt a lot at the gym. Every once in a while. You're pretty thick. I really like it. Sometimes you yell out. You know, I think. Yeah. But you like a little bit of bullshit. Extra voice lines never tell your mouth. We make a lot of noise when we go to panic fitness. Yeah. Because we'll do the 30 minute workout team, which is like the big lot. We're not really trying to lose weight. But like it's that big loop. Like the biggest loser thing. Yeah. But it's like really active. Yeah. But we make a bunch of noise. We never had the lunk alarm pull. Yeah. I don't know. That people are just a little jealous. They were on you. I think that's it. Get out of here. Maybe I should have said that. Yeah. You just got to let that, you know, you. Yeah. They're playing the lowest common denominator. They're playing with the people who need to get in the gym. And I'm going to sign up in January for their use of solution and never come. Yeah. That's playing it. You know what the thing too is like they say it's a no judgment zone. Well, then they do judge the people obviously. Yeah. That are really like bulky and big. Yeah. Or even trying. I mean, like, well, we're not in the accurate shape. But we'll go up there and give some effort. And we'll get some looks. Like who the hell do you think you are? Yeah. No. You know what? I was going to say the opposite. I think most people don't actually care. It's just us. We think that other people are judging us. And that's why they're, I think what they're kind of hone in on. Yeah. But I think most people are just so certain about themselves. Yeah. They're like, I wasn't even, I didn't even know you were in the gym right now. Like I was doing my own workout. Well, you got a lot. I got a lot. I got a lot. I got a lot. And then I canceled my membership next day. I want to get a lot. I know. That's kind of a ride of pass. Yeah. You're too good for this. Get the hell to do something. You should be like putting my Twitter mine. Yeah. Been left. Been left before. Is that what it's called? We just created a word. We just created a word. Yeah. That's I'm pretty impressed though. I'd love to be left soon. Really? Yeah. No, yeah. Now I'm owning it. You've worked hard for that long, too. Yeah. It's so fun. I'm not deserving of a lunch. No, that's cool. That actually works out really well. So I mean, you guys got it all figured out. Yeah. Pretty much. It's a lifestyle, dude. It's comfortable as you are in a day to day. I mean, it's our life. It's our home. It's it's comfortable, man. We don't need anybody. But then, of course, like the people you made on the road is the best part of it. So we love people. We just don't need them. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You say that you're starting to podcast. Yeah. Couple of upsets. Oh, you are. Well, we haven't brought you out yet. Well, we've been close. There you go. Tell me about it. Well, we're hanging out with Colin and smear. And we're on their podcast. And they were basically like, you guys got to start a podcast. So then we use their kit, shout out to their kit. And just bottle. Okay. Oh, they're podcast. Yeah. I'm like, yeah. I'm like, too old. I didn't even do anything. I don't have a kit. You've got so much. Yeah. My podcast does not approach this. But we also work usually. We're the minimum millennials. Yeah. I'm peel usually. It's called the millennials. So we're like, you know what? We like to talk. We like to talk to our people. And honestly, a lot of our videos. We make all these exciting vlogs. And they'll do well. But then we'll make a video where we're just like sitting down and having an honest conversation. And it'll do twice as good. And we're like, that's like cheating. That took us an hour to make as opposed to a day. Like, what? But you know, so I think the podcast will be a good space just to, you know, let the hands off be a little more honest. Talk about the juicy stuff for religion politics, sex. All that good stuff, you know? Yeah. You know, don't see a video with it. No, we're not. This is out of our league, don't worry about it. I'm not saying that because I'm worried. I'm saying it mostly because it's so much work. All right. And it's like, honestly, if I could just do audio, it'd be so much better. It's all we're doing. It's so easy. We could have just had our eyes closed the whole time. And just like, we could be in our underwear, right? Yeah, we could. But we can't. Because people could say, we dressed up a little bit. Let's see. Yeah. Yeah. The film stuff, it is helped me. I don't think that the podcast, it definitely wouldn't be word is right now. Without the film stuff. Well, it's, it's also your main. It's been the thing for you that that's kind of built. The Matt developed brand. Yeah. So yeah. And for us, it's like, we haven't, I mean, we've three videos a week in an Instagram. We've got enough that's like on a weekly basis. The podcast is just a place for us to a lot loose. So we've already collected so much fun. It's so fun and relaxing. And we have four interviews deep and part of it's just us talking interviews. It's like two interviews for conversations deep. And what we hope to get like 10 of those before we even put it out. So we never have the stress of got to get it out. Yeah. And you could do it in the van, which I'm sure they acoustics are killer. Beautiful. Pretty good. And the insolations are amazing. That's the only thing. We don't have an AC or anything. So when we close all the doors. Look out. Well, it could even be cool. Contents and we heard tried this. They did a pot. I wanted, I haven't talked to them about how they felt that it, it came out. But they did a podcast where they just clip, Laval Air mics on themselves. Yeah. Like, went and got coffee and just wanted that. And it was amazing. And it was, it was super interesting. I thought I really loved it. It could also be a little bit destroyed. Oh, yeah. That's a chorus driving mind shit. But I'm like, maybe you could even do like, I saw you guys were like Venice Beach or whatever. You could actually have the sounds of the beach there. Yeah. Could be a horrible idea. It could be a noise. Well, what we could try it. People will fall asleep. Yeah. Yeah. Awesome. All right. We're going back to the ASMR. I need to make sure I include that ASMR bit at the beginning of the podcast. I've got to edit it. Yeah. But no, I believe it's more expensive. So weird. You guys want to do a quick questions. And then we'll wrap up for 20 minutes. I just marked a love it. Yeah. All right. So if you could go back, did you guys both graduate college? Yeah. If you go back to college graduation. What would you do differently? What advice would you give to your graduation? Yeah. I was like, you know, I'm not like that time when you like you graduate. Yeah. And you're like, oh, now what? We got pretty lucky that we landed pretty well. I think most of my changes will be pre-graduation. But we both graduated that free and quickly. And that helped us out. So I think that I would just, I don't know. You know? I would say, like, don't worry. Just just like find a job that works. And then, you know, take advantage of the opportunities in front of you. And you know, move on with your life. Yeah. You have to find, you know, I thought, you know, you don't have to find your dream thing. Yeah. And initially just work hard at whatever you've got and take breath. And everything's going to be okay. And, you know, because as college kids, we all put our, put pressure on itself to find what you want to do for their school life. That's bullshit. That doesn't exist. You know what I mean? Yeah. So much pressure. Oh my god. Yeah. That you have to do everything right now. And then as we said, you see all these examples of people on Instagram that are so successful, or at least in peer success. Yes. And it can be the moralizing. It can be tough when you're starting out. But it's like, I guess just be patient, right? Exactly. Just work hard at whatever's in front of you. You don't have to go get your dream job right now. Just do your best and make connections. It's all about people. It's not about your damn dream job. And don't be too good for. Yes. Right. Like, you got to say yes to everything. Yeah. Pretty much everything when you're young. Completely. Um, and like you said, boss your asset. Yeah. And then eventually shit will work out. Probably. It's not guaranteed. No, but it will, right? It might work. It might not work out in the way that you want it to. But it's going to work out. Yeah. That's probably right. I don't know. I haven't met. I haven't met too many people that are like, I worked really hard in life. Yeah. And like, you know, I just kept kept grinding for like years and years and years. Yeah. And just nothing happens. Right. And I know that's the thing. Especially if you're like anything. If you're open to the opportunities, the only people I think it doesn't work out for is the ones who wanted to be musicians so bad that 20 years down the road, they're still trying, they're grinding for that person. But it's like, come on. You didn't really take advantage of the opportunities there. Because you had your site self walks on this version of yourself. You wanted to be. Yeah. But you limited your ceiling. You know what I mean? Yeah. Because maybe you weren't meant to be like a pop star. Maybe you were meant to be a composer. Yeah. Maybe like how many other different avenues could you explore? Just get moving. Yeah. You know, stagnation is everybody's our sentiment. I thought I was going to be a musician. And then my parents were like, you need to get a degree. So I was like, okay, I'll get a marketing degree so that I can, maybe market my music. The marketing led me to social media. And now here I am. And I love it. This is awesome. It's not exactly what I thought I was going to be. But you could never guess that, right? From college you're going to be a full-time youtuber. I thought it was going to be a politics man. Yeah. I went and worked in DC for six months and I was like, forget this. Yeah. Yeah. I wouldn't undo that. But like, it was just bullshit. But you know, it's a thing, right? Just to say yes, go for the next thing. Yeah. They only do another. And who would have thought like a political science degree leads to like, I don't know, whatever the hell we're doing. Yeah. Yeah. It doesn't anybody actually like, it seems like you have a little bit of what you did in college. Yeah. But like, I mean, yeah, even like obviously social media and marketing, everything changes. So much. Yeah. It's never going to be to protect what you learned. Like what did you study? Uh, I actually, I studied broadcast telecommunication. That's because. So it was more so the like, you know, a news TV show is what I would do. Okay. I think I wanted to be an anchor. And now look at me. Oh, I was the podcast. You're on radio. I don't know that. Eventually it's going to be. I don't know. I think podcasting is taking over. I think it's. I'm excited to check out your guys. We have sure. People wanted to listen to your podcast when it's out. Wait. This is going to be a couple of weeks that you're. It'll probably come out. Probably early November, actually. So we have a bit of a wait. Sorry to make you guys. That's just hype it up. I'll be checking it up. It's not as easy though. Okay. And it's the millennials is the name. Yeah. People will send people to your YouTube channel. Yeah. For this one, primarily. And if you guys go to YouTube channel, you'll see a. A cool feature on Matt. We have tons of things to learn from him. So go check out the channel and check out Matt. You know, as an early way to walk yourself in. That's the tip of the town. Wow. Amazing. What's the simplest advice? That's the most important to follow for young creators. Whoa. Good. That's not really a rapid fire. It's a good question. It's not really a bad fire. I've got one. It's kind of like it's. It's. It's. In my opinion, it's back to the last question that we had. And this is only we're learning a real time, but it's just like just put it out there. Things people get so parallel. They get analysis paralysis and they will try to edit and they'll try to do all these things. But for us, like, we talked about making a video for six months before we ever made a video. Mm-hmm. And all that planning. You know, we could have planned for another two years and it would have been meaningless because two weeks later everything had changed. So it's like the world that we're in being creators changes on a day to day basis. And if you don't just put yourself out there, and grow with it, your planning doesn't really mean anything. And we're a bit impulsive as you can kind of see. So maybe this is biased. But I really think that just putting yourself out there and being open to staying with the flow of the rivers it goes. That's the only way you can succeed as a creator. Mm-hmm. You remind me, I don't know if we ever like got to it. But we were talking about how you guys arose very quickly. Mm-hmm. And then it's sort of slow down a little bit. When you are faced with what appears to be a wall as a creator and happens often, whether it's with views or whatever. Mm-hmm. What do you do? How do you figure out how to move forward when you're like, ah, yeah. Yeah, I feel kind of stuck. It's so hard because I think both as creative people and as YouTube creators this whole numbers game just messes with your head dude. Like, I can't even imagine doing it on my own like you do. Like, it just sounds like a nightmare on this thing. I can most like an identity crisis ever single day. Yeah, yeah. Anytime a video doesn't, you know, do as well as the last one that you're thinking, oh no, my channel's dying. They figured me out. I don't actually know what I'm doing. Um, and so. Do you guys do like a direct correlation to, because you guys put out a lot. So it's like, it's probably easier to see what's working, what's not. Do you see a direct correlation to what you find as really quality content? Like, it's a really good engaging video versus the thumbnail in the title. Mm-hmm. Yeah, I mean, the thumbnail in the title is everything, unfortunately. I think that's our weakest point right now because we really like to make constantly feels vulnerable and meaningful. And I think that we just don't don't go for the clicks enough. Yeah, yeah. We're saying that all the time. You know, we got like, it's, it's the point, man. And you need to spend as much time on that. How does it sound the content? That's the nature of the beast. Isn't it silly? But you have to, it's like, the guy is doing it. Yeah, you do. And I do. And, and I think in the beginning it was very hard for me to do. But I think you also find your own way to do it. A way that is authentic to you. Totally. So. And you're like, again, shut up. Much respect to you, man. Because you've home that in very clearly. We're still working on all the time. Thanks, man. It takes a long time. I will go through. I will literally write 10 to 15 alternate titles for one video. Oh, I'm like, maybe that. Nah, that's not good. And then sometimes I'm just not happy with it, where I'm like, this is going to really affect the overall viewership of the video, but doesn't matter, whatever. And I think a lot of people like to be like, maybe virtue signal or be high in lighting, be like, I don't use clickbait at all. I don't. And it's like, you have to give them some incentives to want it. It's like, you have to make it very appealing. Well, and I hate what the way that people are using clickbait right now. Because we'll put out a video that's called, we've been fighting a lot lately. We get, we literally got an email from somebody immediately. Who was like, you shouldn't clickbait. And I'm like, we literally set those words in. Literally what the video is about. So I think people now associate any kind of drama. With clickbait. So you know, clickbait is when, you know, we said, hey, we've got, you know, Barack Obama on our channel. He wasn't in the video. Like, that's clickbait. You know what I mean? But like, clickbait is not like playing up drama. So it is, it is a bit of a balance. It's when you're misleading somebody. Intentionally. And it's like, that's, I think, the biggest thing is that people need to get what they came for. Yes, exactly. You know, if it's a list, if it's a top 10 reasons why blah, blah, blah. And it feels a little bit clickbaity, but you deliver on it. Whatever. Right. It's not that bad. Right. But yeah, it's like one of those things like fake news where it's just like, you can just overuse it and throw it out. They're all the time that it's not going to mean anything anymore. We're at that point. It's frustrating. It's created. So, you know, because I think it limits what you can do. Because like, people just tune out when they hear a certain amount of drama. At least for us. I think that the positive correlation for us is that vulnerability is what contributes to our growth. And less of it, our growth. But more on our, like, our intentionality of our audience. How committed they are to us. How well the content does and how much it builds our brand. It's all about vulnerability. I think as a, that's actually probably the best advice to a young creator is like, you cannot be too vulnerable. Yeah. I think that man, I think it'll take you back in the end. Yeah. Authenticity vulnerability. The authenticity, right. So important. And like, that was something because I was nervous in the beginning to first start putting my stuff out there because I was like, my friends are going to make fun of you. Yeah. Really. Really. But then I found a way to do it that was still in my voice. That was fun and cheek that had humor in it. And I was like, they can't make fun of me because this is like my personality. Like, I'm just being, I'm not taking myself too serious. Right. And sometimes I get swept up where I do start to take myself a little bit too seriously. And I'm like, man, I just, if I've been preaching for the past like, I was, you know, going to loosen up a little bit. Yeah. But I think that there's, it's a game, right. And there's so many different elements to it. But it's kind of, you said, every way in what life does. So it is the content that we make. Yeah. Got to just write it. Yeah. Great. Let me see. A couple more here. How do you guys get through doubt? Yeah. It's tough, man. Yeah. When it comes to like the, are you talking about, say, like being a creator specifically or something else? I guess like, when I think about doubt, it's more so like, man, I just said, I had doubt this morning personally. Where I'm like, is this, is this going to work? Like, is this working? Yeah. This whole thing. Like, is it, is it eventually just going to stop? Like, is, I think, is like, the ride going to be over at some point. And then you have to get off. And you're like, yes, alright, you can't do this anymore. Right. That doubt. That's like kind of the overwhelming. It's the dark cloud that follows you around where you go. Right. It's hard. Because I think I tend to be more optimistic about things like this. That's true. And I think one of the biggest things is I trust us. I really do. You know, if something were to happen where we lose everything, we're going to figure it out. Because I know we're capable of getting out. And so then you can just kind of like worry about tomorrow, when tomorrow comes. You know what I'm saying? Just because I feel like, and not only just because I'm like, oh, you know, I don't worry. I'm zen. It's like, you've got a good mind space about it. But I think it's really because I'm able to trust us. Because I've seen what we can do before, you know, and when those things are in one place or another. Yeah. And for for me, I think that like I have to build instability in my life in other ways that allows for instability. You know what I mean in this way. Because if I've run into this before, where I had no other projects I was working on, I had nothing I could control. And the views were equaled by emotional state. It's like one equal the other. You know what I'm saying? I just like personally, maybe you just have a stronger constitution than me. But I emotionally can't handle that level of instability. So like, I have to build and retain that I know are, I think occasionally doing work that I know if I work this hard, I'll make this much money. There's no doubt there. There's no question. And then I can deal with a little bit more. Financial stability, too, is very important to me. Because like I've had time for my family's life where we just lost everything. And I don't want to put ourselves in a position to have that possible. So I think that creating stability in your life to where you can have these unknowns. But you've got other things you rely on, like our relationship and everything that are very, very stable. And so, you know, everything's on up in the air, right? You're not just like being blown around by the winds of whatever happens on day. Yeah, and I think having each other right, being able to go into somebody, whether it's a friend or family or you partner to be like, Yes. Hey, I feel, I feel doubtful. Like, don't hold the shit in. Right. I feel true. I completely agree, man. Again, you can never be too authentic and vulnerable, especially online people respect that. Yeah. I love that. All right, to wrap things up here, what is the best way for people to find you online? You can find us at minimal millennials on YouTube and Instagram. Awesome. Yep, minimal millennials, baby. Two owls and two ends. Thank you guys so much for doing this. This is so much fun. Yeah, that's awesome. Thank you. Thank you. All right, thank you guys so much for watching this episode and minimal millennials. I was super inspired. Man, I want to start living a van lifestyle now. I feel like maybe for like a week. I'm poking at Nat to say, Hey, maybe we should, you know, pack our bags for a couple of weeks and do a little cross country experiment in a van. So that might happen on this channel at some point. If it does, it will likely be because I got some of you guys to contribute on Patreon. So right now I'm climbing towards my goal of 750 Patreon subscribers, which will definitely allow me to do this full time that will create a salary for me. I have a lot of ambitious ideas if we're able to stretch beyond that, including hiring an editor. So then I can make even more videos, investing into travel so I can go to Japan and the Netherlands and everywhere in between to explore simple homes, minimalist spaces and talk with experts in architecture as well as minimalism. So if you want to contribute, if you want to continue to enjoy this podcast, I would love it if you could contribute a little bit on Patreon. Of course, if you do not have the money right now, then no pressure. I don't want to pressure you. If you feel like you are one of the people that are building something from the ground up and you don't have a lot of money to spare. Totally understand. I want you to continue to enjoy this podcast, 100% guilt free. Thank you guys for watching and I'll see you next time.
