# Do The Work
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dgVJhLykv8A
http://www.groundupshow.com

Are you having trouble getting your message heard? Becca Shern and I discuss what it takes to make meaningful content & break through all the noise.

Becca runs a fantastic website called Minimal Wellness. You can check it out here:  http://www.minimalwellness.com

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** ground up, ground up podcast, work hard, consistency, content creator, create content, creativity, blogging, make stuff, makers, minimal wellness, health industry, entrepreneur, self help, how to, conversation, talk, interview, series, the ground up show, matt davella, mattdavella, Matt D'Avella, minimalism, simply, simple, simple living, film, filmmaking, filmmaker, 
**Date:** 2017-12-22

## Transcript
 It's frustrating when you're doing great work, you're producing really inspiring and meaningful content and you put it out and nobody listens. What do you do then? There's got to be an element of consistency where you just keep doing it, because in 2015 you start making blog posts and putting stuff out there. I'm sure nobody was listening, maybe a dozen people or a handful of people. Yeah, I didn't even publish in 2015. I was doing the pre-work, so to speak, because I'd never done writing for a blog. I'd never produced recipes for publishing. I'd only produced recipes for our chefs to make better and then scale up to feed 2500 students. So it's really different. So I was really just behind the scenes, like, pretending kind of that it was going up to the world. And then in 2016, it was like, okay. You do start to build a little bit of an audience and start people start listening and people start paying attention to what you're writing and talking about. How does that process evolve? When do you start to create a viable business where you're having multiple clients, you have a really steady income stream? So it's been live for a year and a half now. And I'd say within the last nine months, I've kind of been like, okay, this is on the trajectory that it needs to be on. Because I had virtually no overhead, it was technically, you know, in the black in the bit. But you still had, like, you're living costs and all that stuff, like food, right, exactly. So the business was technically solvent right away, but not my life. So yeah, within the last nine months or so, it's been like, okay, this is the correct trajectory, whatever I'm doing, whatever levers are getting pulled with posting and social media, it's working well enough to where, you know, hopefully within this next year, I'll have my replacement income there. Like, I fully intended on it taking two years. So yeah, yeah, I think that's like, you should at least set an expectation that things aren't going to pop off within two years or within a year. Yeah, I'm sorry, some of the best advice I got actually was from Josh, and he was like, don't focus on making money, focus on creating the best stuff you can, the best writing, focus on creating the best recipes, doing the best work with the clients you possibly can, and he's like, the money will follow. Mm-hmm. I might have the same conversation with Josh. Really, really. He probably has it with lots and lots of people, because it's such solid advice. Yeah. Um, and so every time, you know, I get a little apprehensive about like, oh, God, income streaming. I'm just going to go back and focus on writing more, doing some recipes and getting, you know, work out into the world. It's also nice to know that other people are doing it. Like, if there's dozens, there's thousands and thousands of nutritionists that make a living online. Totally. So it's very, it's possible. Yep. And if you really believe in the message that you're putting out there, and you believe that you've got a little bit of a different approach, you can approach to it, then I really feel like it's a matter of time.
