# Making Minimalism - Episode 6
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=dPFGUiQkPJE
This is the final installment of Making Minimalism and we’re answering some of the most frequently asked questions about our documentary. We couldn’t get to them all here so I’m going to answer the rest in the comment section of episode five. More at https://www.mattdavella.com

Special thanks to Conrad Golovac for shooting this. Check him out on Instagram:  https://www.instagram.com/cgolovac/

Follow The Minimalists:  http://www.theminimalists.com

More from me:  https://www.mattdavella.com
Podcast:  https://www.groundupshow.com
Twitter: https://www.twitter.com/mattdavella
Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/mattdavella
Facebook: https://fb.me/matthewdavella

Music Credits
Background Hip Hop Beat by BerryDeep

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** Minimalism, A documentary about the important things, documentary, film, doc, netflix, matt davella, Matt D'Avella, Conrad Golovac, The Minimalists, Joshua Fields Millburn, Ryan Nicodemus, Interview, Q&A, director, directing, Making Minimalism, questions, answers, filmmaking, 
**Date:** 2017-04-20

## Transcript
 Wait, are we supposed to look at the camera? Uh, we can look at the camera, yeah, it's going to be a back and forth. It's going to be very informal. Okay. And I'm going to edit it to make this look really smart. I'm not used to seeing it. That's right. I'm not used to seeing it. This is episode six, and with me, I have the minimalist. Oh, everyone. The Joshua feels smoother. I'm not actually used to seeing that with the alde camera, so I usually want to avoid looking directly at him, because he's always just a camera up to him. Some of his life has been ignoring me. That's perfect. I've got some questions here from YouTube. People have been asking about the series. Oh, yeah. I would like to ask if it was hard at one point to put a lot of money and time into a project without knowing if it was going to work. We split the cost. So it wasn't just all on Josh and I wasn't just all on you. It wasn't just all on Spider Media. So Josh and I were certainly prepared because we have been saving over the last several years, since we started the minimalist.com. There's a little bank account we have that we put money into to invest into our business. At the end of the day, I knew Josh and I had enough of an audience who wanted a documentary like this so bad that I was pretty confident. There was no business model behind it. But my gut. But my gut told me that we would at least make at least break even. Yeah. And we were willing to lose that investment to lose the money. And at the end of the day, we wouldn't have lost everything. The initial production, like Ryan said, we started with zero. We didn't go into it saying, all right, here's our budget for this film. I think that would have been scary. Like if we would have said, hey, let's spend a quarter million dollars to make a documentary. Because in all of a sudden the pressure is like, here it is. Yeah, let's split 30 grand between six people. Yeah. We had the opposite pressure. It was like, and it's a different kind of pressure. It seems less scary to me. But more of a challenge. How do you make a documentary for functionally zero dollars at first? Whereas close to zero dollars is possible. And then of course there would be costs that. Once you get to a point where you feel great about the film, that's really where the costs came in. I felt like, I don't know if you agree or not. But like, if we had a terrible film, we felt shitty about it. We're not going to be like, all right, let's go off for color grading now. Yeah. Hey, let's say let's pay someone to make some music. Were you scared? I wasn't. And in terms of the finances, I was also at a point. I mean, I graduated college with $110,000 in student loan debt and I bought a brand new car. So at that time, I wouldn't have been able to do it. Because I needed to make money. I needed to actually have some savings. But I had gotten to a point that when you guys came and said, hey, let's make this documentary. It was kind of the perfect time for me. Because I was just about to pay off all of my debt. But I had enough savings that I was like, all right, I can do this. I could like sacrifice two, three months here and there to get started. And like you said, getting started costs essentially nothing. But if I have all the gear and all, I mean, what did we spend, like $1,000 on flights and split between six people? Yeah, and we stayed in the same hotel. Like Ryan and I were on that tour. So we stayed in the same hotel rooms and like we'd share a bed. We sleep in a reader's home or, you know, like cheap air babies. Every once in a while. I'll be honest, man. I wasn't scared. Matt, because it was because of you. Like I wasn't scared. You came out to New York and you filmed that book trailer. And then you sent us the book trailer and I was like, oh, my, and you just had that little camera dude. It was just like such a, it looked like a camera Walmart. Yeah, exactly. Like, it really did look like to me. And you're like, Mike, and it's up and stuff. And you get this little camera. You're filming us with it. And I'm like, I have no idea how this is going to turn out. But you just wanted to work on it as a passion project. But when you sent that to us to final product, it was so amazing that I knew that if you did come on the road with us, like, I had a lot of faith that you would be able to create something beautiful. Like, I didn't very expected to make anything off the movie or be on Netflix or for whatever it may be, but I was willing to take the chance and felt confident that we would at least break even on the film. Due to that, due to that trailer, like, I knew you would create something beautiful. By the way, it took a long time to even break even. And if anything, that was a little bit of a scary part because there were some failures in there for sure. For me, we did, it's weird because it was a, by most measures, it was a wildly successful theatrical release. It was number one indie doc opening for any independent film of 2016 or any independent documentary I should say, not any independent film. Any independent documentary. And that sounds great, but then you realize that, well, the theater instantly gets 53%. And the distributor takes half of what's left. And all by the way, there are taxes and fees and really weird Hollywood math that all of a sudden, you get to a point where I never understood the term Hollywood math until it's going down this road. Yeah. Yeah. Actually, we hadn't broken even even after having the such a successful release and debut and having a tour even after theatrical release, it still hadn't broken even. It took, it took till we get, we got to the online release to where even able to recoup the full amount of money. If anything was scary, it was that part where it was like, okay, we've gone down this path and it has been lucrative in terms of revenue, but the overall amount of money that we're using to pay back the debt on this film, I say, it's our own money. You're right, paying ourselves back. Yeah, we didn't, we didn't take one loan out for this film. No, no, no. No, what I have ever. I mean, Matt did go to this dad and borrow like 50. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Not sure. Not sure. I'm joking. For the record, I'm joking. Andy asks, I realize that minimalism is about getting rid of stuff you don't need, but what about minimizing the things you do? I'm always overbooked and I feel like I can never catch a breath. What do you do then? Andy. Andy. All those boulders that you have on your back that you're carrying. You picked them up. You can put whatever boulder you want down. You have to say no to as many things as possible. So you could say yes to so much more. That's what I would tell Andy. I mean, I don't know Andy's exact situation. But when I was like that, when I see most people who were like that, they've done it to themselves and they can totally undo it themselves. At least has a question here. I was just wondering how, if at all, have all of your lives changed since making the film. And what can we do as a society to further promote this message? How is it related? How is my life changed? It's changed a lot. It's more so my choices that I've made after releasing the film. For me, it was the hardest, most difficult thing I've worked on. It was such a big project. But having done it and gone through it, I realized that creating original content was just so much more fulfilling than doing client work, which is all I had done before. You've had fulfilling client work, I'm sure at least more fulfilling than others, right? Yeah, I think to say it wasn't fulfilling would be wrong. But I think there was a kind of fulfillment and a kind of creative output that I could put on an original project that I would never be able to do in a client work. Because at the end of the day, when I do a client project, there could be 10, 15 revisions that skews it away from my direction. As to where it's an original project, well collaborating, there's really no such thing as a revision. It's like being a CPA. You certainly have the intellect to go be a certified public accountant. But are you really going to put in the extra hours to make sure someone else's taxes get done? No, it's not what you're passionate about. I think it's the same thing with virtually anything you're doing. Luckily, Ryan and I have a CPA who's passionate about accounting. And so only a person I've ever met who's actually into that. There was another question there that, oh, how is your lives, how would your lives change? You can't go outside anymore. Well, it was funny. We were in Boston yesterday. We were in Boston yesterday. Right around the venue, it was Chinatown and Boston. And I'm walking around. And it was the first time where I knew that no one would recognize me. Over the last, you know, six months or whatever it's been. I've found that the more and more I go out, it'll be a dozen times a day. And we're not like, we're not celebrities. Brad Pitt gets recognized by every single person he runs into. I can't even imagine what that kind of universe is like. Hours is a different kind of weird universe where one out of 100 people recognize you. But you're one out of 50 or maybe one out of 100 come up and say hi and one out of 20 recognize who you are. And then you're, and so I found the good side of that is actually making sure that my actions are congruent with the best person I want to be. Because I know that no matter what, I'm in a weird way always being sort of extra. Just a little pitch more scrutinized. The only way my life has changed is I get recognized more. I mean, other than that, it's, you know, we don't have the odds now. Although, you know, minimalism part two, maybe after that, we'll have minimalcy odds. Yeah. There's a question in here. Tell them that we'll get to. What was the second part of that question? It was more about the society. So what kind of society for the promotes mess? So if anyone out there wants to promote this message, they just need to tell their friends a family about it. I mean, that is the best way to spread anything. I mean, when you go to a coffee shop and it's amazing, what do you do? You go tell your friend about it. If you have an amazing experience with, with a company, then what do you do? Your friends and family, but you put it on Facebook, you put it on social media. So I would just encourage people to do the same thing that they do with other things that they find value in. This is from Roger. What was the most challenging thing about making this film? And if you were to do it again, what would you do differently? The only thing that I would do differently, I think Josh would agree with this. The tour we went on in 2014, we just learned a lot of lessons. Don't reserve a room for 70 in Indianapolis because 500 people might show up to see you. And you might have to turn away 430 people. What a horrible experience. Now luckily, that particular, that did happen in Indianapolis. But luckily, there was a theater across the street that the bookstore owner had a relationship with. And we just happened to like, call an audible and move everything over. So it just worked out on the fly. I feel like, yes, there will always be problems. We'll never have a perfect tour stop. But the problems get better over time. Like that problem last night, it was like, hey, there's going to be a thousand or 1,100 people here in Boston at this huge gorgeous theater. And we've got to talk and they're really excited to see us. And then we're having a video issue. Whereas with our first tour, it was like, I remember actually in the documentary, we showed up in Vegas, man. We rented a venue, and no one was at the venue. That's a much bigger problem. Can you imagine if we were at the Wilber Theatre last night in Boston, and no one was at the venue? Yeah. Right there. Yeah. So better problems. Yeah. I got one more question. And this was a question from a lot of people. And they keep asking, what's next? Are you working on anything new? Is there minimalism V2? Is there another film project that we're working on? Yeah. I don't know how you typically answer that question. Yes. I mean, I'll tell you how I answered it last night. But it actually wasn't a question. When we were doing the Q&A with the crowd, we were recording a live podcast. And I was just thanking you and thanking Conrad for being there at the event. And what I told the people there was, we're recording this right now. We recorded the Q&A, we recorded a bunch of other stuff that go along with it. And I'm not sure what exactly is going to come out of it. But it worked out really well last time. We weren't sure what exactly was going to come out of it. So are we working on something? Yes. What is it? It's a bit nebulous right now. And that excites me because we get to develop what the shape of that thing is. We get to figure out where we're going from here. And that part can be a little scary because no one is going to drag us in that direction. We have to keep walking in that direction ourselves. Well, I just remember when you left with two terabytes of footage of thousand hours of footage, or whatever from the tour, I just remember thinking like, 950 hours of sunrise. Oh, yeah. It's changing now, man. We shot for like five days and we already have one terabyte of footage. But what you do is you're able to boil it down to bring out the awesome content that's in that. Like, I feel like you're going to be able to do the same thing with this footage. So like, I hope there is a series that comes or, you know, a special or something that comes out of, out of all this video videography, am I saying that right? So my parents call me a videographer. Doesn't that hurt? Yeah, I think a little bit. Yeah, I remember I was dating someone once and she referred to me as a blogger. Oh, yeah. Everyone was the traveling book salesman. Oh, it felt like there's some times, man. But yeah, I mean, I'm an author and that's not even the title. And now I'm just, I'm comfortable with whatever you want to call me. You're calling me a blogger like, what is a mad or man? I mean, Matt is such a talented filmmaker and the documentary that you made. I mean, that you ended up just shaping this thing, man. And I'll tell you, you can call you whatever someone call you whatever they want. They can't take away the fact that like, that is your first feature length fell. Yeah. Holy shit, man. Yeah. It's just so great, man. What I think is actually great is that it's the fact that we're doing this. This little Q&A here about minimalism as we are literally starting a new project. And we don't know what that project is going to be now, but I'm excited. Like, honestly, this is the past four days we're pretty awesome. I think we got some killer content. I know you didn't. I've only seen like this tiny little speck of it. Like, I saw like the little keyhole view into your world, man. And I'm already excited about it. I can't wait, man. And that does it for making minimalism. Thank you so much for watching. If you've got any value from it, you can subscribe to this channel for more videos. I'm going to be creating a lot of behind the scenes content for new projects that I work on with the minimalists and others. I also have a new podcast called The Ground Up Show, where I speak with creatives about how to build something from nothing. You can find that at groundupshow.com. Thanks again for watching.
