# Simplify Your Life
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E8jKSFVBovE
http://www.groundupshow.com

Becca & I discuss minimalism, labels & how to appropriately craft your image online. This is an excerpt from episode 038 of The Ground Up Show.

You can find more from Becca at http://www.minimalwellness.com
**Keywords:** minimal wellness, podcast, becca shern, ground up, the ground up show, minimalism, simple living, simplify, less, more, simplicity, life, self help, how to, small business, entrepreneur, entrepreneurship, documentary, netflix, film, matt, davella, Matt D'Avella, filmmaking, 
**Date:** 2017-12-20

## Transcript
 There's too much that we bring into our lives, and I realized that as a teenager, I got away from that in college and in early adulthood. But over the last few years, I feel like I've really come back to that. You can live your life very happily with far less than you think you can. I hesitate sort of strapping myself to any type of dogma or rigid way of thinking. And then the minimalist label, I'm like, I'm sure. I like to just think of it as living with as little as you can, or living in a simple, you know, deliberate way. I think in our everyday lives, it is pretty pointless to have a term like minimalism applied yourself. Just as vegan is, there are certain circumstances in which it can become helpful. Where if you're at a restaurant, you know, like, hey, do you have any vegan options? Yep. But it's like, hey, my name is Matt. I'm a vegan. Like, that's not going to happen or my minimalist, whatever it is. And I don't think it's very helpful, but in the online world where we're kind of branding ourselves, exactly, ourselves out there, and you have to, somebody comes to your website and they need to know what it's about right away. I think it's helpful to have, you know, if I'm the minimalist filmmaker. Oh, okay. Then you kind of start to connect the dots and you get it versus I'm at Diavella. Right. That's the thing that I'm, I struggle with and I'm still trying to figure out what's the best balance of that. But I do know that it is important how you present yourself online. Yeah, absolutely. And for me, the minimal wellness thing, like, the name minimal wellness is kind of counterintuitive. I think, initially, like, oh, minimal wellness. You mean, like, you're minimally well, or, you know, you put a minimal amount of emphasis on wellness? No, no. Yeah. But I have found that putting my philosophy out there, meaning like that I approach wellness from as simple a point of view as possible. It has been really helpful in terms of directing the people who have a similar view on life toward my work and that the people that I eventually do work on work with one on one or do like the reset program with. Um, are already coming from a relatively similar place in terms of how they view the world and sort of what they want their interaction with the world to be. And I think it leads to much better outcomes for them. And I find the work far more fulfilling when it's like, yes, we're on the same relative level in terms of of how we, how we view things independent of wellness. Yeah, I think that's a really good way to look at it because you're, you're trying to help people and you're trying to get people that really connect with you and your message. Yeah. So you really have to make sure that that messaging is really clear. Yeah. I love the wellness aspect, too, because, like you said, it does open it up. So if it was just a minimal nutrition or, yeah, like, you're just kind of constraining where you can go with it. Yeah. And that's one thing where it's like, for me, if I was just going to have interview filmmakers on this podcast, or other people that were in the same field, it's like, I think it just limits the amount of conversation you can have and the amount of different opinions that you can bring to the table. And by opening it up and saying, wellness, you allow more of that in and there's more conversation to be had. Absolutely. And especially for, for my work, I've found that, and I've found this working with the students on campus before starting minimal wellness is that most people, understand at least on a pretty fundamental level, like what we should be eating and what we shouldn't be eating. It's, it's more of the foundation on which we make those choices. And then sort of the peripheral habits that we have around our food choices. So like, sleep, right? If we're not sleeping well, not only do we not feel great, but it also sets off this hormonal cascade where it makes food decisions exponentially more difficult, right? Or physical activity, you know, or you're circading in rhythm stuff with timing your meals around circading rhythm. There's sort of nuance things that end up being really important to lifestyle. And like, if you don't have that lifestyle piece down, it makes those food decisions a lot harder. And people get really frustrated, like trying to figure out why they can't follow XYZ diet. Why do I keep falling off this way? And why do I, you know, why am I able to execute this for a few days? And then, like, just completely revert back to my normal habits. And it's like, well, you haven't looked at the rest of your life and how that interplays with the food choices that you're making.
