# Why we’re leaving California.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E9se1YqCRaA
Head to http://squarespace.com/mattdavella to save 10% off your first purchase of a website or domain using code MATTDAVELLA. Thanks to Squarespace for sponsoring this vid!

💯 You can also follow me here:
My courses:  http://slowgrowth.com
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** 
**Date:** 2020-12-16

## Transcript
 Taxes, traffic, pollution, mansion, mansions, celebrity culture, fake boobs. These are the reasons why we initially moved to California, but things have changed. My sponsor for this week's video is Squarespace, more on them later. For the past three years, we've called Los Angeles Home. And for the most part, besides 2020, it's been pretty great. It was the pandemic that got us to take a step back and really think about where we saw our future. It's always difficult to move on to let go. But sometimes that's what you need to do to grow. So I think in order to really understand why we're deciding to leave LA, it helps understanding what drove us to move to LA to begin with. So do you remember those reasons? Obviously, we met in New York City October 2014 in Manhattan. We moved in a year later, and we lived in New York for another year. No, another almost two years. I love the spontaneity that the city encourages. So the bars are always filled with people, bustling cafes, and you're really in the take of it. So I just remember what our life used to be like in Brooklyn, and come home from work on a Wednesday, you don't have so much to talk about, and be like, wait, let's just go pop down to our local Wambar on the same block, grab a wine, a bottle of muscles, and talk it over. And it was kind of like no fast and easy in that sense, but New York is also a very, very difficult city, which compelled us to eventually move. Yeah, I think there was, there was multiple reasons for why we initially left New York for LA. I think a big reason for you was, was New York started to feel like a grind. Even the littlest things like going to do groceries or doing a laundry every week, I just found such a burden to chore. Wait, you did laundry? I was asking Matt to do laundry every week was just like, we just could do laundry. But yeah, so it just got to a place where every day I felt really frustrated, like, committing on the subway was just such a frustrating experience. The energy of the city that was constantly go-go-go. I found that really, like, it didn't affect you. It really affected me. Like, I constantly felt like, if I wasn't living my best life, and having brunch every day and, you know, doing a million things and checking out the latest gallery opening and doing this and doing that, and like, then I was living a sad life, and the pressure of not constantly doing a million things in New York. Like, the social pressure of that really said to affect me, where I like, all I wanted to do internally was just chill out, but then externally I was feeling this friction of like, well, I need to be doing a million things. There's a hundred things happening this weekend that are all supposed to be amazing, and I'm not doing a single one of those things, because all I'm doing is sitting on the couch, which is like, in New York, it's like forbidden. So it got to this place, but I just really desperately craved a guilt-free, like, chill, social life. Yeah, and I think that when you think about like a chill life, you tend to think about a place like California and LA. You started to be leaving? Yeah. Excited about New Adventures to come. Change is good. Doesn't matter what anyone tells you. So that was kind of like the social reasons for why we decided to move to California, and then of course we also thought if we're settling down, if we're living in the United States, and we want to be able to quickly be with both of our families in Sydney and in New Jersey. Quickly. Quickly. But I'm quote, more quickly. I mean, when we're in New York, that's a 23-hour trip to get home to Sydney, and the jet lag from that trip is absolutely brutal. And it's expensive. We're like, all right, if we live in California, that's like a 13-hour flight to Sydney. It's five to six hour flight back to see my family on the East Coast. This is a nice middle ground for us. And I think maybe what we didn't realize at the time was that actually moving to LA would actually make it more difficult to see either of our families. It's funny because like we made that, as you said, a driving reason to move to LA was that we could be in between our two families. And we could see it's so ironic. And then we could see them more. Which if you stopped to think about it, and it took us three years to realize this, all it did was make us see them less. Because we had moved to a place where neither of our families were. And it was just like this compromise, this middle ground, this island out on its own, where we were in the middle of our two families. At this point, we were going to be married. We were going to have a dog. We were going to be planning to have kids and potentially looking to buy a house. And now none of that has happened when you look at 2020, a lot was happening to us. There were a lot of things that were completely outside of our control. And all of these things in events are getting pushed off and canceled because of what happened with COVID. But us making the decision, taking control and saying, you know what? Like actually, we don't have to just sit on our hands for the next year or who knows how long we can actually make a decision that will impact our future in a way that we wanted to head. And so, you know, spending more time with family, owning less stuff, being more light and free. Like, those aren't easy decisions to make. But in the end, I think it was us regaining control of our lives in a way that we didn't feel like we had. Just going through the pandemic this year and realizing how much like live in California just wasn't meeting our bar. Like, just wasn't up to snuff for us with being able to like satisfy family time. Like, we're finding it hard to get a flight back to see your family and then having to quarantine before seeing them. And then finding a flight to Australia was, you know, virtually impossible. So it just made us feel like California is, you know, it's so important to have family and friends around you and California just wasn't that place for us. Yeah. I think what's important to say because there's a lot of these videos out there like, why we're leaving California. Why we decided to leave Los Angeles and a lot of the times it's like, the taxes are too high. Like, the government is suppressing my right to live freely. And that's not that wasn't the case for us. Like, if you think about it the past three years have been pretty pivotal for both of us. Huge for our lives, both our work and our personal lives. How I brought a lot of amazing things to my life. Yeah, that's where I started my YouTube channel. It's where you started your business. So many, I think, things that we now are very grateful for happen in LA. I think in the same way that we miss New York and miss so many things about New York because, like, you are tied to that place because it holds so many of those important memories and milestones in your life. And so I think that, like, we'll look back on LA and California in a very similar way that we look back on Brooklyn and New York. Ah! Well, we may not have a home home. I do have an internet home and it's at matdivella.com and that's thanks to this amazing platform that I use called Squarespace and they're the sponsor for this week's video. Squarespace is great because they have beautiful templates that are easy to customize with a simple click, drag, and drop. The platform has everything you need to start a blog and demonetize your work. Collect donations from your fans and even create members only content. Not your websites on Squarespace as well. My website is on Squarespace and thank God because I do not have the patience to build shit like websites. So there was, like, that is actually Squarespace's new slogan. Squarespace. For those who don't have the patience to build shit like websites. Everything's just been really easy. You know, and I don't have to, like, spend days and days and days and days, fiddling around with stuff. It's kind of just, like, set and forget. It's not there. Barely need to touch it. 10 out of 10. So worth. Would recommend. So worth the subscription for me. Like, oh, really? Yeah. See that? Yeah. I'm telling you guys, head to squarespace.com for a free trial and you're ready to launch. Go to squarespace.com slash Matthew Evela to save 10% off your first purchase at the website or domain. I've been doing a lot of singing from our quarantine hotel, Baphne and Sydney. I feel like our neighbors must take me by now. Probably. On Saturday night. Your neighbors were like, or your roommate. Very nice. I was Saturday night. I had, like, seven glasses of wine. I just sat out on the Baphne and I was singing to midnight. And I was playing this, like, Aussie classics, Spotify playlist and was like, watch included. Blaster rider, I thought that was going to be the one where you really patting you. I thought that was going to be the one where you really patting you. Why? I got a picnic bar in the closet over there that I've been saving for a rainy day. This is it. I'm in the dream. Thanks for watching guys, and we'll see you in another video in the future. Insidney. Insidney. Bye. I'm just going to stay there. Wow. My love has come alone. Yeah, what an influencer. I can't believe you're an influencer. What do you mean? When? When was I an influencer? Tackle.
