# You're better off alone.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EGMFKk7sa5o
Go to https://squarespace.com/mattdavella to save 10% off your first purchase of a website or domain using code MATTDAVELLA. Thanks to Squarespace for sponsoring this video!

If you’ve ever felt happier alone, you aren’t alone. There’s been some really compelling research over the past few years that shows finding regular time to be alone can improve your mood, increase productivity and even strengthen your relationships.This is the case for being alone.

Hi there 👋 If you're new to my videos my name is Matt D'Avella. I'm a documentary filmmaker, entrepreneur and YouTuber. I've made a couple documentaries for Netflix. I also teach courses on everything from filmmaking to habit change. If you like to nerd out about self-development as much as I do, you can subscribe for weekly videos.

🔗 LINKS
Enroll in my habit's course:  https://slowgrowth.com/simplehabits
Enroll in my YouTube course:  https://slowgrowth.com/masteryoutube
Get my weekly newsletters:  http://slowgrowth.com/newsletter
Follow me on Instagram:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Follow me on Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella

🎬 CREDITS
Directed by Matt D'Avella
Produced by Emma Norris & Matt D'Avella
Cinematography by Matt D'Avella
Edited by Matt D'Avella
**Keywords:** Matt D'Avella, self-development, creativity, health, wellness, lifestyle, advice, alone, loneliness, loneliness epidemic, happiness, productivity, 
**Date:** 2021-09-29

## Transcript
 When it comes to our relationship with being alone, let's just say it's complicated. Ever since the early 1950s, when television entered half of all American homes, there's been an ongoing conversation around the impact of technology on our relationships. I invite each of you to sit down and find your own television set. When your station goes on there, I can assure you that what you will observe is a vast wasteland. Fast forward to the present day, and things have only gotten more complicated. Many have argued that regardless of their benefits, technology has negatively impacted our relationships, making us more siloed and disconnected. And that part is true. Most of us spend more time flicking through Instagram each day than talking with our family. We might be lonely or now than at any other point in human history. But that's not the full story. If there's one thing that I've learned from moving in with my life years ago, my amazing, beautiful, and talented wife, it's had some times you just can't get a moment to yourself. And so if you've ever felt happier alone, you aren't alone. There's been a ton of research over the past couple of years that shown that if you increase the amount of time you spend alone, it'll improve your mood, increase your productivity, and even strengthen your relationships. This is the case for being alone. Sometimes. This video is brought to you by my friends at Squarespace. I'll talk more about them later in the video. So one of the biggest benefits of spending time alone each day is that it helps regulate your mood. But before you pack up your bags and head for a remote cabin in the middle of the woods, you should know that it doesn't take much to reap the rewards. And a small study from the UK researcher, Favey, when found that spending as little as 15 minutes alone in a room can help to balance our moods because of a deactivation effect. Her research found that this is enough time to lower high arousal moods, which is a lot less dirty than it sounds. These are basically moods when you're in a mentally charged or stimulated state and they can range from good to bad, from excitement to fear. In the study, 75 students were left alone with their thoughts, with no digital devices for 15 minutes. And the control group spent the same amount of time chatting with a research assistant. Before and after, the students filled out a questionnaire evaluating those high arousal moods like excitement, interest, fear, or distress. The results were clear. The subjects in the solitude group found that they had much less high arousal states, both negative and positive. The control group didn't. And this shows that we really don't need to go this all or nothing approach when it comes to solitude. We don't need to get away for the entire weekend. We don't need to take an entire day off to see some of the benefits of being alone. Sometimes it just takes 15 minutes. And while activities like meditation have their own benefits, sometimes they're a little intimidating and overwhelming to get into. Instead, you could go for a walk by yourself around your block. Listen to music in your room or spend some extra time in the bathroom until your legs fall asleep. Consider it an investment in your mental health. It turns out that spending time alone can also be one of the keys to building strong and long lasting relationships. Now, I know this sounds a little bit counterintuitive, so here me out. We all know the phrase, absence makes the heart grow fonder. Well, there's now research that actually backs it up. New neuroscience studies into Prairie Vols, who like us are in the 3% to 5% of mammals that mate for life. Have a cluster of cells in their brains specifically linked to intimacy and connection that light up when reunited with their partners after being apart. But don't worry, you don't need to make the theoretical leap from rodents to humans because there are plenty of studies on humans that back this up. That show that when people in relationships spend more time apart, they have more admiration for their partners. And they also have lengthier, more deep conversations when they come back together and reunite. Spending time apart has a bunch of other benefits for your relationship, too. Like building resilience and developing separate interests that make your conversations more interesting. Simply put, if you're not spending every day together, you have a lot more to talk about when you reconnect. Even the best relationships have conflicts and problems. Personally speaking, Natalie and I have a great relationship. But we do have arguments and fights every once in a while. We don't always see eye to eye. And so when I find myself in these states, sometimes I can sense that I'm getting a little bit angry. Sometimes I might want to shout because who in their right mind would leave a shampoo bottle in the shower when it's empty. I mean, who does that? But I just, I tell myself, okay, Matt, you just need to take a few minutes. And so I often do. I take, I say, Matt, I just need 15 minutes to cool down. Just give me just give me a minute to clear my head. I take 15 minutes by myself and all of a sudden, like we said previously, my mood starts to regulate. I start to realize that this time away is actually getting me to realize that maybe I shouldn't be so worked up over a bottle of shampoo. Time alone also seems to be key to our creativity. Brain scans have shown that when we're alone, a part of the brain lights up called the default mode network. It's an interconnected part of the brain responsible for self-referential processes, like evaluating information, recalling memories, processing emotions, and planning for the future. It's no coincidence that your best ideas come when you're in this shower. That's your default mode network at work. Without the usual distractions of day to day life, your brain actually has the space to think outside the box, and to make unique connections between ideas and memories to create something new. It's no wonder why some of the worlds best entrepreneurs, artists, athletes and creatives, recommend that you take space and time alone, because that's when you're most likely to have your creative breakthroughs. Dr. Misha Myers, a senior lecturer of Creative Arts at Deacon University points out, defined an original expression, you need to develop a relationship with yourself. And to have a relationship with yourself, you need a loan time or solitude. Myers says that she often calls upon the work of poet and writer Rainer Maria Rilk. In his book, letters to a young poet. He mentions that in order to access inner wisdom, you must issue the critics, avoid excessive self-criticism, connect to the natural world, and freely plum the self. And this advice from 1929 holds up to this day, except maybe we would use a different word than plum, because the word plum sounds kind of weird. Like you could have used the word discover or investigate, basically anything but plum. Solitude creates the space where we can create work that is truly original and impactful, like a beautifully designed website. As you know, my sponsor for this week's video is Squarespace. I've been partnering with them all year, and I recommend Squarespace all the time, because I use them myself. Earlier this year, I went about rebuilding my personal website. I've been putting it off for years, but I found some alone time to dig in, and start to reimagine what it could be. And Squarespace made the process effortless. I easily dragged and dropped photos onto my homepage. Now that one's adorable. I added an email sign-up form for my newsletter, and I shared links to all my social media accounts with just a few clicks. I personally like to keep things simple, but Squarespace is packed with lots of features like scheduled posts, detailed analytics, and e-commerce stores. With hundreds of beautiful templates to choose from, Squarespace is a no-brainer. Head to Squarespace.com for free trial. And when you're ready to share your idea with the world, go to squarespace.com-matteavela to save 10% of your first purchase of a website or domain. If you haven't made it to check out Squarespace, when you do that, it helps to support my channel. So thanks so much to Squarespace for sponsoring this video, and thank you for keeping them in mind. And the last benefit that you'll find from increasing your time alone, you're more productive. The modern employee is bombarded with distractions every day. From Zoom calls to incoming emails, to useless meetings and nonstop notifications, it seems like everyone from your boss to your coworker is trying to find a way to eat up your time. Whether you work at home or in the office, you can find yourself in a perpetual state of task switching. In the office, you have open floor office plans which were designed to increase collaboration and morale, but often make it difficult to find time alone to get your actual work done. And when you're working from home, there's no shortage of interruption there, from your spouse to your kids. It seems like if somebody is in a room with you, they will try to get in between you and your work. When you're alone, it's much less likely that you'll get distracted and so you can get to work more quickly, enter a flow state and stay there. Now when it comes to your productivity, shortcomings, the only thing you can blame is your addiction to animal crossing. And when it comes to the actual work we do on a neurological level, and time alone is one of the most effective ways for people to solve complex problems. While brainstorming in groups can be a great way to come up with interesting ideas, the best way to solve those problems is to sit down in a room by yourself and get to work. And there's a few reasons for this. We get access to that default mode network that I mentioned earlier, where we can think more laterally. We can better evaluate information, recall memories, and plan for the future. We're actually more likely to work harder when we work alone. Back in 1913 Agricultural Engineer, Maximilian Ringlman, coined the term social loofing. To describe the fact that people were more likely to put in more effort when tackling tasks like rope pulling alone versus with others. So when you're trying to solve a problem, like fulfill a seemingly impossible creative brief for a client, or coming up with a thumbnail for a video about loneliness, the best thing you can do is lock yourself in a room and do the work. Nagging your wife might not be the best way to go. Speaking from experience, our relationship with loneliness is messy. Lots of us are craving real in-person connection. And others just want to create a new identity enter the witness protection program and fall off the face of the earth. As with most good things in life, like beer and reality television, the danger is in the dose. And the prescription might be different from one person to the next. And so you need to really think through how you're going to be able to implement some alone time into your daily routines. If you have a young family, a 30-day expedition to Nepal, to hike through the wilderness, might not be in the cards just yet. But maybe you can carve out 15 minutes a day to read a book to go for a walk where to sit in a room and watch paint dry. I personally found that it could be helpful to have these conversations with our roommates or our significant others well in advance. And so we've been conditioned as a society to feel rude for asking for time alone. We ourselves can feel guilty when we bring it up. And so you might even mention that in the conversation that you have with them. You might tell them, hey look, I feel uncomfortable asking for this. I know it feels a little bit rude to say. But every day, I like to have 15 or 20 minutes by myself to cool off, to let off some steam and to not always feel like I have to be on. Also, I forgive you for the whole shampoo thing. I hope that you have enjoyed this video and I hope you've been inspired to carve out a little bit of me time each day. Now, if you don't mind, I'd actually like a little bit of a long time myself. See ya.
