# The Pressure to Keep Up // Ground Up 086
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eHYD19hSrDg
Henny is on YouTube:  https://goo.gl/7vEPKW
Support this show:  http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Justin "Henny" Henderson a 4x grammy nominated, award-winning, multi-platinum record producer. He’s worked with Drake, Kendrick Lamar, Jay Z & Lil Wayne.

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** 
**Date:** 2018-11-07

## Transcript
 Welcome back to the Ground Up Show, my name is Matthew Evella, I'm your host, today Justin Penny Henderson, get this. This guy is a four-time Grammy-nominated award-winning multi-platinum record producer. He's worked with Drake, Kendrick Lamar, Jay-Z, little Wayne, what the fuck? That's crazy. As you guys know, I'm a big hip-hop fan, so it was really cool to get Henny on, really, say her indipitous, how I came about, meeting him and connecting him with him in the first place, which we get to on the podcast. On the episode, we talk about his success in the industry, his desire and urge to keep up with all those trappings and things that are often associated within, with success within the hip-hop industry, and also his decision to simplify, like, go a lot of a lot of that stuff, both in his personal life and his work life. He went from producing in these massive studios to making amazing beats from his iPads. So interesting. I can't wait to share this episode with you guys, but first, if you want to help contribute and support this show, it is fully independent and 100% advertisement-free because of a small group of amazing Patreon supporters. For just a dollar an episode, you can help keep this podcast ad-free or contribute $3 a week and get access to my secret AMA, secret vlog, videos that I do not release anywhere else where I talk about lifestyle design, filmmaking, creativity, business, try it for a month. See if you like it, if not, of course you can bow out, that's about it, let's get to the show, this is it, let's go bam bam, we're in there. All right, Annie, thank you for being here on the podcast, I'm excited to talk to you a lot to talk about, you've done a lot of things and lately you've been making some new moves which is pretty exciting and interesting, very, very fun times. Well it's fun because I found out about you, we were talking about just before when you came up that you entered this black hole of YouTube, I'm just clicking from one thing to the next. It starts out where you're like, all right, I'm going to look up this new camera and then you've watched 20 videos, and that's what happened with you and I was looking up the Canon M50 so I was looking into getting a vlogging camera and I was just like, caught by your energy, you were hyped up in this video and maybe more than most of the member halfway through, I don't know why I'm so hyped up with this video, I was like, this guy is great and then I look through some of your content and you have like a lot of minimalism themes and I'm like Grammy award winning producer, who is he, what do you do now and we can of course back into your work later on. Okay, well man, I've been a music producer songwriter for last, wow, about 20 years and yeah, I think it's just now within the last, man, I was in the last year and a half, I started to really go in on just the fun of YouTube and really online branding for yourself because that's a music producer, people don't really, you know, realize how much the background you play, you know, unless you're really promoting yourself and as I was trying to pivot my career, I just felt like the only way to do it was to turn the camera on myself a little bit and yeah, that kind of started to change everything about a year, you're going to have to go. Well, it's funny because a lot of producers do the, what would it be, it's kind of like a watermark? Yeah, just like the tag, yeah, the tag and I think, yeah, from what I've heard, you don't include a tag. No, we had, we had a tag, we had a tag, yeah, I do have a tag, the business, if it's like, the business business, the business business, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, that is a funny, it's an interesting thing of producing, it's like you've got to make a little bit of noise, you've got to let people know who this, yeah, and sometimes that's your only way of letting people know, like, you know, hey, I'm out here and this is, this is my sound. So yeah, it's been a fun ride for the last 20 years, but as you grow older and as you're trying to learn about how to, you know, make this an even longer career, man, it's, you have to find new ways to, to stay afloat and stay busy and, yeah, YouTube is great. Yeah, so YouTube is kind of, I mean, that takes a lot, though, to push yourself outside of your comfort zone to, you know, because a lot of people could shit on you. If you start the YouTube channel, you're such a successful producer, and now you're like, I'm going to start all over, and, you know, in the beginning, you have, you have dozens of subscribers, right? You just started from nothing, so it can be a little bit, you have to kind of put your ego on pause, right? Sort of for me, it was different because initially, me and my business partner, we had, um, we had a production team, we were called the business, um, and what happened was over the last, like, maybe over the last five years, I started to feel a different energy for what I, where I wanted to go in my, in my career, and I started to look at, like, okay, is doing what we've been doing, what I want to do for the next 15 years, and so I decided, I think this is probably the best time that we maybe, you know, take a, take a split and try different things. The problem was he had all the down, the contacts, he had all the relationships, I was the guy who was making the music in the background, but I really had to learn how to start over, and it was such a hard thing to do, knowing that I'm on top of a, a Grammy, I'm on top of, like, a key to the city, like, this is a big transformation for me. Like, Larry, you got the key to it, so I'm from Seattle, and a suburb outside of Seattle, federal way, and that year, 2012, it was like, one of the most craziest moments where you feel all this positive energy, but then you feel something pulling you away into another place, and I think it was just because I spoke to so many kids that we, I didn't want to just grab a key to say to say, hey, thanks guys, and I'm out, you know, I went and did a whole week about stuff, and you know, talk to the kids, promoted, do, you know, a whole, you know, concert, a whole kind of conference, everything that I could possibly think of for a week for the city, music related, and it just birthed something in me because it started to develop my voice, and two years later, I'm now starting over, like, okay, what the, what the hell am I going to do, and one of the best things that could have happened was me learning how to make music on an iPad. That's where it started to change for real. Yeah, and I love these, the videos that you've been putting out, and just know creative you've been getting, because this is kind of, this is where it's all going. Right. You don't, you no longer have to be in the studio, you no longer need this like crazy production, you can get the value without all the expensive gear. Yeah. And even like this morning, I was watching some videos, you did a, for somebody else's channel, where you just took all these different like a toaster of the crate. Yeah, the crate. Yeah, yeah. It had a box of matches, and it's like, let's make a beat with an iPad, and these random household items. And you, it was craziest beat, I've ever heard. I'm like, how did, how do you make it sound like that? Right. And so was that a learning curve in terms of stepping into those more gritty type of tools, the more, you know, iPad type. Yeah. So initially, it was, okay, I'm going to start creating again in a different way, but how can I compete, you know, at the time I'm 35 years old, I'm 38 now. And I'm sitting there and I'm like, yo, okay, how do I compete with somebody who's 18 years old? So how do I keep the, you know, it's kind of like keep the consistency, how you stay persistent. And I was like, I have so much gear. I have so much stuff in my studio, you know, and to be able to have, you know, like we were talking about earlier, when you're gigging and you're doing a lot of stuff in your career, I think you can, you can buy equipment like it's nothing, you know, you can a big job and you're like, you know, I am going into the camera. Exactly. So I had, I had so much stuff in my studio that my ideas weren't coming as fast. And I started to look and watch, see where, you know, it was like, okay, this is what you can do for, for production on iPads. And I was like, oh, this is kind of different. Let's shut the whole studio down. And I basically shut everything down and started to work just on an iPad air, I think it was. And learn how to use Dropbox, learn how to use iCloud, learn how to just, I think that was the transition of of trying to be more minimalistic, you know, and say, can I have one device like I did when I was 18 years old to be able to create? And yeah, man, it was, um, what is the difference? Look like, so when you're talking about like just strictly comparing that studio environment, all the knobs, it looks really cool. You know, it looks really neat and it looks very good photo shoot and a good film. But then you look at your desk setup, which is really minimalist. It's really simple and you have like a keyboard, really small keyboard and just like a small Bose speaker. Yeah. There's not a lot there. How does it compare in terms of what you're able to do, how quickly you're able to do it? Now it's a lot faster now because, um, you know, one I can, I can create wherever, you know, as that's kind of how I started this whole, my whole YouTube introduction, um, of semi vlogging, semi teaching, whatever, uh, last year I created this whole series called Adventures and Beatmaking. And initially, it was just a 60 second clip that I could do for Instagram because I figured Instagram is probably the best way to go first. Um, and it was basically showing, um, husband, um, a father, um, a producer, and I love to do as many different things as everybody else. But let me show you how I can create, uh, with an iPad, making beats every week, as far as like whatever's happening, whether it's a birthday party or I'm making a beat in the middle of the street. Um, it's just some random things that I was showing you like you can create anything anywhere if you master your, your tools. And so now it's like, man, the production quality that you can get out of an iPad is just as good as out of, uh, you know, a MacBook and having all the knobs and everything else because these companies are like, yo, this is, this is powerful shit. You know what I mean, so, um, it's, it's worked very, very well. Um, yeah, what, what is the actual process look like? Is it, is it, is it constricting to have a, the smaller screen? Um, um, because I know, you know, I could certainly, I guess, be a daft, right? Right? Because if I just keep editing on my MacBook Pro, I can get pretty damn good and we're getting quick. Yeah. And you don't need to have like a huge resolution monitor. I think when people even see that my editing setup is just one monitor. Yeah. Most editors are so accustomed to seeing two months like how to do it. And I'm actually, I think it's kind of quicker, rather than just like, look, you know what I mean? You have so much extra cover. It's kind of crazy. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Where I'm like, I feel like if I just had one monitor, everything's consolidated, you, you know, the resolution of, when you're actually going through and telling the story and doing the book work, you don't have to look in great detail. Yeah. It's when you play it back at the very end is when you want to go full screen with it. Exactly. And so it's funny that you say that because, you know, one of the, I talked to a, you know, I teach a class at my college that I went to at the Moral's College in Atlanta on music technology. And, you know, one of, I told, you know, the kids about my gateway into YouTube. And, you know, I think a lot of people when they start thinking about their channel and the types of things that they want to talk about is like, what is the gateway that's going to bring people to you? And it was crazy that a lot of followers came to me because I was showing them how to edit video because I've been doing all my video editing on my iPad as well now. And so this is Apple. You haven't even had any of your videos that you've seen as, is this program called Luma Fusion. And once I figured out that you could add luts, once I figured out that you can do, you know, speed ramps and all the color grading and all the, you know, 4K editing, it's faster than my MacBook Pro. And the rendering is sometimes a real time. I'm talking about, if I'm doing a three-minute video, it can render in four minutes. And this is 4K 65, you know. And if I'm holding you back too much in terms of layering. No, I mean, it's three late, three late, I'm not meant to cut you off, but like three layers of like 4K video, three layers of audio. Okay, too. Yeah. Man. It's funny because I remember I, I had consulted with like an investor. Okay. Years and years ago. And I mean, they were working on this iPad app. Yeah. The create animations on an iPad. Okay. And like the technology wasn't there at that point. Right. Like maybe six years ago. It was really, I was like, this is crazy. This is going to take so long. Okay. But it was, I mean, that obviously it wasn't working, but I also could never envision a future in which people would actually choose to edit an animation or a video on an iPad over a desktop. Because I'm like, well, it would never be as quick as like a keyboard and mouse. But like you said, it's all about mastering the tool. It is. And once you get quick at it, you know, and, you know, I use the Apple pencil that the chopping edit things. And it's, I don't have the only issue that I have. I guess when it comes to editing video on iPad was like, you know, if you want to those special transitions. But if you, you know, no normal cuts and normal editing tools or editing, you know, ways of of getting a good, nice story told. And it's not a problem at all. That is so powerful. Yeah. Or the traveling filmmaker or blogger. Yes. I mean, it's easy to get caught up with all the special transitions and the effects. And but, you know, that today that's not going to really set you apart that much because it becomes trendy. It's like, oh, you do a cool vertigo zoom like pushing and exactly. And I'm like, yeah, that's really cool. And it would be cool to utilize that during, you know, times when you don't want people to vomit or like just times when you, you want to like have that cool effect. Right. Let's look into the mind and you just do this. It's kind of the jaws effect where like that it looks like the backgrounds coming in and it's interesting. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But if you don't want to do that kind of stuff, if you don't, you don't need to do that kind of stuff for 90% of your work. Exactly. I'm pretty sure if you look at minimalism or, you know, any film that I've done, 99% just cuts. Yeah. Straight cuts. Yeah. I'm not doing crazy white transition. People love that on YouTube. Right. Crazy white transitions. Right. It can be fun and it can help you to tell a story or make it more interesting. But if you're relying on that stuff, it's just going to be a crutch. Exactly. Exactly. And so for me, it was, you know, I was trying to figure out when how can I do as much as I could possibly do on this MacBook on this iPad. So from production, I was like, okay, the sounds that I love, you know, using the drums that I love using. I can of course import that using iCloud Dropbox, one of those. Right. But then also, they have tremendous amounts of like apps that these developers like you and me are developing and they're insane, you know. And now you're not having to worry about like the big corporations and, you know, not being able to get feedback like you want. And so I'm looking at it now. And once I had, you know, big producers calling me up and hey, man, I see what you're doing. How are you able to do that? And I'm like, oh, shit. He's calling me. This is Timberland. Oh, right. Yeah. Is that with the YouTube channel or is that with the internet? This was before YouTube. So this was when I was just going to studios and just, you know, everybody pulled out their big stuff and I just got this little, you know, iPad and this little keyboard and they're like, wait, what? And then you can see like the expressions when they hear the music coming out of it. And yeah, that started and then I was like, okay, if I want to brand this and I want to brand myself, how am I going to do this? Because I do not like to take selfies. I don't like to be in front of a camera anytime I'm from a camera. I start to get, you know, sweaty in the head and you know, that whole thing. It was a complete transition and my wife was just like, just try it. Just just see what happens. And so I turned on the camera and I started to do this thing and it was like a thing that I was like, okay, if you're going to do this, you're going to go all the way in. And I started just showing my life based off of a 60 second clip of what was going on that week. It was vlogging, but making a beat while I was vlogging for 60 seconds. And I caught it in ventures and beat making. And that's what kind of broke the ice for me to be able to do YouTube because I was putting it on Instagram, but then I put it on YouTube. I put it on Facebook and I was just trying to see where it worked. But every once in a while I'd show like a little tutorial and I was like, damn, the tutorials. They love those, right? The, you know, or I'd just speak on whatever I speak and off from the heart. And I realized like quickly, because like the other day I was watching the episode with you and Cody, Cody, one. Yeah. And I was, you know, you talked about like, you know, took like a hundred and something before he got comfortable. I think it was probably like the 14th, 15th week where I was like, people are talking about my laugh. Now people are talking about like the things that are random, you know, and it's just like, okay, this is becoming something, be yourself. Let it go, you know, and the more I did, it was the more that people flocked to to what I was doing. And then I did it for 52 weeks. And I said, okay, that was cool. I tried to entertain. Now let's try to educate. So this whole year has been all based off of education and the tutorials. And more just my thought process and why I'm doing what I'm doing. And that is just brought in. I swear, it's like, I started maybe out with 23,000 followers or subscribers at the end of 2017 and it's already, you know, 25 and it's jumping up and it's just based off of being in a niche with music production, video production, on an iPad. And it's been such an amazing journey so far. Yeah, I think that the niche is free there. And I think it's so key that you came into this with that skill set of, you know, you had 20 years of experience as a producer. Yeah. So imagine if like you just started a YouTube channel and you like a travel vlog, just not including your, all this experience you have. Right. You're like, you're super power. It's like, let's bring this and let's actually adapt it to these new mediums. Right. Have you found that YouTube is for you in terms of creating these the beats and the films? Is that better for you than say Instagram? Have you found that best? Because I think Instagram is such a great tool to, what I realized is YouTube is a great epicenter, right? It's the great place for everybody to bring your stuff towards, you know, if if you're doing stuff on Instagram, you could do, you know, a trailer to get back to YouTube or, you know, you could talk about the things that you're doing and bring it back to YouTube just because one, it wasn't monetizing. You know, it wasn't being able to, you know, grab the engagement like I was looking for with, you know, longer video format. And so I was just like, okay, well, let's try this. Let's make sure that, you know, I can monetize, make turn this really into a business and then, you know, from watching tutorials and watching things and watching people, I mean, really getting engulfed in the YouTube culture, I was like, you know, this, this is great. Now, Instagram is great to just kind of advertise who you are, but to to build your business, I would build it around YouTube for sure. Yeah, I'm getting to that place myself where, I don't know, I'm just kind of tired of Instagram and maybe it's like, it's like, I don't know, it's a bit distracting first of all, it's hard to create for Instagram and not be swept up and distracted by the links, as much as YouTube can be a trap. Like, I can schedule a YouTube video. Right. And then just be like, all right, well, I'm going to pop into the comments section and just, you know, talk to people there, but then I'm not going to spend time browsing and looking at other videos. Yes, you're in a bit different because it's on your phone. You kind of pull that and you're just checking it all the time. So I don't like that. And that's also, I don't know, it's just, you got to find the right medium. And when you find when something is working, it's kind of like the Pareto's 80, 20 principle. Yeah, yeah. Because I don't waste your time on the things that are giving you 5% return. Right. Like if you're like spending all this time trying to make your Twitter Instagram Facebook, every single platform great, but you see a great return on one of them, you should really like, yeah. And like that's the hardest thing for people is because even now it's like, well, I don't want to drop it. Drop these other ones completely. Right. If I did, it probably would be the best thing for my growth. And that's what happened. Because, you know, I was growing, you know, pretty good, because the thing about where I was at when I started over. And this is one of the things that I love to talk about is that pivot, you know, to not being in a phrase, to get uncomfortable, to try something new. Because it was one of those things where I was like, do I just keep making beats and being this producer guy when I know I love photography and videography? Probably just as long. I just never really picked it up as much from a business standpoint. And I just realized, like, okay, YouTube is starting to give me a lot more. Let's focus in on it. And then it was like the engagement. I love the engagement, the community. You know, it wasn't so emoji-based off your comments. Like, oh, fire fire fire, or clap, clap, clap, clap. You know, it wasn't, it was more so. Like, people were, and it was, I don't know, the, the, I know you see it from all around the world. You can feel this, this, this, this, this positivity, my growing towards you and the things that you're doing. And you're just like, yeah, this is, this is working. So, like, for you, like, at what point did you, like, say, okay, you know, at the YouTube, it's definitely where I'm staying. Well, it, so it was March of this year. Yeah. It's when things really started to grow. I put out the my minimalist apartment video. Yes. And that video recently hit a million views. It was like, my thank you. It's like my first million view video. Yeah. The first video that actually took off. So I actually been doing the podcast for about a year leading up to that. God. Literally about a year. And then I was putting excerpts. Yes. Yes. So I would just do excerpts. And that would be it. And then I would get 200 views on a video. Okay. I would get, it's funny. I was like, the perspective changed. Right. But I'm like, my, I want to hit 500. That's awesome. Right. And now I'm like, if I don't get 500 in like the first five minutes. Damn it. Like, it was a dud. Right. But it's like, it's just all about perspective. But it was putting out my minimalist apartment. Okay. And then seeing that just grow and grow and grow. And then the first week getting 20,000 views. I was like, holy shit. Wow. This is crazy. And it was a, a nudge for me. Like a, it was a more than a nudge. It was like a full push. Okay. Stop doing the excerpts. Yeah. Like, people want to see a short edited narrative. They want to see a story. And they there was humor in it. And I did pull it off pretty well. And I'm like, okay. This is me. This is like adding humor. Just not taking myself too seriously. Right. Bringing something a little bit different to a space that is very popular and very trendy. So like, minimalism incredibly popular on YouTube. Oh, yeah. But if I could bring something different to it, I think both coming from the aspect of being a man, that's a minimalist. Right. A lot of female minimalist YouTubers. Yeah. But not a lot of men. I only know of a couple. Right. And then I think bringing the humor to it for me was and seeing how it ended up playing out on YouTube was my push to be like, keep doing more of this. Boom. And it just started to keep growing. Because I mean, it's funny. I'll check your page, you know, and I'm like, I'm just keeps. Yeah. Really, really weird. Because like, it wasn't long ago that I would look at people that 200,000 subscribers and be like, that is. I honestly never thought one day. Oh, wow. Wow. I never thought I could get 200. Okay. I would have been happy with 15. Wow. And I think I could have been, I would have been content if I, it took me three years to get 15. I'm doing something. I don't know if I would have been. I could have financially made any money doing it. But yeah, it's incredible. And now like, it definitely, I don't get too caught up in it. It's fun. I, I still a game. Yeah. It's fun to like, you know, have your audience grow and to be able to connect and share these stories with more people. But I try not to let it become my metric for success. Exactly. Like, I don't need to get to a million to be successful. Yeah. Cool. It's amazing. Come on. Like, have a great. Like, I'm sitting here and lie and saying, like, I don't want a million. Like, it would be really cool. Just like money, you have to get to a point where you're happy and content with what you have with exactly. And if you keep, or if you keep being reliant on the next promotion or next race to fulfill it, you're never going to be happy. And that's exactly how I felt, you know, being in the music industry and having success, having hits and stuff that money comes extremely fast. And I got to a point. I remember like 2011 and, you know, being like, I come like my, my, my family is not like creative. Like, my dad was corporate, you know, for 40 years and retired. My mom was a, you know, in house mom. Like, like, just my brothers. I'm in the middle of two boys, I went all the three three boys and my older brother, my younger brother, both in consulting. And I'm the, the odd one, just like, yo, I'm chasing this dream about to be this producer. Let's go. Right. And what year did you start? Yeah, to 1997. I was 17. That's when I was like, yo, this, I was like almost about to be, you know, seeing a senior in high school. And I was like, this is it. I mean, I knew music was it. I just didn't know how like where, right? Like you have it. I was trying to rap. I was trying to sing. I was trying to do too much. And I realized that, you know, me being in leadership in school and stuff like that and being able to just kind of play and have some overall leadership skills. I like production is probably where I need to go. Right. But I say all of that to say it's like, once I got to the point where I was making it, it's kind of money. Nobody could really tell me how to put it together. How to budget it. I was trying my best, you know, and countenance and, you know, financial advisors and all of these things and you're just kind of like, I want to be able to do this great. But then I was like, I had money savings, money here, money there. You know, everybody straight my wife straight work good. And then you still have a lot of money. Right. And then in years like shit. Now you're just on Amazon all day. Yeah. And then you're just bored just looking at random stuff like, maybe I'll try that out. Not working. Maybe I'll try that out. Not working. Maybe, you know, and then it's constantly just boredom because you have this excess. And I think that, you know, you know, when I think that's when I really started to look at, there's this dude. I don't know if you, his website was like minimally minimal.com. I think he was one of the first guys that I saw is like, I'm a minimalist. He was like, working for Microsoft. And yeah, this awesome like website and he would do these reviews on all these products and everything just looks so awesome. This is like maybe 2011. And I was like, I want less, you know, I want less, but I want it to be better. Um, but still it's like, like you said, it doesn't take all this extra money, all these extra subscribers, all this extra love for you to be happy. And that's when the biggest things that I got from YouTube was like, the love of giving gave me so much more love. You know, and I was like, fulfilled. And it didn't matter the subscriber count because like, like, you know, people said in the past, you, you affect changing one person, you know, and you're just like, shit. They're like, you know, I'm a 54 year old guy who's just, you know, found love again through music because, you know, you're being so transparent and vulnerable and I'm just like, damn, this isn't saying. You know, um, so all the hit records and all the other things, that's cool. People love it. People cheer, but when you're affecting one on one, you can actually engage with somebody like that for you, for your community. It's, it's life-changing man for real. When used, the money started to come in, uh, like, being in hip hop. Yeah. Very, uh, I would say, last my damn mind. Let's go. Healthy relationship. I was a hip-hop in general has like an unhealthy relationship with money. Yes. I mean, I definitely have done some docs and some film shoots with wrappers, carry around bags of money. Yeah. I don't trust banks and spending. Yeah. Raising amounts of money and like the bracket. Yeah. Part of it is like in good fun. Yeah. Part of it is definitely unhealthy and a bad example. But it seems like you're pretty level-headed. Did you get swept up with some of that stuff? Uh, or you're definitely trying to keep up. Um, so at first, I was trying to fit in, you know, and then fitting in is always expensive, right? You know, always just, John. Oh, that's what you're doing. Oh, that's the new. Oh, well, I don't have that phone. So let me go grab that phone. Oh, and the speaker is always going to be okay. Oh, those shoots. Okay. Those are glasses. Okay. Okay. Cool. Where did you get your haircut? Okay. I'm gonna get that haircut. Okay. What's that car? Okay. And it just becomes a competitive thing. And I just looked at it like, why are we spending so much money just for that? Oh, I see you got that. And that's pretty much all to give you. You spent $10,000 on whatever. And they were so, oh, that's dope. And that was it. That one exchange is why you made that $10,000 purchase. Um, and I was like, no, dude. I remember one time. Um, and I told my wife about this, so it's not as bad to tell it on camera. But the one time I lost my mind going through the strip club and just being, you know, that producer, and, you know, I adjusted this record with little Wayne and Drake called every girl. It was my first, like, kind of hit. Um, and they would just run back the song and they said, oh, the business in the house, the business in the house. And I was like, okay, what do I do? Uh, like, let's get bottles fellas. Let's get bottles. So we didn't got bottles. I'm like, I'm not a really bottle guy. So I'm like, okay, cool. And then I'm like, I kind of guess I got to get some ones. I'm like, let's just get $10,000. I never spent this type of money in my life, right? My wife's on vacation, and I'm just like, let's just go. Um, and I'm with, I'm with my boys. And I swipe my, my, my business card, and they just like, I think it was like $12,000, just get $10,000 in ones. Um, it was ridiculous. And I swear that like we throwing money in the music when I got home that next morning, I think we probably spent 80% of that. And I was sick. And I was sick to my stomach. Like, okay, why the hell that we do that? And what it, what was it for? I said never again do. Never again. Um, and just that that fact of trying to, um, um, like, okay, well, let's stick out. You know, let's figure out ways to stick out and start a instead of fitting in. And now it's just like, I'm trying to be the, uh, I guess the representative of those of us who are just normal, you know, uh, not necessarily have to keep up with all the things that we see in the videos and all the things that we, you know, are around all the time and we can have a good family and we can have balance in our lives and we can, you know, be the father that, you know, is there and, you know, be the husband that, you know, really cherishes and honors your wife and all of these things. So, um, yeah, that's, that's, that's the message now. So, it's a lot better because that's just who I am naturally. Yeah, for sure. It seems like it's starting to, to change a bit as like independent music becomes more popular. Yeah. Where people feel like they don't need to hit the huge mainstream appeal because I think something that's what happens is that people get caught up with it. I mean, I understand, too. It's, it's, for a lot of people, a lot of rappers, they come from nothing. Right. So then to finally make it. Yeah. You want to, you want to show that stuff off. You want to celebrate. Yes. Um, but then, man, like, even, like, you look at the NFL, too, with all these people that get on his money and it's so many of them end up going bankrupt after they retire because they're not smart with their money. And it's, it's that check to check. I know I'm going to another check, and, you know, especially like guys on our tour or NFL guys who play games, you know, in NBA, you know, you're getting, you know, you're getting that check at the end of the game. You know, you're going to get that check at the end of the show. And so you're just like, well, I can spend it now because I know I'm just going to get another check and you never think about saving, you never think about budgeting and you never think about just how much longer your life really is. You know, um, and, and one of the biggest things for me was just like, okay, patience, patience, patience, practice, patience, practice, patience, practice, patience, and that's like the last couple of years just because I'm a very impatient guy myself. I'm like, oh, that's the latest gadget. I want it now. Like Amazon Prime now. Like within two hours, if I can't, um, and, and just practice patience, I would literally like, try to like drive in an area that a new word be traffic when I knew I had to get somewhere to practice patience. Because I was like, road rage is something that we all go through, right? And I'm just like, you know what, you have got to practice being more patient because it's all going to work out and you're going to get there. But you've got to, you've got to wait, you've got to be patient that to let it happen. Um, and so these are the things in my life that I'm just trying to work on and just try to be better at, but it's been an amazing change over the last year for real. Yeah. I mean, the patience thing, it's, I think that it has such, so much to do with your well-being, especially when you are a creator, you're somebody that's like, or an entrepreneur, whatever it is, if you're really ambitious, you want everything to happen right now. Right now. And you want all the money right now. But then if you hide it all, then what? Yeah. You know, now what? It's this, you're going to find something else to go after. Yeah. Um, and so, I mean, one of the things that's so awesome about, you know, YouTube for me is just, it just keeps going just based off of your life. And if you can just maintain a level head as you grow, you know, because, you know, you keep going, you create trying to balance entertainment with education and some type of motivation in between the two, that's probably going to have a good success for you as a YouTuber trying to get to another level. And you're going to grow and, you know, things are going to happen and you might hit a spike and think go crazy, but then, you know, okay, what, what, what's the angle? I think the angle. There is no angle. You know, you just keep creating. You keep trying to inspire. You keep trying to motivate. And that's, yeah, that's what I'm at. Yeah, I don't think you're going to have a problem. Maybe any level head. Because you've already been through it before. Yeah, music. Yeah. To be able to go through that and to have that kind of success. Um, and, you know, a lot of people do get in their ego and they ended up, they end up mistreating people. And it's like, like you said, the the biggest thing that you've gotten out of YouTube is being able to connect with people and share. And like early on, when I was really scared about posting YouTube videos because people have a misconception and it's false that YouTube comment section is so negative. So negative. So negative. Right. Everybody's going to shit on you. And yeah, you get a couple of comments if people like talking shit. Usually, you just, it's usually it's funny. Right. Music people are just so wrong. Oh, yeah. Funny. Yeah, it's funny. Um, and you, you look at the comments and sometimes you see the same type of comment on different videos. You're like, wow, a lot of people see that within whatever. Um, but it's, you know, I was washing potato jet. I don't know if you follow. So he's another dude from out here. He's cool YouTube. He has very comical cuts and stuff like that. So I like his tutorials, I like his stuff. Um, but, you know, he's like, you know, if you don't look for your haters, like, you should never have a perfect, you know, perfect video. Like, yeah, like a thousand thumbs up. Right. You're doing something wrong. And if you're, you know, if you're all, you know, negative and no positive, you do something wrong. You gotta have a little bit of balance. So I accept that. And I accept the, you know, the people that come in and they're saying, you know, you could done better there or, you know, I've seen, I've heard all the comments that people say about, you know, my videos or whatever. And it's just like, I appreciate that because we got to, we got to accept that at what? Sometimes it's constructive. Sometimes they're just talking shit. But either way it goes, you know, you need it. You don't want to live in a bubble. Right. You don't want to be just surrounded by people that are patting on the back and telling you you're doing amazing work. Right. Um, and obviously, when people really like know you trust your work and they follow you for a long time, it's usually going to be love. And I think that's great. And like, I'm not a shit talker. Because I know how hard it is to put stuff out there. Yeah. That even if something wasn't great or maybe like, I didn't agree with them. Right. I would still treat them with respect. I'm not going to be an asshole to somebody. Exactly. Because it does take a lot to put your stuff out there. Yeah. And it takes a lot of vulnerability. And it's just so easy. Like you, you work for like two weeks or say a year on a film or whatever is making an album, you put it out there. You spend all this time on it. And then somebody just say sucks. You know, like, they just like throw trash. It's like, wow, that was trash. It's really easy to make that comment. Yeah. You know, you like, but actually, if you were the one, usually those are the people that aren't going out there and making stuff. Exactly. They're not creating. It's like you have a projection of perhaps what they would want to do. Yeah. Exactly. Yeah. Um, so I did, I love what you're doing with YouTube. Where do you see it going now? And like, are you going to be doing a lot more of the, like, the beat making the beat? Yeah. So, you know, I did that the ventures and beat making, right? I was like, I'm trying to come up with a name with it. I think about a year or so ago. And I was like, I don't know why ventures and babysitting came up because I used to love it. That movie is a kid. And I was like, oh, and I used that, like, font and whatever and trying to figure that whole the theme out. And people are asking, you know, when are you going to do another season of that? Um, and it's funny because I think the other week, I maybe a month or so ago, I did a video where I was like, I don't know where I'm being led. You know, and I'm very spiritual guy, but I didn't know where, you know, God was leading me. And um, I was just like, am I not supposed to be in music as much any more? Right? It was a tug, right? And I'm just sitting there because I hadn't been feeling as creative. Musically has I wanted to be. And I'm feeling so much creativity in like, photography and trying to do more with YouTube, trying to do more with just being a better cinematography or for whatever. And it was definitely eating up more time than doing music. And so I'm sitting there like, what does this mean? Or is it just a season of just where your inspiration is coming from? And I just had to let go. And I live as funny because I put that as a video talking to the camera and just saying, you know, I hope you guys fuck with me. If I don't do as much video of music stuff, you know, or if I'm doing more stuff, or if I'm doing more motivation, I don't know where I'm being led, but I have to be me. You know, so I think music is ingrained in me. I've been doing it forever, but it's just comes in waves. And you know, I'm here in LA. I'm, you know, about the work of my man, Tara Spartan, and then we're going to go back in and get creative. And that'll probably spark another whole musical vibe in me. But, you know, when it comes to like the adventure series and trying to figure out what that mean, what does that mean? I think what I realized about YouTube is like, a minute, it's a little too short. People want at least three. Yeah. People want at least three to five. And it's like, how do I make it in more interesting piece of content that could I that I could do maybe weekly or whatever. And so, you know, just trying to figure that out and trying to see exactly where that goes, but then also just see, you know, maybe I want to do it as a long form. Maybe I wanted to do as a a dock on, you know, I'm never really shot a dock. But, you know, I'm saying like on the music producers and everything in between trying to maintain that level of success. So, I've all these thoughts, but yeah. Yeah. And I think that's the balance. And that's one of those things where I certainly don't want to get stuck into only talking about minimalism. Right. That's one of the reasons why I'm really happy that I started the podcast. Okay. Because the podcast is about creators. Right. It's like there's a lot of themes of minimalism. I talk about minimalism a lot because I think there it can certainly help creators. Yes. Both financially, in the actual making and the curating of really great content and work. Right. But you have to really know, I totally lost my screen. So, happens when you do two podcasts and that's all good. It's all good. It's all good. I was totally about to just go into that and be like, I'm going to bullshit my way through this sentence. I've done it before. And it's worked. Oh, I tried to do all the time. Yeah. That's like a story in my life. I'm like, fuck it. I'm not a dissentance. Oh man. You know where I was going with that? No, not at all. Oh, it's going to be profound. What are we talking about? Damn it. Minimalism and not, not focusing on that. Yeah. Yeah. I stopped. Yeah. So, you can start that. Yeah. No, it's not getting caught up. And because that would be boring. Right. Right. Right. Right. Talk about the same exact thing over and over again. So, being able to talk about creating and filmmaking and all the other things, something that I'm trying to do more and more on even YouTube. It's obvious that minimalism strikes a chord. And that's where my, the majority of my audience is. But I'm like, how can I start to maybe push this? And like, there's certainly avenues in which you can do it. And you can explore maybe like consciousness and meditation and mindfulness. And there's a lot of overlap there. So, it's maybe starting to stretch out beyond that. But at the same time, you're right. It's like, you hope that people still fuck with you. It's like if you do something crazy, totally different. Right. But I think that's what you're trying to get to. Is where people are coming for you? Exactly. Not exactly the topics. They trust you. They know that you're going to say something interesting and you're going to bring your own unique perspective. And that's all I'm hoping, you know, because even like a year ago, I did, I think maybe a video video on like sell yourself, not your product. And it's basically because, you know, I'd go to these festivals or I'd go to these, like, like, you know, these different conventions and people are just, you know, check my city. Yo, he's my business card. Yo, and I'm like, who are you though? You know, like, like, who are you as a person? Like, if I want to, you know, how can we work? Let's work. Let's build. Let's do something. Let's collaborate. I would love to know who you are first, you know. And, and allow us to build an organic relationship, then just, you know, you selling me your product, selling you, sell me yourself. You know what I mean? Um, yeah, I think dude, that has happened a lot. And that's something that I've noticed when I have like, you know, filmed with rappers and rosers, whatever, for when I first started out, I did like some work with most deaf voices. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Like, people would just like come up into the booth, the booth where you're eating and just like, hey, I'm a producer. Hey, can you listen to my stuff? And first of all, time in place, guys. There's a time in place when you like approach somebody. And it's probably not going to work out. No. You're right. Like, don't just show up, me like, here, listen, my work here, because they get that all the time. Right. But if you're able to engage with and have a really unique conversation or you present yourself in a way that, you know, they, they take an interest in, right? Then that's the biggest first step I think. And that was, you know, take for instance, this relates to what we're building right now, right? Um, when I started to think my, you know, of trying to create a more minimalistic lifestyle within my whole house, with my family and my gear and all of these things, um, I was like, yo, I like this to hopefully when they're going to get on this podcast. Oh, really? Yeah, yeah. No, okay, I thought you're in New York. Yeah. I was like, yo, like, maybe, you know, because I'm, like, I'm trying to just minimalistic thing. And I'm trying to do this, you know, simple way of doing music. And I see it, that's the music shit. And oh, man, I need to get on there. You know, so when you, when you hit me on a comment, I was like, oh, shit, okay, no, let me get him back. Like, oh, let's see what happens. You know, so funny, you know, because you commented back and you said, yeah, we love to be on the podcast at some point or like maybe sometime in the future. Right. I was like, fucking, like next week, like next time you're in LA, right. Right. Like shit, it's amazing. No, that's, that's awesome. I mean, I think that's, that's when you, when you look at things that maybe aren't like, you know, you as a filmmaker, me as a music producer, trying to build a relationship, but not just saying, hey, can I get on your, can I get on your show or can I do this versus, okay, I'm, you know, maybe he's learned a little bit about who I am and now this just works. Yeah. There definitely are people that reach out to me. It is weird, because it is kind of a turnoff when somebody asks to be on your podcast. Right. Out of the blue without, you know, I obviously, I got comment on your work and you also said it in a way that was really like humbling. Yeah. It wasn't like, let me on your podcast. It was like, hey, like I would love to at some point, but it does take a lot, I think. I don't think you can convince me, so you can't talk your way into coming on the podcast or to like collaborating with somebody on any work type relationship. It takes a mutual respect to take. I need to be able to look at your work and be like, oh, no, like, that's, you know, like, I really love what he's doing there. I could learn a lot from him, even inspiring, whatever it is, it's not just one check box. Exactly. A lot of people think, oh, you need to have a ton of followers in order to make it onto whoever's podcast or whoever is getting like written up by New York Times or whatever. Exactly. It doesn't matter as much. It matters if you're putting out amazing work. And if you have 10 subscribers, it doesn't matter because real artists, people who are really talented, they can spot that in a second. Yeah. And just seeing how much, you know, you put into your work. You know, it's music's the same way. You know, when I listen to somebody's music and I'm like, all right, just send me three tracks. Let me see what's going on. And immediately, I can tell if you need to have been producing for a little bit or you seasoned and knowing how your style. Five seconds. Yeah. You can probably talk about within 15, 20 seconds, like the sound selection, you know, the mix, the overall sequencing, all of these things can, like, okay. I mean, it's just like color grading and the way you edit, you know, and the way you're chopping up things. So I mean, all of that is just a way to say, okay, how much work are they putting in or maybe, you know, maybe we can revisit this in some time. But I see you got potential. Is it tough to be original with music? It sounds like there are certain structures and maybe certain things that would be seen as best practices in terms of music and creating a song, whether it be a hit or just like a really amazing piece of work. I think, you know, when it comes to just overall music production and I've been in urban music production, R&B hip hop for, you know, the majority of my career. A lot of it is just having, you know, knowledge of instrumentation. So I know how to play the keys. I started off as, you know, playing piano in the church and stuff like that. So having some musical reference, whether you're guitar, bass, drums, you know, keys, whatever. That all, it's basically having some level of education there, right? That's that's the baseline. But, you know, just being able to create original music, it depends. I see musicians, right? Musicians that gig and do a lot of gigs and they've been trained and all of that. A lot of them have a hard time making original music because they're usually playing somebody else's music, right? And then you guys have, you have guys who don't know how to play much and they just kind of tinker with stuff. And they're the guys who create all this different dope shit. And for me, I think creating original music, I was kind of in between. I had a little bit of knowledge when it came to like, okay, I know how to play a little bit. And I have all this creative mind stuff going on on the other side. And so bringing it together wasn't, wasn't that hard. But, you know, you have this big thing out right now with young producers, it's called like type beat producers, where I want a Drake type beat or I want a J Cole type beat in their type beat type producers. And they might even, like, put that in actual title. They'll put that in the titles and their YouTube's, they're making a ton of money because a lot of, my buddy does that Elliot Ashby, he was on my class and like, he'll just like wrap for fun. And I didn't actually end up putting it on the podcast. He made me do a free-style, he's fucking a prodigy. It's really amazing. Yeah, it's so good. I never put it out. He was incredible. But he's like, oh, just Google like a Gambino type beat. Right. And that was the first time I ever heard of it. But that's definitely it's a huge thing. So going back 20 years when I was in college and I was trying to make beats like Timberland and, you know, Dr. Dre and, you know, DJ Premier, whatever it was, I was literally trying to remake their beats and try to understand what they did creatively. And then I would try to find a way to put my own stuff on it. And it was kind of, it wasn't the way to do it back then. You wouldn't tell somebody, I'm just trying to recreate their beats. But that was the way I was trying to get knowledge of how to create tracks that were successful. Now you go back, you know, 20 years down the line and you're saying, that's the thing for kids to do like, you know, you're getting started on on, on, on, uh, coming to like beatstars.com where you're selling, you know, tracks and leasing tracks and doing stuff like that. These kids are making these tight beats. And these artists are coming along like, yeah, you know, I want to, uh, drink tight something. I want to get beat on. I want to, you know, whoever it is, and they're going through that list. And that's how these guys are, these young producers are building their name. So, and one in it's creative on the other end, it's kind of like, this is my interpretation of what I would give to that, that artist. Um, and it's, it's not, you know, a lot of things aren't even bad now. It's just like that's the way to do it now. Right. I wonder if many of these people have actually had their songs purchased by it. Oh, by the artist? No, they see it in there. Oh, let's go. Yeah, by that. Uh, uh, I don't know. Yeah, I don't know. That would be really cool though. Because that would be kind of a, uh, a huge, uh, moment for those independent creators, where it's, because yeah, like what you're doing, just producing and making videos on YouTube and trying to break down the walls of what's the traditional media versus the new, the new media. And a lot of times we get caught up in that the process has to be this way, that you make, uh, you know, you work with a one producer, whatever it is, and that it has the structure to it, where you're in the studio together, and maybe like, I've seen some people write books publicly, where they'll have a Google Doc, because people go in and see them as they're editing it and writing it in the moment. Yeah. That's kind of cool. That's a little bit of a different way to see the process. I mean, it's, it would be boring. It might be cool to like, oh, if that's your jam, that's your jam. Yeah. Like, if that's your favorite. Yeah. And you get to look and see as they're coming and seeing how they're restructuring sentences. Exactly. That kind of look crazy. Yeah. And so for me, you know, looking at, you know, how this is, how this is even evolving. I'm looking at it. I'm saying, okay, like, how do I, how do I even, you know, play in this field where I'm more seasoned producer and, you know, but I still like the new ways of being able to create like the younger generation's creating. And that was one of the main reasons why I just continued to stick with the iPad. And now it's, it's easy for me to teach the young, you know, the young guys who maybe are 13, 14, 15 or just trying to start getting, you know, getting started making music. And then even the older guys are like, I want a new way of trying stuff. And so it's kind of bridge to gap. And it's, it helps me be, um, a lot more versatile when it comes to my options of whatever I want to do with with with my career. And it's, yeah, yes, it's awesome. So you're, you're now in L.A. You're like, got some meetings and you're starting to get back into the game a little bit. Yeah, yeah, producing. What do you think that's going to look like in terms of creating that balance between the original content you're making on YouTube, Instagram, all that versus the, you know, working with big artists and creating albums or beats that may be a major investment of time. Oh, man, um, that's the hard part. It's a good part and a hard part, right? And I was going to actually ask you this as well. But it's like, what do you do when you become start to become successful in something else, right? You, you know, you've done successful things and now you're becoming successful in another area. Um, and not even more opportunities are coming that with you wouldn't even think about like when a professor approached me about teaching a class at my college. I'm like, oh, shit, you want me to be professor? Let's go. I mean, let's go, you know, or, you know, a company saying, hey, you know, I love your work. Would you, you know, I love the way you're able to market. I love the way that you're branding. Can you maybe use that your ideals and your things to our to my company? You're like, that looks like some dollars, but yeah. So when it comes to music, I'm like, okay, bet. Let's, let's go back, let's dive back in, let the main thing for me is like, let's, let's keep building these relationships and let's continue to just try to have fun, you know, because the hardest part about being successful in music or whatever is the moments where you're not. You know, you have that moment where it's just dope as hell and things are just working and then you're just like, how do I get back, like, on the, on the upswing and not, and it's starting to second guess yourself and not necessarily having fun and wanting to be able to charge, which you normally charge, but knowing that the game has changed a little bit. Like, there's all these different, all these different elements to the music industry that allow people to say, you know what, I'm just going to do something else. For me, I'm like, I'm trying to figure out all the different ways of being able to say, okay, let's take that, okay, maybe I'm not being able to get charged this, but maybe I can try to do different ways of doing things. At the end of the, it's just have fun because like we talked about earlier, it's not just about getting that dollar, it's not just about getting that next hit. Those are very quick fixes, you know, they're not going to sustain me. So now it's like, what is it that's just going to continue to fulfill me? And it's really just building new relationships, maintaining older relationships and really just having fun doing what you're doing every day. Yeah, I think you need to have the the time and space to work on something like you did from music and starting a YouTube channel where you give yourself that time to really explore and create and figure out your process there. And you get better at it. And you can make a beat so quick, like do like think about you 17 to now and you're producing amazing beat in such a quicker period of time. And I think that helps us as because we layer things on, we layer our skills and maybe different areas that we're interested in where we can, you know, maybe I can do this podcast, the YouTube channel and make a feature film at the same time. There you go. That's a lot. That's a lot. And maybe I will push myself too far at times and maybe I'll have to see where the line is and really help. Now, somebody comes up to you about a feature, you know, and it's something you're like, at what point are you like, I've built this shit up. Can I really make a, you know, can you, you know, somebody where to say that tomorrow, you get an email saying we're thinking about this and this and that and it's an amazing opportunity for you at what point do you say, do I do this? And then it completely puts a, puts a, you know, a time constraint on all these types of things that you're doing or do you know that you're having a great time doing this and be like, how do I figure this all out at once? Yeah, for me, it's, I'm not very, yeah. Like, I definitely have been saying no to pretty much everything. Like speaking engagement, no. Okay. It doesn't matter, like how much money it is. Yeah. I mean, obviously, it was interesting. I always wanted to keep the ability to talk. I'll figure it out. But like generally, you know, I will turn down all those things. I turn down all freelance work. Okay. And this was, you know, I forget how long it's been for now, but it's been a while. And it was just, there's, you can only say yes in the beginning to like, all right. So like, if I'm just starting out this YouTube channel, I can only say, yes, to anything that's going to help build that. Okay. So if it's guests coming on the show and like, so it's maybe even doing, I'm not going to do as many interviews with other people. Okay. Like, as I've grown with the YouTube channel, I get where people ask me, can I come on? Can you come on my podcast? And the answer is usually no. And I feel really good. Get in you to come on. Yeah, I'm there. Okay. Yeah. I feel really bad because I'm like, I'm like, shit, like, if you can't get me on your podcast, you're just going to be a hard time for you to get anybody on your podcast. But it's like, and I am so appreciative whenever somebody comes on mine, but for right now, it's not my season to be doing that stuff because I'm still trying to build this up. And I think for me, it's building up to a point where I could potentially hire a full-time editor to help me out with like the podcast episodes and these stuff. So then that way, I still obviously have to be here, making the episodes preparing, doing everything that goes into it, making quality control that it's all good. But if you hire somebody that can do those tasks that doesn't necessarily hinder the creative direction of it, right? Okay. I'm not outsourcing the creative agent. Right. Right. Right. But I am having somebody help with the workload, then I can accept some of these other projects. Gotcha. And it can cost more in a way because now I kind of have a format and a formula for my YouTube channel. But like, you can't say yes to everything. You can't say yes to every opportunity. And that's, you know, even for me, get I've got quite a few different things, you know, whether like you said speaking or, you know, be a part of this or do you want to, you know, can I, you your, you know, brand to do this to that? And I said, I would say no to a lot as well, but at the same time, you know, if there's something that is very intriguing, it's like, okay, well, how do you put this all into perspective, you know? And even last year, I was like, I'm doing this, but I'm still a producer, right? And in my mind, I'm like, somebody asks, what do you do? You say, you know, what usually makes you the most money? I'm a, I'm a music producer. That's what I've been forever. But now it's like, oh, I'm becoming a YouTuber for real. You know, it's funny. Like, when people start calling you a YouTuber, that's when you find out that you're a YouTuber. Okay, let's go. I mean, but not being afraid of the change and one of the other things I talked about was like, you know, I think for you as well, you know, the sexy jobs, oh, I'm a director. I'm at this. I'm at that. I've worked on big, you know, big film, whatever, big docs. I've worked on big projects, big albums, hit records. But now it's like, I'm having just as much joy doing this. Yeah. You know, and having the people around you being like, well, I want you to just get back to studio. I want you to do that. I, yeah, that's the sexy stuff. And that's cool. It looks cool to everybody else. But this is giving me just as much of a film. Probably even more for filming, because it's even more engaging and stuff like that. So yeah, just me and able to look with in and say, you know, this is exactly where I should be. Like you said, this is this is the season that I'm in. So, so let me just, let me just continue to make this thing happen. Yeah, it's interesting because I just started. So I just deleted my LinkedIn. Okay. Oh, finally. Okay. It took me a while. I don't know why I'd never have used it. And I have one. I never used it. Yeah. I get the damn emails. They started sending me mail. Oh, I got a letter. The LinkedIn LinkedIn. I'm like, their spam is going to an entirely another level. Right. Uh, and so I deleted that. I deleted Facebook. But being, oh, you deleted my business page. Okay. Because it's just I didn't have a lot of, I didn't have nobody follow me. No interactions. Nothing. I was like, okay, it actually just looks bad. I have only a thousand. Right. Is there? And so quick point. Like when I was doing all three, right? I was doing Facebook on business. I was doing Instagram and YouTube. And I was like, you know, doing the sponsored posts and all that on Facebook, sponsored. And I was trying to figure out what actually worked. And it was like, before I did the business side on Facebook. And it was just my personal Justin Henderson page. I was getting a lot more views from my stuff, the same content. And then I put it to the business page. Like, when we actually do it on the business page, the shit wasn't getting no hits. It's really weird. And I was just like, unless I promoted it. And then I was getting some traction. I was like, this is stupid. So I was like, but I haven't deleted it yet. But I'm still like, this is, and then they're like, hey, well, you haven't said anything to your, 100, some, you know, it's just silly, but keep going on. I'm sorry. Yeah, no, I found that it. Oh, yeah, it actually felt good. I actually didn't even delete it, but I unpublished it. Because I did, we don't know where shit's going to go. And having the handle is important. And so I have like the handles for ground up show, but I unpublished it all because I'm like, I don't see it being useful right now. Right. Also, I have all my, like, a lot of shit connected and linked through Facebook. Like Spotify. I'm like, it is totally deleted. But I did go through and my personal Facebook, which I never use. And I was thinking about deleting it. Okay. I was like, uh, it's kind of nice, you know, I know people like tagging me in photos, and my friends and lots of stuff. So I, even though I don't use it much, I was like, I'll just keep it there for them. So yeah, and I have all those photos. Yeah. You know, I just don't want to delete it. Yeah, I want everything you've ever taken. It's kind of weird. So I decided to keep it up, but I just curated and deleted most of my list. Okay. But I, I remember then the experience because it's been a while since I've used Facebook of really caring about what people thought of me, especially family friends and those ones that are, yeah, I went to high school with. Yes. I needed to prove to them that I had made it. And you know, like, I needed that early on. But it's fun because now when I, when I went back into Facebook and I changed my profile photo and did a couple like tweaks on it. Right. Because I hadn't changed my profile photo in like three years. I was able to realize that I do not give a shit if this gets one like 100 likes. Right. But there was a time when it was really important to me that like, I had the, like, respect or at least the appreciation from those people. Right. Have you found that as you've gotten older, you've had a similar trajectory where it's, you, you, like, how do you, how do you feel about their reception? How people receive your work and how people view your success? Well, so like you said, I come from a very strong family. And that's so important. It seems like you do as well, you know, very close to your siblings, stuff like that. So those comments from my family, that's still like, okay, you know, I'm falling off from doing that stuff really matters. You know, when it comes to the business side and it comes to me being hitting the business, this producer dude. And, you know, at first I was like, I was so engulfed them like having the look and being the producer and like having everything that it needed to be to look like that guy. And like you said, like, making sure that the people from high school and the people from college are like, oh shit, I didn't know he was doing that. But then you get success and they're like, oh, that's crazy. And then you fall off that like, oh, are you been? Yeah, like 10 year reunion. Everything's gone great. It's one year reunion. They're like, what happened? So it's 20 year reunion. It's coming to November, right? It's insane. But the great thing is, I've put so much being like the best, the intangibles about being on YouTube and putting your account and putting the camera in your face every day is you build so much more confidence in yourself. And I'm walking around like, who I am. I mean, if you fuck with it, cool if you don't, it's whatever because that I can't change. And that's just how I'm going to be. And so I don't care as much. I'll put a post up. I'll put the, you know, I think one of the toughest videos for me to put out. And I remember you guys talking about like actually having somebody else push the, the, the, the, the post-connancy. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, like, and, and so like, when I talked about my journey from like leaving my, my business partner to figuring out and being going in this, you know, I talked about the hills and the valleys being up on one mountain and seeing myself in another mountain and having to go through the valley and not knowing how long this valley is to get to this next mountain and the struggles and the frustrations and the tears and the everything that I had to go through to say like, it's a test. It's a test. You got to trust the process. You got to trust it. And all throughout the way, I was just being built up. I was just building me up to be stronger to be more focused, to be on it, to be less distracted, to not care so much about whatever people think. And now it's just like, I don't, it's so much easier to go out and not worry so much about what I'm wearing, not worry so much about what I'm driving, not worrying so much about what I, you know, like all the things that used to matter being trying to keep it with the Joneses. So, yeah, it's, it's amazing now, but it was a journey. I'll say that for sure. Yeah. Dude, we could go on for another two hours and I wish I had the time. I figured it was going. I need to have you back on the podcast at another point. Oh, yeah, we got, you got you going into it. Yeah, my, my fiance is sitting outside on the stoop. Now she's fine. Okay. I think we're doing really good on timing. Okay. Dude, thank you so much for your podcast. Definitely want to have you back on it. So, it'd be awesome. If people want to find your work, where should we send them? Yeah, man, I'm hitting the business H.E. N. N. Y. T. H. A. B. I. Z. N. E. S. S. May be a little, I don't know. I actually don't do that on the video. Don't, don't please don't do that. Oh, no, but yeah, that's all, all platforms Instagram, YouTube, Facebook, Google. It's all very handy the business. And yeah, that's pretty much it, man. Cool, man. Thanks for being the podcast. Thank you so much for having me. Thanks for listening to The Ground Up Show. I hope you guys enjoyed this episode. If you want to support the show, you can do so on Patreon. Head over to patreon.com slash Matt DiVella to support the show for his little as a dollar an episode. And for a little bit extra, you can get access to my private AMA podcast episodes where I take questions exclusively from Patreon, subscribers, or check out my secret vlogs where I talk about lifestyle design, creativity, filmmaking, and business. I pack a lot of value into these videos that can be seen nowhere else online, but Patreon. Again, that's patreon.com slash Matt DiVella. Thanks for listening to The Show. And I will see you guys next week.
