# The real truth about chasing your dreams.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=eLl8kL3B3a4
Subscribe to Josh & Tommy’s channel: https://youtube.com/thedailytalkshow
Check out my podcast ep w/ them: https://youtube.com/watch?v=QmeJL6VEQrs

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** 
**Date:** 2021-03-11

## Transcript
 So you guys might remember not too long ago, I made a video called The Three Year Rule. In that video, I defined the three year rule as this idea that in order to find success in any field, you need to dedicate yourself for long enough to see the results. It usually takes at least three years to see any significant progress. So as you might guess, there's nothing magical about the number three, you could very well swap that for four or five, seven years. That doesn't really matter. The idea is that you're no longer thinking short term, you're no longer thinking, well, what's going to happen in the next week? What's going to happen over the next month? You're really dedicating yourself to this process and giving it a fair shot. When you realize that success rarely happens overnight, you can then allow yourself to make mistakes to screw up. You can realize that, what does it matter if my first video on YouTube only got 12 views? I'm in this for the next three years. I want to see what happens if I really dedicate myself to this time and time again. In that video I made, I introduced you to two my friends and Australian podcasters, Josh and Tommy. Josh and Tommy started their podcast in 2018 and I had hopes to eventually turn it into a full-time gig. And so much has happened since we last caught up. In fact, they actually just passed a significant milestone. That's right. They passed the three-year mark from when they uploaded their first podcast. And so I figured what better time than now to catch up with the guys. Hey, man, how's it going? Oh, can I move to money bags? Hey, is this about the five bucks you owe me? No, I was calling about the podcast. I wanted to see how it's going. Okay, I've got you that cop here, remember, and I like? Uh, are you in Australia? Yeah. Well, why don't we just catch up in person? Oh, that's actually a really good idea. It can sometimes be intimidating to talk about money, especially when you're talking with successful podcasters. But Josh and Tommy told me that they were an open book when it came to their finances. Uh, so this is our YouTube estimated revenue. It's $440.73. That's not bad, you know, for one day, that's, that's actually pretty good. No, that's the last time for one video. Oh, no, that's, that's life, time, lifetime. That's, that's, that's all we've got. That's everything. Yeah, that's it. Oh, no, but that's Australian dollars. Oh, no, the conversion's $345. And for our 47 cents, USA. Clearly, I must have been missing something. Surely after three years, these guys would have one of the most popular podcasts in Australia. I needed to get to the bottom of this. When you started out, you set out to do this. For the long run, uh, to really commit to it. Like, where did you think that you would be in three years from the beginning? Yeah, I think that way would have anticipated that would be why you further along. Why more listeners, why more money, money, money, money, money, money, money. To be fair, Josh and Tommy have built a passionate bunch of listeners. Like all podcasts and YouTube channels, they started out with zero followers. And after three years of consistent hard work, they now average a really impressive 50,000 downloads per month. Consistency builds a moment to do it. While their YouTube channel has only made them $440 in 73 cents, Australian dollars, they've made much more money from the audio version of their podcast. Just about enough for a solo creator to make a living. But not enough to provide for the two of them and their staff. So for the time being, they keep the lights on by running a production company. One of the biggest comments that we got over and over again on the last video that we did, was, well, yeah, you've got to make money though, how do you make money? And so we can't just survive off of our passions alone. And so, how are you guys actually making this work? I mean, we started the podcast not thinking that we would go to make money any time soon. We both had video production companies. And what happened from starting the podcast was we ended up joining forces and creating our own video production company. And then fast forward three years, the people we have around the stuff that we have, it probably thanks to a version of the podcast and what it did for our relationship and what it did for our mission to be able to keep paying the bills and to do the thing we love, which is the podcast. Think about, like, if you love playing basketball, there's, it doesn't mean that you have to play in the NBA. And so, I think that a lot of times you can fall into that track, where it's like, if you're going to do it, you need to be world-class. Where I think what we've identified is, like, maybe we could have a really great basketball team in the suburbs. That's so sad. That's really sad. But you do it because you love it. You know, it's for the love of the game. Not everybody is going to be Michael Jordan. Yes. Yes, it's fucking sad. It's the video we get made. So much for an inspiring video about 200 dogs achieving everything they ever wanted in life, but you know, while I might not have been talking with Jordan and Pippin, I was talking with two guys who had found a way to find their own version of success. And in a culture that's become obsessed with people reaching the top, this might actually be the story we need to hear right now. I'm just going to get to you guys, uh, my favorite place to hold this screen here. Yes, thanks, right here. Here's how ours looks like. It's hard to win. I don't know, so let's put you some beer off. Yeah, go. I don't want to talk. I don't want to talk about that to show myself. What do you reckon anyone want to do for lunch? I don't know, but hopefully he's playing. He's a tie-out. He's a minimum. So, um, as depressing, like, using that sort of, the suburban basketball analogy, it's okay not to be the biggest in the world, most of us won't be the biggest in the world. And so the idea that we, we need to be that, to be full, lot to be whole, lot to be successful, most of us won't be that. I mean, this is the thing, like we have gotten to do some, have some awesome experiences and it's so easy to look at where we are and look at all the successful people around us and compare ourselves to them. But the version of us now compared to what we were three years ago, is an improvement and that's all we can really hope for. I mean, the thing is that you're going to pick one shirt that you're going to wear all the time. What do you pick one that's got a bit of a style in it? It's amazing, it's amazing. You have a lot of clothes, doesn't it? Maybe you have to look like shit all the time. Strictly, tricky to get in here. Oh, actually. Yeah, no, you probably can. What do you think are some of the myths that other people family tell us about what success really is? Well, I think most people are projecting their own version of success on everybody else. And so, you know, when I look at your biceps, I get said. I'm glad you said that actually because that's part of our contracts. I'm glad you said that actually because that's part of our contracts. So we can check that box off. When anyone speaks about it, it's them thinking about a version of what they probably want. And so it's hard when someone tries to tell you about success because it isn't taking into account what you want as your version of success. I guess that is the problem with social media. It's we are now redefining what success should be based on outliers. We're bombarded every day with success stories. We see them on Instagram. We see them on the front page of magazines. And it's very easy for a survivorship bias to begin to take hold. We see the most successful people in the world every day. And when we don't see that success quite as quick or we don't rise quite as high. We see our struggles as an inherent failure on our part. But that's simply not true. The truth is that whenever you chase your dreams, whenever you chase an unconventional path, you're likely to stumble. You're likely not to see results quickly. And no, you may not be Michael Jordan. And while there is no guarantee that you'll find financial success even, there are many other guarantees that I could give you if you try to start that thing. You've always wanted to. I guarantee that you'll learn a lot. That you'll build skills that will help you to earn more money in the future. I guarantee that you'll make connections and friends with people that are trying to do the same thing as you. Especially if you put yourself out there more. Right now, we're just setting up for big interview. Probably one of the biggest interviews in my life. And probably most important of all, I can guarantee that you won't look back on your life with regret. As cliche and corny as it sounds, we really only have one shot, one opportunity. Yes, now I'm quoting M&M. There's just really one chance to actually try to do the things that we want to do in life. The thing is that you need to identify what's important. I think that that's the biggest part of this whole thing. What is important, why are you doing it? If we were doing this for money, we wouldn't be doing it today. And so the reason we haven't quit is because what's our other option. If we weren't doing this, what would we do instead? By quitting, what are we gaining? There's nothing wrong with making a paycheck to get by. Everyone needs to make a living. But there's something special about overcoming your self-doubt, ignoring naysayers, and just getting started. I mean, what do you have to lose? I've got a free idea for Dave Ella for his YouTube channel. 30 days of not being a complete dickhead. I don't think you could even do it seriously. He's actually still filming me. Why don't we do an A-book on A-book on making money? I mean, the other thing, do you have been a strip of a fall? I'm just going to write it on the board. Sorry. No, that's life time. This is going to be funny already. This is okay, you know, for... That's how lifetime lasts for years. That's what I'm doing. So as you guys can see, we had way too much fun making this video. Honestly, just making a video with people in person for the first time in like a year felt amazing. And hopefully, I get a chance to do this a little bit more while I'm here in Australia. If you got a minute, you got to check out Josh and Tommy's podcast called The Daily Talk Show. I'll leave a link down in the description below. They have amazing chat. I was actually recently on an episode where they introduced me to all these Australian foods, most of them, which I had tried before, but a couple of new ones in there. So go check out that. Again, I'll leave it in the description below. And yeah, you know, if you really want to start that thing, if you've been thinking about it for a long time, please take this as the nudge that you need to get started. You can start small, you can start simple. I don't care how perfect you think it might be. I just care that you start pushing things out into the world that you care about. Thanks so much for watching, and I'll see you next time.
