# Ground Up 061 - Simple Advice w/ Matt D'Avella
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EPHbUzsMN90
Get my podcast 👉 http://groundupshow.com

Hey it's a bonus episode! Normally I release this podcast every Wednesday but I decided to drop this AMA into the mix. On this episode I answer your questions about minimalism, productivity, comparing yourself to others & knowing when to take the leap. Enjoy!

New videos every week! New podcast every Wednesday!

Subscribe:  https://goo.gl/nzS5ri
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com
Instagram:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella/
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella/

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** 
**Date:** 2018-05-28

## Transcript
 Hello and welcome back to the ground up show. This is a bonus episode. That's right. Normally I release this podcast every single Wednesday. I've been pretty good about keeping this going for the past. I want to say like six or seven months I've been releasing an episode every single week and this week I decided to do something a little bit differently. I wanted to come out with an additional episode. So this one's going to be an AMA. I am answering some of your questions. You've been sending them in over the past couple weeks and I'm going to be answering questions about minimalism, productivity, building habits, multitasking, and a whole lot more. I've got people who have sent an audio as well as video clips and I think it's going to be a good one. So let's play like the music intro and then we'll get right into the podcast. You're listening to the ground up show. A podcast that inspires creatives to make meaningful content and pursue their passions. My name is Matthew Evela and I'm a filmmaker best known for the Netflix documentary minimalism. And I'm sitting down with creators to talk about their process, the lessons they've learned and how to make an impact. All right. So before we get into some of these questions here, I wanted to provide a little update. Just on the status of the podcast, how I've been doing, how it's been growing, it has been a pretty amazing month or two. I've been plugging away at this podcast. I started it about a year and a couple months ago. I want to say like 15, 16 months ago is it when it first started. And the first podcast I published, I think I got 50 lessons in the first couple days, which was I was excited. You know, it's cool to be able to see that some people were listening to it and agree with a little bit. But I think for the first six months or so, it didn't break 3,000 downloads per month. So it was, you know, it built up to that point and then just rain steady for a very long time. I had a couple podcasts episodes and people who had shared my podcast that gave it some spikes where I started to see a little bit more of an audience come in and then it kind of dipped and plateaued a little bit. But the past few months have been nuts because I've been pushing very hard on YouTube. I've been making lots and lots of videos. That audience has grown quite a bit and I've been able to send a lot of traffic from the YouTube channel over to this podcast where you guys maybe a lot of you have first found out about this podcast through the YouTube channel. So I've been just doing my best to push as many people here as possible because it's where most of my time energy and creative resources are going. And it's paid off. So, man, I could actually pull, let me pull it up. Let me give you a little look at the stats and how we're doing in terms of the monthly downloads for the podcast. So last, yeah, so I went from February 18,000 downloads to March 31,000 April 51,000 downloads. That's just total per month. And that's also just on the iTunes and the podcasting apps like people actually listening to it. So apart from that people are obviously watching this, maybe a lot of you are watching this. And it's an honestly blown away. That's incredible. I just kind of, it blows my mind and it continues to grow and I'm really appreciative that you guys are tuning in. The only reason I say this is because it's called the ground up show. And I want to be as transparent as possible to help you guys understand what it takes to make something. And while I'm not at a point yet where it's monetized when you can't get a sentence out, just change how you were going to say the sentence. So I'm not at that point yet. Like even if I did monetize it, I wouldn't make a surviving income off of it. But that said, it is getting closer and closer. And in the beginning, it's kind of frustrating because you are putting out a lot of content. Sometimes I feel like I'm putting out really great content, but still nobody is listening. Nobody's watching. It's not grabbing hold. But you have to do that in order to get to the next point to the next point. And that's how you keep growing and keep building. You have to put in the work when the doubt is probably at the highest when the obstacles are the largest. And you just gotta keep going. That's the advice that I got very early on. And it's the advice that I continue to take and listen to myself, which is keep going, keep making stuff, keep focusing on your art and your passion, and also trying to do your best to get the message out there for whatever it is that you are creating. It can be a challenge. But that's part of the fun. Like when you look back on it later on, when let's say you are living in this future world where everything is made. You have a huge audience, a platform. You're creating what whether it's films or art or music. And you have this amazing audience that's connecting with you. You're going to look back at some of those early days. And you're going to enjoy. And you're going to take pleasure in seeing the moments that at the time we're struggle. It felt like pain. At the time it felt like the lowest points of your life. But then when you look back on it, like, wow, those were the days when we were you know, bootstrap just getting started, had no money. We're just getting by. And I think you got to keep reminding yourself that this is a short period of time, but you're going to miss it at some point. So yeah, the podcast is growing. That's been great. YouTube channels doing well. It's been cool, you know, it's the philosophy this whole time has been to just try to add value, try to find ways that I can impart some wisdom and some advice, the lessons that I've learned. That was the idea from the very beginning about a year ago when I did the first episode was like, hey, this is a time that I screwed up as a filmmaker. I think other people will enjoy to hear how things sometimes don't go according to plan. Let's get the questions actually. You know what? So there are people asking me all the time. Matt, what kind of shirt do you wear? I swear to God, that's the most that's the most commonly asked question. Where did I get my shirt and also what kind of watch am I wearing? And I don't really care. So I know some minimalists and people don't like talking about the actual things they wear, but because it's not about the things, but I understand it's sometimes hard to find a t-shirt brand that you like or watch. This is from simple watch company and they are an Australian-based company, I believe, Natalie, my partner who I think I mentioned in every episode. Natalie, she bought me this. She's amazing and I love the watch. It's cool. Like, I wear such a basic wardrobe that it's nice to have like a watch. Something that adds a little bit more. Because I like to be stylish, you know, as much as I like to be simple, I want to look good and feel good in my clothing and what I'm wearing. That said, the shirt is a J-crew t-shirt. You can actually get it from J-crew factory. Like, I think it's like a separate website, but they're cheaper. I was like, I don't know, six bucks, seven bucks for a t-shirt and I've got a bunch of those. So that I just wanted to get that out of the way. Also, I know a lot of people are asking about my filmmaking process, how I make videos for YouTube, how I make this podcast, what is my setup like? And I am going to get to those kinds of videos and I'm really anxious and eager to get into them. Here's, and I'll be totally up front on us why I haven't yet tapped into that. The main reason is because I plan on doing some courses and that's going to be my first attempt to monetize this original content. You know, I've got other stuff that I'm doing, feature link documentaries and whatnot, but this is going to be my way to monetize this aspect of it. And when I do that, I want to also come out with all this other content that's actually going to help you guys and free advice around filmmaking and videos. And then that way, if you do want to learn more after those videos, I can send you the course. So I'm kind of being thoughtful about that. And before I put a lot of time and energy into it, I want to make sure I have all that funneled and ready to go because that's going to be an important step. That's going to be when I, you know, start to actually see if I can make this happen and make some money from it, but it's all exciting. It's all good things. All that said, let's get to the questions. I've got a question here from Craig Buckton. My question, do you have any recommendation, be it teachings, principles, or practices of minimalism other than your own interpretation that has inspired you? That was one of the main reasons why we made the documentary minimalism was not to just show one way in which you can be a minimalist. We wanted to show 15, 20 different ways. We wanted to show you that. You can do it with a family. You can do it as a small business owner. You can do it living in a tiny house or traveling all around the world. A lot of the principles are similar. Stay intentional. Be intentional about the things that you consume. Be really thoughtful and mindful about the things that you bring into your life, whether it's media or physical objects. A lot of these are very similar, but the physical surroundings, the environment that these people live in, are often very different. If you haven't checked out the documentary, I think that might give you a couple different recipes to that might apply to your own life. I think I'm most interested in how minimalism can apply to your work life. We know a lot about how minimalism can apply to our personal daily lives and how we can clear away the clutter. You can watch a video on how to fold socks, but I'm really interested in the parts of the day that are spent in work. Because work fills up so much of our life. It can often be eight to ten hours a day that we spend working. So I wanted to try to figure out ways to be most productive. One of those ways has been and it was vilified and clarified to me in a recent podcast interview that I did with Tyler Babin. He works for Gary Vaynerchuk and it's all about creating pillars of content. So this is like one way that I simplify the kinds of content that I create. This is the way that I use minimalism and bring it into my work life is instead of just having free reign and saying, I can create all the content I want. I can do I can write a book, I can write a blog post, I can put out long format videos or feature films on YouTube. I get very specific about the kinds of content I create and just start with one or two pillars. And for me, I really have, I would say two pillars. The one is the podcast and the one is short form YouTube videos. And that's to be usually anywhere from five to ten minutes no longer than that. And what you can do with those pillars specifically the podcast, let's say I shoot a podcast interview. It's an hour and a half long. I can then take that and then create multiple forms of content with it. So I can create an excerpt for YouTube where I'll do something like this where it says, I'm on camera, I'm talking to the camera and I am cueing the clip. I'm, you know, just giving you a little bit of background. My thoughts on leadership and then it goes into the clip and then I can play that excerpt and just add some real meat and context to it. And then boom, I've got an additional piece of content from this podcast. Now I can create short teasers for Instagram and for Twitter. And there's, it's really lip and less in the amount of content. Like I have so much content. Now at this point I've recorded over 65 podcast episodes and filmed every single one of them. And so I have all of this, I have all of this extra content that I can still use down the road. So what I plan to do and what you'll see soon is I'm going to be breaking out some past episodes that I've really enjoyed bringing them back and then, you know, adding a little bit more context to them, maybe adding some V-roll and whatnot to make them a little bit more engaging a little bit more interesting. But that's one way that I use simplicity in terms of my content strategy. So I kind of define the rules in which I create content and that helps make sure that I don't get distracted with a new shiny idea that I'm really excited about in the moment, but that might not serve me in the long run. And of course, this is bound to change. I'm bound to mix things up a little bit, try new things. But this is a strategy that I use for about 90 to 95% of the content that I currently create. Jive on. Jive on Max says, I start and stop writing projects because I keep comparing myself to others. I also wish to be in a community to help build my skill and motivate others. But the catch 22 is that these are the same people I might compare myself to. I hate being insecure about this. Thoughts? So if you keep starting and stopping writing, I'm guessing that there's something that's distracting you from your work. And what I would recommend is put a daily practice. If writing is your thing, if you're passionate about writing, set a daily practice and a certain quota of words that you need to write, whether it's 50 words or 500, pick something that's realistic that you can action on every single day. You can increase it down the road if you want. But now it seems like you need to just fall in love with the writing and make sure if you really do love the work, that's all you should be focusing on and you shouldn't be distracted by what other people are doing. So put your ass in the chair every single day and force yourself to write 50, 100, whatever words is. The second thing I would say is, since you do seem to be distracted, try to control the mediums. So Twitter, Instagram, Facebook, on those platforms, unfollow everybody who doesn't support or inspire you and start to narrow down the kinds of people that can reach you. I think a lot of times we do not pay attention to this enough. We think, oh, there's no, I have no control over the media that comes to me. And it's, we're not living in a world anymore where you turn on the local news on TV, like I said, we are a little bit. But most people that are listening to this, they're not sitting watching the nightly news every night. They get their news through social media. So be thoughtful. I mean, if you do want to be informed, go ahead find a different, you know, news sources that you can trust. I think I did not say an actual news source because I feel it doesn't matter what you say. And I'm not going to say it. You could say any of these big news outlets and people flip out because it's, we're so, we're so volatile in terms of our news media. But anyway, you know, if that's what you want to follow, then follow it. Just be aware that that's going to play an influence and a role in your life and how you feel throughout the day. So try to be as thoughtful as you can. The next thing I'd suggest after you do that, that's step one. Step two could no-envoy that because I recommend deleting whatever isn't adding value. So if you have a Facebook account, but it's really distracting and making you feel like shit more than anything else. If all you see is other people doing amazing things and you feel terrible about what you're doing, maybe delete it. Maybe it sounds like that's not going to add the most value to your life. It sounds like it's actually distracting you from finding happiness. If you do need it for business or for work, try to be thoughtful about how and when you use it. So schedule in your social media, time schedule in your email time. These are, that's what I currently do. So I've found that I work best when I'm not distracted and working out of my inbox all day. I find that that's almost a form of procrastination. So I will open up my inbox and say, hey, who's got something for me to do? Not literally, but that's kind of what I'm looking for. I'm like, oh, is there an email that I can respond to? Is there something else I can do? Because I am procrastinating and I know that sitting down and doing the work is going to be the hardest thing for me to do right now. So I'm just avoiding it at all costs. But the truth is, once I was able to schedule it and say, I'll now schedule my email from 2 to 3 PM and just by saying that I'm sure I'm going to get more emails right at 2 PM. But 2 to 3 PM, that's when I schedule my email use and I'll just fly through it and as, that's email and social media. So it's an hour a day. I think it's quite a bit of time. But that's, I'll be spending way more time if I was just checking throughout the day and these micro checks, these micro distractions throughout the day. So I check, I go through as quick as I can. Sometimes it's a little bit longer, sometimes it's much shorter. It depends on how much email I get and how much social media posts I have. And sometimes I let things fall through the cracks unfortunately. Sometimes I have, you know, if it's a, if it's a couple of days, since I've checked Instagram, I might have 50 to 100 DMs and it's very hard like I've got fat thumbs. So it's like hard to go through and, and reply to all of them, I try to apply as many as I can. But at the end of the day, if it's distracting me from my real work, the work that those people are messaging me about to begin with, I'm not going to continue to, to distract myself. I will often read as many of them as I can, but then once 3 p.m. hits, I got to get back to work. And there was also a question about Javan has about community and finding community and, and the fact that those people are the same ones that are kind of in a way discouraging to him because he's comparing himself to them. And I think what you'll find is when you find a community that is supportive and that is welcoming and brings you in with open war arms, then you realize that it's kind of useless to compare yourself to other people. When you start to open yourself up to them and you tell them about how, hey, you know, honestly, I feel a little bit bad sometimes, you know, looking at some of your guys work because I compare myself to you and I feel down. I feel like I feel like shit. And what you'll find is that they probably feel the same exact way. The best people, Kanye West to side, the best people in any given industry go through tremendous amounts of doubt. They compare themselves to others. I do it. I'm not calling myself the best, but when I when I see other filmmakers, sometimes I get discouraged. I'm like, oh shit. But then I try to reframe it. And I try to think, oh man, that person did a killer job with the resources and tools they had. Everybody is on their own path and their own journey. So you have to kind of keep that in mind when you're looking at other people's content and just create the best shit that you can. But that has helped me. It's helped me to know just doing this podcast and know that everybody goes through doubt. It's just part of the game. And those people that are best able to grapple with it are the ones that just keep going because the doubt is not going to stop them. Nothing is going to stop them. And I've got an audio question here from Katie. Hey Matt, this is Katie contacting you from Upstate New York. And my question is, is it worth it for someone with considerable student loan debt to try to move somewhere with more opportunity for success or to stay where they are in relative financial security? And I asked this because I graduated college last year with a degree in animation and a student loan bill of about $100,000. So I know you know what I'm talking about. So I right now I do motion graphics animation and visual effects work freelance. But it's very hard for me to find clients and to network with people because I pretty much live in the middle of nowhere. But at the same time I know it's a huge risk to try to move somewhere with more career opportunities but with a huge financial burden on my shoulders. So that's it and I would really love your advice. Thanks Matt. So one thing that I'll say upfront in terms of the networking, I do think that in person networking is very important and it's much more productive and much more effective than it is hopping on the phone with somebody. When you hop on the phone with somebody and you ask them a few questions or you try to network and connect with other people, those tend to be so fleeting. They just come up and you know I've had so many phone calls that there's no face, there's no human connection there to remember that by. So I have found that in person networking is the best. So that's that is important. The thing that I would say though even before you move though, you almost need a reason to network and connect with people. You need something that you can provide them. Maybe it's a blog maybe you want to interview them for something that you're writing or maybe even if you're lying, I'm doing a research project and I would love to meet up with you for coffee so I can ask you a few questions about your work. That way there's almost like a reason and an excuse to meet up especially for people that are reached out to a lot. Obviously it's going to be certain people that are very hard to get a hold of and network and people network with and people who are going to be a little bit easier. I found that this podcast I've talked about a lot. It's one of the greatest reasons and benefits that I've gotten out of this is the fact that I can connect and meet with new people and that's other creators that's people who are further along and they're journey of the me and others who are just starting and that's been one of the most rewarding things. So there are lots of different ways to network and connect with people and I think it's important to know that there's a difference there. Yes, Katie. I was in a very similar position to you. I had I graduated with a hundred thousand dollars in student loan debt plus a car loan. So it was a challenging time for me when I first got out because I had a lot of ambition but I couldn't really see a path in which I was able to do what I wanted to have a life that was free where I could make decisions without worrying about this debt weighing me down where I didn't have to make every decision based upon financial return and the money that I was making. So I ended up moving home on my parents. I lived with them for two years and that wasn't enough time to pay off all of that debt. I think I left with sixty thousand dollars in student loan debt. But I had come to a place where I was ready to make a calculated risk and you probably heard me talk about this before because I think that's such an important thing for your piece of mind. A lot of people will try to just push you to to make the leap and make the jump before you're ready but I think that if you do that, if you're truly not prepared for the risk of leaving the safety and security of your home to go move to a bigger city where it can be very challenging to adapt, you need to be ready and prepared for when things go inevitably wrong. So make sure you have that savings, make sure you have enough money that in case things do go wrong, you have an emergency fund, you can tap into, you have clients, you have a little bit of a base. There's always going to be a point where you feel like the jump is scaring and not ready for it but eventually you're going to have to take that leap. That is all saying that this is something that you really want to do. So for me moving to New York was more a personal lifestyle choice than it was about work and business. I think that's a good, it's a good additional benefit obviously being in New York but it really the in-person networking and stuff. Apart from meeting a few people, it wasn't the end-all be-all of my business. It did radically change my personal life. Really actually one of the main things was dating. I was living in the hometown of grew up in and apart from the people that I knew in high school, there was nobody that you could date and that didn't feel good to me trying to go back into the old dating pool wasn't a good look. So I decided to move to New York mainly for for that reason and just to improve my social life. So make sure you know the reason why you want to move and if you're nervous about it, if you're thinking about saying, alright, maybe in one year I'm going to give myself one year and I'm going to get to the point where I'm ready to move out and move to a new city and take on that challenge. Before you do that, I'd recommend taking one week and staying at an Airbnb or or and living like a local in the city that you want to move to because so often we get these ideas in our mind like, you look at the typical career path, say of our parents' generation. It was people that the path was laid out in front of them. You work for 30 years, 35 years, then when you're done, you retire and then you can travel and vacation and do all the things that you want it to. You're going to wait until you're 65, you're going to wait until the end of your life until you start living and experiencing travel and do all these things. Maybe you should try to do that before the moment of your retirement. Maybe you should say aside some time to realize, oh, maybe you full-time travel isn't something I would like, maybe I never want to retire. Those are important questions that you should be asking yourself. So I would say take a week and travel to the place where you want to move to and try to live like a local experience, go to coffee shops, at that point you can even start to network and it would actually give you a good sense to see how easy it is to network. How easy is it to schedule in lunch dates and breakfast dates and coffee with people to pick their brain? Never ask to pick somebody's brain. You're not adding value by picking somebody else's brain. You need to somehow add value. Whether it's, I will treat you to coffee. That's certainly adding value. There are lots of ways to do it and those are just a few, but yeah, take calculated risks and don't jump before you're ready, but jump before you're ready. If that makes sense, because you shouldn't jump before you actually are ready, but you're going to jump before you think you're ready. That totally makes sense. That's definitely, I'm happy with that thought process. Dominic, I wonder what your thoughts are on planning projects or life in general. I tend to pack my days full of two dues and even getting a lot of things done. I tend to feel guilty about the things I haven't got done because I plan too much or underestimate the time it takes. I'm approaching time boxing for some days now and it seems to help. I have no idea what time boxing is, but I feel, yeah, I feel the pain Dominic, very commonly used quote. We overestimate what we can do in a day and underestimate what we can do in a year. So don't get too hard on yourself if you didn't get enough done today with more important and something I mentioned earlier is that you're keeping up these consistent habits. So it's like that writing 50 words a day. It doesn't feel like a lot in the moment. 50 words might not feel like a lot. But if you're not writing at all, it's a hell of a lot more. It's 50, not 50 times more because that's not how math works. But it's 50 words more. Try to keep that daily practice and everyone's in a while pretty frequently. You're probably not going to get as much done as you thought as much on the two-do list as you had planned for. But that's okay because you can just push it to the next day. But make sure that you're not pushing back things that are important because you're scared to do them. A lot of times we push back that phone call, that client call, that discussion with a partner because it feels uncomfortable and there's going to be a lot of pain that comes with bringing those things up a lot of insecurities. So I got to say you just have to approach those conversations as quickly and readily as possible. And then you're going to learn from it and then you can grow and then you can move on to the next thing on your two-do list. I got an audio clip here from Carl. Hey Matt, so I work in an agency which as you can probably imagine is very much driven by multitasking as an approach. I just wonder if you had any advice on how to be better at single-tasking in a career that's very much driven by the idea of multitasking. Cheers. I just never really got the whole multitasking thing. I don't know. It doesn't really make sense. How do people actually multitask? It's not like you're on the phone talking to somebody and at the same time you're answering emails and then you're making tea. Besides from maybe the tea thing, maybe you can make tea while on the phone and I can give you that as multitasking. Although I think there's plenty of time in the day that we don't need to be doing multiple things at once. I had Anthony Ungaro on the podcast and he talks about mono-tasking. That episode was called minimized distractions and we talk about his story but also we delve into specifics about how minimalism and how it can help us to leave a more intentional life. He talks about just monetizing what would it mean to me and what would happen if I woke up next this morning and I just made a cup of coffee. I sat down at the table and I just drank the coffee. I just enjoyed that cup of beginning to end. That would be hard. I've never done that. I sometimes I sit and I'll have a cup of coffee but before I finish it I'm off doing something else. My mind runs wild. There are ways in which we can slow down to actually enjoy the day a little bit more. Now I know your question was specifically uh oh what's that? See that it's three o'clock and I got a check email notification. I know I told you it's two but today since I was I did a podcast earlier today kind of push my whole schedule back but anyway there you go you see that's how I do it. I set alarms for myself in the morning or the day before and that way I never miss a thing but now I will miss checking email today. Oh well um speaking uh email if you're constantly working out of your inbox you're constantly distracted it may feel like multitasking it may feel like you're doing multiple things in once but I think what you'll find is that you're actually just starting and stopping over and over again you'll start this task and then you stop doing that to work on another task and then you'll go back to that task and then somebody hands you a piece of paper and then you get to work on that report and it's really not as productive as you might think or as it might feel. I suggest batch batching tasks so like I do with the email or social media if you really thought phone attention will set alarms for when you can do stuff and we're like we're in the end or thoughts. We our brains are not very good. We tend to just follow the shyness object whether that's a notification or a piece of candy we we we are very much drawn to these things and I've found personally that it helps to try to just cut it off completely. It may be difficult for you and actually so the batching also goes to email phone calls all that stuff like you can set it for certain certain days so with the podcast I usually only record on Tuesdays Wednesdays sometimes it changes but I like to know that okay those are the two days a week when I film and record podcasts phone calls I'll schedule all phone calls on Wednesdays right so then that way there's almost like some structure to it there's some balance I always have a couple of free days completely open to do all my work in a perfect world I actually have way more than that but you know Carl you work in an agency this may be challenging for you to do it may not be possible to cancel all your meetings and schedule phone calls during one day out of the week so in a real way you have to kind of deal with the real world and you have to figure out where you can bend the rules or the status quo and to be honest if I was your boss and that's that's what's Hollywood for you guys it's a yep people why are people so angry why do people always beep that lot like you're you're not helping them there's traffic you're not going to the horn isn't going to move the cars quicker it's just going to make people around you angry and mad so don't do that that's really annoying okay but anyway you got to work within the rules but like say if I was your boss I like if you're getting more work done if you're more productive that's all that I care about so see what you can to make that happen but it may be a challenge glita I have a nine to five job and also go to university from six to 2200 hours and trying to build a side business the problem itself is that when I have some free time to work I have no energy after all the work after all the work I've done that week and going to classes and also studying on the weekends do you have any tips wake up earlier wake up earlier there's a book called my miracle morning I think it's an audio book that I listen to so corny I'm sorry I think the guy's name is how sorry it's a kind of a corny book it's a little bit cheesy but it helped me when I was listening to it and kind of inspired me and I love to if I'm trying to build a habit I want a book or an audio book or a podcast or something around that topic that can help me stay motivated while I continue to build this habit so for me when I was doing the batching and the emails and all that stuff I was reading deep work and there might be a time when I slip up and I'm not doing as well with that habit in which case I will reread the book I'll I'll pick the book back up I may not finish it it may be just enough to kick start that habit it loop again and I remember the reasons why this was important made to build this and then I can get back on course but for you you find yourself tired at the end of the day or at the end of the week and you don't have enough energy to pursue your passion you have to wake up early and do it in the morning because that's the only time that you're going to have the energy to get the work done if you've realized that you're not going to be able to do it late at night some people are night hours some people that might actually work better but if you find yourself so tired that you can get the work done I feel like that's the only option if you want to make this work I had somebody reach out on a YouTube comment and I had suggested for content creators they should be making one piece of great content every week if that's what they want to do if they want to focus on their craft save they want to be a filmmaker make one great video every single week and this guy wrote this comment and it was just all the excuses that he could you know mustard it was 45 years old I'm too old I don't have the energy I don't have the time to make one video every week how am I ever going to do that I have a full time job I've got kids this and that and so he he came up with all these excuses and maybe it's not for him it's probably not it doesn't sound like it is if you can't make one video a week and this is truly what you're passionate about what you want to dedicate your life to you're never going to make it like nobody's going to hand you this opportunity or do it for you so that's kind of I think the hard love that some people need sometimes is it may not be for everybody I understand it's hard and it's a lot of work and if you have kids and all these other things going on in your life it could be very very challenging but if you're not willing to dedicate just the bare minimum of what it takes to to move one step towards your goal then you're never going to get there you and son I've got a video my question was how do you not let people take advantage of you or how do you not say yes all the time for me I just I don't want to miss out on the work so I end up you know saying yes to a lot of work and then I end up having too much work so I'm just trying to figure out like what's a healthy way of just balancing all of that and not being taking advantage of and also you know when friends ask for things to how to deal with that if you know because I don't most of the time don't want to charge my friends for anything but anyways thanks again for having your podcasts it's been really awesome just you know seeing everyone's process and knowing that I'm not alone all right thanks great thanks you and I really appreciate you sending that video you have to say yes to everything in the beginning most stuff if it if it's in line with your values and your ethics then say yes to as much as you can do as much work as you can I started out doing filming birthday parties 65th birthday parties bar mitzv intro videos local tv commercials all that stuff that wasn't sexy but it built up my experience and it helped me to to start actually building a business because if you don't have clients you're not making money then you do not have a business so that's the first thing and but if you look back over five years of doing this and you're still saying yes to everything then there's a problem the problem probably is that you're not charging enough so charge more money if you're charging the same rate as when you started five years ago you're doing something very wrong you should be incrementally higher that shift was radical for me it just it changed everything because when I started to make those leaps up I would do some projects that would be the same rate as if I had done 10 bar mitzvah bit of use or 10 weddings the amount of work that goes into 10 weddings it's hard to describe you're talking 10 weekends probably 20 25 weeks of editing and then also all the emails think about all the back and forth there's 20 30 emails back and forth answering groom's questions and bride's questions so there's so much time that goes into that but then if I all of a sudden do one project that's only one email thread I have to deal with that's way less work than I was previously doing and I'm making just as much money if not more money so see how you can charge more for for the work that you're doing and even if you increase 25 to 50 percent every so often you're in a much better place as far as doing free work for friends just you gotta get used to saying no you can make excuses sorry I'm too busy I'm a little overwhelmed work right now I can't do anything I'm not exactly sure what you do for work but yeah no people have asked me often times and I just tell them ah sorry like I do this for work this is what I do all day this is my job it'd be like me asking you if you're an accountant be like hey by the way you know I know you love accounting you'll be really fun if you did my accounting for the year wouldn't it like no that wouldn't be fun your friend should value you and and value and actually want to support you so that's something I would encourage everybody listening to this podcast if you have a friend who's an artist who's struggling who's trying to make things happen who makes prints for a living and they're just getting into it by a couple prints you know support your friends art that is where it starts it should really start from your family and friends those should be the ones that are helping and but also don't don't like don't try to try to sell to family and friends I'm just telling you guys to do that for your family friends but don't expect it from people yeah cool and but then you know say yes in the beginning later on is when you want to say no because later on is when you get so busy when you're making enough money that it it's not as important you don't you don't need those individual jobs anymore so that's the ideal and that's way to work towards sometimes it's easier said than done but I wish you luck on your journey this is Kenneth I'm not my name is Kenneth I recently found your show I have been listening to it for the past two weeks just straight up been listening to it and it's been so so helpful because you and your guests always bring something fresh on every episode I recently moved Italy and it's been difficult I've been struggling with the language and I've been finally difficult to get the world out on my craft that I'm into filmmaking and everything around video production I would like to know what would you do if you were in my shoes how would you try to get the world out that you're into filmmaking you're into video production and how would you try to work around it and let people know that this is that what you do and that this should hire you and give you jobs what would you do if you and my shoes also lastly thanks for the ground up show it's been so so helpful and please keep rocking thanks Kenneth you keep rocking too that's a great question and I just love how it's phrase like what would I do if I really put myself in your position I'm starting over in a new country I'm trying to you know be a filmmaker I'm not sure how much experience kind of has but let's just say like moderate like a little bit of experience and you're kind of just starting over there's a lot that you can do a lot of different things that you can do you can't do everything so here's a couple suggestions one this is actually not a suggestion the first one is just keep working keep making videos you gotta keep honing that craft keep working on it so as many days a week as you can a lot you don't actually have to be working on actual projects you can be shooting your own videos in your apartment you can be shooting videos around Italy like just be rolls like getting better at cinematography if you if your skill isn't there yet where you're getting booked out all the time then you have to make sure that skill level is raised up bar look up Craigslist find different jobs find whatever job you can I was on Craigslist like a maniac when I first started out I would take any job I could some jobs would be great I would some jobs would be not so great I'd remember filming I think it was a company called like cheese steak teas and it that they had but it wasn't they didn't sell cheese steak they sold t-shirts and it was on South Street and in Philadelphia and I they had this mascot and I shot these sketch comedy videos with like this this puppet mascot and this girl and it was just like they were going on a date and then he this is gross he he gets nervous and he just is cheese all over the woman's all over her face and her chest and it's really it's kind of inappropriate but I did that it was on Craigslist I found the job I did it I think I made $400 for the video shot edited I didn't write it I want that to be clear I did not write that video but that's what you do you you you get whatever jobs you can you say yes to everything you can and then you keep building up that experience you keep getting better to the point when you can start to say no start to try to make connections find people around the same level as you that's certainly going to be I think the easiest connections to start making and then they they may be able to tell you where they've gotten some jobs from where the best place to go is they also might be able to give you jobs when they are booked up on a shoot that happens all the time so if I you know when I was a freelancer would have a booking for a certain day a client comes to me that I respect if I know somebody who's really good of course I'm going to try to connect them and make sure that they have somebody that they can go to that client will usually in 99% of the time just come back to you at the end of the day or they get outsourced that job to you and like manage it to you so that connection works of course you can try to meet up with higher people directors producers whatever that's more challenging especially if your your skill level is not there yet but you know it's it's worth a shot and the last thing that you can do is read a lot of books keep like this podcast that's a great thing to do just keep listening and keep reading things that are going to help you on your path because when you're a creative it's not just about the creative art you need to actually master the business side of things so I have a couple book recommendations here Seth Gauden in credible author so he was a pioneer of like marketing and marketing writing he's got this daily blog that he continues to write for you wrote a book called permission marketing early on at the beginning of you know the internet and it is still relevant to this day other he's got a book called linchpin the dip and a few others like he's I mean he's got like 20 books but he's always a good source to go to on business entrepreneurship he helps out a lot and also the art of possibility uh Ben and Roz Zander wrote that book and it's got a lot of stories it's got a lot of life lessons and it's super inspiring for anybody who is having trouble finding their path thank you for your question Kenneth and good luck in Italy another question here I have been at minimum since 2017 and I'm a college student usually as a college student we have a lot of stuff I mean a lot of stuff since I'm a minimalist I have a real let's tough compared to what my friends have and not on the day keep asking why I just still live this way but also they ask me why living with less stuff can make you happier so can you please help me to explain this or at this what should I tell to my friend I've tried a few times but it seems they didn't get a whole point about living with less stuff actually can make them or us happier than before so thank you good bye Manuel from I think that Indonesia thank you so much for sending in that question uh it's a good one I would say uh fuck what other people think first of all like it yeah it doesn't matter I mean if people don't think that it's you know interesting or helpful for their lives you're likely not going to convince them or argue your way out of uh argue their way out of their position so in terms of letting go of stuff you could also let go of you know control you're probably not going to be able to change your family and friends the only way you might be able to is if you show them uh and I'm not literally talking about showing them you boxing things up and putting things in the bags to bring to recycling or to donate it's just showing them that you know you live life a little bit lighter and life is a little bit easier and now that you're a minimalist you know you you have more time for the things that you really care about um with that saying that that stuff I honestly don't talk about minimalism much as hard as that might be to uh believe because I make videos all the time about minimalism and I talk about it on this podcast quite a bit and made a documentary um I don't talk about it that much because it's it's just in the background right it it guides a lot of the decisions that I make in my life but minimalism is not something that I'm spending a whole lot of time thinking about and I talk about it enough like through these platforms that uh if somebody wants to talk you know on the street about minimalism because that happens all the time people all the time they come up to me they say hey Matt you want to talk about minimalism and I say sure I would talk about it but it just it never comes up um so you know just know that it it works for you and it might not it might not work for other people that you know and letting that go is probably gonna make you even happier that way you're not holding on Martin should I quit video games and focus on creating art I think gaming takes up most of my time it's kind of hard to answer that question because it's um it's like you're asking me for like such pointed advice when maybe he's a I mean if he was a professional video gamer then he should spend more time video gaming but I'm guessing that he spends a lot of time video gaming and that's distracting from focusing on his art so probably it probably you need a little bit more balance in your life you need to let go of the the video games a little bit and that said you don't have to cut video games out completely I played video games from time to time um I mean I just played again for like the third time the the last of us I'm sure some people at least have heard of that video game so good it taught me so much about storytelling and just in general like from filmmaking perspective it was so emotionally I've never been so emotional while playing a video game it was so good and I think there's things that we can learn from video games I think they're fun I think they give us a nice break just like movies and TV shows do so I don't think you have to totally give them up but again if it's sucking up too much of your time you may want to think about scheduling in your video game time during specific periods so you have more time to create your art Janith I know you have a busy schedule and I was just wondering if you could share the titles of the books you read that helped you stay focused on paying off your student loans the main one was Dave Ramsey's total money makeover that was the big book that I first read about personal finance that helped to to set me on the right path now it's it's hard when you're in debt because you can only get up to maybe chapter three and then at that point it's everything post debt what you do I still read the thing all the way through because I was kind of excited and it got me amped up to see okay in a couple years this is where I'll be these are the decisions that I'm gonna be making but yeah that was the main book I would definitely start with that one it's so simple again a little bit corny I'm not shy when it comes to reading corny material but I do like to let people know that I know that it's corny just because I don't want you to judge me but you know that's a good book let's see who else Chris Gilibow the art of non-conformity was a helpful book early on it's it's also a lot of the books that I read that helped me were entrepreneurial so again Seth Golden Books were super inspiring at that time remit sati I will teach you to be rich that's another book on personal finance a lot of similar tactics and strategies as Dave Ramsey's but a little bit more modern he doesn't focus as much on cutting back on coffee and these small little things that probably won't amount too much over a long period of time and focuses on the big wins so how can you get a smaller mortgage how can you pay off your student loans a little bit quicker I will say the one thing that helped me the most was really the snowball effect which was I think through Dave Ramsey but it's it's quite common now in personal finance and that is paying off your smallest student loans first I kind of did a little bit of a hack around that so I tried to pay off I had all these a monthly payments I had about like seven or eight of them and my highest one was like six hundred and twenty dollars and then it was four hundred dollars and then it was two hundred and fifty and twenty-five dollars per month so I and I started to say all right I'll take that top one and it's a twenty thousand dollar loan it wasn't my smallest loan in total but it was the biggest burden in terms of my monthly payments and I paid every extra dollar I got besides my emergency fund I paid towards it it wasn't my money that I was making at that time it was the banks money I just kept paying it off and then once I got to the point where I paid off one of those what a good feeling like that's six hundred dollars a month that I no longer have to pay in student loans it felt so good and it freed me up and that's how I was able to move out of my parents house because I freed up my monthly bills to the point where I could make that leap without feeling overwhelmed without feeling like how am I going to be able to pay off all these student loans and my you know car payment and my my rent so that was hugely helpful for me and hopefully it will help you as well thanks for the question Janet I got a question from Nick here it's our final video slash audio question first off hi thank you so much for making the bag as you make I find inspiration in it every single time I listen specifically that one with the video editor and then the documentary and those two or spectacular I have moved around a lot and I have been pretty much a mobile filmmaker of photographer for most of my professional life and my problem is trying to take the next step from being a part-time employee at some company and a part-time freelancer to just doing full-time freelance work when do you know what's the right time or is there a right time and what are some key things business wise that people like me can keep in mind when they make the transition to a full-time filmmaker or full-time photographer or otherwise a full-time creative thank you so much for your time first of all Nick you are in an amazing position right now because you're already starting the transition even if you don't feel like you are you're in the middle of that transition you have a part-time job that is related to your craft you also have the part-time freelance filmmaking that you're doing that you want to transition to completely one thing I got to say from the start do not steal your clients from your previous client that's a big no no I'm sure you know that Nick you're you obviously you seem like a good guy but I think for everybody else we need to know this there are certain boundaries and if somebody if if somebody is is helping you and giving you a job it's it's probably not appropriate to steal their their clients so is there ever a right time probably not it's never gonna feel like the right time to make that jump and to make that leap but make sure you are as I said before a price at a couple times this podcast making calculated risks so making sure that you are ready to make that jump but at at some point you're just going to have to do it you're just going to have to say you know what screw it I even if I only make $15,000 this year it's going to open myself up to to creating more of my own original content the thing is when you are freelancing if you edit as say like let's talk about filmmaking specifically um when you are both filming and editing and you can actually pitch for eight projects you're not just working by the hour you're saying hey this is what the rate is which means that you can charge anything you want and you know you don't have to say okay I some clients would lose their shit if they knew that I for some videos I charge them $500 an hour because that's just how long it took I wasn't actually charging them that per hour I was like all right this project's going to be $3,000 because it's just a quick video then I can cut together in a couple hours and if I said hey I'm going to charge $1,000 an hour for this video but it would never say yes so you have more control over what you charge which is really helpful when you're when you're growing that business. Make sure you have an emergency fund make sure you have extra savings that's definitely going to help you and read a bunch of books so I'm probably not going to be able to give you the best business advice the best advice I've gotten or from books that I previously mentioned like Seth Goat and Chris Gilobo definitely check them out and one book that I will recommend that specifically is going to help you is called the flinch by Julian Smith and this book helped me out a lot I remember reading it when I was living at home in my parents basement it is a very short book you can probably read it in a night maybe two and it is super inspiring it kicks you right in the ass Nick you seem like the kind of guy that would get a lot of value from this book when I think it was free on Amazon last time I checked it but don't let that fool you because it's worth way more than that and even if it's 10 bucks I definitely just buy that book it was published actually under the same publishing company in Seth Goat but get it and that I think will help to inspire you and push you to make this leap but don't do it before you're ready and that's the last question wow we did it and just that now or two so hope that was helpful to you guys I know a lot of this advice can sometimes be repetitive I can cover the same thing multiple times and a lot of questions have the same answer but that is really by design because a lot of advice that I give is simple it's straightforward it's the putting it into practice it's the taking action that is the hardest thing so we know a lot about what we should do we know the right food to eat and the diets that we should be on and the workout routines that we probably should be taking but we do not bridge the gap we do not connect the dots from knowledge to action and that's what you need to work on that's why you need to incorporate these daily practices and build up the habits and routines that are going to help make them stick so I hope you guys enjoyed this bonus podcast episode this has been a lot of fun I love hearing from you and getting your questions and if you liked it I'll continue to do more of these and we'll catch back up with the next Wednesday whichever is the Wednesday after this I think I'm going to release this on a Monday so you'll have another podcast in a couple days thanks for listening thanks for watching and I'll see you soon
