# Ground Up 013 - Minimalism AMA
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fFirwr2PH4s
http://www.groundupshow.com

If you've been keeping up with this channel I just finished a new series called Making Minimalism. Over six episodes I went back and deconstructed exactly how we made our documentary and got it onto Netflix. Now in this episode of The Ground Up Show I field viewer questions that delve a little bit deeper behind the scenes.

Podcast:  https://www.groundupshow.com
More from me:  https://www.mattdavella.com
Twitter: https://www.twitter.com/mattdavella
Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/mattdavella
Facebook: https://fb.me/matthewdavella

Music Credits
Hip Hop Old School by Carlsbro
Keep Fallin by The Passion HiFi
That Hip-Hop by Diplodocus
**Keywords:** 
**Date:** 2017-05-21

## Transcript
 Hey guys, so this episode is going to be a little bit different. I don't have a guest with me on the show, but what I do have are some pretty good questions. I'm going to be answering a bunch of questions about our documentary minimalism that we released last December to Netflix. I got a lot of really great great questions in from this previous project. I'll get into that, talk a little bit about the backstory there, as well as a couple of the latest projects that I've been working on and some recent developments that are pretty exciting and pretty terrifying at the same time. Let's do it. This is the ground up show. So welcome back to the ground up show where normally I interview guests about how they got started from the ground up, some of their struggles and their tips that they would give people just getting started out or people who are maybe at a point in transition. I myself right now, I'm actually at a point of transition that's pretty, it's pretty, it's pretty scary, it's terrifying, it's not pretty at all to be honest, so you know, I've been doing client work where I've been working one-on-one with some pretty amazing companies for a long time now and minimalism was the first real project that I devoted myself to outside of that. I had gotten a little bit of success through the client work and to me, success meant paying rent, not living at home with my parents, being able to pay down some of my debt. These were some of my parameters for what success meant. I got to this point and it was great, but I knew I wanted to contribute more, I knew I wanted to step outside of my comfort zone again and do something even bigger. That came in the form of a feature like documentary. This was back in 2010, Joshua Fields Milburne from the minimalist.com. He actually started out as a client and then within six months he shot me an email and the subject line simply said idea and the email detailed this project that he wanted to start about this movement of minimalism and interview people who have been affected by this simple living movement and I said hell yes, there was no doubt in my mind this is a project and these were people that I wanted to collaborate with to bring it to life and actually the side note there, pretty interesting, I was looking back at this whole experience and why I got caught up with it, how I got caught up with it in the first place and I started, I made a bucket list and it was big life goals, things that I wanted to accomplish before I died, I think you guys know what a bucket list is, but anyway, at the top of the list, I look back at this, I totally forgot about it, it's a make a documentary about something I care about word for word and then six months later, I don't believe in the secret guys, I'm not, I'm not very true for my sisters into that stuff, I don't really believe in the law of attraction, I do think that if you contribute and do good things, it will naturally come back to you or if you're a positive person, positive things happen to you, but I wouldn't go so far as to say I believe in the secret and the law of attraction, but anyway, I do think there is something to be said about putting something out there into the ether, putting it out there, letting the world know what you want to accomplish and letting yourself know, I think that's the big thing, there's a lot of times we hold on to these desires and these hopes and dreams that we have and we don't even tell ourselves or let ourselves be honest with ourselves, so that was pretty cool, so we went out, we made this documentary minimalism and the most amazing thing happened, people started to watch it and share it and we got it on the Netflix and it was, it went trending and this is something that I never expected, I never imagined, oh man, I wrote a journal early on laying out kind of my ideas and my hopes for the project and I said, you know, I don't think I'm going to win any awards from this, I don't think it's going to be seen by many people, but I'm just, I really want to create something I'm passionate about and I want to be able to contribute and give back. So the turnout and the response was unbelievable, I still can't believe it to this day, but it's starting to open some doors now for me to be able to create original projects full-time, original content. I do not yet make money from this podcast or my website or any of the videos that I make on that front, but creating these longer format pieces seems to be something I can focus on, so what I've noticed over the past month or two, as I started this podcast as I was started to continue to create original content, big long-form content and do client work all at the same time, it was overwhelming and draining, I had to cancel a couple podcasts interviews just because I was traveling too much, working too much, I just couldn't find a balance, and I realized I couldn't do all three things at once, and the scariest thing for me was if I continued down that path of not prioritizing and not intentionally dropping something away, something would naturally drop away, and I'm guessing it would probably be this podcast, because it's something that doesn't make me money now, it won't make me money, and it's a lot of time to produce these shows, and to produce it at a high quality, it takes a lot of effort, so what I've decided to do is stop doing client work, and it's a scary prospect because I make pretty good money doing client work, I work with some pretty amazing clients, and I've had steady client work for the past forever, ever since I started off, in the beginning it was slow, I'll admit that, but ever since I started to pick up in 2011 or so, it's been steady, so it's six years of steady client work coming in, and the biggest fear that any freelancer, any freelance filmmaker will tell you, is that the work, you're just afraid of the work's going to stop coming in, and it does sometimes, sometimes you have a month-long, two month-long, but it always tends to trickle back, but now, today for the first time, I reached out to a client, and I told him that I'm no longer going to be accepting client work into the foreseeable future, because I believe in this podcast, I'm excited about it, and I'm also excited about the original content that I'm creating, I've got a new project with Josh and Ryan from the minimalist, really, really passionate about it, and it's not making me any money, I'm investing my time and energy into this project, but I think it's worth it, I think it's going to pay off to focus on this, and I just, I'm just afraid that if I don't drop the client work, I'm not going to be able to continue to do these other projects that I'm passionate about, and that I really care about. So that's where I'm at right now. I will continue to update you guys on the podcast to see how that's going. I have one big client project that's coming up next week, a pretty big shoot, as well as the edit, that's probably going to take place over the next month, and then after that, I'm going to be just cutting all client work off, so that's probably going to be in early July, when I totally cut it off. So for the time being, this podcast, I'm going to do my best to update and keep things going here, but I may have a couple of weeks here and there where I don't upload, but don't worry, into lie, I'm going to get back into the full swing of things, and we're going to get going. So I did mention that I'm working on a new big project with Josh and Ryan from the minimalist. It's a kind of a follow-up project to minimalism. A lot of people have been asking about it. I'm going to get to some questions here in a minute from people that have a few questions about minimalism, how we went about making it. The number one question that kept coming up, are you guys going to do something new? And the answer is yes, we're working on it right now. I'm really excited about it. The structure and the layout and everything is pretty much up in the air at this point. It's starting to, as we've shot for a couple of weeks, it's starting to kind of turn into something, but at this point it's still a long ways out from being completely defined. What I recently did was I made a series called Making Minimalism, and it was a chance for me to go back and look at what it took to make minimalism. It was my first feature like documentary. I was a one-man crew for pretty much the entire thing, and it was challenging. It was one of the hardest things that I've ever done in my entire life, and I thought there was a potential there for me to be able to share some words of wisdom, some words of regret about this project. And I think the main reason is because a lot of times you see a final project, you see the final film, you read the final book, and of course that's the way it was supposed to be. Of course that's the direction that that project should have went on, but that's not always the case, and that's actually probably never the case. There's always going to be a hundred revisions, a thousand, a million different ways that a project could turn out, and there are often struggles and hurdles and roadblocks that need to be overcome in order to finish a project. So that's what making minimalism did. What I did on episode five I asked for everybody to give me their questions, and then myself and the minimalist responded to those questions in episode six. So that's released. If you guys want to watch that series, I really suggest that if you haven't seen it yet, go check it out. Whether you're into filmmaking or not, what I've seen is kind of creatives and people who are looking to take an untraditional, unconventional path, they've all seemed to get a bit of value from, and even if you're just a fan of minimalism, I think it may kind of open your eyes to our strategy and mentality was going into this film where some of the lessons learned. So I want to get into some of these questions right now because I only we only got to like five questions on the Q&A with Josh and Ryan in episode six, because we were quite long-winded, and there were some questions that were either too technical, or they just didn't fit. It was maybe more personally based on my life. And since I had Josh and Ryan there, we only had about 30 minutes of chat before they had a live show. I figured why not go back through some of these questions and then I can kind of do a better justice. And I want to keep doing this more. So I'm sure that as I do this podcast, as I interview people, questions are going to pop up. I'm not the best interviewer in the world, I'm getting better, but I think so if you guys have any questions about the guest or questions about me and my story, I think it's going to be a great opportunity for you to be able to ask questions, shoot me an email Hello at MattDevela.com. That's MATTDAVLLA.com. And I will answer them. We'll start a new segment on the show if we get enough, or I'll kind of accumulate all these questions and answer them on these kind of weekly solo episodes, or I'm sorry, monthly solo episodes. I'm going to start doing more of them. All right, so let's get into it. Let's see some of these questions. This is from Pam. This documentary has literally changed the way I look at stuff. It has made me take a step back to truly evaluate what matters the most to me in my life. I love taking pictures and videos of my family and friends regularly in order to be able to share it with them. What's the easiest way to do this using iMovie or is there another platform you would recommend for the average movie maker? I think iMovie is good enough. I mean, I've used iMovie like way, way back. When I first got started out, I used actually Windows Movie Maker. I'm not sure if they still have that, but back in the day I didn't have a Mac. I had a PC and I also had no money. So that was the perfect platform for me to be able to do it. Like, don't get crazy with your editing. If you're just trying to compile some family videos, have it be straight cuts. Don't do fancy transitions. It's going to be super cheesy to look back on those if you kind of fill it all up with these cheesy transitions. Okay, and so yeah, but I think the main thing to think about is that you do want to curate this stuff. I think the one problem that we face right now is that people aren't as thoughtful about the stuff that the share online because it's so easy to do it. So you upload 300 photos from your vacation, but nobody gives a shit. Nobody cares about they don't want to look at every single photo that you took on the trip. Like, the duplicates, the alternate shots that you got of the same exact baguette. Nobody cares. So what I will say is just pair it down on it. Like, be thoughtful, be intentional about it, edit down. If you got 30 minutes of footage, cut it down to two minutes. And then maybe share it privately with family and friends. If you want, you can post it publicly. But yeah, I think that's important. I think it's also important to continually do this. If you kind of want to get a grip on it and you want to actually use and share this footage. It's very easy to just keep shooting and then never touch it. Never look at it again. Which may be fun to look back on in the future. But if you want to get some value out of it now, I'd say just just start kind of trying to curate and keep organized as you get things going. Would you consider making another, this is from Sonya? Would you consider making another documentary that focuses less on Josh and Ryan's tour and sit down interviews and showing more about what minimalist fill their lives with instead of things and the science behind excessive consumption? That's a fantastic question. Answer? Yes. To elaborate, I would say, I really do want to do this. I want to focus on kind of that. I guess you would call it everyday minimalist. People who aren't necessarily bloggers, writers, authors, podcasters. I think there is some value in going into kind of your, maybe your classic American home. If there is such a thing, because we are such a diverse country, but it would be great to touch on a few different stories, a few different perspectives. And to see some of the struggles that people have every day was letting go. I think that would be fascinating and the science behind excessive consumption, I am all over it. We're definitely going to be covering that. Although I will say that probably will require some sit down interviews if we're talking about excessive consumption. We're going to have to talk to some experts and not just pull shit out of our ass. All right, so Matty's got an abstract question. I have a very abstract question. It seemed as if the goal for this project was never to make a profitable film, but instead to bring Josh and Ryan's mission statement to a wider audience using an accessible format and to solidify their mission as a true movement. I feel like that was an altruistic goal that really paid off. So how does that inform the projects you're working on now? Would you like to recreate that for your next stock or long-form project or was this lightning in a bottle? It's kind of what we're doing now again, where it was certainly never about making a profitable film. I never thought that we would break into the green on this. I thought my goal while making it, because I did spend a lot of money on it. At the end of the day, I personally invested about $15,000 into the project. It depends who you are. Some people might say, wow, that's pretty good. You really didn't spend that much, because documentaries are expensive. Many of them cost a couple hundred thousand dollars to make from beginning to end, to put it all together. So me spending $15,000, but me personally as a human being, that's a lot of money. And I never expected to spend that much before we got into it. Josh and Ryan spent much more than me. At some point during the process, I hit up Josh and I was like, dude, I can't keep putting money into this. At this point, I'm turning down client work to be able to continue working on this full-time. So he's like, dude, say no more, they covered everything from that point on, but up until that point, I spent $15,000. And my goal was, hey, if we can break even, that would be fantastic. If I could just get my $15,000 back, my goal now is a little bit different. I would say, like, I'm certainly not thinking about the money, but I love doing this. Creating minimalism was the hardest thing, but it was the greatest thing I've ever done, and I want to keep doing it. So in order to do that, you do need to make a profit. You do need to do better than just break even. And there is some value in creating art for art sake. But one of the big things that I'm trying to get across and talk about on this podcast is that you need to get paid for your art. So we're certainly not looking to get rich from any project that we create. It's always values first. It's always hey, what value can we add? But at the end of the day, if we want to keep doing it, we have to be able to make money from it. So I think it was lightning in a bottle, and I'm going to see if we can't strike twice. Brian Tears has loved this brother, congrats again. I was just on Brian Tears podcast. He's an amazing dude. He's from South Africa. He works with my friend Jacob Sokol, who was on the show. If you haven't seen his podcast, I'm going to mess it up. So let me actually, let me find it here. It's called the Quarter Life Come Back, and it's similar to my podcast about turning points, and I really suggest you check it out. I just, so episode 63, getting out of debt and redefining success with Matt DiVella. That's me. Check it out. It's really good. I might put it in the show. No, it's otherwise just Google it. Okay. I have, this is amazing. Kinthon trend, Nugin. I, again, I'm not good with that. So this is crazy. I have never posted a YouTube a comment on YouTube, but after watching your film and the behind the scenes footage, I was so moved that I had to say something. Your film and the message of minimalism really resonated with me and made me reevaluate my life choices so that I can live a more intentionally deliberately. And most of all, meaningfully, life, I guess. So here's a big thank you to you, Josh, and Ryan, and the entire team. I would be spreading the minimalism bug to all my family and friends. That wasn't a question. I think I'm just bragging that I got this person to make their first of YouTube comment. So that's very cool. There are some more questions just kind of going through. Um, thank you so much for sharing us sharing with us the process of shooting this incredible film, not only the documentary inspired me, but also the web series as I'm studying to be a filmmaker as well. I love editing and would like to know which software did you use to make the film. Oh, and I'm recommending this documentary to all my friends in Brazil, and they are loving it. Thank you. That is fantastic. That's a really cool thing. Thank you so much, Lumen, Lumen, Newton's One. I edited this on Final Cut Pro 10. Are you still there? If you're an editor, there are a lot of people give shit for me for using Final Cut Pro 10. They give shit for everybody for using it, but it's not about the tool man. It doesn't matter. That plays a very small role in this whole thing. There's certainly are, I will say, some difficulties in compressing and exporting out the final product to get it color graded externally. And to, if you're hiring somebody to color grade it, if you're hiring somebody to do audio on it, that can be a little bit challenging, but there are work around there's plugins. Final Cut Pro 10 doesn't matter. Whatever you're a wizard, if you're just incredible at a certain application, think of it that you don't need to relearn it. It's going to take more effort. It's going to take you longer to do. So I learned Final Cut 10. I think from my experience, it's very quick and editing footage. I can kind of zip through even like large red raw files that I can't do in Adobe Premiere. Maybe I'm not using Adobe right, but anyway, I think it doesn't really matter. You can, you can make do with either one. I'm just, I'm being defensive now. Do do do. All right. Josh, Bigford, let's up, man. I'd ask a two-part question. What is the one thing you learn that you tell everyone they have to do? And what's the one thing you learned that you tell everyone to avoid? That's a really, really good question. That's the best one yet. The one thing you learn that you tell everyone that they have to do, find a partner and not just any partner, but a partner that has the same values and it's trying to get the same thing out of a project as you. But can provide a different skill set. So teaming up with, we had quite a few producers on the project. It was myself, Josh, Ryan, from the minimumless.com, Jeff, Marla and Dave from Spire. And, and we all brought something very unique to the table. I brought, I was the only filmmaker on board, really. Like Jeff Marla and Dave dabble in some filmmaking, but I was really the only full-time professional filmmaker that came on for this project. And, um, but I got to say, like, yes, I could have shot everything. I could have edited everything. I did. Do everything by myself. But there is so much that I couldn't have done that made this film a success. Not only that, having other partners motivated me. It pushed me forward. It kept me focused on completing this project and getting it done on time. If it was just by myself, it would have been a fraction of, I think it would have made a fraction of the impact and it wouldn't have been a very good film if I just did it by myself. What's the one thing that you would avoid? Man, like, you gotta avoid that voice in your head that's telling you that you suck. And this voice is incessant and it won't stop. And throughout a project, you're going to keep getting that. Usually, it's when you're not working on something. When you're sitting down and you're in the element and you're, you're in the moment of editing a project, that voice doesn't really tend to come up because you're busy, you're distracted by actually doing the work. But in between those moments, when you're not, you're going to have a lot of doubt, just tell it to shut up and keep moving forward. That's the advice that I would give you. Do not give in to that shitty voice in your head. This is actually Stephen Pressfield has an amazing book called The War of Art. And he calls it the resistance, that voice in your head. Similar to you, I think this is a little bit different, but the resistance is the difficulty and the challenge is that we have in sitting down and working to begin with. And he says, that's one of the biggest challenges that you're ever ever faced is just getting your ass in the chair and starting to work. And there's a voice in your head and it tells you to do every other thing and to procrastinate in every way possible and do anything and everything but the work that needs to be done. Check it out. That was really inspirational and helpful for me as I was just getting started out. So this is Jeff Hagen. Did any of you go into this with any formal education on filmmaking, writing, producing, Jeff from Chicago? Like I said, I have both formal and informal education on filmmaking. I went to college. I went to Bloomsburg University and I also went to Temple University. I transferred my sophomore year. And, uh, Natalie, I'm going to pick this up. Hey, Nat. Hey, baby, what are you doing? I'm recording a podcast right now. Hello, okay. What's up? You're now, you're going to be on the show. No, you're lying. Yeah, yeah, you want to say something? No. No. No, you can come home. This is like a solo podcast. So I'm just doing it. That is looser. Uh, it's you wanted to get to dinner. We make fun of my home early. Oh, yeah, where do you want to go? No, I thought why we can sit outside. I'll think maybe come on court here. Oh, that's cool. We could do Zona Rosa, too. Bye. Bye. Bye. That's cool. Um, so bag at it, bag at it. I got to finish up because I'm about to go to dinner, I guess. All right, uh, let me finish a question. Yes, so I did have a little bit of formal, a little bit of informal, uh, film making background, uh, although I went to school for broadcast telecommunications, which, uh, isn't quite filmmaking. The filmmaking side of things is like a different breed. No writing, no producing, training. Uh, the one thing I will say is, you can't rely on your syllabus to educate you about how to be a filmmaker. You have to just do it yourself. You have to outside of class, whether you're borrowing a camera from the school or you're renting a camera, using a friends, buy, dude, there's no excuse. Everybody can get a camera. You can use an iPhone. You can use, um, you can buy a use camera from five years ago. That's what I started out with. Uh, so there, there's no excuses. Get out there. Just start making stuff and, and focus on what, what you really care about in the beginning, especially if you're doing work for free. Jason has, like, 10 questions. I'm going to try to get through that. I'm going to, I'm going to rapid fire. Uh, I'm at fellow filmmaker here. I love the minimalism doc and the story behind making it just as much. I'm at a cross section in my career and we'll love to hear your perspective on these questions. Was doc, was documentary the path you always saw yourself presumed pursuing or have you wanted to make narrative content and how was the minimalism documentary affected your career? Um, I originally wanted to get into sketch comedy. I originally wanted to be on camera doing sketch comedy and then, you know, eventually doing like a TV show for a network that was like the dream back when I was in college and then documentary just kind of happened. I did a documentary on standup comedy in college, uh, like a 15 minute doc and then that was really the beginning for me in terms of the doc stuff. But then I also started to get paid for it. So I was like, let's focus on this. This is cool. People are painting me to make videos. Uh, minimalism has affected my career massively and the main thing which I talked about earlier in this episode is the fact that I'm going to be going full time in creating original content. Uh, which we'll see how it works out. This is a, this is the making of process. What was your role throughout the interview process? Some of them, I was there to interview. Some of them, I was there to to film and capture everything on the camera. When I was doing the interview, I was doing both. I was the only person there. Like when we were down in DC, uh, it was literally just myself. I set up the camera next to me and then every, I would let them know that as I'm asking them questions, I may peek and make sure that it's still in focus and all this stuff. There's some things that you can do technically speaking from the camera that will allow you to to be able to do both. So you can be sure that everything's in focus. How did you get personal emotional content from people? You can't force it. You have to let the conversations naturally play out. I did see something with Morgan Sproulock recently that was pretty interesting. He's like, say if you're going to interview somebody and they happen to have cancer and that's part of the story is about how they, they're overcoming it and the struggles that they're going through. You're going to have to talk about some sensitive and difficult topics. Don't jump right into it. Lead into it slowly and then from there, you can start to talk to and just, I think just be human. You're having a conversation with a person because there's a camera there. You can, you can ask questions in a different way. You can, you can go a little bit deeper than you might normally and this is the same thing I experienced with this podcast. But yeah, like you just got to be a human and really care about what the person's talking about. Don't be a news reporter that's trying to get somebody to cry on camera because that's going to lead to more ratings. Be human. That's what I say. What part of the films outlined did you plan ahead of with the team, if at all? I talk about this and making minimalism episode one. I planned out quite a bit. Didn't use 99% of it. I'm doing that now for this new project. I'm planning out quite a bit. I have a feeling I'm going to use it, but it didn't work out last time. We'll see if my experience has taught me anything about how to plan going into these shoots. What are the pros and cons of doing a documentary running gun, minimalism style versus big budget with a crew? That's a very good question. The pros of doing running gun is that the budget will always stay small. If I'm not getting paid to shoot any of it, so your budget is not going to accumulate with extra days of filming. If you screw something up, it's not a major loss. If you have a big budget and you're paying a crew of $5 to $10,000 for the day, holy shit. That is terrifying. If you mess up, if you don't get the shot you need, you just wasted $10,000. That's the one thing that I would say. It's certainly way more stressful in terms of the big budget stuff, but you're going to get such a better, more beautifully created content with a big budget crew. You're going to be able to really shape the look of it. You're going to be able to do much more, but there certainly is a trade-off. There's only so much you can do as one person. I door the road shots with the road carving, such symmetry. Thanks for doing this mat and for the opportunity to ask questions. I've won. Did you shoot in 4K? I've shot one interview in full HD wishing I'd done it in 4K so I could reframe. That's pretty much the gist of the question. No, we shot this in 1080p and I'm so glad that we did because we still ended up with about 5 or 6 terabytes of footage. What I would say, I also reframed. Reframing is when you're zooming in or say if you realize that the frame was a little bit tilted, you can kind of pull it in and push it so it looks more square and symmetrical. I still do that with 1080p footage. It's not a problem. Nobody noticed. This current project, this current project actually shooting with partly the red and 4K on the Sony FS7. We're trying to step it up this time and make it even more beautiful and really focused on the quality. It's crazy. We already shot three terabytes of footage in two weeks. We'll see how that goes. I just got a 16 terabyte hard drive. This is a big discussion we're having right now. Are we going to be able to have enough space or do we need to 100 terabytes to be able to create this full project? Which would cost over $10,000. I don't think we have the money to do it, but we'll see. Sharon says, okay, she said how if your lives changed since releasing minimalism. I said that a couple of times so far in this episode, but now that I'm focusing on original content, it's changed quite a bit. Okay, if you were to do it all over again, Roger asks, what would you do differently? I would have shot more. It was hard because we were on the road with Josh and Ryan and we were we as in me, I was just following them around filming as much as I could. It was pretty draining to film every single day or nearly every single day. Sometimes you get lazy when that happens and then you don't film the establishing shots you're going to need later on. You don't use a tripod, you shoot handheld. That's just the nature of it. Sometimes you just start drained and you just can't do it or you cut some corners. I've never been thankful that I cut a corner, so I would say, don't cut corners. Get every shot you need and your future self. Well, thank you. Any new projects you're working on? Yes, I don't know what I can say about this project. I'm not going to say anything until Josh and Ryan do or else I'll get in trouble. Do you? Do do do? I'm at I love watching the minimalist film over and over again. This is Mandy. I wanted to know if there are any plans for more films, could you do practical steps, films of Josh and Ryan actually helping people minimize their use of stuff and so on. That's a fantastic idea. Maybe I would say maybe that is a part of my outline right now, so we'll see if it makes any of the actual cut. Dan Tate Brown, hey Matt, what are the biggest ways of time that you experienced or seen others experience? It's so easy to get caught up in the tiny little details and to focus on smoothing the audio out and kind of getting every little sound effect from the very beginning, but I would say in the beginning, think big picture, think story, think how what is what information am I giving the viewer? What questions are they asking? And how does that then take them to the next scene and are you answering questions along the way? So kind of at the end of each scene, there should almost be a question there that's like, well, they talk about the American dream and then, hey, like I'm curious, where did the American dream start? When did that whole thing come about boom, and then the next scene we go into the American dream, blah, blah, blah, blah, and then you kind of flesh it out, coming a little bit deeper. So like a documentary, like minimalism, you got to make sure that you're not just repeating yourself over and over and over again and having people say the same exact thing, and I think that's what we had on the earlier cuts. So what I wanted to do was like, how can we, what are the things that make each of these people different? Like, yeah, let's figure out the commonalities of why minimalism has helped them, but really, all of them were living very different lives. So in what ways can can we flesh out the differences so people can take bits and pieces from each story there? What were your organizational techniques since you apparently made it all solo? Organization was so important. I'm not going to go through exactly how I structured everything, but because it's going to be different in editing application. It's going to be different for every project. But I just use lots of folders, lots of tags. I make sure I know exactly where everything is. And that's partly why, you know, I think it is helpful. Sometimes it's helpful to have an editing assistant. We don't have the luxury of doing that with these projects, but also I think the act of going through every single interview and tagging them and marking them up and figuring out where the best clips are, and then organizing everything yourself, you really become intimately familiar with the project and where all the files are. Because in four months, when you're like, hey, I probably need another interview snippet from Courtney Carver to kind of add some meat to this one scene. Okay, boom, I go back to Courtney Carver's interview. I'm very familiar with the layout, and I know exactly where it is, and I know I've taken notes myself on the interview, so I can pop it right back in, it's quite easy. Personal question, what advice would you give to an aspiring filmmaker, technical question, why the can and see 300? Inspiring documentary filmmaker? I would start out getting paid to do what you do. You know, I know somebody that made a documentary from scratch, and then it was quite successful in that flux without having any client work, but I think that's pretty rare to do to have success like that right away. What I don't think is rare is being able to build a sustainable freelance business as a filmmaker, and it's going to help you craft a home-that craft of filmmaking. So 100% if you're an aspiring documentary filmmaker, try to get paid to do what you love. Maybe choose some weddings, do some bar myths of videos, anything, if you're not making money now doing it, I would certainly suggest that you get out there and try to make some money. The technical question, why the can and see 300? It was like the top camera at the time. I was always Canon before that. I had a Canon XHA1, that was the first professional camera I ever had. It shot to mini-dv tape, then I had the Canon 5D, and then the Canon C300. It was a big investment. I at least did. I don't suggest everybody does that. Do that, but it worked for me. I at least did. I got a deal where is 0% financing for two years. So it was basically a car payment over two years, because it was expensive when it came out. It was $14,000. And then the price dropped, right when I paid it off, it dropped by like $6,000. So I got totally screwed on that deal. But yeah, it was a good camera. Now Sony is making some amazing cameras. I'm using a red camera now. There are many, many different cameras that can get the job done. It depends on your budget, what you're working with. I knew I wanted to step this up to the next level. I knew it had a lot of potential. So I was like, man, I'm going to be bummed out if I shoot this all with a 5D. So I'm thankful that I made that investment. But that's what I think I'll end on as I'm about to go out to dinner soon. And this is something that I touched on and the minimalist filmmaker is that you have to continually reinvest in yourself. And you have to make sure that you're stepping it up every time. And that this next project is better than the one you just made. Because if you don't have that kind of progression in growth, you're going to feel stuck. Anybody feels it. Whether you have a corporate job or your freelancer, your filmmaker or your an author, everybody feels like they want to be growing and they want to be contributing. So that's what I would say to focus on, keep reinvesting in yourself because when you do that, you're going to get better. And you'll thank yourself later. So that's it for this episode of the ground up show. I'm sure that there are things that I forgot. I missed. I didn't get to all the questions. I wish I could have done more. But, you know, let's let's try this again. So if you guys could send me questions, send them to hello at Mattheevelle.com. I'd love to hear from you. Whether it's just saying hello or if you have a question, you want me to answer on the podcast. I would love to do it. Thank you guys and we'll see you next time. Thanks for tuning into the ground up show. I'm giving away access to two hours worth of extended interviews to anyone who reviews the ground up show on iTunes. These interviews with the producers of minimalism give a never-before-seen look at how he created the film from nothing. Simply send a screenshot of your review to hello at Mattheevelle.com. And I'll send you the private links to watch the interviews. Thanks for watching.
