# The Impostor Syndrome // Ground Up 089
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FQQPuQtIg4o
Josh & Tommy's Podcast:  http://thedailytalkshow.com
Support the show:  http://www.patreon.com/mattdavella

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** ground up show, ground up, podcast, interview, matt d'avella, matt davella, impostor syndrome, imposter syndrome, create, creator, get started, make, podcasting, start, the ground up show, 
**Date:** 2018-11-27

## Transcript
 Hey guys welcome back to the ground up show today. This is one of the most fun episodes that I've had in a while. I had my two Aussie friends on Josh and Tommy from an amazing podcast called The Daily Talk Show. It's high energy, very fun, very funny at times completely offensive, but what would you expect from a couple of Australians? I think you guys are really going to enjoy this one. Not only was it a good time, but we also have some pretty great advice for creatives and people looking to break through the noise. On the podcast we talk about the imposter syndrome, landing big opportunities over email, and how to reframe any environment to remove the pressure. If you've gotten some value out of the ground up show, I'd love it if you'd consider contributing on Patreon. Not only will you help to keep this podcast ad free, but you will also get some pretty cool videos in exchange. If you sign up at patreon.com slash Matt Diavella, you'll see I create videos every single month on lifestyle design, business, filmmaking, how to grow an audience, and much, much more. Again, that's patreon.com slash Matt Diavella. All right, let's get into this week's episode. This is Josh and Tommy. All right, just a couple of ground rules. Obviously, I recently changed over the podcast, so there's going to be no cursing. Oh, yeah. It's actually a deeply religious podcast. Everybody wants to share their thoughts about religion before we start. That would be good. Yeah. We've covered it. Cool, guys. So thanks for coming on the podcast, excited to chat with you. So why don't you guys give intro about how you guys work together now? Because obviously, there's a lot to talk about how you guys got to work together, a podcast together, and create videos together, but what does the kind of work you do these days? Well, we both had production companies doing very similar things, and it's nice when, actually, it's good and bad when you make as you competitor, but it's also you made. And so we were running out production companies alongside each other using each other as a resource. And it's almost like a sounding board for the struggles that each business has and goes through. And so it got to a point where we started our podcast, and that came out of us just having these conversations every single day about business and working out that, hey, we actually have a lot in common. We talk about a bunch of stuff we're going through the same struggles, which then flowed into us going, well, maybe we should just merge our business, our, our, our, our businesses together. And do it as one. Yeah. I think the, it's the natural collaboration that we were doing, doing it where, at the beginning, when you're just starting a business, I think that it's, you can fall into, but there's all these traps, I think, that happens with business. And I think one of them is that competitors are even a thing. I think that within the world of video production, there is so much work going around. And so then it starts to become about identifying what you do really well, and then what others do really well. And so I think that Tommy and I were able to decide, oh, like Tommy is very good at this first person type of content actually being able to have a scene and just make something out of it that injects him into it, whereas I've come from sort of a more traditional background of using an easy rig and overengineering things. And so that works really well in the context of having clients because, like, sometimes they want that, but other times, other times they want something different. So the podcast, the Daily Talk Show is every single weekday, and it's us just talking shit. We say shit if I already. Because he's shit, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. That was a bit in the beginning. That's where we call it in the business. I don't know if you guys do bets on it. I can't, we are a lot of swears, that was like, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. So literally, the thing about Australians and Americans, like, it can fall short when you deliver a joke in a different country. And I totally thought that you were going to use that now, I mean, playing me on the delivery. Isn't because we say the C word on our podcast, or did we don't say it anymore? We get it. We get it. So my fiance is Australian. On the first date, you know, a fan of Jim Jeffries and, you know, knew a little bit about Australian culture. And I was like, oh, like, you know, obviously, you guys, like, you guys, say, drop the side bomb. I dropped it. Yeah. Yeah. Kind of. I just lost like 300 viewers. So I said it, and then she said, oh, I don't really like that word, actually. And then I was like, oh, okay. This is an awkward story to our first date. But yeah. So she actually, she wasn't joking. She wasn't joking. Yeah. She wasn't joking. She didn't like, she wasn't like, use the word, often. And that was, I opening for me for sure. But it's definitely, is it starting to go away? No, I think that, I think that probably, I think it's a way of showing people how close you are. So I've waited that sounds really, really. So I think it starts off where you start swearing, like, the progression of friendship is you start swearing around them, and then you eventually get to a point that you're calling them a fuckhead. And that's like the full progression of a relationship. Right. Yeah, yeah. It forms more of a bond. Yeah. I think that's the best kind of friendship when you kind of shit on each other, and not be easily offended. Like, we had Seth Gauden on our podcast, and that's a nice job. And it's good. And as you are, I can say though, didn't call them a fuckhead while. Didn't feel like our relationship with even, like, it's funny. It was the first we've done over a hundred and ninety episodes of the podcast, every single one explicit. And I went to upload the Seth Gauden when I was like, I turned to tell me I'm like, fuck, we didn't swear in the Seth Gauden episode. I was like, should I put it as explicit? Like, because I just see all the little red E's next to all of our episodes. We should have gone with the explicit people would have been like Seth Gauden's saying yeah, Seth Gauden gets real dirty. I should have been the name, Seth Gauden Uncensored. Now, I think, yeah, I actually do the same thing with in terms of making it censored or uncensored. But actually lately, I've just done everything on, or sorry, censored. Explosive explicit. Yeah, everything there's curse words in everyone, just because it's easier than it makes a decision for me. Full cowboy. Yeah. But, so there is cursing on this podcast. Okay. Okay. Yeah. I think it's too. It's like, we should redo the opener. Yeah. Yeah. It's probably what doing entirely. I'm just thinking about what my face would have looked like as you said that I was like, I think we're really serious like, I think, like, okay, yeah, this is a challenge. This is, you know, I started thinking like, okay, what am I going to say? Yeah. I'd replaced umms with fuck. So I can't really ease him. Like, am I just going to stop saying, I'm a lot? What if I was like something that people taught in terms of like public speaking? Hmm. Where just you, because I feel like that's probably better than a um, or an, or a, you know, what I mean. Tony Robbins has started swearing more. He went through a time where he didn't swear. And now he goes full hog. Yeah. And so it has cut through. And I think it's because maybe like, all the forms of media had to be censored because he was started out doing telemetryals or whatever they are. You know what I mean? Like late night television spots. Well, he does have fuck you money. So that helps. Yeah. It definitely helps. So you guys do a podcast every single weekday, 190 episodes. Yeah. It's kind of crazy. Was it, was it, has it been challenging to keep up that pace? Yeah. It's funny because it's like the most rewarding thing, but has been the most challenging thing, but hasn't, it's been hard, but hasn't felt as hard as what I thought it would be. We've found a momentum a bit of a rhythm with it. And so it's, it's weird. It's like I've never committed to a creative endeavor more than this. And I wouldn't have, and I think because all the creative endeavors have been solo. So when you have that person there, like you're doing, you know, nearly 100 shows now. It's like, you know, it's doing it on your own. Yeah. Yeah. At the beginning, I always thought that doing it on your own was easier. It's like you don't have to worry about anyone else. You just have to rely on yourself. But then through doing the 190 plus episodes, there was half of those. I was traveling. And so Tommy and I weren't even in the same room. And so when you're dealing with time zones, there'd be days where I was in a shit mood because I'm like, I've hadn't slept in a while or whatever it is, and then other days Tommy would be, and we can balance each other out. And even I think that if we both rock up in shit moods, one is worse than the other, and the other one can realize that in this moment, I need to like just calm down. So like, I think that that's the big thing about what we do is it's like, maybe within duos, there can be this sense that you're perfect or like, we've found this unique thing. But sometimes we like piss each other's off, and that's like that is part of the actual process. And that is, if you're waiting to find a business partner or a collaborator that doesn't piss you off, I think you're going to be doing a solo operation. Yeah. And one thing's for certain, no, coming out the other side is you feel better. It's like it's a release, it's, like, aside from what it might do for us and our brands and our business, it's actually cathartic, getting stuff out of your head, and vocalizing with a mate. Yeah. Yeah. I think that that's the thing that I found too, because early on, it's the paradox of when you're releasing a podcast videos, whatever it is, nobody's watching. You have to be consistent if you want to eventually become successful. But it doesn't feel like there's a point to be successful because in the beginning, nobody's listening. So you're like, man, I'm really busy this week. I got a lot going on. I got to visit my family. I'm going to be traveling. Is it worth it to put out that podcast on Monday or should I just skip it and then go the next week? And if you do that and if you get into a habit of it early on, you're never going to get to the point where people will listen to it. So I think that's the hardest part is like, you need to actually find things that are in it, besides the success or besides getting a bunch of people to listen to it or getting that feedback. It's, you know, like you said, it's something where you guys almost get therapy from being able to have these conversations. But then even for me, it's like being able to connect with people that I would never would have met before and being able to talk about creativity. You wouldn't do it though. Like I think about when people offer up advice, you know, about getting into making videos or getting into doing a podcast and people even saying, oh, I want to make videos. Like I know, for me, I've had this like burning passion inside me of actually creating and the process is what stimulates me. If the person doesn't have that, they're not going to make it through learning how to learning what final cut is or Premiere Pro and like all those hours that it takes to actually get any good to be able to export a thing that actually fits on to YouTube. Yeah, I think that's a good point. Like it's not for everybody. Yeah. If they podcast and creating original content, it's not for everyone. You have to be self-motivated in order for it to work. We heard from a guy the other day who said, yeah, I've got to create a podcast. And he wasn't really that into what it was like, it has to be done. And it's like, from day one, if it's not coming from this desire for you to do it, I think that it's going to be an uphill battle. If you're doing it for the, because it's a trend and it feels like it needs to be done, I think it's a lot harder when I was working at a company called Invato, which is like a marketplace. They always would talk about if you want to go fast, go alone, if you want to go far, go together. And I think that that's like what it's all about with what Tommy and I have done in the sense of you think about like I could have done 10 episodes really quickly, because I wouldn't have had to run anything past anyone else. But actually the consistency of doing it every single day, I think, you know, it takes, it takes another person. It's funny that you mentioned that quote, because it brings back a memory for me, if you want to go fast, go alone, if you want to go far, go together. It's actually an African proverb and I, so I didn't want to mention that. I feel like, I feel like it's one of the two of us. Yeah, one of the thing is, I didn't want to mention that it was an African proverb, because I felt like it was getting into like wine key terror, like if I was like, yeah, I wanted to generalize in the sense of not going too hard on it. It's wisdom that makes sense, but if you add the African proverb part, it kind of ruins and takes the steam out of it, and that's exactly what I did. So this was, you know, right before I was even starting any of this original content stuff, we had the premiere of minimalism in New York City in Manhattan, and it was, it was just a wild experience period, just because first of all, it was just like really nervous. I wasn't sure if anybody was going to show up and it would be a line around the block, sold out maybe 600 seats, and then we did a podcast afterwards. I was on Josh and Ryan's from the minimalists, their podcast live on stage in front of this whole group of people. And then I just had never answered questions before, I had never really done that, like all my thinking on these topics have been inside my own head and reading quotes and inspirational quotes, is it? And then somebody asked me, like, how were you able to do it? And then I said that quote, and then after I said it, I was like, I should probably add that this is an African proverb. So I was like, oh yeah, that's an African proverb, and then just a chorus, a ripple of laughter in the back row of my family and friends, like this guy's a fucking ass. Like men's ever been to Africa, how is he getting off mentioned these African proverb, and it's something that they never let go. I think the other funny thing too is when someone's asking you a question, or you're talking with an into, in an interview context, I tend to try and raid people a lot, and I think that when you're trying to read, as I'm even saying, the quote, you can pick up these little moments of like, oh, they're thinking something in this moment. So I think that's another part of this whole process, which is like, you start to realize the internal voice in your head and when you're picking up on little cues, and you almost have to, they get your point you have to let go of a lot of that stuff. Well, it's better than saying that you came up with it. Yeah, I mean, that's actually, there are those cues throughout, because sometimes you'll get this thing where like, somebody said that, and like maybe it comes in the form of like, I don't know who said this, but, and I think that's kind of important, or giving credit to people when it's, or they tweeted or whatever, and then before you know it, you like saying that they said it. In terms of the client work, and you guys do in freelance stuff, how did you get your first clients? How did you get into filmmaking? First, I think my, I mean, my career has been a lot shorter than what Josh has been. He's been doing it since he was about three. Yeah, what the heck do? Like, 14 years old, yeah, I left middle school and started freelance filmmaking. What's great is actually meeting someone who found what they wanted to do and are still doing that thing 10, 15 years later. Yeah, it's impressive. It's pretty, yeah, it is, it feels a bit outrageous in the sense of, you always feel like you're young. Yeah, Katie, I think was Katie Perry that said this. Good to credit it. It's good to go. Yeah, so I don't know if we can do it, but maybe she got it from Africa. This show's just going downhill, and there's the references. I think, yeah, next is doctors. No, you should actually just speak directly with Katie on this, but, yeah, I think there was something around like, she talked about becoming famous, as soon as when she became famous, she sort of got stuck in the time in which she found the fame. So, when she was like, you know, 20s, she never felt like she changed that. I think it may be because you're still 14. No, why I feel like from a career point of view, when you find your career, there's actually all of these, this baggage that never leaves you. So, you're almost feel like you're still 14 editing a project, which is, it's like a golf swing to using a golf analogy. I know you love them on the show. Yeah, of course, everybody knows that. It's like, yeah, with you start, if you start young and you're like build out a golf swing, it's very hard to like change and adapt when you're down the road. But yeah, no, so I started young and, you know, but had a lot like pulled from a lot of influences. I think things like community management, like the whole social media stuff started happening while like when I started, it was like delivering everything on DVDs. You know, like I had to worry about like DVD authoring and making sure like menus worked and things like that. Oh, God. And so, when it comes from that place, I think the other thing too that can happen is you come quite skeptical of, you know, certain trends because you've seen things happen. You've feel like you've been through a lot of the stuff. So, yeah, it's that first client for me would have been a community TV show where I got paid per minute that went on the screen. So, I got paid $23 per minute. And I remember it got me into this really bad habit of like editing really long interviews. It's like the worst incentive for an internet. Yeah, it's like, I'm like, hey, guys, like I've done the whole episode, like, you know, the 25 minutes or whatever it was and it was just like a multi cam at it. I remember one weekend, I was like, my brother convinced me I needed an Xbox 360. They just had come out. And so, I managed to edit enough long-form content to buy myself the Xbox. Just keep the washing the car for pocket money to editing long-form interviews. And so, yeah, that's where like I started and then it went into working in radio, doing digital content there, working it in Vato, the tech company, which was, you know, creating content, celebrating creatives. And Tommy went down a completely different road. Well, my mother's a bit more cowboy. I started out creating content for myself, YouTube channel, which is very different to client work because, you know, you can spend as many hours as you want on your own project. And if it stuffs up, it's on you. It doesn't really matter. So, you have that safety net. And for me, like, my first client I was sitting in a cafe doing, like, just writing. I just, I didn't have a job and I was like, going a bit crazy, just writing out stuff, phone morning page. Yeah, morning pages. Yeah. What is that? Like, I never heard of it. So, yeah, there's a book, I can't remember the name, could be an African proverb. All the mum got you into it. Yeah, my mum got the artist's way. Yeah. And it is essentially this guide that gets you doing activity. So, one of them is morning pages. It's a pretty common fucking job. What else are you going to do right here? No, but what I found was, like, going to this cafe and creating this ritual of writing out what was going on in my head. No job. Need a job. No money. Got a girlfriend. She's keeping me afloat. Like, no legit. It's like, I started just doing a stream of conscious son to paper. And I'm sitting there and this dude comes out to me. Tommy, it was a guy I went to high school with. He was a year above. And he said, what are you doing? It's not much. I had nothing going on. And he said, what's your skills? And I said, I make videos and they were only for myself then. And he said, all right, he's my card. I'll give me a number and I might be in contact. And he was the CEO of this business. And he sent me messages that later that day. So, call this guy. He might have a job for you. So, I called him and we had a chat and I went in and saw him and they wanted a video made. And I said, yeah, of course, again. And I hadn't done client work as such like this where it was going to capture a ventless story of this thing that they had going on. And so I just I did it. And I shot at all in 50 frames by mistake. And I'm lucky I did because I could slow it down. So, slow it like, it was just like this trip into this doing this thing which I knew I could. It was flexing in different muscle. And I gave it a good crack and I thought, I could probably do this. This could be a job, you know, at sort of creating my own content. Yeah, I think there is the, like the imposter syndrome very early on. And if you actually probably told you about the imposter syndrome, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. 100% and you have to do that, though, in order to get through it and then get to a point where you actually learn your skill. So, there's going to be a lot of times where you're shooting 50 frames. We don't have 50 frames. Yeah, so 60. 60 frames. But I mean, like, you're going to screw up so many times, you're going to have the, the color correction off when you start to. Yeah, didn't even get started on all of the mistakes. But then eventually, and then I think this kind of goes to what you're saying with Katy Perry is that you kind of forget that. And sometimes that the early feelings of just starting out stick with you and hold you back from potentially doing bigger projects. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, I think the, the imposter syndrome can work for you in a, in a huge way. I think that you need, you need a bit of that. But it's, that's the, the quality within Tommy that I love, which is just like, let's have a crack. And so that's how we ended up staying to work together. TJ actually said to me, he, before we were even really close and had connected properly, we'd worked at the same place. We'd made a video, just so happened, he presented, there's like a, a week in universities, which is sort of like the first week of of college where they have like all this, um, I didn't even describe. What are you going to do? They show the courses and you can meet people and it's a time to get drunk. Really? And so Tommy and I ended up connecting because we ended up making up the first video we ever did together was 10 years ago, it was 2008. And it was Tommy being a presenter. Just like, hey guys, we're in my nash for oh week. Let's go chat to some people. And I'm doing like the crazy like moves like so we can edit all together. And so that was the background we'd had together. And it just so happened that within the radio industry, Tommy had been on air, had done that instead of a regional town. And I'd been doing the digital content for a national drive show. And so we'd sort of been connected on Facebook and Tommy contacted me one day and said, how can we catch up? I'd love to chat. Oh no, if you said pick, you wouldn't have told it said pickly blind. It's picking a brain is my number one thing that like I can't stand. Because I remember you said you told that to me when we met in Melbourne. Yeah, we're like, if there's one thing I hate in this world. Well, but I think it's because there's something so it feels like there's a voucher that's like scraping like it feels like a transaction, which I don't necessarily like. Well, the values more in the five, they're getting more out of picking someone's Brian. It's actually, yeah, when you mention that to me, and it may be that, or maybe just the fact that more people have done it to me, it has, I have noticed it more. And I have, oh, you want to pick my brain? Yeah. It's like, that's, that's going to be a consulting fee. Yeah, like if you, there's one thing mentoring and helping people, but you can't do it for everybody. And if somebody simply wants to pick your brain, they're not adding any value. It's not only that, I actually think the language in picking your brain is sort of like, it feels like it's not giving what you have to say enough sort of clout. Like, I think picking the brain is like, like, my brain is like precious. Stop my, I've been picking out of it. Like it's something about that. But it's not leading with value. I had, I had a, I've got a work experience, dude, it helps me out on a lot of stuff. And he's awesome. And he's able to make, it was like, talking about stuff I'd done, giving me a few ideas, which I didn't use. But no, it was the value that he was offering upfront versus a guy who just recently emailed me and just said, I'm in this space. I'd love to do this. I'd love to catch up with you. But it's like, he hasn't taken time to either, does he know my last name? I don't know. Maybe people who pick brains, pick your brain and leave. And I think that's part of it, too. It's like, I actually want to connect with people and have longer term relationships, whether that's friendships or workmates. And so Tommy reached out and we caught up. And I would be really embarrassing if we look back and I said, can I pick you up? We should do it. But I want to just do one quick defense of the brain pickers. Okay, great. I think that for them a lot of times, it's just a soft almost like, it's like a fun way to say, like, I'd love to have a chat. And some people, I think, many of them are probably innocent. And they're probably just looking after somebody they admire. Well, we're all ready. Like, I think we've probably all done it. And I think it's over a long period of time that you start to pick up on those things. But I think it's reframing that sort of stuff. Like, I'm sure it took me thinking about it or someone having a conversation about picking a brain before I came around to it. But it's almost, it becomes a bit of a towel. Like, when someone says it, I can, I straight away think, okay, they go along this, like, choose your own adventure. I'm like, okay, so that the likelihood that this is going to lead to something, I sort of, yeah, but you're right. I think it's a, it's a language, it's a language thing. Well, picking your brain is the equivalent now of when someone adds you on LinkedIn, you send them back an automated. Great. Let's connect. You know, like those automated messages that you can flick off. Yeah. So maybe just get a bit more creative. Yeah, a bit more personal. Like, I think about I did a bunch of work on search engine optimization for my business. And so when you would type in video production company, when you're in Melbourne, it was like the top search result. And the interesting thing is you, all of a sudden get a lot more emails and you get a lot of people asking for jobs. And I was able to work out what made a good, a good application, and ones that didn't. And the bad applications were to whom it made concern. If they say that, or it's like, you know, to the full stack films team, I mean, it's fucking one of me, or it's like the, yeah, it's the, it's the, it's the impersonal block of text, which goes into what they're, what they're wanting to do versus there's been a couple of times where I have connected with people. And it's because like they'll say, hey, I listened to your podcast five years ago, and because of this little bit here, I actually went on and did this thing. And I would love to, you know, and it's like a bit of a stroking of the ego and all that sort of shit. But that's like, I think that's like, there's a respect to that as well. Yeah, I think it's, it's, you one, you're proving that you put in the time and you didn't just copy and paste an email. It's like, you're, you're calling out something that somebody would have had to at least spend an hour listening to a podcast in order to get that, but likely they probably put in even more. Yeah. But then it's probably them being able to explain what their value could be to you, how they could help, whether it's working for free. Tommy, I know you said an email to somebody that you really admired in terms like in the self development type world, which is Harper. Yeah, Craig Harper. Yeah, do you want to tell that story? Because that was, you said an email that you almost didn't send and not very likely that it would have worked, but it did. Yeah. And Craig Harper is someone I have looked up to since I was young. I used to be a personal trainer in another life. And he is the master. He's the Mr Splinter of the personal training industry in Australia. Started like the first business that was selling personal training in Australia, if not the world at the time. This is a year ago. And so I had an interaction with him when I was younger, where I was a young punk that called him, got his number and said, can I have a job? Which didn't go down. Well, he gave me experience. He gave me some time on the floor and the gym floor. But years later, time on the floor, what the time to be chosen? And I was, no, but years later, I had been watching Craig's stuff evolve online and he's just got, he loves to swear, and he's got some really great messages that are a very straightforward and resonate with a lot of people. But I saw his stuff and I had started my production company early days and I thought, I love what he's doing. I am a big fan of what he does. And I'm going to write him an email, or it was a Facebook message actually. And I just basically led with, hey mate, I love your stuff. Been a big fan for a long time. I've just started my production company. I would love to help you out. No money exchange. I just think what you're doing is great. And yeah, I just nearly didn't send it. I was sitting at a cafe and I was just about to not do it and I just did it. I just forgot about it. And a second later, so I didn't forget about it for that long. He messages me back and says, wow, I'm sitting here at my computer thinking, who could I get in my network to help me out with this stuff? What's your number? And so we were on the phone, few minutes later, and we've been working together for a long time. He's become one of my really close mates. And so if it wasn't for me sending that email, he wouldn't have come to my wedding. We wouldn't have created a whole bunch of great videos together and told lots of stories. And you know, it did change a lot for me sending that one email. But I didn't say, can I pick your brain? Right. I mean, if you, the pick your brain, you're not, there's nothing. If you said, can I pick your brain? He wouldn't call you back. He wouldn't pick it up. But you offer it say, hey, can I do work for you for you? And that made the difference? It's a public service announcement. It's not the, the answer is not to the answer is still sending emails. But it's about thinking about the recipient. What do they care about? Even to mention Seth again, like I asked him, I said, what made you say yes to doing our podcast? And the thing is that most of the emails that he receives are people saying, I love what you do, and really nice stuff, because I always have to discount it because the next paragraph is normally them asking for something. And so, you know, with, with here it's, it is leading with that showing, like, this is the value that you've brought. But then it's the, it's real, it's a status game too. It's realizing like where you fit in the whole thing. And I think whenever I'm approaching anyone, it's like, I'm low static. Like, I'm asking something of you. And so, I think in return, I need to show value. And as I say it, I also realize that it's not all transactional. You can't all be like, I'll do this for you, and then you do this and I'll sort of think. Well, that's what I went in with with Craig. I didn't want anything from him. I wanted to help him and bring value to him. So I think, yeah, that's definitely why that paid off. And that's why we had Seth on the podcast because Josh had been emailing, not asking anything. I don't think it hurts to send the emails. So I don't think that's the advice we're giving. Yeah, it's send the email, but be very thoughtful about it and take the time with it. Don't email a hundred people the same thing. Pick five to ten people that really inspire you that you want to help and collaborate with and then let them know how much value you can add. Make it easy for that person, too. Because if somebody reaches out to me and it feels like, like, you know, they want to help me out on my podcast. They want to help out with the shoot. They're not making it easy in terms of how they might be able to, you have to make it clear of how easy they are, how good they are communicating, how good they are, how much they are, how much they can help. And I think that's a big step. And it's also realizing what they care about. And the being self aware enough. So with the Seth Goden one, I said, we're not going to be there to pitch you anything. We're not going to bring an entourage. We're not going to have our mates there, like selling it in like that, like actually pointing out those things, like front footing the shit that they're probably thinking about. I think we were in his office. We'd never met him before, we're in his office space. And so like that's a big jump for a lot of a lot of people. And so selling that in and actually front footing that I think is also good as well. Seth Goden, at least one of those people where we don't have to explain who he is. Because I think like, I mean, I don't think there's people like my girlfriend or my fiance listening to the podcast who doesn't know who he is. But for those that don't know, he is an author, best selling author, 18 best selling books. 18 best selling books. 35 languages that was translated into. The core thing to give you guys one of his books, that's unpublished. Yeah. Well, it should be not in best selling books because he hasn't actually released it for sale. What this, I mean, he's got, so I reckon he's got that many little things he's made over these, for these different things he would never know about. But yeah, at the end of the meeting, he gave us a book and he said, this isn't, I don't sell this. This is just a book that I like to give out to people that I care about and he gave us a copy. As it's like, I think that's the other thing, too, is like, we had really low expectations. And when you have low expectations, what it means is you're giving the person a chance to be generous and for you to actually take her, I remember. Yeah, I was just going to say, he gave my son a book. Oh, and he said, this is for Bodhi and the book called V is for Vulnerable as like a kids book. And like, and I know that when I started doing podcasting years ago on my own, I flew to New Zealand for specifically for an interview and I had all these ideas in my head of what it was going to be like. I thought, man, I'm going all of this way. And so you build an narrative in your head that they're going to really care the fact that you've gone this way. And it's realizing that people don't care about that. Like, people know, but we're actually like, it's playing in the world of nobody gives a fucking everybody gives a fuck. I think if you play in that world, then you realize that you can be a little bit more intentional with what you're saying because when you're writing, you're thinking about there's going to be a lot of people who don't care about my story. And when you are coming from that place, then you can start to say, well, what do they care about? And I think that that's like a healthy way to approach things. And so within that case, it's like he didn't care. He thought that I was from New Zealand. When I arrived, like I'm from Australia and I arrived in New Zealand, he's saying man, like Auckland's beautiful, like thinking that I lived there. And it was that realization that like, I actually got what I needed out of all of that stuff. And it's like everyone else is going through their day. And they don't, he's not on the plane ride with me. He's not there when I'm spending 500 bucks on tickets and I sort of think. And you don't need to sell that in, that's like part of the sacrifice that you might cause an individual. He might not even want you to do that. I would feel incredibly guilty if somebody, you know, paid for a flight to come interview me. I would feel terrible. I'd be like, I'm not worth it. Like, $500. Like, save your money. Well, we went planning on going to New York. I emailed Seth and said, hi, we're going to be in New York on these diets. hadn't booked any flights, right? But we can't be in New York. It's a lot. Yeah. So we said, like, and the thing is that we, we never said at once the reason we are here, Seth, is because we have this interview on the only way. And it's the same with the unit. We work with the unit. We're here now. Yeah. And that's it. Yeah. But I think that that's a really good filter to work on is that most people don't care. And I think, um, let me talk about Seth Gauden and the power of consistency. He's one of those people that proves that. And I don't only just writing books, consultants consistently. But he writes, does he still write a blog post every single day? Yeah. He writes an essay five days a week? Yeah. Yeah. It's crazy. That's creativity, right? Finding new positions on things and perspectives. I mean, in April, this year, I read a blog post by him. And it was around, um, he was out of ideas. And I was so inspired by it, right? Because I was like, here we have Seth Gauden, who has been writing for years and years and years and years. And he's finally come out and said it. And he's like, he's run dry. Turns out it was April first. It was April full today. But he was, he actually said on our podcast, he had over 50 people use that example, thinking it was like a positive thing. And that he really was out of ideas. I got it. No, he was a kidding. I'm talking to you. He actually said, though, that it said more about the person emailing him saying, oh, Seth, he's some ideas. You run out. Yeah. He got emails. That's funny. Oh, man. I don't know. That's, that is, is that a struggle for you guys in terms of the podcast? Because doing a podcast every day, I definitely like heard you guys talking about on one of them, where you were saying, you hope that you got a bad haircut. So then it'd be something interesting, but funny to talk about on the show. How true is that? And how hard is it to maintain long-form content like that? I think the weird thing is, some days, we've got no ideas. And it's the time that we actually have the best banter. Tommy can never have a bad haircut, by the way. And this hair actually just flicks into play. They shave a bit. It just pops back. You're going to get a haircut or just stays. Work out like this. This Mr Lego man, it's amazing. And then I think sometimes when we have too many ideas on the table, we can get a bit thrown off. There's too much going on. And so some days we have a bunch of ideas and we don't even go there. We just talk about completely random stuff. It's the ultimate paradox. It's realizing that just like no one cares in everyone cares. It's the same tension of plan, everything, and plan nothing. And with the podcast, we have a Trello board, which I don't know if you've ever used Trello before, we put down all the list of everything that we sort of want to talk about. If we have an idea, we chuck it in the Trello board. And it's about testing all of these things and what works. And I think that when those work is sometimes the process just gives you the confidence to not have to worry about it. So it's actually writing it down, a plan of the episode, and then chucking it away. I think about having nerves going into an interview, and it's like in the early days when I didn't know I could actually do it, the nerves had more impact on me. I still have the nerves, but I have the understanding and validation because I've done it so many times. It's like it's okay. I've got this. And so that's the process. Yeah, showing up, Josh and I, doing it, we've done it enough. We know that we're going to do something, and some days are better than others. Yeah, it's like going to give a talk, public speaking. You're always in some little way going to get a little bit nervous or a little bit anxious before you go out on stage. So it's almost just the confidence in being okay with those nerves and jitters, and sometimes like you said, it's hard to even know what would make a good outcome, a good performance because it's like different things. Some people like different things, somebody's going to, there's sometimes some surprise when somebody says, oh my god, that episode is my favorite episode that I've ever listened to, and it's like, oh, I wouldn't have picked that one from myself, but it's because we're different people bringing in our different experiences to it. Our experience is not what someone else is experiencing on the podcast, especially of, notice that. Even, like, I think collaborating in being partners in a business, it's the other realization is that we all think differently. And when you come from that place, I think it can re-contextualize things that would normally be tension points, and then it sort of goes away because actually the dots that I'm joining, the experiences that I'm pulling from, I completely different to the person, the other person. I think that also in terms of you're talking about being consistent, and then coming up with ideas, it does take focus in terms of, this is probably something you guys think about all the time, where you're just going through the day, that would be fun to talk about. All for content, we say, which is like a bit of a half a job, it's basically a job, it's because I got all for content.com, but these are, yeah, it's up to sale, $50,000. Yeah, but it is the, we're constantly now in a place, and Tommy's been doing it for like Tommy's radio background. Yeah, so I hosted a breakfast radio show, it was like five days a week, three hours a day, and you had to come with something because people relied on you having some perspective or observation. So half the stuff ends up being observations and seeing what people are, they're saying, but they're not talking about, and it's what I do for my own video content on my YouTube channel, it's like, I just see stuff that stimulates me, but I know that the years of doing that has made it so much easier, but also painful because everything is content. Right, but you kind of sort of break down the walls, I think, in terms of having those creative blocks, and not necessarily waiting for inspiration, but just sitting down and doing the work and making it happen. And when you're doing it daily as well, you know, use the public speaking example, I think the reason that these things are scary is it's because this is my one chance, and when the stakes are high, it's a lot harder, not to fuck up. And so what I try and do is it's like, in every moment of my life, even if the stakes are high, how do we lower them? And so, from a production point of view, if we're working with the client, that means not having a crazy amount of crew, crazy amount of lights, it's about not saying action and trying to to heighten it because the thing is that when you're charging $20,000 for a project, there is the feeling that we need to show the production. And we need to elevate the stakes, so there's a lot of money at stake, but it takes removing your ego to say, let's lower the stakes. This is easy. We've got a week and record for an hour if we have to, it really doesn't matter. We can edit this sort of stuff, all of that sort of language, and that extends to what we do with the podcast where it's like, you know, even though the setth episode was really great, that is one day of all of the episodes we do for a year. And there's nothing that we can do to even, you know, my girlfriend brings like, what are you going to do with the setth, but what can we do with the setth episode? And there's not really much that you can do. It is, it is one part of the journey. And when you're doing it every day, it lowers the stakes, which means it's a lot easier to succeed. When I had Rich Roll on the podcast, I remember hyping it up to be this big thing in my own head. Action! Action! Let's do this, Rich. Let's make some money. And then, but for me it was, I remember talking about it leading up to, I didn't know who Rich was three months before that interview. I just met him at one of Josh and Ryan's events, and it was, I kind of was like, oh, this is, you know, he's got a big audience. This is going to be really helpful for me in terms of getting my word out there for my own podcast, because at the time I was getting maybe a couple thousand downloads a month. And the podcast didn't go the way I'd hope Rich was brilliant. He was amazing, great interview, very gracious. I wasn't myself, because I had built it up in my head to be this big thing that this was my big opportunity that one time I could go on stage and just crush it. You're actually, I think you're tricking yourself if you're elevating it too much. I think that we, we do that a lot. It's even like at the beginning of the podcast, when you were joking around with the language thing, you know, what you, I didn't edit that out. No, what you unintentionally did was you actually elevated the stakes, even though it was a joke, but as soon as you were able to say, guys, I'm just fucking with you, you bring it back down. And so I think that like, it's finding the hacks, like Tommy and I in the one we've had days where it's not easy. And you know, we're at different parts of the world. And now we're, you know, back together because we're doing our business and we'll be spending all of our time in Melbourne or a lot of it anyway. But we would actually say before we started recording, like, what do we want out of this? And so we're, we're two mates having fun and we're celebrating each other. And when you say that, even like vocalizing it, I think changes the stakes and it reduces it from being this thing that, like, this tension to this like opportunity to just chill out. Yeah, imagine if you said that every podcast would have to get better than, well, that would be a lot of pressure. Yeah, I mean, I feel like you would end up, like, you would create some sort of personality disorder where you'd just, like, well, if you'd like, that sort of idea is just like, where does it end? It ends in your mind, exciting. Yeah. Yeah. Well, like, how high can you go before everything just falls apart? Yeah. And then like, what, then if you don't have, if you don't meet your expectations and you're depressed. Yeah, I think I am cynical to, you know, just like perfection. The reason, you know, some of things that Seth Doden talks about, minimum viable audience, which is, what is the minimum amount of people that you need to, to run a successful podcast or to have a successful YouTube channel, Kevin Kelly, who created wide magazine, talks about the thousand true fans. And so it's like, you don't need to have a huge mainstream audience. You don't need to be, you know, crushing it with, you know, thousands and thousands of people. You actually just need to serve a much smaller community. And I think that in turn, that lowers the stakes. And it gives focus. And it means that you're not worried about everyone else. I think the goal does in a lot of ways influence and change our decisions and how we show up. Because if your goal is simply metrics, and it's one thing to celebrate metrics, it's another to say, I won't be happy until I get a million downloads or a million subscribers or whatever. How does Alex influence the way that you guys are? I mean, that's dangerous thing about just metrics. I think, I said to Seth, this is the first time that I've actually felt inside that it's okay just to show up and our goal is doing this thing. And each day will get better. And that, like, it's so easy to say that to someone that doesn't think that and for them to then think, oh, yeah, I could think that, but then not think it, it's not going to work for them. So it's like, I feel like I'm at a point where I've done so many things and thought about numbers and thought, I'd love to have a massive following, but it hasn't worked. So now with what Josh and I doing that constant showing up is the goal. It's literally like, when we started, I was like, okay, I've worked out that way again, this is really exciting numbers for everyone. 1.7 new listeners every single day, like when you were when you did all the I'm not good with maths, cut their legs off. And so it was like, okay, so if we do a thousand episodes, if we just still from day one where we're growing, we weren't telling anyone at the beginning. The first 20 episodes, we didn't talk about it. It was just sitting on iTunes and we're just like, since it's deleted. Did anybody download it? Even though, yeah, we have like, so interesting, isn't it? We have like 20 to 30 downloads on those first ones and now people have gone back to that kind of log. But it gave us this confidence to be able to test and learn. I think like, why, why would you want everyone watching you when you're getting started? Like, it's like, our thing is that if it takes us a thousand episodes before we actually have, you know, 10,000 people on episode listening to us, then that means that they're getting at us in a completely different stage. And if we were to have secured certain guests on day one, we would have had no idea about ourselves. I think also going back to what we were talking about earlier is the reward from the actual doing part, sort of distracts you from thinking about those numbers. And so we are getting more out of it than what the numbers would even give us. Yeah, I think for me, there is a number that's important. And it's, I mean, it's not a literal number, but more of an idea can I make a living? Because it's important. I mean, if it was $10,000 a year, it's not my number. It's higher than that, but it's less than 100,000. And there's a point in there where fully satisfied, fully content. It actually took me, as I was growing my freelance business, I started making more and more money. I made six figures for the first time. And then there was one year where I backslid and I made $15,000 less than I did the year before. And I was totally okay with that. It didn't hurt my ego at all because I long before decided that if I could make $60,000, $70,000 a year and still keep doing this, that's the dream. Like, it doesn't matter to me. I think we're really lucky because with what we do with video production and having clients, it means that we don't need to monetize the daily talk show. And so I, I feel for people who are like their only thing is their podcast or, you know, and that's their, the only way they're going to be able to make money, especially when it's their first rodeo. If this is the first thing you're doing and you're trying to make coin, I think that it's like setting up a patreon page day one without an audience and think that like you're going to be able to make money. So that's a privilege that we have, which is being able to make all of our money through videos and clients and the other thing too is like on when we post about some of the episodes that we do LinkedIn blows up and we have people reaching out to us. We have people who like, you know, three years ago, we're saying that we're too expensive, you know, sliding into our DMs and being like, oh, hey guys, what's like, and so we see the benefit of the podcast as a marketing and a branding exercise. And I think about when you cloud it with money, will it change the creativity? How are you finding it with, you know, turning this into money? Yeah. Well, I could say with a minimum of this into money. Yeah, yeah, try to try it. Thank you guys. That was an African Prophet. In terms of the the podcast and monetizing this, I don't feel a significant pressure. I think patreon has done pretty well so far. I've got about 300 actually, well, I made it at the time we released this. Fingers crossed, they'll be like 400, but by the time it's Christmas, I'm like, what are you doing? Yeah, I'm doing Christmas in two weeks. Pretty much this. But we'll see exactly when for me right now, the podcast doesn't make any money straightforward. Although, if I do mention it at the beginning, I think that the top thing is that I have found that I have to pitch patreon at the beginning of the podcast. I did an experiment where I did five episodes where I did not mention it in the very beginning. And I said, hey guys, if you want to learn about how to support this show, stick around after the podcast. And I would see zero, maybe one or two people signing up for patreon after the episodes would release. And if I do it in the beginning, I'll get 10, maybe 15. I can't believe how much like pushing, say iTunes reviews, the difference between pushing and not pushing. So at the beginning, we definitely were like, oh, we want to see some activity on our iTunes. We need to know that someone's here. We want to have some ratings and reviews and all that sort of thing. And so at the beginning, we did say, hey, review the daily talk show and give us five stars. If you like it. And then it got to a point where it's like, it felt like diminishing returns. Where it's like, okay, do we need to be in the top charts to be successful in this? And the interesting thing is as soon as we stopped mentioning it, we get none. We actually, it is dropped off so much, but before we would get, you know, a couple a week or whatever it is. And so there is an interesting balance there around even though the hard sell makes me uncomfortable. The hard sell is designed for a reason. It's because it's actually like communicating what you want. Yeah. And if you look at our businesses before we've come together now, we were very much just attracting video production work, which was very wide. And it's because we were casting that net really wide, which our new company, we're very intentional about what we want to create and the clients that we want to work with. Because if we got a whole bunch of people just by casting a net wide, if we actually narrowed down, we should at least get the people that we want to work with. Yeah. It's not a hard sell, it's just communicating well, right? Yeah. What if the daily talk show dot com is where you find our podcast. So subscribe to Matt's portrait. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. It just, it's very, it has to be very subtle. Yeah. It's almost like not like in your face where like you're clearly. Do I eyeball it too much? Yeah, no, it's okay. People, like you need to actually let people know that are listening. I looked at the camera when I said that I really talk show dot com. And right now he's looking over the cell. Yeah, and now he's looking into the microphone. I don't think it works. Is that been a challenge doing visuals and audio? Do you feel like you need to explain what's going on to the audio? Sometimes there was, we did the Mango Street podcast episode and we, it all dressed up in Mango costume. Yeah, and it was just really confusing very well. But there was, there's these like little clips on the Manfredo Tripods that actually are a screw, but I had no idea what they were. And I'm like, why do they come with these damn like little clamps that seem to serve no purpose? It's table hold and it looks like it would be a cable holder, but it's actually a screw for these as they loosen up. It's actually really smart and unfortunately on that episode I threw it out. But I still have like one or two because I have a bunch of tripods. But you know, that's like a visual component that I sometimes will call out. But it's like, I think most people are forgiving especially if it's just something. That's like, ah, okay, I guess I missed that, but that's okay. And then, but I do, my audience is kind of split between people who listen and people who watch. But it's, uh, you guys did want a couple of videos. I mean, you got Paul Jarvis on. Yeah, Chase Jarvis. Oh, I thought it was Paul. That was a good name. That was a really good name when he had a name. There is actually a Paul Jarvis, though. He's a writer. Yeah, Paul Jarvis was, he's hate like a tick. Come inside and I mean, uh, he's got a newsletter. He, right, he's the Mailchimp courses. Ah, yeah. Yeah, we had Chase on the show very randomly. But I think this is, it's been, it's almost a bit of our belief of our podcast and our approach is putting ourselves out there. We were in New York City. And we decided to do an episode. We were going to record it with a GoPro outside in front of the flat iron building in New York City. And so we were walking there. We almost didn't do it. I started losing my voice. So I wanted to go home. I was being soft. And we did it. He said it. And we rocked. We rocked. We rocked up. And where were we going to do this episode? Josh sees this guy with these headphones on. I'm like, I think that's Chase Jarvis. And I'm a little bit more introverted in those moments. But Tommy, like, sort of like, get to Newspher, like, trying to get in front of me. Just like, make eye contact. Yeah, I was, but I went out to, and I said, Chase, just trying to first name bassist. See if he just reacts to a head headphones on. So he had more cut through them Paul. And so I said, Paul, I said, Paul, Paul. Paul, can I pick your brain? Oh, so he took them off. He's like, oh, wow. And so we ended up getting him onto that episode of the Daily Talk show. And he gave us, you know, 10, 15 minutes of his time. He was busy, but he just, I think, love the fact that, you know, we were hustling and just asking. We could be doing a lot more video than what we are. Like, the reality is, like, that is our bread and butter. That's like, that's what we, that's what we do. And we get paid to do it. And I think that it's the way that we're looking at this is minimum viable product, which is a tech, you know, terminology of, you know, like, iterating on things. So like, what is it that we need to do now? Because if we were doing video to start with, be three episodes. Well, yeah, we wouldn't have continued, because we would have said, well, Josh, you're going to be away. Can you sort out? Like, it's just way, the barrier to entry was way too high. The stakes were way too high. So by, we're going to eventually be doing video. And the awesome thing is that there's people who've been listening to the Daily Talk show from the start. And there, you can hear their excitement or, you know, the messages we received, because they've seen when we were, like, when we were at the very beginning. And we had no idea it. And we'll just, like, talking shit and saying the save arm. Yeah, dropping the save arm doing all that stuff. And they've been able to say the journey. I think that there's, that's where I love about, yeah, even what you're doing. It's like, you're sharing the journey. And that's like, it's such a big part of the process. And it's, I think, what is going to keep an audience for a longer period of time. Yeah, I think that's it. It's because a lot of times you try to employ the fake it to you make it approach. But I don't, I think that can work with client work, because you don't want to really show your doubts and your concerns to a client. A client wants to hire you because they know that you're going to be able to deliver. It's like when I was living at home and doing client work in clients would say, hey, can we come to your studio and watch you as you edit? And I was like, I got to see if my mom is a little happy with that. You know, let me ask for permission first. You know, go to the mic, my bed. Yeah, respect to the CEO. Yeah, yeah. My investor. And it's like, but it was really a dark cloud over me because it was always that fear of getting found out. And it was the imposter syndrome. It's like, it's like way on your website when there's one of you. And I think that there's a balance there where like, maybe you could say, we, if you hire freelancers and you work collaboratively people all the time, but at the same time, you don't have to go that far. You could just make it be known that you're an individual. And I would actually never lie to clients. If they say, oh, so is it just you? And it's just me, but then I hire and bring on freelancers from time to time. I think it's the bloodline between being a freelancer and wanting to be an entrepreneur and creating this big company. Because I think for me many times, I've had the Wii and it's just been me and some other people that have been helping me out. But if I double down on it being me, I probably would have done better. And that's what I love about. We can now say Wii. That's basically why we start it out. Well, the way business is like a big media company, big media company. And I looked at the camera. And now he's the mic. And it's that idea. Like it is a bit tongue-in-cheek. It is this idea of like two small businesses coming together. It's a cry to make media company. But the, yeah, I think that the fake it to you make it can be re-contextualized to be something else which I'll make Peter Shepherd who is this guy human periscope. He's he's works with creatives and what's something in coaching. And he talks about changing it from fake it to you make it to, about if you change it to as if. So what about if you had a podcast as if you had a hundred thousand listeners from day one? And that's not like bullshitting. That's not like faking it. But what it's doing is it's like giving the energy to succeed. I think that like we use that as if all the time. It's like come to the US as if it makes financial sense for us. It does not make fun. Like we do not make money from the podcast. Us doing all of this is money out of our own pocket. But the thing is that we know that if we do it as if we are more likely to actually start doing the things that we want to do, which I think a lot of people maybe don't, you know, it takes him a long time to get there to put that investment. A lot of people online are faking it. And on Instagram and Twitter, they're making it seem like their lives are way better than they actually are. So then when they actually, if they actually make it, it's kind of a hollow feelings. You can't celebrate it. And there's also nothing for people to look back at to say, oh, that's when they started. For me, I love being able to look back at Joe Rogan and seeing his first podcast was just a live stream. It was such it. Have you seen it? Yeah, it's just like the jittering and they thought, hey, can we put the clock on the screen? Let's get some snowflakes and the snowflakes falling down in front of the camera. And it's amazing to be able to look back at that because I think that's really inspiring for people who are just going to start it out. And like you guys said, it's like you knew from the beginning. It didn't matter what the first 20 episodes look like if anybody listened to it and it was just put it out there and then eventually down the road, we can we'll have the courage to tell people that we started a podcast. Yeah, and it gave it more excitement because it's like, okay, we're actually with the jet, we've convinced ourselves now that we can do it and we're going to keep doing it. I think it's the, I think that we're lucky that we have the confidence to do shit and make no sense. And if anything, it's, if people taking anything from this conversation, it's that confidence is free like you going out and starting the thing and doing the thing, that's like the bit that's going to make the difference and that's what's actually going to make you better. It's not like you can theorize all you want. You can like be doing mind maps and saying like, I'm going to have all these guests on and like, but until you actually do the first one, you're not going to know whether it's good or not. So it's like it's actually like doing the thing rather than thinking about the thing. As in like, you can create confidence as in all the text just doing it. Well, that's systemly. I think that the, it's a tricky one to come come to terms with, but I think that sometimes, yeah, we we think and then we do and so it's like, okay, when I feel inspired, I'm going to then do a thing. But what about if you changed it to like acting as if you were inspired and doing the thing and then feeling that thing, after it. So it's like, if you're not rather waiting for the confidence to be able to do a podcast, what happens if you build the confidence from doing the podcast? So realizing that episode 1, you're going to feel shit about it. You're going to think that it's like really dumb and no one's going to listen and that's fine. And then you get to build up that confidence. Guys, any last words? The Daily News. The Daily News. The Daily News. It's one of those, it's such a generic name. I love it. We're telling like an Uber driver. He's like, oh, yeah, I'm going to listen to the Daily podcast. It can go over people's heads or it can have real cut through it. Yeah, I actually love the fact of how generic it is. But I also feel for you guys, because I'm like, you can never, I mean, I guess you can see what Google, like if you type in the Daily Talk Show where number one. It's kind of amazing. Yeah. It's ridiculous. Do a lot of people search it. I do. Guys, people want to find your work. The Daily Talk Show. Yeah, calm. Exactly. freelance, big media company.com. Exactly. Big many companies. Yeah. And then we've both got YouTube channels. Yeah. Building that out. You just I'm going to link it. Yeah. Yeah. Do you do math mini show notes or something? I don't do show notes, but I do link it in the description of the podcast. So if you like kind of swipe over on your app, you could see the links to everything. Can you just make sure you put the African Proverbs? I will actually, I probably will now imagine that. And you're going to be on our podcast. Yeah. Yeah, let's do it. Oh, yeah. So people can go and listen to that. Yeah. Which was released three months ago. We were back in time. Cool. Thanks for doing the show. Thanks. Thanks. Thanks, mate. Thanks for listening to the ground up show. If you're getting some value from the podcast, you can support the show on Patreon. Every month, I create exclusive videos exploring lifestyle design, minimalism, creativity, and business. These vlogs and AMA podcast episodes, which can be found nowhere else, give a rarely seen look into my work and personal life. Help support the show for the cost of a cup of coffee a week and get access to all this content at patreon.com slash matte deevela. Again, that's patreon.com slash matte deevela. Thanks for listening and I'll see you next week.
