# Ground Up 039 - Get Moving w/ Luke Broadlick
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fYdFqObzNkQ
http://www.groundupshow.com

Luke Broadlick is a dancer & choreographer that’s toured with Britney Spears, Jason Derulo, The Jonas Brothers, Demi Lovato & Justin Bieber. He’s choreographed for both Magic Mike films & the Magic Mike Live Las Vegas show.

He started out in martial arts and was a quick study. Learning how to move & adapt his body was the key to his success early on. But as his career took off in his teenage years it presented unexpected challenges.

Luke challenges us to think deeper about the role social media plays in our lives. How might your life change if you stop trying to get more likes, retweets & followers? You might be able to reclaim your identity & find your voice.

Connect w/ Luke here:  http://www.lukebroadlick.com/
**Keywords:** luke broadlick, magic mike, dance, choreography, small business, entrepreneurship, entrepreneur, film, filmmaking, podcast, podcasting, how to, self help, britney spears, justin bieber, move, movement, matt davella, Matt D'Avella, ground up, the ground up show, jonas brothers, demi lovato, jason derulo, 
**Date:** 2017-12-27

## Transcript
 It was a gradual, a gradual thing, like, if it was really over time, this guy, this guy's getting all the love. You know, this guy's getting all the love and the recognition and the people talking to him and liking him and thinking he's this, but realistically I wasn't that, I was just putting on a facade. It's just how far deep down can you dig till you're like, I'm stuck in this whole now. I got to, like, get the dirt back in to climb out. Luke Brodlik is a dancer and choreographer that's toward with Britney Spears, Jason Derulo, the Jonas Brothers, Demi Lavada and Justin Bieber, but I'm not trying to name drop or anything. He's also choreographed for both magic mic films and the magic mic live in Las Vegas show. He's incredibly talented and I have the honor of sitting down and chatting with this guy. In our conversation today, we talk about his journey through social media and how he felt trapped and pulled into this world of trying to gain more and more followers and really along the way, losing his own identity. This episode of The Ground Up Show is brought to you by nobody, nothing because I don't do advertisements, but if you do want to help, you can head over to iTunes and leave a review and a rating for The Ground Up Show. It sounds complicated. I know, but it only takes 10 seconds and all of these ratings really help to promote the show and they help to get the word out. So if you want to help build and grow The Ground Up Show, you can help. Our conversation here, it kind of starts out running. We were talking about hip hop and free styling and I was going to edit it down and try to make it more of a clean intro, but I just had so much fun. And we got so into our conversation so quickly that I didn't want to kill the momentum. So you'll see what I mean, but I think you'll like it and I think you guys are going to get a lot of value out of this episode. So let's get into it. You're listening to The Ground Up Show, a podcast that inspires creatives to make meaningful content and pursue their passions. My name is Matthew Evela and I'm a filmmaker best known for the Netflix documentary Minimalism. And I'm sitting down with creators to talk about their process, the lessons they've learned and how to make an impact. Was it incredible? It was insane. And you wouldn't think that, well, I mean, shy as shy as so you kind of have to believe that he can do something, but he just dropped like five different styles of rap and it was insane. Really? Yeah, it was swayed and it was just, but it wasn't like, I mean, there's the freestyle edge blurs and one kind of bit. I mean, I'm like, it's dope. It's dope. Yeah. I don't give a shit if you like wrote it down. Most rappers do it. Like if you hear like Childish Gambino freestyle in high school, all the time. It's like, okay, there was a little bit of that and that mixed AP did, there was a little bit of that and that song that he did, but it kind of, it's just free flowing. Yeah, yeah. It's really nice. Because you can tell when they're like, they say something like they'll go with the glass and then they'll be like black cup and then they actually use it. Yeah, I don't want to be like, my mind is intellectual and they just keep wrapping about things that make no sense. Yeah, just like, all right, that's, that was definitely written. You know, who's the best with that? There was like this, oh, this was back in the day when I was in high school, but gin is Asian rapper. And dude, he like, there was that, you haven't had, I haven't, I haven't danged you. I'm raining this down. Yeah. Let me move this up. You just had me mad. Oh yeah. Mad Hype about gin just now. Dude. She had some of the best freestyle because he would do that. He would like point out your shirt and like, oh my god, he just murdered everybody. So there was, I forget what his call, but it was freestyle Fridays on BET, I think. And these videos, like, I would watch him all the time because he was just so good. It was nasty. He was the Asian, he was, I just remember because he was the Asian rapper, there was an Asian rapper. Yeah, yeah, there really was none there. It's funny because he, I remember, like, I like hip hop on the fan of it, but I'm not like a hip hop head where all these people know everything, but I remember seeing he like get a rap battle with Sky Zoo and Sky Zoo is now like an established rapper and just like got a really big following, but it's, it's just funny to see that those circles, how they interconnect and how it is to kind of make it, that's such a, I just had Ash Roth on the podcast. Oh, tight. Yeah. I just interviewed him last Friday, so I should be next week. So I used to work with Bieber and Scooter Asher was his first artist. Yeah, Ashwar was great man because he actually had that trajectory of going mainstream and getting signed to a big record label and he was like, I need to unplug from this. Yeah. I'm like, I can't create the art I want to create. 100%. And there's a sort of commercial aspect that you kind of have to, like, let go of. Yeah. I mean, you can't just sell because then you're going to crash. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. I think that's the fine line and that's the balance. It's tough in the beginning because when you're starting out, you, for most people, they don't have money, they don't have attention. They have nothing. So they're like, sign me. Yes. That's not true. What do you, you need me to say, Kit Kat Bar? Kit Kat Bar. Yeah. I'll see. 100 times if you need me. Yeah. I think that's totally fine. That's okay. Yeah. And then it's about over time, narrowing in on your vision and thinking that exactly. And it's also if you, it's sort of like, what do you really want to do? I mean, if you, if you want to sell, then you can sell. But if you don't want to sell, and just kind of be genuine to yourself, and it's like you learning yourself, you know what I mean, in any regard, really. So like some people will be commercial for their entire life and it's cool, and some people will just, like, nowadays, I've noticed that people are, like, especially in hip-hop, people are just while and out, and people are enjoying it, you know, and people are like, they're like, oh, that's who I am. And so then people are accepting it, like, even when it comes to fashion, people are now just being with baggy teas and baggy jeans and not having a care sort of, and it's being accepted. So I think people are just now kind of getting this, like, it doesn't matter as long as it's good, you know? And I've just, that's cool because now Indy is cool again, and mainstream like commercial pop isn't as popular in a sense, you know? Well, there was a time when, like Britney Spears, Christina Aguilera, Blinguene too, when all the boy bands were coming out, a time when you could manufacture that, and you could actually, like, create this, this image that would be successful, but these days, like you said, it's a lot different, where I'm sure that that's still out there, and it's still as possible to do that, and there are artists that can be, quote unquote, manufactured, for the most part, people can see through that. 100%. I see it all the time, because I'm friends with a lot of people that are manufactured, you know? And I can tell that, I mean, they, they tell me that they're not as happy, and they want to create, but then they're like, oh yeah, my project, and they have to, they have to do what they have to do, but they're not being who they are, and it's just a, it's a fine line of, of really that of, like, who are you, and what do you want to do? Yeah, and it's fascinating, because in a lot of ways, I talk to, in this podcast, we're talking to people that are trying to build something from nothing that are just getting started out, but there are people that are well established that others would look at as successful, but they need to restart themselves. If they really want to pursue the passion and the stuff that they really enjoy and the art that they really want to create, they're going to have to unplug from the image that they've created to do something new, and then, I think that's actually in a lot of ways harder, because then people, you get the criticism, there's going to be so many people from the start that are going to be like, this is stupid, this doesn't work, you're not being you. Yeah, that's actually really funny that you're saying that, because I sort of, myself went through something like that, through dance, I sort of, I kind of created my own image, I guess, in, in that sense of, especially with social media and stuff, and, and seeing the rise of it a couple years back, and I was becoming what I thought I wanted to be, instead of truly like deep down, I knew I shouldn't be doing like A, B and C, but yeah, I was still doing them, you know, and so I had to like, I had to literally stop who I was, and I just shut down, I prayed, I did a whole restart, literally a restart, stop getting followers, I stopped doing all these things, but I'm more happy and more genuine than I was, like I had this whole facade down, like, and made that look real, but it really wasn't, and I had to stop restarting now, I'm actually happier doing what I'm doing and now presenting myself in the way that I actually truly wanted to be. It could be exhausting, yeah, and it's, it's, it's like heartbreaking in a way, because you think you have it and you want it so bad, but then realistically, you don't need it, you know, you don't need a lot of the things that you think that you need, like, all my friends left me, you know, like, all my friends weren't my friends anymore, they just thought that I was doing weird things, and I was like, actually, I'm being more genuine than I ever have been, I've like been more real with you guys now than I am than I was, like, who I was was still cool, but it wasn't real, even to myself, I was doing things and you guys weren't encouraging me, and then now that I'm actually choosing not to do that, then they leave, and then you are left alone, and so you're heartbroken, but you're, but you're content with the fact that you made that decision to be genuine, and I think that's a huge, a huge thing, and I mean, that's like what people industry and everything, you have to be as genuine as possible. How did you come to that realization? Was it, it was, was there like this moment in a piphany where you're like, oh shit, like this doesn't feel right or is it kind of an accumulation of everything happens over time? I mean, there's, there's always like life-changing moments, but it was a gradual, a gradual thing, like, if it was really over time, like, I just would do one thing that I knew I wouldn't do, I really, really wouldn't do, but Luke was doing, and so I had to like step back, like within the, the person who I am and the person who I was making, I had to look at the person who I'm making and be like, all right, be who I am and cut that out, but I wouldn't because this guy, this guy's getting all the love, you know, this guy's getting all the love and the recognition and the people talking to him and liking him and thinking he's, he's this, but realistically, I wasn't that, I was just putting on a facade, and then it was just time and time until you start to break. I mean, the, the, the straw that breaks the camel's back pretty much, like, it's just how far deep down can you dig till you're like, I'm stuck in this hole now, and I got like, get the dirt back into climb out. Yeah, for you, it's challenging because you started so young, you started in the industry, what when you were a teenager. Yeah. And so obviously, we just kind of hopped into this and just started running with it. It was just great. I was just, yeah, we were, yeah, at some point the podcast started and I was like, I'm not going to stop this because if you go straight, I mean, honestly, that's what's funny is, I don't, conversation I always had with people was, is if I can have a conversation like this, it's cool, like it's just conversation, but then yeah, it actually is useful, but yeah, that's what I'm trying to do is like you have these conversations with with people and creators. Yeah. And you want it, you're like, wow, that would be really cool if this was recorded. Like, people could get a lot of time. How many places and how many people have been with where I've been like, oh, I wish I had this moment in my life that was it. Like, I wish we could have all seen. I wish I could have shown my mom this, this moment right now. I wish we could have all seen it. You might need to start a podcast. That might be it. Yeah, that's what it's going to be. It's going to be a GoPro on my shoulder. So I will have given you a really proper introduction before the podcast, before this conversation starts, but if you want to just give me a little bit of background what you've been up to lately for the people. Yeah. I've done a, I've been doing a lot of things. But right now, I actually, we just opened up a show for me. I started choreographing and I, we just opened up a show Magic My Life in Las Vegas, which was, it's actually been a huge success. I'm so stoked on. Anything Magic Mike has been pushing and there's little secret projects and things happening. And I've actually been getting back into my acting. So what I've always, I came out to LA to do that. So that I have my wife, I have my kids, I just been me, the me that I said I was trying to be, you know. I just being creative really. When did you first start getting into it? Because I know you, you did martial arts at a young age. Yeah. Was that what started? That's basically what started it. Like I, it's actually, well, I don't know. Like my mom used to say, I used to do, uh, you say they're like coming to our living room and just like, I would act as like a tree and I would stand there for like an hour just being a tree. Like, you know, you see the kids in the place, whether like, yeah, I was the tree. Yeah. I literally was the tree for with no audience. That's amazing. Yeah. That's sort of Asian though. You're a method actor. You're just a tree for three months. I love being a method man. And that's another thing about just being tangible and like being real is methods. Yeah. You're a side. Um, that's why the film. But it's, uh, yeah, I actually did that young. And so then I, like my parents would have like little house parties with their, with their friends. And so if they would like play music and I would be the James Brown. So I would already be performing and stuff. And I've always done that. Um, but yeah. So I actually, my friend gave me a, uh, in a trick or treat back when I was like seven. He gave me seven or eight. It was like a martial arts free martial arts class. And so I took it. And then my parents, they were just like, he needs to get energy out, let him, let's start karate and I loved it. Um, and so that's really where literally any anything and everything started for me with martial arts. Mm-hmm. A lot of energy went into it. Well, yeah, I, uh, I was in the martial arts in high school. So I did it for like five or six years. It's, uh, yeah. Uh, mutual respect. Yeah, I got to. Um, man, I loved it when I, when I did it. I think it for me, it was like hard to go to the classes. Like I would be like, I don't know if I want to go. But once you went, you were like, oh, what's up there? You're there. Yeah. It's like doing anything. It really is. Like I don't want to work out. But when you're working on it, you're like, I am the man right now. Yeah, like flexing in the mirror. And like this is what you feel the sweat and you're like, I did it. Yeah, it's just the act of doing. Yeah, because you will make so many excuses for yourself to not get going. My shoe laces untied and I can't walk right now. Yeah. That's literally as, as real as some people will make, we'll take it. Yeah. That's the act of doing. Like that's why Nike is killing it. Like just do it is, is this my change it. Whatever, they will never, there's no point because that statement alone can trigger anything on any level. Like any kind of facet you have is just just do it. And you're like, okay. Yeah, okay. I have this segment where the end of the podcast. That's quick questions. And one of them is what's the simplest advice? That's the most important to follow. Everybody says just do it. Everything just do it. Just get going. Because even from me, like talking about this, like, it's just do it. I learned a lot from a choreographer and creative director that I work with her name's Allison Folk and she's she's she used to dance with Janet and pink and literally like everybody. She's like the OG and and she brought me on to do the Magic Mike films in 2010 or 12 whenever the first one came out. And I was working with Brittany with her and she, her work ethic is absolutely insane. Like I always, like after just hand, if I even just spent an afternoon with her, I just know that I'm like, oh Luke, pull up because she's killing it and that's why she's mad at successful. Like not like God blesses, of course, our actions are in our, and our persistence in our heart, but you have to do it. I mean, like, I'm like a faith-based person and like, I mean, it even says, like faith without works is dead. So you can't just be like, thank you and it's going to happen. It's not necessary. You have to put the action and that's why we have choice. That's why we have everything. That's why we have fingers to grab and to do. Like we were meant to, we were meant to be on this planet to like literally love each other and figure things out. Like that's it. Like we didn't, we weren't, we're not supposed to can't enable this whole thing. And it does come back. It always comes back to like, I think the arch enemy of just do it is the excuses. And like, especially when you see somebody that's successful, that's doing amazing things like she is, people that, well, she's probably well connected. Her dad probably knows somebody blah, blah, blah. And it's like, no, she does the work every single day. She busts her ass. That's exactly it. Like emails. Like you may not want to reply to the email and you're like, I can wait. And then you wait and then you miss the email. And then you're late. And then now you miss that opportunity. But if you just would have spent that time and been like, let me do this, let me take my time, focus on what it is. And then move on. That could lead to an easier thing for you to step forward on. Like it may be tough for you to say to, it may be tough for you to do something. But once you do it, it could actually lead to an easier and easier like success. Yeah. And that goes especially for things that you're putting off. Like I know, you know, those things on your two do lists, you're like, man, I should really do that. But then you keep pushing it off to the next day. Because you think you have something else too. Yeah. You don't like point blank period. Yeah. You have to do it. There's no excuse because you don't have anything else to do. Yeah. Because I'm doing it because it's already on your list to do. Yeah. And like it's there for a reason to do, you know. When did the martial arts start to pick up? When did you start to feel like you were getting successful at it? And you're starting to, were you a quick learner in it? Yeah. I'm naturally able to do a lot of things. Like I can, I can just, I can see somebody do something. And I like usually have always been that kid that can do it. And so martial arts was, I got in and within, honestly, my mom will know all the details of my history of karate and stuff. But I know within like the first couple years, like I want to say like two years or so, I got my black bow and I was like solid in there. And a few of my buddies were doing, excuse me, a few of my, we were, we were doing like different competitions for like local tournaments and everything. And I just, in my age range and everything, I just was smoking. And I, and I, it wasn't necessarily like my new house, the best at it, or what not, I just was doing it. Like I just was like, this is what you do. Like you do the punch correctly. You do the kit correctly. And if you want to add some flair, you can be creative and do it. And so I started when I was eight, I know around like 13 or so, I started competing nationally, our local school went to a tournament. And I got destroyed out there, because we, our, our, our sensei also put us in like the wrong categories, because he had no idea. So I was like in a traditional form, like there's a bunch of different categories. There's like extreme, there's musical forms, there's weapons, there's traditional, and then there's creative, and all those have their own set of rules. And so like in a traditional category, you do like just a traditional kata. You just, the basics, and whoever can perform it and, and present it the best, when it's usually. And I was doing like backflips and like punches and stuff in the traditional, and they're like, you're just, which was actually part of the kata, or was it? No, it was, I was in the wrong category. I was doing a creative form. And like the, I was doing like an extreme form in the traditional, like, whatever it is. And I just, I just got disqualified. And every, like literally almost everybody got ruined that whole tournament. But it intrigued me to be like, this is something bigger than my school. This is something bigger than where I am at in Arizona. And so ever since then, I just started, I would go out to Chicago and train with a, a sensei out there. His name since they shark, he's the, he's like, dad for everybody. And so they just kind of like took me into the wing and started training us. And then I would say like around 13, 14, I was like on national level, just NASCAR. You might see it's on ESPN sometimes. It's the trotty that they put on. And it's that circuit. And I was like 13, 14, like, just going to town on there. Yeah, you, because you were like 13 time champion and one of these. Yeah, like I've been doing it for a while. Yeah, but it doesn't. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. What, what it, like you said, this is like not traditional karate, like what is the ways are named for that? The, the blend between on flips and all this. Yeah, well, there's all a bunch of different styles, like there's like Shoryuru and Campo. And yeah, I did that. I did it. I did it. I did it. I did it. I did it. It's in real. Yeah. It's just a mix of show and real and Gojin real. Yeah. You know what I mean? There's so many different kinds. There's literally a million different things like Kung Fu. I mean anything. So I did Campo and we, uh, and I learned from a Shoryuru master. And there's traditional, which would Jimmy's speed, regular, whatever your style is. If you do a Kung Fu style, you're a Kung Fu style, like Goorishu, whatever, anything would be it. And the style that we kind of have is just extreme martial arts, which is sort of, uh, just basically the same kicks and punches, but with, like, different, uh, different elements to it, like gymnastics or Capoetta or, um, literally anything, like weapons, it would be all the, uh, extremes too. And you basically do with, like, you would do, like, a front kick and then you would do a jump front kick and then you would do a back clip and a front kick while you're doing it. So then that turns into a flash kick. And so that's how it just kind of evolved from a few of the older cats from my generation. Like, a little older than me, they would start doing it. And so us kids were like, that's what you do. And so it just kind of like, literally took over. I mean, even you see it now in, like, parkour, them doing all the extra flips. Because it used to be parkour and then there was free running. And free running was the tricks and the flips. And so then now it's just kind of overall one thing. Yeah. But the, uh, free running aspect was actually from, like, tricking, like, all the martial artists were like, doing crazy things and then it kind of like, just bailed upon itself. Yeah. Oh, like, that whole genre of just extreme movement was, uh, just kind of evolves itself. I mean, there's, like, dance and dances just dance, but then there's subcategories. Sure. So yeah. I thought I was fancy with my double fake kick. Oh, that was my move. And then yeah. Yeah, that was the one. I could still do it. I could still pull it up. If you still do martial arts at all, or is that taking a back seat to, um, choreography? I haven't trained. Yeah. Like, I, I know I can still do it. But the tricking aspect, like, because a few of our buddies, I'm like the first young generation to do tricking what we call tricking, um, which would basically be the extreme flips and stuff. So there's, like, tricking competitions. There's all kinds of stuff of this own style. And, uh, and, uh, I was, like, one of the first generations to do that, like, as the young kids, like, the older guys were doing it, but I was, like, one of the first generations to, like, really just take it on and YouTube it and do the whole nine. And so that, that I still do some of that, especially with dance, like, there's B boys who do tricking stuff now. You know what I mean? Yeah. So it kind of implements all in all and just movement, really. Um, so I still do that, but I don't, um, really trained. Yeah, when it's a bit, I could still get down though. Yeah. Yeah. I think it's like, uh, if, yeah, if you were to hop into a dojo, would take it by a long time. Yeah. Yeah, I keep thinking about that. Like, because a lot of people now are talking about, um, I think it's jujitsu, uh, like, Joe Rogan doesn't everybody's other guys. Yeah. That's the style that you want to do if you want to, like, not choke somebody out. Yeah. If you want to, like, if you're like, oh, if I'm going to fire, I should probably learn jujitsu. Yeah. Because it's basically, it's basically like taking them down and, like, basically reworking what they're fighting you with kind of things. Yeah. I know I'm not going to get hit with this. And a lot of traditional martial arts was like, people respected each other and then they fought, like, with punches and kicks. And we don't do that now. Like, a dude's going to suck upon you or have a gun. And so you kind of have to, like, rework how they do it. Yeah. It's a whole idea that like, uh, everybody's got to plan until they get punched in the face. Yeah. And if you're in an actual fight, it's, some of the traditional martial arts is kind of, um, I think there's a lot of that muscle memory that would really help you in quick situations. Yeah. But it's always going to lead to a scuffle. It's always going to end up on the ground. 100%. So, since I sharky, actually, I, I, I never got my black belt from since I sharky, because I was, I was already a black bone. You didn't, I didn't need to train in the style. But, I overheard, and now he, how he handles his, his black belts is that you go through a full day of training. Like, they shut the, dojoes. They lock you in there. And you do every card. You do everything. Like, muscle memory that, every technique, everything. Then you do it with people attacking. You're doing it at the same time. And then at the very end of it, push those, the whole nine you get kicked. And beat up, he's at the end of the studio. And he's like, get to me. And he has all the black belt lined up. And you just have to get to him. Like, it doesn't matter. You have to like, poke them and grab them and bite them and like, rip them and like, do anything because in a, in a real scenario, that's what it would be. You know, I mean, you have to fight for it. You're not going to, just be like, punch me correctly. You know, like, this is what I should do, because it's not really going to happen. No, no one ever really punches correctly. You know, someone's going to be like, yeah, yeah, it's going to come in. Yeah, they're going to suck and punch you in some kind of way. So it's just like, just, that's why you're just as huge because people are like, let me handle it. Yeah, that's one of the special things to about martial arts is the rising up the ranks and like reaching new levels and like get going for the black belt. Yes. It's not going to be easy. That's going to be such a memorable experience of like, overcoming that. I did it. There was like a camp that I went away to do it. And it was the most intense three days of my life. Just, yeah, like I remember like we went, we took a little break for breakfast and there was this tray of watermelon and I was in the back of the line and everybody's taking the watermelon and it's going quick. And I'm like, so I'm like dying with there. I'm like, I need some watermelon. I got up to the line. It was all gone. They're about to take the tray away. And there was like discarded remnants of like some like half piece of, I was like, hold that tray. Yeah, like I'm glad that I won't have it. Yeah, like it felt so good. And they're like, oh, shit, all right, cool. This guy's not with very wasteful, but it's super intense. Yeah, we at the end of our black belt test. He did it for every every belt, but this one you did it for mad long. And it was a full long ceremony of after you did all that you're techniques, but you take off your old belt, you put it down in front of you and you get your other belt and you like you bow and you put your head on it and you just rub until like it gets red. And you just have to like rub blood and sweat into your belt because that's what you're going to, that's what you put into what you're doing. Yeah. And so it's like now you're not what already has what you've been through. And now you need to make this more than what it is. And actually that's actually funny me thinking about it. Like that's kind of what you need to do in life. Like all the blood sweat tears and everything that you put into what your craft is. When you get to what you think you've got, you need to you need to acknowledge that you put that into it and then push past what that was. Like don't let a goal end you know. Like don't let a, don't let a goal just be, don't let the black belt be the black belt because there's 10th degree black belts. So now you have to go through years of getting the second black belt. You know what I mean? Yeah, that's probably why they did that, which is like that's not just your done. It's like next because and that can affect a lot of people in a negative way. Is that your, your pushing and your pushing and Jim Carrey talks about this a lot. He's got a new documentary, Jim and Andy. Yeah, that guy's saying. Yeah, he's on one right now. He really is. And he, but like it's this thing, he's like, he isn't a unique position to be able to say, you know, I got everything I ever wanted, but I was still unhappy. And it's like so it's not getting there. It's not getting the mansion, the money and the cars and all this stuff that's going to make you happy. It's going to be, there's going to be a lot of different things, but it's about doing that work that you truly love and are fulfilled with. Yeah. And it was, that's why I always talk about tangible and things that are, excuse me, that are genuine now because I always look at like back in the day or like my grandfather, my grandfather was a, he was a farmer and just to me, putting the work into things and seeing like just older generations, usually just like older older generations of like when there wasn't technology in all these things, you had to, you had to do something and you had to do a craft or even if you were a wanderer, you're not like a gypsy, wanderless kind of person. Like people are now you're still like a true wanderer. Like you really walked miles and then you got picked up by somebody in a van or something and then they took you somewhere else and then you learned something else from a different person and now it's sort of like like a, like a fad to be this thing. But I like being like genuine and learning a craft and learning things that are like real in a sense and I, I just been enjoying that lately. Like I picked up a guitar and I was like, I don't, I say I want to do a guitar but I'm not putting the effort into learning how to play a guitar. So I'm actually learning how to play a guitar and putting that time in that effort into it and then having that form myself to like present, you know. Yeah, it, it, it also, those kind of things take you out of your head. Yeah, I know like whenever I'd be anxious or I'd be really nervous about something, a big thing coming up without just screening to a film or whatever, it's pulling out the guitar, just playing a little bit and then everything else goes away and I can just focus on that. Yeah, because you're, you're not, because this isn't the world in a sense. You know what I mean? This isn't the, I mean, it has the world in it pretty much, but yeah, we're like a representation of what the world is. Yeah, it's, it's like, the world is literally where we are right now. Like these wooden floors and this, this roof over our head. Like, I don't know when this was built, but it looked like a 40s, like a 90s 40s kind of place because I used to live in a, I used to live on a wiggly of the font noise. Oh yeah. Uh, if you look at it, it has the giant red letters and it's, it was a 1920s built all the way back and uh, and I just like that that real, that realism of what things are and it takes you away from being like artificial. Like, I, I'm glad that people are going like raw sugar and honey and stuff versus like this Splenda and like this fake sugar things that they're making because we, we're real people. I, I like being real and I like feeling and noticing that we're real versus the screen that if it goes black, if the phone's literally go black, what do I have? You know, I mean, like, am I putting my life into a piece of metal or am I putting my life into me? You know, like, taking the guitar, getting out of myself and putting myself into something that I can work on or grow with or even this photography. If I, I could probably make my own light, but uh, like room eventually like and know how to do it versus digitalizing everything and just letting it be because then it's gone if it's gone. You know, I mean, there's nothing real there. I just, uh, it's just, I've been trying to be as present almost like Jim Kerry's been saying he's like, go out onto the nature and I felt so much better and I'm like, I love that, like I love that. And I think that's kind of what I was talking about earlier is I took, I got out of, I sort of got out of who I was thinking I was because I was making my phone myself. Like I was making my selfie who I am versus looking at myself. You know what I mean? And, and, and uh, working on my heart, working on my characters versus working on my clothing or my uh, just my style or what I think is cool because someone else is cool, you know, like I'm not going to be a rapper. I was trying to be a rapper too. Like I was doing all kinds of things, like nonsense. And I was like, I'm not a rapper. I'm not going to be a rapper. I can probably rap. Yeah, it could be fun. How the, yeah, I could do it. But it's like, that's not who I am. Like I didn't grow up in the slums, trying to, that's the only thing I knew, you know, I grew up trying to do all kinds of things. So why would I, because that guy's doing it, you know, yeah. Do you meditate at all? Yeah, I pray. Yeah, like morning and night. I pray with my wife too. We just like focus. And I've gotten more into that a lot more. Like, uh, because you need to, like you really need to have that time because we were so fast-paced. Like, I don't know about you, but time is flying. Like we're in December right now. Yeah. And I remember 2015, you know what I mean? Like I was like, oh, that was, oh, yeah, yeah, it's three years ago now almost. You know, so I am taking that time to like, now that you got a kid too, man, it's gonna fly by even quicker. Oh, 100%. Like my son is three months now. And it's like, I remember, because I've been having to go back and forth from Atlanta literally everywhere. I've been going from Atlanta, Vegas, London, and here. And so I've been literally bouncing around that I haven't really seen him almost since he was born. I was there when he was born and being with my wife and everything. But then I've been bouncing around that I had like a week and then I came back and, uh, and just seeing him like on FaceTime and stuff, it's just like, he's huge and he's like growing and he's learning and he's like holding his head up and he's doing things that, that I think that we take for granted. You know what I mean? Like seeing seeing the baby grow is like, it's literally seeing like a flower grow. You know what I mean? It's happening. It's literally blossoming. It's literally happening at that moment. And I think we take it for granted because we're trying to get a selfie or whatever, whatever, maybe, you know? Yeah, I have the same thing. I don't have a kid, but my nephew, just he's uh, he turned a year old recently and it's just wild to see the growth in a year because day to day, you don't see any change. But like, holy shit. Over the course of a year, I'm like, this kid's running around. He's like a tyrant now. He's starting to talk a little bit. Yeah. Realistically, we don't know what to do, but we know that we need to do something, you know? And I think that year and for what it is that we need to do is, is better than pity. Yeah, I sometimes think about that, like think about arc, what drives me like, why do I keep making stuff? Why do I like, why would I work on a new film? And it's like, in large part, because I know what it's like to not do all that stuff. And just to be sedentary. Like, I've certainly been lazy. I've wasted summers away. That is like the worst feeling in the world when you're not creating. When you're just binge watching TV or whatever it is, you're like, and then regretting the fact that you didn't go out and make this stuff and and create art. But what's the, uh, is it, is it, is it, um, retrospect is always 2020 or, uh, hindsight is always 2020 and makes sense. Like, you look back and you're like, ah, oh, I could have done a million different things. Yeah. But also, you're meant to be where you are right now. You know what I mean? Like, I meant to be talking to you right now. Yeah. You know, we could be dead. That's a huge thing. I always think about it too. It's like, like, that flood that happened in India not too long ago. We, we, I think we, a lot of people just kind of like bypassed it because of all the things that happened here, you know. But in India, it was like, it was like 12,000 people died or something of blood or something crazy. And I was like, that's so many people crazy. And they were sleeping or whatever. And then it happened and they're gone. Like, that was it, you know. And, and it's just like, we're meant to be where we are right now, you know. And if we have, if we have, like, anything negative or we have anything that's not right, we need to work on that. Um, like me stepping out and just me basically stepping out and just, uh, working on myself. Like, I found out that I was mad selfish. You know, I was so, so I'm still Loki and, you know. And just losing that alone as a characteristic in life is huge. Or I tend to, uh, or like, you might be, you might have to do something that you don't know you do. And the only way that you'll learn it is if someone presents it to you or if you acknowledge it yourself, you look in the mirror and you're like, oh, that's right. You know what I mean? And, uh, that's really where you better yourself versus bettering a craft. Like, you better yourself as a person. Like, as my people are doing yoga and taking care of themselves, but they're not always taking care of the heart, you know. Yeah, I had this mindset early on, which was, uh, what do I want? What can I get? And it's, it was all about me. It was all about what I wanted. And it was all about how much money I could make and, you know, what kind of car I could get and blah, blah, blah. And then eventually it was like, once I started to get all that stuff, I started to pay down my debt, my student loans and all that, it was, I still, like, Jim Carrey, I was like, well, you know what? I'm not happy. Now, this didn't make me content in and of itself. So then it was flipping it around and I said, what can I give? Like, what can I offer? What can I provide? How can you help people? Yeah. And I find that coming from that mindset. And like you said, there is, there is that, that push where I like, of course, you're always going to be thinking a little bit like, oh, what do I want? Or like, what can I create? That's going to be exciting. But if you're able to come back into that mindset of, of how can I help, I find it to be much more fulfilling. 100%. That's the whole point of people. Like I was saying, we're here to love each other and work it out, help each other. Like, truly, like, what can I give? What can I do? And it's tough. I mean, that's like a, that's like the neverending thing that we need to work on as people is just to, just to be better. You know, it's the love, truly love though. Like, like, give you my jacket if it's cold. Like, not like, let's go get you a jacket. No, I'll give you my jacket off my back. You know what I mean? That's the love for you. Not, I have an extra one in here because you need it now. You know what I mean? Like, yeah, it means sometimes more to you to be able to give when you don't have much. Yeah, the guy that got me into minimalism, simple living and all this kind of thinking was actually Tom Shadyak. If you heard of him, he's he directed a documentary called I am, but he also, I've seen, I was a little you seen the little letterhead. Yeah. So he's actually, he did all the Jim Carrey Bruce Almighty, all those big massive films. So his whole story was he got everything he ever wanted. 10,000, 15,000 square foot mansion moved in because people told him that's what you should want. Yeah. Realizing, like, this doesn't make me happy. I'm not fulfilled with this lifestyle. And then he kind of reverted. Now he lives in, or at least last I heard, he lives in a trailer park home in Malibu. Like, just a little home, but it's like everything he needs. Yeah, that's all you need. Yeah. Yeah. We're, we're an excessive people. Yeah. We definitely are. And I wonder, like, I'm not really, I'm kind of on the outskirts of the entertainment industry. I'm more indie. You're kind of more embedded in it. Is this kind of thinking not as prevalent? Is it, there's more of a pull towards consumerism in it? Yes, and no. I think the artists within are very, are tend to be genuine. I mean, you can always spot, there's always some kind of some kind of presentation on commercializing. I've noticed that actually a lot of people lately are becoming more real, like in general. Like, we're not looking at the fake pop princesses, pop stars and stuff anymore. Yeah. I think that's the thing is, is maintaining integrity and being true to yourself. Yeah. We actually recently, so I made a documentary called Minimalism and in it, the Minimalists are like the main guys and they run a simple living blog about minimalism and about simple living and pairing down. And we recently created a physical good a product. We made like an indie go-go campaign for a bag. It's a, this is really cool travel, minimalist bag. It's got like these really functional compartments. But the whole messaging around that and creating that, we were like, all right, first of all, can we ethically and morally create a physical good at another thing in this world? But be ethical about it. And I, you know, we're not trying to sell a million of these. But obviously, we wanted to be viable and want people who could actually get value from it to get it. So I was like, all right, that was really one of the hardest videos I've ever made because we made, I made the indie go-go video, everything else surrounding. It's like, how do I make this messaging? The Minimalists are selling a bag. How do I actually get this across? Yeah. And we ended up ending the video, Josh wrote it, but it was, it was really off the cuff on the day of where he was like, he just like was talking directly to camera saying, he's like, listen, like, we made a bag, but it doesn't mean that you need it. It doesn't mean that you should want it. If you do not need this bag, please do not buy it. You'll be totally fine with that. It's just a bag. Yeah. And it's like, everybody reacted so well to that. And it was something like holy shit, like somebody's selling me a bag, but they're telling me if I don't need it, don't buy it. Like what does that happen? Yeah. Yeah, that doesn't happen. Yeah, exactly. But it was, it honestly, it made those who were supporting us and supporting our message, be that much more dedicated and lead to us. And a lot of people were like, yeah, I don't need the bag. I'm not going to buy it. Yeah. But I share with my friends because I think other people might want to buy it. Yeah. And that's, that's a thing too. It's like, what? In a sense of being commercial, like, how do you be genuine? You know, like, how do you sell something genuinely and that's exactly an example? Like, how do you sell yourself genuinely? Like, how do I present myself as a creative artist and be like, who I am, but then not, like, I'll do anything that you need me to do, but I also got to be genuine to myself, like, you know, I'm not going to do this role or I will do this or I won't choreograph that or I will do this. And it's like, that's just tough. Like, what do you, what do you bring to the world that we don't already have? Like, Tesla, like, he's the only person that's really I see on the mask, scale, making goods for the better. Yeah. And I mean, it's, yeah, that's one of the things where I'm like, shit, I would love to have, like, one of the solar homes that he's creating. So every single person who is sustainable, every, have a Tesla car because it's going to be like, I want the truck. I want the giant I want the Tesla. Like, it's so much as fast. Yeah, I don't bring all your friends around. And there you go. I want that. But it's like, the stuff that he's creating is going to be good for the environment. He's proving that you can bring great design, beautiful products into the world. And it doesn't need to actually hurt the world. Yeah. And that's like what Apple did Apple was like, look, here's all this, all this good in this one little thing. Right. And look how minimal it is. There's nothing else to it. Like, so it's tough when it comes to like even like clothing or like bags and stuff. It's like, like, the bag, it's like, you only need one bag. I guess, right? Like, if you have less, you need less. And if you only have one, then that's all you need. And less it breaks. And then you got to get another one or whatever. But we're at an age where we want everything because we sort of feel like we do. And that I think that space is because we are absent with who we are. You know what I mean? Like, I'm, that's why I'm picking up my film camera and stuff. Because like, I love taking photos. But then I was like, let me get something real. Because that actually makes me feel better than just splurging on all these photos and all these things. I was like, I would like one thing and one thing to work on versus a million things that I can't comprehend. When did things start taking off for you in terms of the dancing and choreography when did that sort of pick up? Like, pretty young, right? Yeah. I moved out to LA. We lost our house in 2007 with the whole, the whole market crash and everything. I watched the big short and I, I didn't know anything at the time. Like, my mom was a, which was a mortgage underwriter. So she got hit the hardest, like with everybody. And I watched the big short on a plane one time with Alice and actually, and I was watching it and I just kept being like, like, looking at her and being like, this happened to me. Like, this literally happened to me. Like, I didn't know because I was young. I was like 15 or so, 16, 16. And so we left Arizona and we came to LA. And I was kind of going back and forth anyway trying to do acting. And I did this talent scout thing that they saw in Arizona and nobody called me back. All right. Well, that's kind of defeating. So finally, finally, we came out to LA and we got an agent. I got an agent. And I didn't even have to, like, audition. I just went in and talked to them. And they were like, cool. Like, you're really, you're really cool kid. Like, we'll sign you. And so, literally from there, I started booking, like, from that audition or from that signing, actually, they signed me that day. And I went to downtown. And I booked a, um, it was either like a, I think it was like a photo shoot, like a getty images, stock photo shoot, like that same day. Or it was a commercial, I can't remember if it was the time when a commercial was something. But I booked something that same day. So it kind of motivated me to be like, oh, I can do something. So I started bouncing around doing little things out here. Like, a million different little things. Like, just commercials or Nickelodeon things and being around. And dance took off when I was 16. I drove my friend to an audition. I started dancing for a little bit. I won a scholarship to a big dance school out here. And I, I won a scholarship by doing literally the tricking. They call the crazy flips and stuff that I was doing. But I didn't know how to dance. So I just flipped around and I got the, uh, I got the scholarship. So I started taking classes. And so I met a guy there, uh, Michael, one of my good friends. Uh, we have a crazy story. And, um, I drove him to the audition when I was 16. And I didn't have an dance agent. I had my acting agent. I had my acting headshot with this short haircut and like this baby face. I was like 15 when I got the shot. And, um, he was like, just, just take the class. He's like, just, uh, audition with me. It's like taking a class. Like, if they cut you, at least you learn choreography from big choreographers. And, you know, call it a day. And you could experience what it was. And I was like, okay. So I signed in, I signed in with his agency. And, uh, and, uh, he got, he got cut. And I kept going. I kept standing. And I drove him to the audition. So he's like, yeah, he was really bad. I felt bad. Yeah. Then he, he eventually got around home and suffered then the audition went all the way through. And I got all the way to the end. And then call backs for the next day. And then there was a certain there was a, uh, uh, the director, Jamie King. He's done a million different things. A billion different tours used to dance with Michael. Um, the guys, like, the superstar of, uh, show directing. And, um, and he, like, spots me out. And he, like, looks at my husband. He's like, Luke, uh, what did, he was like, when you get this choreography down. And I was like, uh, yeah, because I don't know, I literally know nobody. And he's so he calls me out. And I was like, yeah, yeah, I go into, I go home that night. I take the mirror off my mom's like, uh, dresser that she had. And I put it in my room. I'm just doing the choreography nonstop over and over and over. So the next day was a full audition. Britney came in that same day. And I, so what was this, this was for this is actually for Britney. Yeah. So then, um, the second day comes in. Uh, we do the audition and, uh, uh, right at the end. Um, they were just like, okay, cool. You guys are the guys for tour. And I was like, okay. Yeah, cool. Sure. Like, I have no idea what I'm doing. I literally had no idea. I'm just learning choreography and doing it. Like, I don't, there's not any kind of, there's nothing in my head that has anything to do with this. And, um, and they're like, yeah, cool rehearsals are tomorrow. And so literally the next day after the rehears, after the auditions was rehearsal. And, uh, in the never since then, I literally have just been working as a professional dancer. Like, I learned the best I could in that professional aspect. Like, I, um, because I was working with the, the biggest director, like, I think at the time, like, all these different choreographers, um, like top choreographers at the time. Britney was, was fresh out of 2007. So this is like her comeback tour. Yeah. It was like the thing. Like, it was like the thing for that entire community. And, um, and I've both imagined where your life would be if you didn't, you know, I don't even know. Like, that's the, that's what I'm saying where I meant to be, where I meant to be at this moment. Like, can't overthink it. Yeah. Not enough. Because even even during the audition process, like, I just was like, I just want, because whatever this is is fun. Like, I like doing it. The energy is cool. I like moving, you know, I like acting. So it's like, I'm acting is like sort of like dancing is sort of like movement acting. Like, I'm portraying something through what it is. And, uh, they asked me like my age to and I was like, yeah, I'm 17. I'm going to be 18. I already graduated out of high school because I graduated online because we had to move because we lost our house. So, uh, so I came out and I just finished online. It's quick as I could. And so I was able to work as an adult out here. And, um, and so they called my mom and they were like, is he really 17? And I was like, yeah, my, I was like, mom, just, you're like, you're like, you got this. We're about the change. I'm about to change our life right now. Yeah. So she's like, yeah, yeah, yeah, woohoo. And, uh, they're like, okay, cool. And they didn't check like, they didn't check your idea. I was like, I was like, you hate the idea. I don't even know. Maybe make a big try. Yeah, try every spring. I don't know what it was. But, uh, and then yeah, and so I ever since then, I was like, working that. So that really set me off for anything in the industry, which is huge. Like, I'm, it's such a blessing to be honest. Like, yeah, I mean, that's honestly where you're going to learn the most. It's just from actually doing it and doing the work. It's not like, through an internship or in, in the classroom, that's not where you're going to learn. Yeah. And it's funny. I was, I was reading something about, like, applying for a job. Like, it was, it was something. And, uh, I think it was reading an article where it was like, they were talking about how kids don't have, um, they don't have the experience, but they don't have the opportunity to experience it to have the experience to qualify for the, for the job. Yeah. So I, I was like, think that's, that's crazy because like, if I was supposed to have, like, five years of retail experience, but I can't even get the job because I have no experience. How do I do that? Like, I don't even know the loophole behind that. Like, you can't intern at a clothing company where I'm McDonald's. Like, you can't intern that or whatever. And so, like, I was just like, oh, that's, that's insane. So luckily, like, I'm so blessed to have that because I learned exactly what to do and when to do it and how to do it, at its highest level. Like, at what you do, I learned it. And then ever since then, I was like, okay, I got this. Like, I know how to present myself in the way that we need to present yourself. Yeah. I think the biggest mistake that kids make, especially in college is that they just do what's on the syllabus. And that was, like, a lot of my friends, a lot of people I knew back in college, they weren't really exploring outside of that. So then by the time that you graduate, you got a resume with just a degree on it, but no actual experience. And like you said, a lot of people, I know it's fucked up, but they say, you need this experience in order to get this job. You need to use experience, whatever. And you're like, but this is entry level. Yeah. Like, I don't, I don't. Yeah. Exactly. So you got to put in the work beforehand, though. You got to, like, outside of school, do the internships, whatever you can while you're in college. Yeah. Like, you know, you can party and you can have fun on the weekends. That literally doesn't even have time for you. Yeah. It doesn't really does nothing for you. Like, yeah. It kind of works with what I'm saying. And I learned with through, through martial arts and through tricking and through the experience of performing, performing martial arts. Like, even in shows and stuff that that you needed present yourself with all these different levels of what you have. And so I know that through that audition, I was flipping my face off. Like, I was doing anything and everything that I had to give. Like, I knew I could flip. I knew I did martial arts. So I could, I was clean with the lines and stuff. I took direction well just from different acting things. Like, I just knew that that's what I had. Like, I had, that's all I had. But I had more than nothing. Like, I didn't present myself with just a headshot and being like, this is, this is what I got. I got nothing. I actually had other things underneath. And then when I presented it, then I was able to like, step forward on that. And that way. Yeah. And so like, you can't present yourself with a resume with nothing on it. So that was what you were 15, 16 years old. And you just get thrown into this crazy world of traveling and dancing and, and, and, and it's been, yeah, I'm sure I'm absolutely nuts. And I mean, it makes sense in terms of what you're talking about before, where you kind of, you don't really get to figure out who you are. You don't really get that much downtime to figure out. All right. This is who I am. This is how I want to portray myself in the world. Yeah. Um, so not at all. When was that? When was that moment? Where you started to take a step back? How many years? I mean, it was years later that I was like, okay, I need to really step, I really need to step back. And it was after, for me, it was after. So I did, I did Brittany in 2009. I did Jonas Brothers in Demi Lovato in 2010. Then I did Brittany again in 2011. We did the movies around that same, the magic, my movies around that time. Then I hopped on Bieber's tour in 2012 and 13. And then right after Bieber, I went on to Rulo. And so that's, Rulo, Jason Dulo's tour was like, my end all peak of what I'm doing. Like, I was like, I started getting into this facade of like in the dance room. I felt like I was the dude, like in that industry. I was like, I'm like, I, um, because I just was hopping on tour to tour in the big tours too. And then when I was with Bieber, it just, I kind of had that validation with him that I was, I was cool. Like me and him were cool. Like, and, uh, and like we would have moments, we would talk deep and then, you know, then he's Bieber again. But we, yeah, but we, we like, I mean, you have to be, you know, sure. But I just had this moment of like, I'm the guy, like I'm the guy, like even on tour, I was like a veteran versus a newbie in 2009 with the Brittany tour. So then I just sort of drifted away into who I thought I was versus who I really, who I really was. I like was losing myself because I had that validation from different stars or whatever and thinking that I'm this, but I'm really not like, I really just wanted to be an actor and chill and, and have, like, a humbled moment. And finally, like, at the end of end of Darula, I just, like, I, I, I couldn't, like, I just, I was gone too long. I was losing myself. I was doing all kinds of drugs. I was like, I was literally like rocks on my mind. I had long hair. I know his ring earrings and, like, I got a couple tattoos and I was just like, I am this image versus I am who I am. And that was, like, the peak. Like, we left South Africa after doing a show. And I just was like, I got on the plane stumbling, like, high and drunk and I just couldn't. Like, I was like, I'm not anything who I am. I'm not anything that my mom would be proud of. I'm not any, I literally felt like I'm not anything, even though to some people, I was the man. You know what I mean? Like, I'm presenting the wrong man. And so that was the, that was the peak. Like, I just couldn't be who I thought I was anymore. That's crazy, man. It was nuts. It's hard to unplug from that. It's, yeah. And because, like, even, like, social media was like my life in a sense. Like, I was hustling it. Like, I, like, I grew, I grew up and I've grown up in, like, this tech savvy world. Like, I grew up, like, twittering and Facebook and Instagram and everything and like, and just, and then I was with the stars and the celebrities and it just like it made me be like, even though I wasn't the star or the celebrity. Like, I, I was attaching myself to that. And I think that's where a lot of people are are going wrong. You're, we're thinking that we're part of something if we have the same clothes or we have the, whatever. But like, realistically, I don't have the same pressures as just, and I have different ones. I have my own battles and my own things. But because I, because we're cool or we're this or that, I feel attached to that. And so I'm taking that on. Like, if I look at an Instagram post of seeing somebody wearing, like, really cool clothes and, and I'm like, oh, I want that I am that or I can't be that. But that's not really who I am. Like, is that really inspiring or is it because it has, like, 20,000 likes or something? And it's popular and it makes it feel like that's important. It's hard when that's not you. And you're like, because dude, I was there when I first started out, it was like, film in, in the, the sneaker culture. And I would get, like, had 10, 15 pairs of sneakers. I would get all these new, uh, new apparel and stuff. And I felt cool. Because I was like, my friends really appreciated that. If I got a new pair of sneakers, they would call me on on it. But like, it didn't take very long for me to realize what this is in me. Like, I, I don't really care about the, the sneakers. Like, where the same pair of sneakers, like, these days I wear a gray t-shirt and that's all I wear every day. And yeah, exactly. And I don't, I don't care. Nobody cares. Nobody said anything to me. I think we project that on ourselves. When you're in that circle, you kind of feel like, oh, I want to be like them. But really, they just want you to be yourself. For the most, most people just want you to be yourself. It just be comfortable in yourself. And people will grab it. Yeah, that's a huge thing. And in a sense, I always kept myself, like, I think that's also why I was able to go this long with, with doing things. I was always myself. I was always able to still be cool, Luke and fun and all these things. But deep down, I was like, I know I'm doing the wrong thing. Like, I just know I'm doing the wrong things or even little actions, even personal life and stuff. I was like treating, treating things poorly because I think differently. Like, I'm thinking, like, I'm making myself think that way, even though deep down, I don't feel that way. You know, and yeah, I'm actually reading a book, positive thinking, changing my life. It's literally just, he's like, don't feed into the thought. Like, don't, like, if I know that I don't like purple, let me not think about purple. Like, let me just not think about it. And if it does pop up, think about grain. And they just don't entertain the Barney. Oh, no, it's Barney. But like, you have to tap out of the thought of it. Me interviewed Rick Hanson, who he's, I think, is not neuroscientist, but he's a psychologist and really brilliant guy. He's written a bunch of books on it like Buddha's brain. But he said that it's like the negative thoughts and negative emotions are like Velcro. It's because that's how we learn and that's how we adapt and that's how we know not to touch the stove. Yeah. It's like that thing is going to, if you touch a stove once and you get burnt, you're going to make sure that that memory is never forgotten. But the good stuff just kind of bounces, it's like a tap on it, it just bounces right off. Yeah. So you need to actually put in the extra effort to say, right, this positive experience I had, I need to recall this, I need to appreciate it, I need to bring it up and talk about it more. Yeah. And then the negative thoughts, let's just, I mean, maybe see if they're pissed on it. Like, if you don't ignore it completely, like, but at the same time, don't let it run your life. 100%. And it's funny because like, I don't, you like, it's just people's nature too. Like, I don't have to tease my children to be bad. Like, my daughter's naturally going to smack the other little kid or something, just naturally because they do that. And then you're like, no, don't do that. Like, naturally in our nature, we do the wrong thing. Like, and it's really, it's really switching that up and putting a putting that in us and being like, don't do it. I mean, you want to wrap this up with some quick questions? Oh, let's do this. Cool, man. When are you happiest? Ooh. Honestly, I'm one of the happiest when I'm performing in any kind of way, like, if it's on stage or if it's dancing or if it's just moving in general with people or my wife even, just like moving, I just love moving. Like, regardless. So I'm probably the happiest when I'm moving. Where do you go when you're feeling doubt? I go to God, I pray. And that's really it. Like, I'm like, all right, do this. Let's talk. What one skill have you leveraged in a way that you think others haven't? Ooh, skill. I don't know. I'm I'm skillful in going with the flow. Like, I'm smooth with riding out and just making a happen. Yeah, any kind of thing that you're going through, let's go. I think I know the answer to this question, but the simplest advice that's the most important oof. Actually, the simplest advice would be to love, like, love, regardless, love always. Love today into all loved yesterday. Hopefully you can love tomorrow if it comes. And just do it. Well, two more questions. What one thing should people read, watch or listen to before they go to bed tonight? So it could be anything, but something that's been inspirational to you. Ooh, ooh, ooh. Oh, man. There's a, there's a lot of things I've been reading and stuff. Honestly, Matthew Mark, Luke and John, or the Proverbs, have been reading Ecclesiastes. I go to the Good Book all the time, man. I'm just, because there's, it's funny how ancient a book can be and yet how relevant it can be even to this day that you wouldn't think that a book from thousands of years ago would still have be like, oh, yeah, that makes perfect sense. So read the Bible, man. And then how should people connect with you online? We're going to see your stuff. Yeah, uh, my name is Luke, brother on everything. So, broad, lick. Yeah, that could have other. That's it. That's the end of the show. Beatty, pop, pop. I hope you guys had a great holiday. As always, I appreciate you listening to the show and you know what I really appreciate. I appreciate when you leave ratings and reviews on iTunes. You know why I ask you guys every episode to do that. Because I don't know what I'm doing. I think it's going to help. I'm actually not that sure. I'm pretty sure, you know, I feel like if, if I had a bunch of really good ratings and more people would like the show, I think it actually would also help me with guests. So if a guest is like, is this show legit and they go over to iTunes and there's like 500, 5 star reviews? Oh, okay. People will listen to this podcast because there's no way to tell how many downloads I have. People could ask me, I could lie. I wouldn't lie. I don't, it's not that many, but it's growing. It's, it's doing better than it was doing when I first started out. Um, but yeah, if you could leave a rating, that's the point. It take 10 seconds. Go to iTunes. Leave a rating. I think if a review probably would help, too. But it 10 seconds for a rating. Give it another 20 for a review. Click Post. And that's it. That's all you have to do. And what it does is it makes me feel really warm. I check on every once in a while. I'm trying to keep you guys honest and and see if you guys are actually following through. But I don't know. I guess at this point, I should probably just stop the outro because I'm not saying anything of value. So as always, thank you for watching. Thank you for watching. As always, thank you for watching. Thank you for listening. I'll see you next Wednesday.
