# Ground Up 010 - Working Your Way Up w/ Danielle Eden
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=fyg9obnHnLM
http://www.groundupshow.com

Danielle Eden started out behind the camera as a dancer and actress, hoping to eventually transition into directing later in her career. But after a freak accident she found herself making the transition quicker than she could have imagined. We talk about the challenges creating her first documentary, dealing with rejection and what drives her.

Danielle is on Instagram:  http://www.instagram.com/itsdanielleeden
Watch her Indie Doc:  https://vimeo.com/ondemand/theportofindecision

More from me:  https://www.mattdavella.com
Podcast:  https://www.groundupshow.com
Twitter: https://www.twitter.com/mattdavella
Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/mattdavella
Facebook: https://fb.me/matthewdavella

Music Credits
That Hip-Hop by Diplodocus
Keep Fallin by The Passion HiFi
**Keywords:** the ground up show, matt davella, Matt D'Avella, Danielle Eden, interview, film, filmmaking, documentary, doc, set life, 
**Date:** 2017-04-19

## Transcript
 I know all the ways that we can't get something done. I know all the ways that people are going to tell you no, I'm going to tell you what's impossible and don't have enough resources. I want to work with the people who get creative and they show me how we can't get it done. That's Danielle Eden. Among many things, she's an actress, dancer, and documentary filmmaker. We talk about what it takes to finish a project, even when the odds are stacked against you. When I said I was going to make a movie in Arkansas, most people told me I was just legitimately insane. Like you can't make a movie for $4,000. Watch me. We discussed how she made the transition from on camera to director, developing trusting relationships, and how to deal with rejection. I just asked was like, what are you going to say? No. Yeah. Okay. Like certainly you will not be the last person to say no. This is the ground up show. Okay. And they're both rolling. Because you can see this one too anyway, right? You can pop up just because I get paranoid because the first one I ever did was buy myself. And you have to put a hack on these cameras because they record for 30 minutes. Sure. So I just don't trust that. And I just don't trust technology. And it could overheat. It could just stop recording. So you record an hour and a half podcast. And then I'm just expecting to look at it. And then it's not recording. So actually, it was a friend. So I said every 30 minutes. I'm going to get up. I'm going to just check. Yeah. I need to. Otherwise the entire time. I'm going to be thinking about it. Yeah. I understand that. It can be stressful as a as a as a as a filmmaker. Yes. It's about managing mistakes, right? It's all about mistakes. Yeah. Because you make so many of them. And then that's probably with anything with acting. Yeah. Any skill. You just have to keep making mistakes and learning from those. But it just. It sucks when if it's like high stakes. It's always paying you for it. Yeah. Then you're like, I can't screw up now. You can't screw up. Yeah. But I think it's a lot about like I think if you. I've always said that if you stop. If you start thinking that you have figured all out, then you literally lost the game. Yeah. Because if you don't look at your work and be like, Oh, there's 10 things in this one shot that I want to change. Then you just haven't learned anything from the process of making the film. And your next one is not going to get any better. Isn't it like it's it's it's great. And it's sad at the same time. It is. The fact. You can't do anything about it. I don't know what you could do. You want to reshoot. You can't do it. And documentary. You definitely can't reshoot. Yeah. Have what you have. Like deep down. I just want to love everything I do. Because that's why you're when you're making it. All you care about is kind of creating this perfect or as close to perfect thing as you can. Right. And then you look back at it after a year. And you're like, that was the worst thing I've ever made. And like, I know me. I will. I can find the flaws better than anybody else can. There's nobody harder on me than me. Yeah. And like, oh, God. This is, there was a point I was making this movie. It was called James Franco as my boyfriend. It was like a little short documentary. And there was a point in time where I literally looked at the film. I like pushed my laptop away. And I was like, this is garbage. Like you've made garbage. Because I just couldn't figure out a music cue. Like I literally was like, it doesn't work. Timing sucks. Everything sucks. It's all garbage. Yeah. But then, you know, you find this song. It's all the night. And the song works. And then the film starts working again. And you know, I think everybody has that. Like moment of panic and making a movie where they don't think it's going to work. And then usually you just pull through and you find something to make it work. Yeah. I think that's, that's the thing is that it's about persistence. Yeah. Like never stopping. Because I had that. I've had that on every. Most projects I've done. I think on with client work, it can be a little bit easier. Because you can kind of start to figure out a recipe. In terms of how to create. If it's a two to three minute video, that's easy. And if you're doing. Say an event video. I just like, I just know that I have a slow little build up. Maybe a couple like lines from these interviews and the music drops. And then there's B roll. Yeah. And then you come back and forth between interviews. And there's like a recipe there that you can create. And every once in a while you get a little bit stuck. If there's the interviews might be a little bit more difficult to navigate. But on a big project on a original project. It's like you can't create a formula for it. Or else you're just going to fail. No, you have to sort of plan for every possible scenario. And know that the one you did not plan for is the one that will happen. Yeah. Every time. Every single time. And it's like everything. I got it. And then something. Like the thing you thought you're like, it would never ever rain that day. And then it would. That's it. Right. That's just kind of how it goes. Yeah. Especially with documentary. Like it's life that you're capturing. Like you don't really know what's going to happen. A little bit about yourself and the work that you're doing right now. Because it sounds like you have kind of a hand on everything. I have a little bit of a hand in everything. I do a little bit of everything. I'm an actor. I'm a director. I write. I've been in performer pretty much my whole life. But I fell into documentary filmmaking. Maybe like four years ago. And I kind of love it. I have this great new project that I've been working on for a year and a half. And it looks like we're going to shoot at this year, which is very exciting. So it's a documentary called graffiti cowboy. It's about this street artist. He goes by Thrashbird. And he's this really incredible artist based out west. And he does all this work in like the abandoned areas of America. Specifically the west. So what he does is he finds like an abandoned structure and abandoned factory. And he goes in and basically does a site specific piece. And turns trash into a massive piece of art and essentially disappears. And he's this extreme patriot who's like deeply passionate about art. So we are doing a road trip across America's abandoned west. Following him doing this and attempting to break the world graffiti record in the process. No way. So we're a mile long. And so it's been really. It's been such an interesting process working with this artist and getting to know him. And sort of his process of how he does this stuff. And it's been very interesting so far. What's great about it is that that's a bit the idea so specific and concrete. And it's like something I find that when it's difficult to explain your idea in a couple sentences. Then I think you probably haven't done enough work in terms of identity. Right. What the idea is. But it sounds like you have a clear line there. Like a goal. Like something where the viewer start watching and they know where the end is going to lead. Whether it's breaking the record or not breaking the record. Right. Hopefully we all don't get arrested. Yeah. That could be another end of this documentary. But either way it's it really is like more of an exploration as well. I'm just American decay and identity in art. And you know activism has become sort of popular in a strange way these days. And activism in art as well. And he's been an activist for as long as he's been painting. So it's awesome to see that his work is suddenly. I guess popular but it's not that it was never unpopular. It's just that people are really hungry for that message now. So I'm always fascinated and curious as to how an idea like that. How do you find an idea? How do you find this story when did this come about? I started interacting with his art back in LA years ago. And I found him to be really funny. I found him to just kind of be like pointing at you and being like you. Yeah. Like pay attention please. So I started following him online. We sort of developed a very like casual social media friendship. I spent a lot of time in Arkansas. There's a lot of abandoned areas in Arkansas. So I'd be like you should really go there. And then I literally went out. I was like, what if we made a documentary then? So I reached out. He didn't know me at all. Just said, has anybody ever made a documentary about you? And nobody had. He was interested in sort of what I had to say about it. He saw some of my other work. And I just gave him a phone pitch. And we spent six months developing on the phone before we even met in person. Yeah. So I'm curious. Even specifically, you first sent an email out and said, It was, it was a DM on Instagram. I didn't even have an email. I don't know what. Yeah. Like I literally didn't have an email address. And recently it was like a couple months back. He was like, you know, reaching out cold to people. It just doesn't work. And I was like, it doesn't. He was like, never mind. I take it back. You know, because the truth is that I reached out cold. And we developed a working relationship and a friendship over the course of this past year and a half. But it really just started as like I felt connected to his work. And I felt like it needed to be shared. And he seemed like an interesting person. The person who would create that work to me felt like they had to have a really interesting point of view. So once I got to get to know his point of view and got to know him better. And we started to gain some mutual trust. It turns out I was right. He's super interesting. Yeah. I think reaching out cold is it's not impossible to turn that into something. It is. It's an up and down. I think it's an up and down. Exactly. Yeah. But I mean, if you don't try, if you don't reach out and ask, then it's never going to happen. Well, the first documentary I made, I literally just reached out. And I didn't think they'd say yes. I just was like, hey, how would you feel if I made a documentary about you? And the guy was like, well, let me ask my wife. And he was like, all right, she says it's cool. And I was like, no way. And it was the first film I had ever made. And I was like, oh, I guess we're making a movie. Now you have to do it. Now I have to do it. But I love doing it. And for me, it was such a gift that, I mean, because I just didn't want to spend the rest of my life being like man. It'd be really cool if someone made a movie about this. Or like, maybe one day, I'll make a movie about that. And I just, I mean, I just asked, I just asked because like, what are you going to say? No. Yeah. Great. You're not going to be the last person to say no to me. Like, certainly you will not be the last person to say no. I always expect people to say no. If I have a big idea, crazy idea. If I'm trying to book a really big guess, then I'm like, they're going to say no. But I'm going to try. Right. Because what's like, no is not the worst thing to happen. No happens a lot. Yeah. If people aren't telling you no enough. And as an actor, I'm sure you know this because you have to do all these auditions. Yeah. Just like, you do a lot. Hundreds of auditions. And then most of them are no. And then every once in a while you book the right game for you. But if you're not getting knows, then you're probably not trying. Which is, um. Yeah. I tend to agree. It's like fail, fail harder, fail better. Yeah. And a certain point, especially being an actor. Like, if I'm not what you're looking for, like, I'm not what you're looking for. But I'm also a director. And I know that like, sometimes it's just not about whether the person is talented or whether the person. It's just a fit thing. It's a feeling. It's like literally a feeling you get when somebody walks in a room. And you're like, they have the feeling that I need. Yeah. And you just don't always have the same feelings. And if you keep failing, like, maybe at some point mix it up. Do some of the different. Yeah. But that's why it's like fail harder. Fail better. Exactly. Yeah. Like keep making choices to see if, like, maybe this is just not reading, right? Maybe they don't get this, you know? And so you just, but it's the same with cutting a movie. You're like, this person's not, like, my audience. I think it's going to get that the character wants to do this. So like, what if we tried it this way? What if we edited that in later? So it's a lot of our rearranging and trying to make things palatable for people. Right. So where did you grow up? And when did you first started getting into the arts and kind of playing around and experimenting? I grew up outside of DC. And I was a dancer forever. I started professionally tap dancing at like 14, 15, something like that. I mean, like, literally, they'd be like, like, they'd give me money to come and tap dance places. And I was like, okay, don't you? Yeah. That's, that's rad. And I loved it. And I did musical theater. I went to college for theater and acting, musical theater. I didn't want you. And I've always been in the arts. I've always wanted to make film as well. And I actually had a crazy story happened a few years back where a mirror fell in my face. And it cut my face open. Oh my God. And totally fine now. Like, all good. But I have, like, two, I like a black eye here, a black eye there. Like, I stood just across my nose. And I just really was like, maybe I don't want to audition right now. Right. Just not feeling very secure about like, This is the Joker. Right. I remember walking to meetings and people were like, um, like, what? Like, what happened to you? Um, so I started working in production, essentially. So I was just like, this is a really great time to explore the other things that I wanted to do. That I thought were like a little bit further off, like maybe 10 years down the line. But turned out they were much closer than I thought. So I just started like working my way up on set, music videos, commercials, things like that. Um, I've had a lot of really crazy random jobs over the years. I bet we all do right. Yeah. It's like the craziest weird as gig that you've done. I was a toy demonstrator at Toys RS Times Square during Christmas time. Toy demonstrator. I lasted. My toy was super elastic bubble plastic, which nobody wants, by the way. Um, which I cannot sell. And I lasted one day. Oh my god. I lasted one day. They're like, see you tomorrow. I was like, nope. You had like a table there or like a little boot. I had a little table and I had the product, which is essentially like, it's this tube that you basically squeeze a little bit out and you put it on the end of a wand and you sort of like blow it up and it becomes a balloon. Yeah. But that's essentially it. Like it just becomes a balloon. It's not that it's like unpopable either. It's just that it's a balloon that you made. Yeah. And you can pop it. Like women would come over with their fake nails and they would be like, does it pop? And then you'd be like. And then there it is. Yeah. Yeah. Now you got to buy it. I got to make a new one. Yeah. And that was really nice. That was, it was a very long day that I had. Yeah. Being like the basement of the Toys RS, seeing Jeffrey the giraffe at the top half of his costume off. Oh my god. It was just like my youth. Like where is it? Yeah. Some of those early shoots that you had done. What are some of the ones that stand out to you? And maybe some of the ones that you like you got paid very early on to perform and to do the arts. Right. In terms of production and film. Like what were some of those early shoots where you actually got paid to do and what was your role? Well, I, I had an internship. I was sort of an assistant at the Kennedy Center in DC when I was about 17 and that was a really. I worked in development essentially and so I really just like absorbed everything that my mentor at the time was telling me he had a lot of information to provide. And I just, I was just listening to all of it and and I definitely was really more of an internship position than anything. But it was absolutely one of the most. Just the most interesting experiences because I really got to, I was treated, I wasn't treated like I was 17. I treated with the respect of somebody who was an equal and so I got to really have an opinion and bring it to the table and I did all this script coverage for theater and it really gave me a critical eye. And some of the other shoots I did, I just, I was really lucky to work with some very like gracious directors and producers. There's this one company I worked for for a while and they did a lot of music videos and they did a lot of commercial. It was very gracious and very kind and they, they let me jump in and I'd originally been a music video dancer for them. When I was in college. What music video was this a rap video? There was rap in the video. Sure. It was a French DJ and he, we were minds that were in minds and anonymous. And music is what made us happy and learned to dance and also we had magical motorcycle helmets made of glitter. Sounds like a video. Yeah, so it was really fun but I was in the music video dancer for them originally and I'd done a couple other spots with them. And I reached out because my face was not in great shape and I just was like I'd love to work in production just like. Just to be working in the industry and get my hands into it and they were just very gracious and and I learned a lot just they allowed me to just be there and and absorb so much. It sounds like you don't really weigh it around for opportunities. No, I I very much in my person who likes to create my own job like the job does not exist before I'm like no no you like need me there. Yeah, which happens to me a good deal but it's because when I used to wait and try and be patient and go through proper channels and submitting my resumes online. I found that I was coming up against walls and it just wasn't effective and for some reason I wasn't reading through computer screen where one on one I'm far better. And I really believe especially in this industry that relationship building is is so important because the people that you work with now are going to be the people you work with 10 years from now and as much as you've grown in the last two years. So are your peers you're also growing and those relationships like you don't need to remind people you're an actor you don't need to remind them of the things you do when you have these relationships because when the right jobs come along. I'll just send them to you and it'd be like just so you know you can you can cast me in any of your movies if like you need to. It's like we know you're an actor right. It's easy to do that we will call you that's half the battle right is just making yourself known. Right, but if you build these friendships and relationships like we're all helping when another and that's just feels way better. You balance the this idea of being very diversely talented and kind of like getting into each of these crafts whether it's dancing or music or you're going to be going on a rock. Yeah, I'm touring with us it isn't zero on the tour with steel panther. So I like that's insane. I kind of leave like happiness first like really right now I'm trying to do this new thing where I trust like the work that I love and really trying to follow through with it and like trust the fact that that work is going to lead to the things that I need and I'm going to be okay where that wasn't always the case. But I mean to it's it's a complicated balance I mean I don't sleep a ton. Oh really how much sleep do you get a night. How much sleep do I try to get a night or how much sleep do I do. I try to go for like my like eight hours but it's usually around like five six. That's tough. That sounds on the low end from what I've done in terms of research five six is tough. I actually like can't even tell you the last time I remember sleeping through the night. I just don't sleep through the night. Is this because and I have I have this where my brain is always going and I'm always thinking about the next idea. And like where I found I have if I want to sleep at night I have to shut everything down by like seven or eight where it's idea. Seven or eight. Well because I get up at six thirty usually. Okay. No. Pass. This is for early for you. Yes. I've already said non-starter. It's like you're not going to see me before eleven. Yeah. So my brain is probably most active between midnight and three a.m. My God. Is that when you get most of your work done? It's where the ideas literally just like flood in and I can't I can't like not let them in. Yeah. So do you how do you jot them you jot these ideas down? I have just like I am a compulsive note taker. I have notebooks and notebooks and notebooks. Per project per I mean I go through them like per month per week. I mean I've stacks. Do you organize these well or is it just chaos? It's a little bit chaos but that kind of is what I did intentionally because I feel like sometimes when I start a notebook. There's this pressure that you're like I'm going to make this notebook like the notebook. It's going to be very organized. My handwriting is going to be good. And then what you want to brighten is ineffective because you basically just edited yourself down to like fit into a notebook to make it look nice. Yeah. So my role is like kind of fuck everything and just like let your brain just put whatever you want on the page. However you want to put it upside down sideways. You want pieces of newspaper in there. You need whatever it is like markers, sharpies, whatever feels good. Like that's I just kind of let myself do that. Yeah it sounds like that. It sounds like that. Right and that's how our brains work. It's not very chaos. It's just insanity. But I think after that and I probably think that naturally the good idea is will rise up. And if you kind of look through it it takes sometimes a week or two or even longer to be able to look back and be like well that was a shit idea. I don't know what that sentence even means. Oh very frequently but the idea had for my I shot my first documentary in 2014 the idea isn't a notebook that I had in 2012. Oh wow. So I had the idea for graffiti cowboy 2017 the idea isn't a notebook from 2014 originally. So I see sort of I'm starting to see the trend that I plant these seeds of an idea very early on and they sort of cook for a while in the back of my mind and then they kind of bubble up and when they sort of are ready to become a real idea they just let themselves be known. In the form of I guess some kind of inspiration and then some start writing again. So you find yourself at some point in Hampton Arkansas. Yes. That is correct. This is the strangest of stories but I love how it turned into a documentary. That's yeah I kind of believe in in trying to understand your experiences in your life and for me I mean we're artists. So it's a lot about art and I tried to sort of turn these characters I had met in Arkansas into a work of scripted characters. And I found that they just couldn't even a scripted version couldn't even begin to measure up to who they really were. So I had to make the doc but in a lot of that was understanding like I was like why was I there was just I basically had to write out hurricane Sandy in Arkansas for about a month. And I just did I did not grow up like that you know like I had never in my life anticipated that I would be somewhere like that or that I would also find such a sense of community and love in a place. It also is very difficult. It's not an easy town to live in. It really can wear on you. There's a lot of xenophobia. There's a lot of just fear of the unknown of people who are different. There's a lot of self segregation that happens within the town and to sort of see that in a way that I grew up in the suburbs of DC like that is just not my experience. So I I found this family that I just I love and they loved me not because of who I knew or because of anything. It was simply they love you because they love you and that was a really beautiful thing for me and it's kind of harder to find that in cities and. And I just I wanted to find a way to share what they had sort of gifted to me just by being themselves like they literally are just they say to me we are who we are all the time. I doesn't change it and they are 90% happier than 90% of people I know with 90% less they have each other they're related they live in such a beautiful way where they just really appreciate everything and they're very just giving and it feels good to give. So who are these people and what is like I saw the trailer it it reminds me a lot my parents have a cabin and that's been in the family for years now in upstate Pennsylvania. And like just really our only neighbor is like one mile away and then there's no neighbors outside of that very it's the kind of place where when you're driving around everybody waves that each other just. And in New York you're like put your hand out. Yeah, but your hand out. Yeah, in New York you like walked down the street even if it's just two people on the street and you will actively ignore that person you're going to look away. I'm going to look away. You can't see me. I can't see you. You can't see me. Exactly, which is like I remember growing up that was a weird concept to me. I always felt as if because I didn't grow up in a city that like if you pass somebody you say hello or you acknowledge you get my head nod or something. Something but so that's how you get yourself hurt in New York. Exactly. Start nodding at the wrong people to be like what are you looking at. Yeah exactly. Yeah it's not what you want. So tell me about these two subjects that I'm sure. Well it's really it focuses around the skydjerry mostly he has this amazing wife Lisa who's a major character as well. And the documentary Jerry grew up in South Louisiana and when he was about 18 his brother had beaten them up for something he didn't do. And this brother he looked up to quite a bit and the brother was working on an oil rig off the coast of Louisiana. So he calls up Jerry and he says I'm going to take you fishing and I'm going to apologize. And sadly the helicopter crashed off the side of the rig and the brother passed away on his way to meet Jerry and apologize and taking fishing. And it was just this really pivotal moment in his life where he wound up moving to a new town he had dropped out of high school. But in the new town he met Lisa and he proposed after something like two and a half weeks have been married for for 35 years. They have this really beautiful marriage. They just love each other endlessly. And because of her he was even able to go to college even though he didn't even have a high school diploma. And so he became a science teacher which he just never thought he'd be able to do something like that like he never thought he'd be able to have that impact. And he was sort of a forgotten kid and he sees these kids who just don't have enough people like giving them love and giving them the attention and seeing their potential. And he finds the forgotten kids and he forces them into engineering clubs and he's like you can do better and he pushes them and he takes kids into his home. And like his former students they come back like literally every day and like they'll eat together you know like there's they're like sons they there's it's incredible to see. So he went on there to sort of make a documentary about his impact in the community and sort of this family that he's built. The movie is called the port of indecision. It's actually the name of the bar behind his house where he likes to sort of hold court every night he just kind of sits. And he watches the news sometimes American pickers has like a Bud Light just like loves to sit there. It's an LSU themed little bar. Everyone has signed it over the years. It's just it's not is it an official bar. No, no exchange of money like it works there. It's just like his little it's his pancake you know. He's got a dog sits under his feet all the time. And yeah everyone sort of like comes and just spends the time with him. But a lot of happening is that my producer who came with me had the same name as the dead brother and actually looked identical. Like haircut build mustache and Jerry it was towards the end of our shoot and Jerry you know texted him was like I've had an epiphany. I need you guys to come to the port bring the camera. And he basically figured out that he's deceased brother James had sent us to make this movie. After 40 years he can finally have closure and he knows now that his brother is proud of the man that he became. And that's because we made this film. He's like why you would make a movie about me like I have no idea like what are even the odds of us knowing each other. So it wound up being this sort of unexpected story of closure the documentary and I like to go back every year and I visit them. I do that's amazing. We got to bring the the festival run ended in at the film festival in El Dorado, which is this really amazing festival that sort of on the rise this up and coming southern arts community. And it's like 45 minutes from their house. So to be able to bring them to an actual movie theater where people in their community go and see their movie on the screen and to take home best documentary was. Really a very special way to sort of close the chapter on that film before you know putting it online. What did they think about it? They love it. I mean Jerry sometimes will look at me and he'll be like you're my hero. And I'll be like I literally haven't done anything that merits that but it means a lot to them. I mean everyone's in a while Jerry will watch it and he'll text me and he'll be like I'm in tears and like I had a friend who. He watched a very early rough got he's a really brilliant musician and he saw this rough cut and just asked me he's like would you consider letting me write something. I'm like yes like of course like I don't know where or if I can put it somewhere but like if you feel inspired please. And he wrote this beautiful theme song. Just based off of watching a rough cut and like in the song alone I sent it to Jerry and just he moved to tears. All right and so it was they they really love it and they appreciate it and in that bar he sits with his festival pass over his head. Oh no. Yeah he like hung it over his his seat and it just says it's it's very simple thing that you were able to make that movie and it's often. Nobody ever really understands unless you're on the inside of a project how many things and can go wrong how many challenges that you'll have along the way. Right. This documentary you guys didn't have a big budget I saw kick you did a kickstarter yet about $4,000. It was wound up being ultimately about $5,000 to make the movie which was insane. Anyway did you guys have any gear did you have anything before. We had like two SLRs. Just sort of like scrapping it all together and there was three of us who went down there and made the movie. And you guys all just kind of went in on this together and you said we want to make a movie nobody's getting paid for this. They were insane enough to literally just kind of follow me. I love my producer who came with me. He was a saving grace to me the whole time and very calming presence because he knows I also don't sleep. So he sometimes he'd be like 10 y'all go take a nap. I'd be like okay. Okay. Yeah. He's like just like put on the camera. Go to bed. Yeah. Because we all basically lived in like a one room house together. So there's three of us. It was me and these two guys and they they believed in it. I mean I think I kind of pressured my producer into it. I think I sat him down and I bought him a smoothie one day and I was like here's the thing. Like you will say yes at the end of this meeting. You'll give me a hard yes. He's like well I have to move the month after and I was like you're going to say yes. I'm going to book the tickets tonight and you're going to say yes and maybe that worked. But his presence wound up sort of making the movie what it was. So I guess it all works out. So yeah so break it down for me. You guys have about four or five thousand less than five thousand dollars. Yeah. Crazy. Yeah. How did you logistically go about it? Did you guys rent any camera gear, light or anything like that? Or did you keep it right? We've used SLRs like keep SLRs and that's what you part of the budget used. Yeah. What would SLRs like a T2I? Okay. Okay. This is yeah. Grass roots. Yeah. You know they say like the best camera to shoot on is the camera you have. Well that's the camera that we had. Yeah. A couple of really nice lenses which really made a huge difference. Sure. But it was pretty much most of the money went into sound post sound and travel. Travel. Yeah. How sound post sound? What was it like the mixing or is this the music? It was mostly the mixing. There was really great place out in DC where I had gone to prom with this friend of mine in high school and he was working as at this really great like sound studio in DC and they were they work with that geo and discovering some really great companies and they were very very kind to me. They had these really beautiful sweets and they cut me a really kind deal to work on a project front that's clearly like they're like it's a heart project. Yeah. It really makes it different so having like a little bit sound like color even it's like that's such a. Yeah. It's so important and I learned so much and that would really never want to make a movie for $4,000 ever again. Oh my god. But my second movie was a thousand dollars. Oh really? It was a thousand dollars. Wow. And waitress money. I was like pulling staples out of like tip money to like pay for stuff. No way. Yeah. You got to start somewhere. You just got to do it. It was like big bar of steel. Seriously. Like I shot in a diner where they I used to work and like do all my pre-production for my Arkansas doc and they would always like look over my shoulder and you know think it was cool what I was working on but I also looked like the unit bomber because I had maps all over the place which was like meeting French fries late at night. Yeah. Staring at maps. They're like listen like we love movies if we can help let us know and like a year and a half later I went back and I was like remember me you said you wanted to help I need a diner. I need a diner for like a night. Yeah. And they they were so kind. They were so gracious and I did actually for the second movie I held auditions in their diner. And like one of the owners would come over after a girl would leave and you'd be like I didn't like her. She had bad vibes and I was like totally agree. You know they like wait for like the next person to come in they'd be like I didn't like her. She didn't tell you she had a face tattoo right? Yeah. She did not tell me she had a face tattoo. That's an important thing to tell. The owner of this diner was like my casting assistant from the night and they were just they're just great. It's always about the people that you work with. And if you're making a project by yourself it's just not going to be worth it it's not going to you're not going to enjoy it. Right. And I feel like I tend to be the captain of the ship and when people like to join the crew it means the world to me because it is really a bad executing my vision. And a lot of times when I said I was going to make a movie in Arkansas most people told me I was just legitimately insane. Does that drive you? A little bit. Yeah. I mean I kind of like watch me. Yeah. Watch me. Like you can't make a movie for $4,000. Watch me. That motivates I think more than anything. I don't know if it's a positive thing. I can't do that. I'm like watch me. Because I know I know all the ways that we can't get something done. I know all the ways that people are going to tell you no. I'm going to tell you what's implausible and don't have enough resources. I know all the ways things don't get done. I want to work with the people who get creative and they show me the way we can get creative and how we can get it done. Like that to me is far more interesting because I know all the ways people are going to say no. And I know all the ways that we don't have enough money to make it. But if you keep, if I don't work with people who say no. I work with people who be like um well this presents a new interesting challenge. How do you work around it? How do we make it happen? Because for me you tell me no I kind of laugh in your face and I do it anyway. Yeah. I think it's very much. That's the mindset that I have. I don't like that. That's the mindset I have as well because I think I started out with very DIY. I was like I first wanted to be on camera and you sketch comedy videos. And that's where my passion was in high school and college. But then I had to just figure it out and start doing it myself. And I started to get paid to make videos. Maybe I can do this. And then you just realize you have to kind of learn everything yourself. And I could wait around and try to get an internship or a job somewhere else. But I was like well if I just keep kind of honing this craft and doing it outside of college outside of classes. Then I can build something my own and I don't need anybody's help to do it. Right. It's in a lot of ways very stubborn. But it is very stubborn. You're like I want to do this or I want to see like I wanted to see a film like the one I'm developing now. Like that's the kind of movie I crave. So you wait for somebody else to make it or you find the way to make it yourself. And so I literally just was learning as I went. I remember I shooting the port of indecision. I was in Arkansas. It was maybe like a week in. I just was like I don't even know like what I'm shooting anymore. I flipped out. I called a friend of mine and he was like docks are found in posts just like follow your vision and like keep shooting. And that's kind of like life advice when you're like panicking. Like just like your your journey is your journey. Like wherever you are is whether you like it or not like where you're supposed to be right now. So like just keep going and and people just know is a word I hear a lot. I think it's a word we all hear a lot. And so I just I kind of it just kind of drives me though. Yeah, I got that same similar advice. I was talking to Matthew Heinemann he directed Cartelland. And I was just doing an interview for Mike dot com and he said. He basically if your story doesn't change along the way then you're not listening. Which is like you just have to keep following it and keep pursuing it. And I love that advice. You find your docks in post because that's so true. You literally just have to like follow where your subject is. Which is like it's actually relieving in a lot of ways. Because then it just like keep filming keep rolling shoot. Right. And like shoot as much as you can. And that's the one thing I learned even on the smallest of shoots film as much as you possibly can. Exactly. I had 18 and a half hours of footage. The film was 20 minutes. And I told the team is my first film. I was like we are going to overshoot. Yeah. I intend to overshoot. I just wanted to give myself options. I just didn't know what I was going to find. And so I just kept shooting and there's some stuff that I just I loved. I just loved it. And I I had to cut it. I had to cut it. And it at first it was heartbreaking and I was like I won't do it. It wasn't guiding the audience. Right. Like there was this beautiful interview I did with Jerry's wife Lisa. And they have this enchanted forest. And it's acres and acres of these long tall trees that are planted in a row. And it's just stunning. And it's golden hour. And there's these fireflies behind her. And they're like starting to twinkle. And she's sitting on the floor of this forest. That she's been like she's been a part of this land. And she was a child. That was her grandfather's land. And she's talking about like the beauty. And like the wealth of just being around the people you love. And it was just beautiful interview. And in tone I just ultimately couldn't use it. And it was very hard at first. And I this really wonderful friend of mine tell me she's like it's kill your darlings like nobody thinks you don't love it. But it's about making the film work and guiding the audience. You have to be ruthless. You do. You have to. And there things it just was so hard for me to let go of. But you get better as you want. Yeah. That's fun is I just so I did minimalism and just tons and tons of footage. Like hundreds of hours of footage. It was insane. We did 25 interviews. People have no idea. Like how much effort a documentary really takes. It's a lifestyle. Yeah. There was when I we did the recap. So we had like two versions of the film. And then this was like 2015, 2000 the beginning of 2016. We're recutting the film. And I was putting usually about 12 hour days in for like three months straight. Yeah. It's like my girlfriend would leave the apartment at 7 a.m. And I'd be working. Or actually wouldn't leave at 7 a.m. I'd start working at 7 a.m. But she'd leave at 8 or 9. And she'd get home at 7 a.m. And I'm still working. And like when I get really busy. I coffee and peanut butter sandwiches. And that's all I eat. And I'm so healthy. Oh my god. It's amazing. Like literally. Well, I can't say that because I literally just will keep working and forget to eat. And it's like 11 o'clock in night. And then I eat everything. I set alarms. So I like now because I'm just. My brain isn't good. So I set an alarm and it's just like Matt do this. Matt eat, Matt go to gym. And then I need to like basically my past self reinforces the healthy habits. I need to be having right now. That's a good idea. I'll keep that one. Yeah. Use alarms. It's definitely helpful. I tend to sit on on the floor. I have a cat who likes to just like crawl around and on my maps. And yeah. I just sit on the floor. And I just do all my research. I got like usually a laptop over there. My desktop available. And I'm just like working away. It's just a lot of research and a lot of reading. What's it? I think at every point along the way. It's all about getting massive amounts of information. Whether it's through research or actual footage. Right. And then it's curating and cutting it down. And it's very similar to like the the practice and ideas within. Minimalism and simple living where you're getting rid of physical things. But in a movie. You to be able to find out what's important. And to be able to figure out what your story is. You just have to go through everything. And then kind of put it into little buckets. Organize and figure out how I'm going to structure this. And they got note cards. Like every sequence kind of comes on. I write it down on a note card. And then I can just sort of visually see them. And then I rearrange and I rearrange again. And then certain times I'll even like they get color coded. They get I mean it gets really. Yeah. I've done that as well. You highlighting it. Yeah. Or you'll be like a certain characters a certain color. So you can see which characters are too heavy in the front half of the movie. Versus the back and make sure they all kind of feel like they get the same. Like a amount of like playing time. If that's that was the intention. Mm-hmm. Yeah. It becomes a bit of a process and I tend to stay up all night. Did you edit that project? I did not. I have actually though I do a lot of things, but I'm not known. Yeah. There you go. I think editing really is its own art form. Yeah. I truly believe that. I can crassly edit here and there. But I like to. I like to hover. And I'm sure the editor loves that. I think I'm a pretty, I think I'm a pretty nice director to work with though. I mean, I bring snacks. I'm big on snacks. So yeah, I mean, my opinions are strong, but I like to be collaborative and there's things I don't know how to do that I'd love to like bring another person in and have them help me and work together to create something. What I'll say is that you've probably developed that direction sense better than I have because when I edit everything mostly everything that I do. And I just just like brain to keyboard and I'm just going and I don't think about it. I just have this vision in my head. But then once I did sort of hire some people out for editing projects and hire crews for shooting, you have to realize that that direction that's in your head that happens so naturally. Right. It's not natural to everybody else and they don't know what your vision is. No, there's unless you can really communicate it. There's no one people see the movie that's in your mind until you literally show them at the end. So yeah, I've definitely developed a style of sort of giving notes and all that kind of thing, but I, I, I, I just feel like editing is it's own like really like magical art form and it's not one that I particularly know. Yeah, there's both the technical aspect of it because then you have the wizards where you just work up keys and you're just going crazy and then you also have to understand how to actually build a story. There's, there is an artistry. It's a very delicate artistry and I feel like people don't give it enough credit. Well, because you watch a movie and it's just like, well, yeah, of course that's the way it is. Of course that's the way the film was kind of. Right. That's like, I could do that. Like, you know, before I started making featured documentaries, I was the guy that was like, I could do that. I could make that and say, well, do it then. Right. Put your money where you mouth is. Yeah. But then once you actually make it, you're like, wait, this is hard. Right. You're like, wait, this takes a lot of time. You can't just like, like, breathe out your documentary. Yeah. And you're creating with a documentary versus a narrative, like, you're creating something out of literally nothing. You don't have a script, which the new documentary that I'm working on is, is at least it's a journey. It's a chronological journey. So I feel like that's going to help us in the editing process is that we have a place where we start and we have a place where we end. And in the middle, it goes in chronological order. So we generally know what order the film is going to be in. Which is a little bit better for me than the first film I did, which was a little bit more literally something out of nothing. Yeah. Were there any struggles on that first documentary that we're big learning lessons for you? Oh, my god. All the struggles sound, man. Just I needed a sound, man. I really did. Sound was a huge thing. I was anticipating sort of being able to handle the stress. It was just for me being the first film. I had placed a lot of pressure on myself to really execute. And a lot of that was because people were skeptics of the project. So the stress really had gotten to me on that one, but we moved through it. How did you guys record sound on this? We had a shotgun, Mike, that was attached to the camera. Okay. So it's like you, there's actually now practical things that you have to do differently where you have to say rather close to your subject. Yes. You're probably shooting on all wide angle lenses. So things, you know, there were, there was a lot that I learned in that process. I learned also like, I don't want to make a movie for that cheap anymore. No, I do, I said the same thing. Mine was actually, I am not going to do everything myself ever again. I'm so trying to be on that train right now. Yeah. It's not easy for me also to be very honest. I don't always really wish control so easily. Yeah. But I've also found that the reason that is is because, I mean, in the past, I've found so many people have tried to steam role me creatively. And being a woman in the industry can be a little bit of a complicated experience. You want to be easy going and you want to be a great person to work with, but you also want to ex-heat your vision. And you also want to be powerful, but you also want to be feminine and you want to be yourself. So it can be a little bit of a complicated dance. You let things go a little too easy or the crew presses you to get the shot or the say that you have the shot where you don't really feel convinced of it and you sort of let it go. And so I've become more stubborn and really getting what I want. But it's also I think can be a little bit of a problem letting go of the control at this point. Yeah, I think you do have the trust or gut though, especially if you don't feel like you got it, you can always get it again. Right. And if I want to, you know what, and if I'm directing it and I want to take it again. Yeah. We're going to take it again. Absolutely. Yeah. If they do it with a smile, your face and then like let's go sometimes I've had pushback for sure. Yeah. You know, I've definitely had pushback or and it's just about navigating it and how to feel okay about saying no and saying yes and and executing your vision in a way that you feel really authentic and you feel good about it. Like I want people when we work together when we're on a project like it should be fun. Yeah. I really enjoy this experience. I mean, the guys have shot the doc with me like the first one in Arkansas like they had a beer in their hand pretty much the whole time. Yeah. And like I was good with it because that was part of the nature being there. Like I don't want to create a divide to when you're filming people. You don't want them to become performative. You just want them to be themselves and then to be able to just capture it in the moment. And that's the hardest thing, isn't it? Especially for people who haven't been on camera before. Sure. To be like the camera is not there. The camera is not there. And I think a lot of that is about trust. Yeah. And alcohol. And hell. No, but I think it really is about trust and building a relationship. You know, Jerry. I love Jerry. Like so much. She's like my southern dad. I love Lisa. They're they're really incredible. They're like another family to me. But they don't change when the camera starts rolling. Nothing changes. Which is really incredible. But I think that because I knew them and I love them and I had to develop this friendship with them. And I have sort of this rule that the first day of the doc when it's about people. You don't shoot. You just spend time together. Mm-hmm. You just start to get comfortable. You want everybody to feel good about being where they are. You want your subject to feel like no matter what. Like we're not there to make them look bad. And that's sometimes I think people's fear is they feel like. So you do like one or two days is where you just kind of hang out with the people. I mean if you can. If I can. Yeah. If I can. If I can. Like the day you get there. Essentially. I love it. I feel like you have to. Because if you just show up rolling. People might put their guard up. Right. And you don't want that. You want everybody to really just feel like. You know, I shot this little piece in Vermont. And like half the time the guy I'm filming about is like right Danielle. Like he literally will just like refer back to me. And it's like great. Like I actually love that he's doing that. Because it means he's really just having a conversation with me. Yeah. Or we like Danielle can we can we get so and so to come over and sit with us. And you're like, yeah, of course, like bring them over. So they don't think about the camera anymore. That's really ideal. I mean graffiti cowboy. I mean God bless thrash bird. Because he just lets me throw a camera on him all the time. And he doesn't even think about it anymore. Yeah. He really has just surrendered to the fact that like I'll just throw a camera in his face all the time. And he just he just says I trust you with my life. Like it's cool. Do you have a crew on that? Are you rocking solo for this project? I mean, ultimately I have a great deal of people who've expressed interest in working on the project. But until there are certain things in place, I haven't made any official decisions on exactly what the crew will be. But I have some general ideas of who I would like to use and where I'd like to use them. But I'd like to keep it really intimate. He is a bit of a private guy in some sense because what he does is very personal and it's also not totally legal. So he likes to keep people around him that he really trusts. So I really want to small intimate like team of people who are going to make everybody feel really good. Have you seen the documentary Weener? No. So that one was really good. And I couldn't tell you, I could only guess. But it seemed like it was just two camera guys. Mm-hmm. Sometimes just one camera guy would be following Anthony Weener. Right. The politician that has just filled his life with scandal. But it was such an intimate and personal look. And they didn't definitely didn't have a professional sound person. It was like just they probably had a little kind of crappy boom mic on top of the camera. And then that was it. But it was the how personal was and kind of the what you got to see behind the scenes. Right. I'm just surprised that he allowed them to release that. Yeah. It's amazing. And that's what's interesting. It's not about like the mic or the technology. Yeah. It's about the story. And if you can have something that's personal and intimate, you can shoot it on, you know, a little. Right. And you know, thrash bird. I asked him recently. I was like, tell me now, like, what is off limits? He's like nothing. Mm-hmm. Nothing's off limits. We can talk about all of it. I was like, everything, everything. Everything. He's like, yeah, everything. I trust you with my life. Yeah. I'm like, okay. And that's, I mean, I don't entirely know. Why? He trusts me. You know, part, I mean, we've developed trust, obviously. But I'm like, ah, you know, like I still was a relative stranger to you when we met. But we've really worked together for this time. It's a year and a half, really developing the ideas behind this film and the chapters and the ideas we want to tackle and the roads that we plan to take. I mean, it's a 3000 mile road trip. Mm-hmm. I mean, it's quite, it's a month in the desert. It's going to be wild. Yeah. Trust is necessary. But there's a lot of love there between us. And like we do look out for one another. And it's become this really also beautiful friendship that I really cherish. So it's, it's so interesting to get close to the subjects that you, that you wind up filming. It's a very unique relationship that you develop. Yeah. Trust, like you said, it's so important. And even starting minimalism, I was a very similar experience where we were going out on the road for a month or two. And I had known them. These guys Josh and Ryan from the minimalist.com. I had known them. They're work. And we had like been friends on Twitter. And then I did a client project for them for a day. And I met them in New York. But that was it. And then it was a couple months later. Like just a few emails back and forth, nothing too big. And then it was like, hey man, I want to make a documentary. And I was like, I've been meaning into it. And I always wanted to make a documentary about something I really cared about. And to, and I actually even thought about this idea of doing a documentary on minimalism. Right. So this is perfect. But then that was it. And then it's like, I showed up to start filming with them on tour. Like they picked me up with the airport. And I was like, I was super nervous. I was like, all right, guys, you ready? There we go. And like we really didn't. But then you develop a friendship. And it, I think in some ways we locked out. But I think you have to trust your gut and intuition that these are people that align with your values and beliefs. And you're going to be able to work together on the project. What's interesting. I think that people don't realize about like a documentary and the person who makes it is that as much as the documentary is a reflection of the people that it's about. It's also very much deeply or reflection of the person who made it. Mm-hmm. Even though you don't see their face or you don't necessarily, you think that you're watching a movie about another person. But the filmmakers deeply, deeply embedded in it because they've dedicated so much of their time to it. And those are ideas that they believe in or they probably wouldn't put it out there or their ideas that they feel need to be in the world. And that's as so much about the person who made the film. Not just about the people that the film is about. Definitely. So right now you live in LA. I do. I just moved to LA mid-February. You were in New York before that? Yes, I was in New York. What brought you to New York? I went to college in New York. I moved to New York when I was 17. The summer before college. And I went to NYU. And I just stayed. I mean, I had always just assumed I'd be in New York. And LA was on the table for a while. And then sort of forces in the universe had a line to a place where it looked like LA was the place I needed to be. So I literally packed up two suitcases. I grabbed my cat. Lieutenant Dan. And that is it. He's missing a hand, which is maybe one of the cutest things in the world. Wow. He's awesome. He peed on me in the airport when we moved. He was pretty upset at the whole TSA process. He was. He was a very stressful day. It's a sign of protest. Yes, he was like, I don't want to do this. I was like, me neither, but maybe they're. I don't want to go on the plane right now. But we did it. So it was an interesting choice to move. And all my work right now is still scattered around the country. But making that transition. Yeah, making the transition. I mean, starting over the thing you forget is like, Starting over is literally never easy. Mm-hmm. The hardest thing I think is to make the decision to begin with because you're. Right. And this is the same thing with any major life change. Like breaking up or starting a new relationship or moving. Like you want to start over. Yeah. Like starting over. It's like it's it's you're comfortable where you are. And so for to do something new is a little bit. It's exciting. But at the same time. The easy choice would have been to stay in New York. The harder choice was to go to LA. But then you realize you get to your new place. And you're like, I don't even have a trash can. You're like, I literally like don't have anything. And then you kind of have a moment of panic. And you're like, it's stuff. It's all fixable. But like their things you don't really think about when you're starting over. Yeah, I didn't we didn't get a garbage bag when we moved in here. And then we're like literally within two hours. We're like shit. We need a garbage bag. You don't think about the garbage bag. Or like that you don't have any wind decks. Or that like you have no cutlery. Which chairs. Like chairs. Right. I like was literally working. I was recording voice over auditions on the floor of my closet. Yes. My cat's very noisy. So he tends to yell and you can pick up on it. I've done like the heavier than the blanket over the head. Oh yeah. Yeah. That's literally what I did. I had like a little fort in my closet with a door shut. I was doing like a dove voice over. So that's hilarious. Little do they know. Little do they know. I have like my little shotgun mic and I'm like, dove beauty. Yeah. That's my favorite part. I'm doing like a behind the scenes of we just made a new trailer. Not trailer and intro video for the podcast. You can buy it on the RJ. Yeah. Oh. Coffee. Yeah. Yeah. RJ. RJ is the one that made this interview happen. He is. He's the best. So I'm doing like a behind the scenes because it's like. I like the thing that that intro came out pretty dope. It looks amazing. Yeah. It looks awesome. But like little do you know that's me in my apartment. Like holding up coffee beans and just dropping them into a bucket. Right. Yeah. You just kind of make a work. It doesn't. Yeah. Yeah. You don't want to know. That's what they say. Yeah. You don't want to know how the sausage gets made. Yeah. Yeah. You're like, you don't want to know how the sausage gets made. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. The original name when I originally thought about doing a podcast was last year. And it was just going to be people living in New York. And it was going to be called how to make it in New York because I just think it's such a difficult thing to do. And it's a hustle. It's a grind. I have no idea. There you go. I don't know how people do it though because I'm like rent is very expensive. Yeah. And you're just starting out here. It is a long road. It is a long road. Make it. I was holding down when I lived here like last year. I was holding down about three or four jobs regularly. Like I would literally hit and like four jobs in a day. No way. Yeah. So I would go to my like I was the director of outreach at a screenwriting school. I was a TV host for a rock network. I did a motion capture job. I co-owned a pop-up film festival with two friends. And the movies. And you know writing and auditioning. Sleep as well. Right. All right. All right. Sleep as whatever. Sleep as you know what I just want all the time. Yeah. Just what I just want to sleep. Everything. But I was hitting like four jobs a day sometimes. And it was. I truly burned out from it. It was too much for me. But I did learn a lot from. I just wouldn't say no to any of the jobs because they all did provide value for me in a different way. I think that's the in the beginning. You have to just bust your ass and work as hard as your ass work our now so you can chill out later. Yeah. I don't think I ever worked as hard as when I first and and got paid as little as when I first started out. You just like I just those moments where you see your bank account and you it just like hurts you. Like I very vividly remember those moments and they they're very humbling. I had I don't know why I did this but I was in college and I was paying for rent with my student loans which is always a smart decision. Oh, and then I could have asked my parents for money, but I just I didn't want to. I was away at school and there was at this time there was no easy way to transfer money either. And I remember I said there was a week where I was legitimately counting coins in quarters to get the dollar. Make chicken sandwich at McDonald's and I did that for a week until I asked my sister hey can I borrow 50 bucks. Just like yeah, what are you doing? Stop eating make chicken. So then I got the double make chicken. Yeah, I love it. It was a good week, but yeah, it's it's humbling and I think you have to go through that and I think it actually drives you a bit in the beginning. So and I think that if you don't go through that then it's part of appreciating not having to eat ramen noodles when you when you can treat your friend to dinner or you're like. It's just this big sigh of relief because you know sometimes it was just like very dicey or like I hope we're only paying for you know I hope we don't split this thing between all of us. You're crossing your fingers or like maybe you know we just pay for our own thing you know. Or like I just got the water. I didn't get it right. I I I before hand and I mean I'm very happy those days are behind me, but they they keep you gracious and they keep you very humble. But and also actually that's just something that it gives you awareness as well because then when you are in that situation you're out to dinner and you know that maybe your friend isn't doing so well. You know I got this like don't worry about it. At the end of the day, I'm very big on like at the end of the day would soon friends it shouldn't really matter. It all should be even. It works out. Yeah it all should relatively be evening out. That's what I do in my relationship where it's we don't like count things but my girlfriend's very independent. She like she would in the beginning want to split everything down from the first date. We are splitting everything. I don't feel like it. Oh you and you think. Yeah and then but then we got to a point where it's like all right you know I get this you get this and then you just kind of. You know you get to where I get dessert whatever it is yeah it's it's um. It feels good to be able to also like there are some people that I used to work with who they they're awesome but I've been able to sort of get them some work and set them in motion on some jobs. And there's three of them and they literally call me mother they're like oh I heard you spoke with mother and it like worms my heart because they're these three like really talented hungry like. Just like sweet kids. I mean they're not really kids they're you know several years younger than me but they're not kids. But I remember it's not easy and I remember so I had I was kind enough to have someone that kind of looked out for me and tried to help me find work. And the fact that they call me mother just I mean. Conrad you don't call me father. Um yeah they they're they call me mother and they they all work in the same place still and they I mean I still talked to them quite a bit but it's not it's just not easy and the kindness of other people. Goes very far like I'm really will give you the if you are a good friend to me and. I'll just give you this shirt off my back if you need it. Yeah that's what it's about but if you burn me. Yeah. It doesn't go. Do you do you hold the grudge? You got to burn me pretty bad but yeah. Yeah. There's a black list for sure. Yeah yeah yeah. I mean I've had that. Do you have to burn me like real bad. Yeah I don't know it's hard for me to keep a grudge though like I remember even growing nicer than me. Yeah yeah probably. I remember just going to bed right just being so mad at my brother and I'm like I'm not even going to talk to him for a week. And the next day I'm like morning mark. No like there's certain people like if I walked into a room and I saw them I would immediately. Walk back on them. Oh really? Yeah. Well and that's actually a very adult thing to do. Well not to walk up in their face and start yelling at them. And that's because I don't like to fight. It's not something I like to do. Yeah. I wouldn't really much rather talk things out. But if you burn me bad enough that like I have I literally will have like a pistol reaction like I get nauseous when I'm around certain people who are really like not good for me. Yeah. I literally will just leave like if I showed up at a party and somebody I really I just blew leave. I wouldn't even feel bad about it. I feel like sorry I'm out like I'm not doing this. I think that's about knowing yourself and there are certain people that will go to a party see somebody and they like they know whether it's an ex or somebody else where they know it's going to like turn into this big thing. And they stay there and it's like not just leave just don't even put yourself in there. Like my dad says there's no need to put yourself in an emotional quezen art if you don't have to. Like you really like don't have to do it like if you are not like if you don't show up to set and like your ex is on the crew with you like you have to deal with that like you can be professional or whatever. But if you walk into a party and there's someone you don't want to see there man like no party's worth it to me that I'm just willing to like stick it out and you know get into it and make myself uncomfortable and unhappy. There's just really no reason there's plenty of people who want to make my life uncomfortable on. You always have a choice. Right. So are you you're excited about LA it's something I'm thinking about doing at some point in the future. Yeah, I mean it's it's exciting to start over. There's a lot of potential and and it feels sort of like I did when I moved to New York when I was 17 like there is this sort of youthfulness to being new. And to discovering a whole new city the way that I did when I moved to New York was all new and exciting and I thought I'd never learn the subway system. Yeah. You know like I never thought I'd figure everything out and I never thought that I would have the friends that I did and and I want to building a life gear. And I know that this is the beginning of for LA for me where I really I don't know my way around that well I'm like I'll never learn this city but then you start to figure out oh no that's east that's west and and you start to find your way and I'm excited to sort of see where my life is going to grow in LA. Yeah and it becomes any place can become home you stay there for long enough exactly and I still am lucky enough to have my community in New York like. When I left everyone's like well I was like I'm not not dead you know like everything's fine. You know we have like got upset huh yeah some people got very upset. Um my mom really was not so happy about it. My dad probably at heart was not so happy about it either but they sort of ultimately understood and and believed that I was making the right choice. Yeah I told my parents I was thinking I'm moving LA my mom broke her heart like she was just she melted. Yeah mom like mom was very upset at the idea me being very far away I don't think anyone my family has ever lived that far away. We're really east coast people. Yeah same here but I think it's like for me like traveling and flying across the country is no longer a big deal because I do so much but for my mom who hasn't been you know she goes on one flight every 10 years. For her it's like the opposite side of the world. Right it just feels very far. But you know my family's time about coming to California to visit me and you know I just saw them yesterday I literally got in from Maryland last night. So you know I'm you make the time and you know the internet is amazing and we have phones and Skype and all sorts of things. And I find that some of my conversations with my friends or who live back east or who don't live in LA or have gotten in a way deeper and more important because we're placing more value in the time that we have together. Right and even if it's just on the phone. Yeah and you figure out the people that really are your close friends because a lot of times it's about proximity so your friends are the people that you are close to literally physically. Right but then once you move away you kind of those relationships that are important grow. It's been interesting. I have a really great friend in Colorado and I talk to him every single week. Every week he picks up the phone he calls me or I call him and we just say hi and check in and you can tell sort of based on our energy like how the other one's doing and it's just really like beautiful friendship that I mean he lives in Colorado and I live in LA and. And we've been friends since we were 18 and yet we still talk on the phone once a week and it's important to both of us and a lot of people I know are like well who even talks on the phone anymore. I'm like I do. I talk on the phone because it's pretty nice to hear my friends boys. Are you ready for rapid fire? Oh my gosh. Rapid fire. I do. I do. We put in a musical cue here. Yeah I got to do that. That's what the last guest said. I need to. Don't. There it is. That's the musical cue. Right. Don't. Great. I'm going to use that for everything. Right. It's like that's going to cost you. Right. Let's say somebody stuck. And what one thing that can they do today do you think that would. At least be the right step forward for them for me coming out of college. It was really difficult to find a structure and I felt because you've been conditioned your whole life to be in school that you don't really know how to use your time. So what I started doing is I would do three things a day for my career. If you're an actor that could be working out. It could be, you know, submitting some headshots. It could be reading a new play. But I just find three things a day that make me feel like I'm working towards my goals as small as they are. And that oftentimes will help get me through to the next sort of day and the next step and the next place I need to be. Yeah, it's it's it's really it's so important what you do every day. It doesn't matter what you do once in a while. No. So the things that you you make a habit of are going to become the foundation for your business or your career. Right. Really I just say like try three things a day as small or as big as you think they are just the three things make you also feel like you've accomplished something even on a day when you have to do a bunch of stuff and run a bunch of errands. What drives you what do you make stuff. I make stuff because I just can't imagine not making stuff. I've always just feel like that there's so much in my mind that if I don't get it out, I'll go a little nuts. So for me, it's just like a race to get everything in my brain out into the world. Good answer. How do you face doubt? My own doubt or others. That's a good that's a good question. Let's do both. My own doubt is it's a wrestle. You know, you doubt and resistance is something I think every artist comes into contact with. But I think it's the knowledge that like what you're doing is what you're supposed to be doing. And so I think my doubt in myself sometimes to me is more debilitating than anybody else's doubt in me because like you're saying earlier like if you doubt me, I'm like watch me. Somebody else doubts me. I'm like you have no idea. Like you have no idea what I'm about to bring your way. And that's fine. Like I'll watch you eat your words later. I don't really care. Nobody is harder on me than I am on myself truly. So for me, it's my own doubt that I tend to wrestle with. But at the end of the day, I know that I wouldn't stop. Like stopping is not an option. Re-reworking, reconfiguring, definitely an option. But there's no way I'm just going to be like, you know what? I'm done. I'm out. I'm out of the game. It just won't happen. So the doubt is just something you wrestle with because you know you're never going to give up. What one tool or skill have you developed or leveraged in a way that you think other people haven't? I am astonishingly good at networking. I'm really found myself to be very good with people. I think documentary filmmakers tend to be because you become an observer and you start to understand people better. And you become really good at listening. But I'm very good at developing relationships and friendships with people that wind up becoming the work. And in a way it doesn't feel like work at all. So for me, I'm very much big on the networking. And like I said, I'm weirdly good at it. Yeah. There's an on switch. There's definitely an on switch. It's like, are you going to, all right, turn it on. And it can be a little draining and a little exhausting. But it is this tool that I've learned to engage as needed. It's so valuable. It's so valuable. And I really do love people. I think people are fascinating. So it's never inauthentic to me. Mm-hmm. But it is. I'm very aware of how to work a room and how to talk to people and how to make people feel heard is a lot of what it is. There's a lot of nonsense that gets spouted. And feeling heard means a lot to people. Yeah. I do, like, intentions are so important. But I do think it is a skill that you can develop. And it's something that you really should. You don't have to be like the center of attention. No. But to be able to, to be yourself. Your own humble self and meet and network with people. People want to get to know you. Yeah. They don't want to get to know a performative version of you. And they want you to know them. We all want to just be known by each other. We just want to feel heard and understood. So when you actually develop like an authentic relationship with somebody within your industry, it's very powerful. It's a really incredible thing that can happen from that. Is that they just want to find ways to work with you. Because you guys want to be around each other. You know, like you guys want to work together. And that's have it. Most of the time, like people don't have the luxury of having, getting to work with people, they really want to be around. And being independent of being in film, we kind of have that opportunity. So building those relationships, I think, is so valuable. And I really believe in also, like, two person networking, tag team networking is an incredible way. If you go to an event with a friend, you send the friend to the bar. And you basically, when they're gone, they're like, oh, you have to meet my friend, Josh. Like, Josh, oh my god, he's like the nicest guy. Because he's so talented. But he's like a part of it. Yeah, no. But you're like, I mean, he's so humble. Like, he'll never even talk to you about it. And your friend returns with your beverage. And they look at the friend a little bit differently. And they don't really have to say much. Yeah. And it's really incredible how that works is that you basically, like, vouch for your friends. And you see people see your kind relationship. And you're working relationship to another person. And they think, I kind of want that. Mm-hmm. And somebody gave me a piece of advice one time. And it was that everybody needs to feel like they have a shot with you. Whether it's like, I'm like, I kind of want to be her best friend or like, I don't know, like maybe I could, I could date that girl one day or, you know, not in a way that is like inauthentic or like in a tease. But people just want to find people they want to be around. Mm-hmm. So it's partially like giving that to people and like opening yourself up to that. What kind of mindset do you need to have to actually finish a project? Because I think starting a project is often easy. Very easy. To finish it is another story. It's like ruthlessness. It is like the inability to accept no. Because I mean, am I allowed to curse a little bit on this show? Okay. Okay. I feel like I'm holding my breath this whole time. No, I mean, I say that no matter how successful you are, no matter how much money you have, no matter what you have built. There's literally always going to be somebody who is trying to fuck up your shit. Like always. So you really just have to persevere. And you just have to move through that. Like you just have to know that that's going to happen. Somebody is going to try and like ruin your day and fuck up your shit. And that's always going to happen. So it's about being so laser focused and so clear in your idea that you feel like possessed almost to finish it. Because it's really easy to start a project and it is not easy to finish one. And I've definitely encountered many, many hurdles in finishing projects. I've had DPs ghost me, mid project. Like I've had some things happen. I've had some shit happen. Yes. You know? And I was like, you will not prevent me from finishing this film. Okay. So one of my movies is shot with three DPs on four different cameras. Because that's what I had. That's great. That's what I had to do. And I wasn't going to not finish the movie. And that was not it. It just was not an option. I was like, just get it out of your brain. Like get it out there. And it was like, like I said, it was three camera guys with four cameras over the course of like a year and a half. Like it was insane for a six minute movie. But I was like, this cannot break me. I cannot just let it not happen. I'm not going to have to make this movie. One final question. Yes. One thing people need to watch. Listen to or read before they go to bed tonight. There's this really wonderful book by a gentleman named George Lois. It's called Dam Good Advice for People with Talent. He's actually my very dear friend's grandfather and I've had the privilege and being in this guy. But he's a brilliant mind. And he was a great, add executive from the sixties. He did all the S.quire covers. Muhammad Ali with the arrows in him. Andy Warhol, drowning in the soup can. And he's really just this has this really incredible mind. And this book was very powerful to me. It's a super easy read. And it really is damn good advice for people with talent. And it's what I was in a job that was really negative for me. And I would cry in the bathroom all the time. And it was a creative job. I was a creative director and a media outlet. And it was a major media outlet. And I thought it was like the job of my dreams. And they were trying to take a little bit of advantage on me. It felt like. And they were trying to trick me into working on spec. And I was very unhappy. And it was very hard for me to sort of develop the courage to sort of quit. And say, like, I'm not doing what you hire me to do. Like, I don't really think what you want. And this book kind of gave me the courage to really stand behind my own vision and know that like, It's okay. Like, your vision is strong enough to stand on its own. So like, damn good advice for people with talent for sure. But I mean, in terms of listening, like, I guess I'm about to go on tour with Citizen Zero. I'm, they're just such an incredible band. I'm such a punk rock hit at heart. They're this great band out of Detroit. They're amazing guys with like an incredible amount of musicianship. They have this great album state of mind that's out. They have another one that's in the works. And I just feel like they, I feel like American needs more rock and roll right now. I feel like it is like, I really do feel like rock and roll. This one of America's finest exports. And I feel like it's been so underappreciated in the last 10, 15 years. I just feel like people haven't dropped in, drawn to it. But I think that some of the unrest that people are experiencing right now. Like, I think that, I think they need a little more rock music in their life. So Citizen Zero too. But that's just because I'm excited to go on tour on Thursday. It's great. Yeah. It's going to be fun. All right. So how, finally, how should people connect with you online? What do you want to send them? Not a, I'm not a tweeter. I'm not into it personally. But you can find me on Instagram at its Danielle Eden, like the garden. And my movies, my, my movies are one of them is available on Dimeo and demand. You can find the link on my Instagram. But I'm going to find it in the show notes as well. Oh, you will also find it in the show notes. So yeah, you can find me online. There's, I also have pages on Facebook for all my films as well as a public page for myself. So I mean, I'm, I love me new people. I love them people reach out. It's very exciting for me. So yeah. Well, it was very great to meet you. Yeah. I mean, this is our first time meeting. So this has been really fun. Yeah. Thank you so much for coming to the show. It was my pleasure. I loved it. Thanks for listening to the show. For a limited time. I'm going to give something special to those who give us a review on iTunes. I'll send you the hour long interviews. I conducted with the producers of minimalism, a documentary about the important things, including interviews with Josh and Ryan from theminimalist.com, as well as our media team Spire. You'll get the full scoop on how we made the movie, the lessons learned, and all the things we would have done differently. There are really fun conversations that I think you'll get a lot of value from. Leave your review and send a screenshot of it to Matt Diavella at gmail.com. These reviews help to get the word out for the show, so it would mean a lot. Subscribe to the ground up show on iTunes, YouTube, or anywhere else. You get your podcasts. This episode was produced by Conrad Gullipack, as well as myself. See you next time.
