# Ground Up 031 - Creating Opportunity w/ Melissa Carcache
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GIuzBxFMoE4
http://www.groundupshow.com

Melissa Carcache is a producer, writer & actress best known for her role in the Nickelodeon show Every Witch Way. She’s also one of the creators & stars behind the new comedy series Hialeah.

Find Melissa online:  http://www.melissacarcache.com
Comedy Series:  http://www.fb.com/hialeahseries

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** podcast, ground up, film, acting, actress, melissa carcache, every witch way, create, opportunity, matt davella, minimalism, documentary, important things, hialeah, facebook, series, nickelodean, lily, behind the scenes, making of, set life, 
**Date:** 2017-11-01

## Transcript
 Fear drives me a lot. My biggest fear is like waking up and I'm 80 and like I didn't do anything in my life. I was always like, if I don't do this now, one of my ever gonna do this. Like, one of my ever gonna really try. I can't say I didn't try. Even if I failed to doing it, that's fine. But I can't feel it because I didn't try. That's not okay with me. That's Melissa Carcachi. She's a producer, writer, and actress. She's best known for her role in the Nickelodeon Show every which way. And she's got a new comedy series coming out called Hailea. Melissa and I talk about her untraditional path as an actress. How she got her first big break and the opportunities she created were none existed. You're listening to the ground up show, a podcast that inspires creatives to make meaningful content and pursue their passions. My name is Matt Diavella and I'm a filmmaker best known for the Netflix documentary minimalism. And I'm sitting down with creators to talk about their process, the lessons they've learned and how to make an impact. So Melissa, thank you so much for being here. Thank you for having me. I'm excited. I'm excited too. You just told me that you just started a podcast of your own. I did. Yeah, I has no name which is like weird. I don't even know what I want to call it, but it's on anchor. And so we also film it as well like I was telling you where you can actually see where my guests work, because the whole idea is to show kids and young adults different jobs within the entertainment industry that's not necessarily like actor writer director, like all types of jobs that maybe they didn't know exist. Right. Just showing that there's other opportunities. Because a lot of times all you see is just the people that are on camera. Yeah. And you don't understand that there's this huge orchestra behind them making everything work. So many people. So I imagine you've built a lot of connections that really allows you to open some doors and knock on some doors, you otherwise might not have been able to get into. What different areas are you looking to cover on your podcast? I think for me it's sort of like the unsung heroes, right? So it's almost like, you know, there's producers, right? But a lot of people don't even know what producers do. And they do a lot of different things. There's different producers for different areas of the job. Make-up artists costume designers and wardrobe people that people don't know about as well. And some executives too, like, I really want to talk to some of the people from my Nickelodeon family and sort of like showcase what they do. Because even as a kid, I didn't know that these jobs existed until I was on a real set. And I'm like, wow, there's so many people needed to sort of make the show or this project happen. And so I think it'll be really interesting to show that. It can be intimidating to when you first, I remember I did, I haven't done many big shoots. Like most of my work is in the independent world. But your first time walking on a shoot, we have like 40, 50 people behind the camera, trying to make everything work, to make everything look like there wasn't 100 people there. Exactly. It can be pretty daunting to understand it all and piece it all together. So I'm, I'm ready and interested to get into your positive side. Did you release any episodes yet or you build an up a little bit of a, well, there's an episode with my friend, Ivan, who works at ESPN that's on my anchor page. But I'm struggling to sort of like kind of lock everybody in schedules, also like, I have a lot of obstacles when it comes to filming on like their job locations. Because a lot of these businesses that are big companies don't really allow for cameras to come in. So it's, it's a little bit of a challenge, so it's like coming out little by little. Yeah. But I have one episode up. Right. I like that you just started and that's what I did too because a lot of times we make a lot of excuses about why to hold off, oh, I got to record 10 episodes, 20 episodes. But the fact that you just got started, you put it out there in the world and then it makes it a little bit easier to to game momentum and keep going. Yeah, definitely. So yeah, you got the podcast. So for people who don't know about your work, tell me a little bit about what else you've got going on right now. Okay, so primarily I'm in Hector's, I started active when I was 14 years old. My first big break came when I was 24 and I was on a Nickelodeon show called Every Witchway. I did that for four seasons. And you know, it's funny because I actually opened up my production company in 2010. And I mainly did that because no one was giving me an opportunity to act. I was doing a lot of commercials and local things in Miami, which is where I'm from. But I said, if I don't do this for myself, I'm never going to get a break. And so the first show I sold was a reality show based on my family. And right, we were going to go to networks, my family, like my parents backed out. They were like, this is not for us. We don't want to sort of be this like open about our lives and I was like, oh, okay. I was really sad about it. But then Nickelodeon came knocking and I was like, oh, I guess I'm not sad anymore. And I guess I don't mean this company anymore. Yeah. I was very wrong because like once I got like on the show, I loved being on the show. But I was like, not 100% happy and I realized that I was missing my company a lot. And I missed sort of that building from the ground up and like pitch meetings and building the show. And what is so much fun for me? So I said, okay, once this show wraps up, I'm going straight into that. And I did. So I retired to my production company and the first project that I did is highly out, which is a new script to comedy series that comes out in November. I don't know. I don't know. Facebook. And so that's kind of what I've been doing now. I've been promoting the show. And it's been great. That's great. So we will go back. But it's kind of interesting because highly a lot of what the show's about is about your experiences growing up too and the Cuban culture. So tell me a little bit about what it was like for you growing up. And when did you first start to take an interest in acting? It's funny because it's really hard to pinpoint a time when I wanted to act. I would say five because that was the first time I ever did like a play in the kindergarten. And I begged my mom for years and she was like, no, I don't want you to like, you know, give up your childhood for acting or to work or anything like that. So around 14, she was like, okay, fine, I'll let you start taking classes. And then from there, I got an age and a manager started auditioning. So I've always wanted to act and I've always loved entertainment. That seems like pretty quick succession of things kind of falling in place because a lot of people were really hard to get agents and managers and all the stuff. It's so crazy because I talk about this so my friends all the time. I can get an agent very easily in a manager super easy, but I can't get all decisions. Which makes no, it's like why do I even have a representation? You know what I'm saying? I would think it would nearly opposite. Yeah, it's super weird for me. And that's literally been my history since I was 14. And so I just feel like what I'm really supposed to do is sort of create my own projects. It's just that has come so easily and actually to me that it's almost like denying something that it's supposed to be, you know what I mean? Because doing the whole, like even producing, you know, the highly-a-show and even the reality show back in the day, it came so effortlessly to me, it was made sense to me. It's just, I feel like that's sort of my calling. Sort of like the traditional route of being an actor is not. And ever was. Yeah. It's like I didn't want that because obviously this route that I'm doing now is a lot harder. But I sort of like enjoy it more because I love challenges, like that's what gets me excited about life. It's like, I like to set a really high goal that's somewhat impossible to meet, but then start meeting them little by little. So like my end goal is to have a studio in Miami, like that's my dream. And so like, I was like, I have to set something that's sort of like really hard to achieve. Yeah, you have to, I think most people don't do enough of that these days where it's dreaming big. Yeah. But I think one of the big things about what you did was that you decided to get into production yourself and it was not waiting for the opportunities to come. It was literally making them because so many people, they just wait for the opportunities. Well, it's funny because like my dad gave me the best birthday gift ever at my 21st birthday. He gave me a MacBook Pro and a screenwriter's program and he said, I'm nobody's going to give you the opportunity to give yourself the opportunity and that changed my whole life. Did your parents encourage you from an early age to get into acting? And to pursue this route? My dad was sort of, my dad is sort of like the softie, right? So like whatever we want to do, he's like supportive. My mom thinks about a lot of like the little things that he doesn't think about. Like, for example, like when I wanted to act as a kid, she thought about, okay, great. I support it, but if I don't want to do it, because she'll give up her school, her friends, her childhood. And then when she's like 30, she's going to say, wow, I didn't have like a childhood. I didn't get to experience prom or those types of things. So I'm so grateful that now that I'm almost 30, I look back and say I'm so glad my mom did that for me and made that decision for me. You made a big leap to write out of high school to decide to move to LA and pursue this career. What was life like at that point? Did you have any opportunities? Had you gotten any gigs at that point? So it's a funny thing happened when I was 16, sort of like everything came to me at once, right? So I had this great manager, I came out to LA and I did this, it was called Best New Talent. I don't think that exists anymore, but it's a big competition out here. And I got 13 callbacks, I got my first LA age. I mean, it was just like, bam, band, just like all these things that I said, wow, I'm actually, I think I'm going to make it, you know what I mean? And then when they said you have to come off for pilot season, which now pilot season doesn't really even exist anymore, my mom was like, no, she's got to graduate high school and then cross a bit. We got there. So my agent dropped me and then everything just started to crumble and I said, all right, well, when I'm 18 and I graduate high school, here's a diploma mom, I'm moving to LA. I did not go to college, I still have not stepped foot on a college. And it was really weird because I had nothing. So I came here with just my dog, I knew no one in the city, I had no connections. I sort of like revisited back like my old agent, but he didn't want to resign me and it was just like a lot of negative things for the next three years. It was really hard on me, like emotionally mentally, it was really, really hard. So I kind of just went back to Miami, regrouped, and then my dad gave me a great gift and then I opened up my production company and then sort of build from there. What was it about those three years that when you look back on it, wasn't working? You know, it's funny because I'm Latina and my parents are Cuban, but I was born in Miami. And so like I was raised with like, I'm American. So when I moved out here and my best friends who were blonde hair, blue eyed from Texas, we're going on these amazing roles, I would tell my agent at the time like, oh, I want to go out on those roles and they're like, put you can't, I'm like, why not? Well, because you're Latina, what does that even all mean? It's, you know, well, the way you look, so they put me in a box. And at that time, there was no roles for people like me that looked like me. Now there's a lot. Thankfully, we have a lot of opportunity now, but back in the day there wasn't. We had a writer strike happen during that time, which kind of shut down the industry for a while. So like, just a lack of opportunity. Yeah, it seems like even in the past five to ten years, it's changed so much and so many doors have opened up. I just had a Sky Alex Ferrari on the podcast. He runs a website called Indie Film Hustle and just talking about the industry and how it's evolved and changed over time. And it's, it's amazing how much opportunity there has been given now to people who can just pick up a camera and just start a video blog. You, like, time is time and if you can hold somebody's attention for an hour, an hour and a half, you know, for advertisers, for people who want to see it, for people who value that, that's the same as like thing as a movie or a TV show time is time. Yeah. When you first got that computer and what, so what did, did you have an idea in mind? You started writing right away and started hatching up. I was not, I never read anything. I mean, not like that ascript. I was like, I don't know how to do this, but then I just started like writing, it was a show about high school and kids in Miami and I was like, well, I've always wanted to be in a show like this. So I'll just write sort of like, well, my dream part would be. And so I wrote a one hour pilot just like within a few days, they went to a three day as I was done and I was like, oh, wow, this is not as bad as I thought. I mean, obviously it's, I read it now and it's not the best work, but, you know, just to sort of like get my feet wet and see if that's something of interest, I got really excited. I was like, oh, they're have something here, you know, this is something I really enjoyed doing. So yeah, that, that changed my life, that, that, that, that changed my life. So what were the next steps after that? So you're living at home at this point, you're just trying to regroup and it's not that easy. I just similar experience where I graduated college and then I moved in with my sister and Philly and I'm about to start getting these student loan payments coming in at $6,700 a month and I'm like, I can't even afford that, let alone rent. So I'm going to move home with my parents and just try to, it's great to have that to fall back on, to have that support system is so important, especially when you're trying to do something that's a little bit crazy, that you're not taking a traditional path. So what were the next steps after that? Both of my parents are entrepreneurs, so for them I was like, you need to open up a company and you need to start making your own stuff. And so that's sort of what I did, my mom helped me do that. My mom is like the best because like, both of my parents are really great, like, I, you know, I saw them build three businesses before this when they're in construction out, that failed and I just saw them never giving up. That sort of like energy and that mentality was sort of like, I guess, like, just inputted me as a kid. And so that's always like, that's how I'm able to survive because I always saw my parents like failing and still like getting back up and building again until they make it until they succeed. And so she opened up, you know, helped me, opened up my production company and that's where we started the first thing was the, was the reality show. We thought it was a great idea because the Kardashians that come out were like, well, we're kind of like them. Yeah. You should do that. You know, so it was like me, my sister's a singer and my brother is a drummer and so it was like the three kids trying to make it in entertainment business while the parents were in a construction company. Yeah. Right to self. Yeah. Right to self. And so, and it was to keep a family and no one has ever seen that. So we thought it was a great idea. And even until this day I watched a sizzle, we went, I'm like, that would have been a great show. I just don't think it would have been a great for our family. Yeah. You got to be careful because that's so important and there's certain decisions that you could make that you can't go back on and you can't take them back. Yeah. Have you always been open and vulnerable and, you know, that reality show 247 people getting access to your life has that always come naturally to you to be vulnerable in person or in public? No. I'm actually a very private person. Yeah. And that's why I'm doing the vlog too is really hard for me and I really wanted like overcome that and I think that's why even more so I do it because I'm afraid of judgment. I mean, it's probably like the actor thing inside of me where I'm just like, please everybody like me because that used to be my job like now I don't even care. I go on and this is on the great. If you're like, we agree and if not, it's fine because I'm creating my own stuff. I really don't care. You know, but back in the day that's all I had was like, if I don't get this job, I have no money and I don't have anything. So it's almost like, please like me and that's sort of like natural now to me. You know, to me to sort of have that instinct. Oh, like me. Don't judge me. Am I okay? Am I pretty enough? Am I good enough? I just, I'm just taking that all the way. I'm like, I really don't care. Yeah, I think it's probably the combination of the experience of having been through it before and it's very hard to learn some lessons just by reading about them. Like you could have been told that at a young age and it's still one of effected you. But you have to go through it and then now that you've been through it, you realize you're like, wow, you know, you go on 200 auditions and you get one of them that really count. So it's not worth it to get worked up on everyone. Exactly. But it's hard. It's hard to. It is really difficult. Yeah. Because you want every single one. Yeah. Or at least you'd make a good impression if you're in the Cassie direction that they call you back for something else. Sure. So you go on this audition for every which way and your life changes in two and a half weeks. Yeah. Talk about that experience from going into the first reading. Okay. So it's funny. I audition for a web series a month before the every which way audition and literally the Cassie director walked me out to my car and said, you got this job. I was like, that's great. You know, it's going to be my first thing. It's a web series. It's going to be great. They end up not calling me and I call my agent and I'm like, what's going on with this? I thought I got the part and she's like, oh, they went with somebody else and I'm like, that is, I'm like, no, that can't be like they said I pretty much got it. So long story short. I get to see him off from my agent like a couple of weeks later or a month after. And she's like, have you auditioned for this role was called Grachi at the time because our show is the English version of Grachi, which is a Latin American Nickelodeon show that was huge for the network. And I said, no, but I'll go out on it and I read the script and I'll make all this is fun and I've always wanted to be on Nickelodeon. So I auditioned. I did the call back within two days after that and two weeks after that. I was in my first table. I mean, it was just like, I didn't really have to test for network. I mean, they say this in my tape to network, but I don't know that. You know, but it was just like auditioned call back and I booked it, which doesn't happen. So network TV is actually really hard. They do have a lot of steps. I didn't I skipped all that. And would you sign? I mean, you had an agent, but were you part of screen actors' guild at the time? No. I'm still non-union actually. Yeah. And so they didn't, they don't have, they don't have union on that show. So our show because it was, so Nickelodeon and Latin America produced it, we could do non-union and in Florida too, you had to write to work state so you don't have to be union. And we shot in Miami. So what's going through your head at that time? Like going into that room with all these other actors and actresses, you're meeting them for the first time, the directors and producers. What does that feel like for you? This is like a pretty big deal for you, do you realize how big it is at the time? Well, it's crazy because for some reason I thought this was for Latin America, just because I knew what Graci was until Rafael Delafuente, who plays Julio, now he's doing great things and dynasty now. He's great. It tells me, no, no. This is not for Latin America. I was like, what do you talk about? I was like, it's for Nickelodeon America. Really? I was like, oh my god, it feels like, yeah, I was like, oh my gosh, I did not know was this big. So I freaked out a little bit and then I got really, really excited. And then we just started, yeah, when all the executives of Nickelodeon L.A. and New York came, I was like, oh, well, this is like legit. This is the real deal. And then how long is that production process when you're just starting, you know, learning the script and kind of getting used to this role when you start filming and actually shooting the show season one. It's a good question. I would say, I mean, really don't have a lot to prep, I think we pretty much started right away. I think we shot within three months, I think three months, we shot a whole season. But something interesting happens. Every time I would start a season, I would be like, so on point, like, on set. And everybody towards the end of the season, it's like, we were start flipping lines. It was, I don't know what it was. I guess it was because you're consuming this all day, every day, towards the end of the season. Because you're mentally like, start to get a little off. What did the days look like? Is it like 10 hours a day, or is it, or is it, or is it, or is it, or is it working 10 to 12 hours? Yeah. Yeah. Usually, like, with the bigger productions, it takes quite a bit of time. And our show aired every day. So we didn't do it once a week, right? So we had a lot more episodes than what a normal show would have. Yeah. So you have three, you have three months of how many episodes are you shooting over that time? Oh, we're shooting. Well, we aired. I'm not going to math, but guess, like, five times a week, times four, because we were just in one whole month. So it's 20. It doesn't give you much time to overthink what you're doing, right? And the after you're doing, you're just like, you know, how to nail it, got to move onto the next thing. Plus we shot out of order, too, because we, so we would shoot by sets, right? So whatever, so I played nurse Lily, so in our set, the nurse's office, whatever we had that week, we had to shoot it all in that set that week. And so it would be episode one, five, so I mean, it would just be all over the place. You started to get some attention for it. When did that happen? Was it episode one, season one, releases, and then all of a sudden people start sort of. Sort of. Yeah. So something interesting happened. So when, like, the first episode air, we actually did not get good reviews on Twitter. So like, I would check on the hashtag or, like, even just type every which way and see who's talking about it. And like, it was all negative comments. So that's kind of where, like, a little thing rang in my head. And I was like, I'm just going to start liking and, like, tweeting to everybody. I'm like, oh, I hope you watched tomorrow or, like, you know, give our show a chance or whatever and kids started to freak out because they would see that the girl that was on the show was tweeting them. Yeah. So I used this sort of, like, as a little tactic to start getting, like, followers and they attention to the show and it worked and it worked, just that hashtag and going in there really worked. That's funny. But it also brings up this point of receiving negative attention and negative criticism, which is really tough, especially when you're just getting started out. This is like your big break. This is your first thing. You're going to see people like hating on you and the haters come out. How do you deal with that at first because it can be challenging to, you know, put a lot of yourself into something to really build this up to be a big thing. And then all of a sudden, it's so easy for people to be like, this is stupid. Like, I don't like this. Yeah. So we're, well, I'm a very optimistic, positive person by nature, right? So like, even just to tweet something negative bugs me, like, sometimes even if I have a headache, I'm going to go on such a headache. I can't do it. It just drives me nuts. Yeah. So all I was doing was sort of just like, you know, give us another chance. I would just sort of talk to them and just say, you know, the show's great. Keep watching the season and you'll like this or this will happen or I don't know, get them all excited about something. So it was like, I first, I was like, oh, I guess we're not going to get a second season. I mean, the fact that we did four is like crazy. But just making that effort of sort of just like trying to switch their minds. I mean, there were some granted. Some people that were like, I hate you, you know, and I'm like, okay, whatever. I'm just going to ignore you and move on to the next person. That ones are like the easiest ones to ignore the ones that are clearly crazy. They clearly haven't even watched the show, watch the film, but you just have to kind of push to the side. I try not to look at any of it because, but it's, it's impossible, really. Like, you're going to see some stuff. If you're uploading a video, you're going to poke around your, oh, there's a notification. Oh, that person said to me. Think, but like, for the most part, you can't let it get to you and you just have to keep creating. Do you think that is important? Like, the engagement with the audience and your fans, especially now, as you're starting to develop your own original content? Well, that's everything. I mean, more than a commercial on TV, like, if you have no engagement with like the audience online, you have nothing, because that's really what blows up your project. That seems like a challenging thing to do because it's a major time commitment. So is it beyond the, the Facebook live stuff? Like, that's, that's obviously is connecting and you're taking questions from people and you can really start this dialogue. How far does it go? I think you have to literally answer every comment or every tweet, or like, I mean, you just, you have to. It's part of, if you, it's because without the fans or without the engagement, who's going to watch sort of your content, you know, for just, they're going to think, well, you're too cool for school, so whatever, you know, and I've seen a lot of artists do that. And so they started to decline in numbers, they started to decline in engagement, and sort of you need that to get people excited for your projects. I think that's so crucial. And at early stage, I would say I completely agree with you, like, at a certain scale, it probably becomes more difficult, and you have to get a little more creative with how to touch. Totally, totally. Like, for me, especially when the show was on the air, I would take, I mean, two hours of my time after the show was aired, just answering as much as I possibly can doing followers, breeze, like, giving something back to them. You know what I mean? I think it's important for me to not just be like, oh, I'm so glad that you're giving me attention, but I have to acknowledge them. I should give them a like, or I should, you know, just say thank you, or fall them back. Yeah, especially early on though, I feel like though, the comments actually are, what keep me going, like the positive reinforcement that people that message me and say, oh, your film helped me or this podcast really got me to think about, you know, the work I do in a different way without that, a lot of times you feel like you're just like talking to a brick wall. Like, you don't always get the attention, especially at the very beginning of a project when times are most tough when you're most likely to give up and quit on a project. Yeah. So you finish up this TV show and then you, you said, I kind of was assuming that you might have this feeling of what now after you do this big show, did you have an experience of what now, what next or had you kind of lined up the pieces and expected the show to end and had expected what you wanted to do after the show? Well, we knew at the beginning of season four, the executives we had a meeting at this will be our last season. So I already knew that the next two to three months were it for me. I knew I was coming back to Los Angeles. I thought that I was going to book jobs, you know, I didn't know to what capacity, but I was like, it'll be fine. I'll be able to survive. Book a couple of jobs. I'll be okay. But I started writing another scripted series right after that as well. That I kind of was like, okay, well, this will be my next move while I'm getting this show made. I'm booking jobs. I didn't book any jobs. Zero. None. It went back to sort of like what I was at 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 18, 18, 18, 20, 21. Yeah, yeah. So I'm just trying to be. Yeah, because I booked there. It was your answer, 24. Yeah. No auditions. It went back to that again. It was like, God, it'd be kidding me. Because the whole excuse when I was out here was, well, you don't have a resume. Well now I have a series of four seasons that have all these commercials and hosting jobs and you're still not going to be auditions. Like, what do I have to do? And it just went back to like this voice inside my head and it's like, Melissa, you have to go back to your company. That's not, you know, you are not a traditional actress, you have to accept that. And so I said, I'm just going to have to do it. And so I developed a whole new scripted, not a comedy to drama with my sister. And then Haley, a two, was born. Actually, Haley, it was born last year. Believe it or not. Wow. So you guys really moved on that quick. Oh, yeah. Vargas and have here my old home, my two co-creators when I met David at Starbucks, right before, right after Thanksgiving. So I was like, yeah, right after Thanksgiving, I'd be for December. And I said, I really want to make the show because I grew up watching Kipase USA, which was like a big show in the 70s and 80s. I used to watch her runs on my parents about a Cuban family and most from Cuba to Miami. And I said, I really want to make something like this, but not this. And he was like, oh, funny. Like, me and have here have been wanting to make show like that. I was like, okay, so let's just do the show. And he said, well, when do you want to do it? I was like, I want to do it the first week of January. And he was like, okay, he's like between the holidays and the whole. And I was like, yeah, we keep doing it. I want to do eight episodes. He was like, oh, no, no, he's like, we'll do six. I don't think we can do eight. So, okay, final subtle for six. And within three weeks, we pre-produced it, casted it, shot it, everything. Wow, how did you, how did you meet up with him? He wasn't a rant. You didn't run randomly walking to a coffee shop. No, I've known him since high school. Okay. And I ran into him on a flight from LA to Miami. And something inside of me was telling me to call him and he was a filmmaker. Yeah. He's directed a couple projects. Yeah, he made a film. Love and hostages him and have a year. And I saw the film and I loved it. So I knew he was like, you'd be great for the job. And I've also known him for such a long time. So just like, working with family. So I knew that we were going to execute something really special. Okay, so for somebody who wants to create a series or a show or a film, how does this process go? You meet up with him in a coffee shop and you're starting to talk about this idea. There's a script. That's already there. He already has a series. Okay. So there's nothing. Just an idea. Okay. So the next step. Okay. So the first thing I did was like, okay, great. I have this idea. Who do I need? So I said, okay. I need someone who can direct and film and I need a writer and David provided sort of that. So I said, okay, I pitched him sort of my idea. Luckily, he had the same idea too. So it was great. And so his partner, have a year is a writer. And so we just started throwing ideas. What's the story going to be about? Once we got to the story, then have a year just kind of went off and running, which to me, you know, he's so great. Because he was turning around these scripts, like nobody's business. I was like, oh my gosh. This guy is brilliant. And they were really funny and they were great. And also the challenge too was we wanted to short form content. So it's like, how do you do short form content? That still keeps the audience engaged without sort of like dragging the story or cutting the story. Because it's very, it's hard to do short form. Are you saying the series of short form or these are the additional pieces that you're making? So the episodes are short form. So it's like, they're roughly about, I would say between nine and 12 minutes long. But how do you sort of combine what a 30 minute episode would look like on normal television into a nine minute episode? And still keep people engaged to watch all six. And so that's sort of the talent that Harvey your has where I was like, wow, this is crazy. And he was just so good at it. So let's do broad strokes. What is the series about? So the series is about this young couple named Marty and Kay, who meet at Chicago in the university. And so they move back into my character. My buddy bull says family's house in Hailea because they're newly wedged. They don't have a lot of money. And they're sort of trying to figure out life. He still doesn't really have a job. She just got a job. And it's sort of like what, what as a young couple, how do you figure that out? So how do you mix two worlds together because he's not Hispanic? So and he's like, he's just a white Jewish guy. And religion's like, how do you mix, how does that all look like in a Cuban family? Which becomes to be very challenging. But I think very interesting because I think now in a time where America is so diverse. How do we all sort of like work together as a big happy family in this country? And that's sort of like what this family dynamic with these two characters sort of like reflect. Yeah, I love it. I saw just, you've only put out a couple little pieces and scenes from it. But you kind of get without even much dialogue. You kind of get a full picture of how the series is going to progress. Yeah. And it's also really cool because what you're doing outside of just the series, I've seen some of the almost documentary type interviews, interviewing with people that live in Hailea, Florida, talking about their stories and how they got into it. And even now Hurricane Irma came through and really doing, it's really interesting time for all the show to come out and for this series to come out because you have this hurricane come in. Talk about some of the stuff that you've been doing now on that front to just try to drive awareness for like the rebuilding. I was home with my parents when Irma happened. And we filled up, so I don't know what they're called. And I keep saying this in all interviews. But you know those water tank things that you know when people in offices have like those things where you just press the water coolers. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So I think they're like five gallons or something like that. Yeah, yeah. So we had 16 of those because my parents have that at their house. And I said to my mom, you know, we have 16 empty ones. We should fill them up with clean water just in case we don't have any power. We could take a shower or whatever. Luckily, we only lost power for 24 hours, which was great. But I said, what a shame. Like we have 16 of these. I'm sure there's people that keys that need it. So David Vargas and I, my director went down to the keys and started to sort of like distribute these waters to these people that needed it in key west. We went all the way down to the southernmost point, which was about a four hour drive from Miami to that point. And they were really bad, but when we were asking around, they were doing okay when it came to sort of like, you know, water. Their water still kind of worked in their homes. And they were getting water from FEMA and right across. So they were, they were doing okay. They said, but Big Pine Key was the worst. So we drove back up again to Big Pine Key and Sharon off. It was, I mean, it was so sad to see because it was so devastated. And so these people were sort of trapped in their trailer homes or their homes. And we just went knocking door to door. Do you need clean water to take a shower? And everyone was like, I mean, one guy sort of crying because it was like, I just, I didn't think that I would get this. I guess if we have drinking water, but we don't have like, and we don't want to waste it on taking a shower. So thank you for bringing it to us. And like, I was so sad when I gave out that last one because I'm like, my God, I still had the other side because it was like two streets. I still had the other side and I wish I could have. But it's tough. It's amazing though that you can even just in a small way, just doing something like that changed people's lives. And I mean, when people are at their lowest or at a point when it doesn't seem very hopeful to just help one person I think can have a ripple effect. Oh yeah, totally. And I mean, they were closed off the keys were closed off for over a week. Even if you lived there and you left, you could not come back. You know, I love what you did there and I loved, like I was saying, the rest of the interviews. Like you had one of the councilmen who you also went to schoolwear on set hanging out. It seems like a really amazing strong community there. Well, the whole goal too to show like these like places in Halea is to show the people that build the city. You know, the city was really, you know, kind of built by laddons, you know, Cubans, demanding and Puerto Ricans. And so the why the community so strong is that sort of family, innocent, that they brought their countries to the United States in a way. And I just wanted to raise awareness on these great businesses that are doing great things or you know, places that people maybe don't know about. And welcome them into what this world is like. Because literally if you visit Halea, you feel like you're in another country. Like it just doesn't feel like you're in the United States, you know? And it's just a nice way of saying like welcome to the family. And what is Cuban culture? What makes Cuban culture distinctive and unique? It's crazy because like all laddon cultures are so different. Like my boyfriend is Dominican and although it's still a Caribbean island, you know, a Caribbean island, we are very different in culture. I don't know what makes this different. I mean, I would say we're definitely very loud. Our accent is different than all the other accents. Our food is different. Pretty, pretty religious too. I mean, it's most Hispanic communities are pretty religious. There. Yes. Like just seeing some of the scenes that you guys had shot like they have the pictures of Jesus. Like really big beautiful pictures of Jesus. And a break in your house has a picture of Jesus. Like the most beautiful picture. Yeah, it's like a, it's huge too. Like in the bedroom. My mom, my mom has that too. But we're Italian. Yeah. But she's, she's got the, the Jesus picture as well. That was, those scenes and like everything you shot. Like how did you guys raise a budget for it and like were some of these things. They look really authentic. Like this is your filming in somebody's home. How much was actually intact? So we shot in my dad's uncle's house in East Hylia, which is like, you can't get more Hylia than this house. And like everything's pristine. So I was even like kind of like scared with the crew. Because I'm like, don't scratch the floor. Don't scratch the table. Yeah. And that is scratch. I mean, they every Hylia house is like impeccable. So we shot for actually no money. So literally this was a passion project across the board. We just made sure that our cast and crew was well fed while taking care of. But everybody on board was just so like obsessed with the story. And so in love with it, they were like, we got to be a part of this. And so we got very lucky that everybody gave. Not only 100% but delivered. My God, the best work. That's amazing. How do you, how do you do that? How do you approach those conversations and getting people inspired? Because yeah, I personally when I got started out. It was say yes to everything I can. I need to wedding videos, bar mitzvah. Like whatever it was, I need work. I need experience. And also if I could find something that also like I was passionate about. That I love to do. That was a really exciting project. That makes it even better. Yeah. But I'm also hesitant. And I like to bring on somebody to a project and not pay them. Because I've certainly had people take advantage of me. I've certainly had people who have had me do projects for much less. Than what I deserved. So how do you approach those conversations? And how do you get people inspired and on board on a project? Like this. It's really hard. I would say always start off with friends. Because when it comes to friends, it's almost like you're helping each other out. And it doesn't feel like like you're doing a favor for someone you don't know. For me, I mean, two of the people that were on my every which way show. Elizabeth Alias and Renee Lavon who were on every which way came on to Elizabeth play my sister, Renee played my dad. And then David knew one other cast member. So like everybody kind of knew somebody. For me, the most intimidating actors to ask. And I was really nervous to ask them were the grandparents. So Martha Velasco and Marcos Gassanoa are legends within the theater community in Miami. I grew up watching them in the theater. And I was like really freaking out to ask them because I'm like, how am I going to ask these professional legendary actors to do this for free? But I called Martha first and I told her about it. And I said, you know, my goal is to really like put it out there and like get a deal or something. You know, just I really sold the idea of what I wanted to do. And then prayed that I would be able to execute it because, you know, you're promising these things. And obviously anything could happen, but I was like, well, that's good. So more to make move more to get a deal done, you know. And she said yes. She was like, I would love to be a part of it. She's like, I normally do not say yes to this stuff. But I don't know why I feel like I need to say yes to this. And I'm like, she's like, but I only have one condition. I said, what is it? She's like that Marcos will play my husband because I don't trust anybody else to play him. But him. And I was like, well, that's fantastic because you have to go look for the grandfather. You know, and I mean, I'm like, well, it's great. So because I put on a casting notice and no one submitted for the grandparents. And this was like a few days for so tough to cast for. And it's not that many old actors like that level. Yeah, not only that, but the accent. The Cuban accent is so specific. And that's what I said, if we don't have the grandparents as authentic as possible, we don't have a show. We just don't because the accent everything has to be very specific. I don't know how I pulled that off. I don't know. I don't know. That's all God because I can't. Yeah. And so this is where good producing is important. And I mean, this is like your, is this your technically your first producing project like seeing it through from beginning to end. What was that experience like? And like, is it made up of these moments where you're like, I've got to call this person. I really need to make a good impression. I really need them to, I need to win them over to my way of thinking. You know, what was your experience like as a producer on this project? Um, it's hard because you have to sort of like, I mean, with social media, it's easy to sort of get the rest of the cast because everybody has social media, right? But for these characters, in particular, they don't. So what I did was I literally went to all the theaters, and Guy Ocho and knocked on the door and asked them if they had actors that I could call. And that's how I got Martha's number. I don't know if that was legal or not, but I got it. But yeah, it's sort of like, okay, I'm going to have to put my ego aside and sort of like, just, just feed on the ground, calm down, and let's call. Let's try to make this happen. And if it doesn't happen, what's your next plan, what's your next move? So I almost always have a plan. So this is what I want. This is what I'm going to try to get, but if I don't get that, what's my plan B? So I'm always like, okay, problem solution, problem solution. That's sort of, and that's how I navigate life period. You know, it's sort of like, what's the solution to every problem? I don't set a complaint in wall of, that's, and I'm not a Quitter. So it's like, really, I don't have that personality. So I feel like producing is like, just a natural thing for me. Yeah, very much problem solving. Because if this thing doesn't work out, if they say, no, she's, there's not, you know, feeling well, she's already booked on on their project. All right, well, we have to fill that somehow. And there's gotta be somebody who can fill the role. And it's a matter of finding, it's probably what's helpful for you is that you've been doing this for a while and you've built up these relationships. Right. So relationships are so important. And when you're getting started out, it's obviously much more difficult. Yeah. But you can kind of tap into those circles that you already had. What were there any other challenges of producing this project? I mean, I think anytime you produce a project with a budget of zero dollars, there's so many challenges I did it with minimalism. Oh. But yeah, what were some of the challenges that you saw? Well, shooting on my dad's uncle's house, which honestly he thought we were going to come with a knife on in a little flashlight. He did not expect this whole crew with cameras and cast sort of a mart his home. Yeah. That was definitely a struggle because actually his wife had just had open heart surgery, which I didn't know. And I'm like, well, this is horrible. This, you know, she needs to rest. So timing was very hard on us. Sort of like he is like, well, he can't shoot here all day. You know, so we had those time constraints. Also our cast had other things that they had to get to. So it was like, okay, well, who do we have from this time to this time? And what scenes can we shoot? And it was more problem-solving like small little obstacles versus like anything major that stopped production at all. I mean, I literally like the night before we started shooting, I remember I was vlogging with on this and I said to him, this is going to go to crap. I was like, this is going to go to crap because everything has just gone so smoothly. There's no way that the shoe could go so smoothly. And it really did with just as minor things. It did because we got the, we got a great product. Yeah. We really did. So I think great about like when you have a small knit crew. Like how, what was your crew? Like 510 people or so? 510 crew? Yeah. Well, yeah, with cast maybe about 10. Maybe about 10. If we did the big family scenes. Sure. But it's so much easier to be flexible and say, okay, actually we're not going to shoot inside now. We're going to do this scene outside first because we're not able to get access to it. Well, our hardest scene to shoot was episode five. We did a Ginseng Yena practice, a real one. So a Ginseng Yena practice. Okay. Yeah, you did that. It's really good. Yeah, it's not my first time saying that word. I totally agree. So yeah, what was a practice though? It's a practice for the birthday. Right. So you do, so like he's saying it, I was like legit. They're like productions. Okay. And so like you have to rehearse once in advance to put on the show for your friends and family, which sounds insane. But it's part of our culture. Yeah. I won't even tell you. Well, Mike he's saying it was. But so Amy Kale, who's the wife of Pedro Kale, who owned Vicki Bakery, a really big bakery in Miami. Their daughter Diana was having her practices. So I've known the family for many many years. Amy actually used to be my children in coach and middle school. And I said, you know, wouldn't it be great if we can sort of shoot a real one? You're already in practices. We can shoot it. She goes, okay, great. We'll give you like a guess an hour or two hours to shoot it. And this dance dance studio, which they had for only a few hours. We were starting to set up to shoot a David Vargas or director. I guess had food poisoning and started to get really sick. And we had all these, we had like 30 kids and their parents and the studio and a sick director. And I was like, oh my gosh. And this was like super crucial because this is sort of like our turning point within like the season. So we needed this scene because everything gets exposed in this episode in this particular scene. And so in between takes of him running out to, you know, rough. And then shooting. And then the time we made it happen. And we sort of were just like doing the best that we could within those circumstances. But that was the hardest hardest scene to shoot. That's so rough. Yeah, and we only had that day. We couldn't pick enough to do to shoot it. It was just that time and that's it. That was it. If you don't get it now, then you're screwed. We have nothing. Yeah. You guys decided to do this as a Facebook series. Is that right? What was the decision process that went into that? So why doing it all on Facebook? So originally I pitched to David that I thought about YouTube. I said, I definitely wanted something on YouTube. But once we wrapped up everything and I started looking at things that I saw Facebook was making Rachel content. I was like, hmm, that's interesting. I'm looking at how like all like everybody. That's Latino and any age too, like from, I don't know, middle school other Facebook or teenagers. Even like up to grandparents aren't Facebook. I said, no, this is a show for them. This has to live on Facebook. So I just told the boys, I was like, I think this should go on Facebook and they agreed and it's all Facebook. There's not that many people that are doing that at this point. Like a Facebook exclusive release. I feel like that's kind of your head of the curb on that one. But it seems like something that's going to be more and more popular. Yeah, I think so. It's going to be like the next YouTube. Yeah. It's challenging the getting the message out there, getting people interested in gauge. Everybody's like, oh, the algorithm. It's like the new is this thing on. It's like the Facebook chains are algorithm. So nobody's liking my comment, my post anymore. Um, how have you guys gone about promoting the show through Facebook? And I mean, have you kind of hit it from other angles as well? Oh, yeah. I think the main thing here is that there's you only have so much time. Mm-hmm. You don't have a budget to promote this thing to push it out and do a lot of Facebook ads or anything like that. So you can't do everything. Right. What's like the main focus and where you see yourself getting the message out there for the show. So I think the main focus is, I mean, to promote in all areas, right? So like we had a little small budget for Facebook ads, which had, has done well for us. Um, you know, one of my best friends, Jenny Lorenzo, who's a big YouTuber. Um, and she does Cuban, I will eat us her character. She and I didn't even ask her. She started to repost our stuff. She has a large following. So we got a bulk of our sort of like viewership engagement off of her alone. Um, also just me promoting it the same way I promoted every which way going on like digital online podcast or magazines or, you know, interviews, things like that. So I did the CBS LA CBS and I'm going to do some like local stuff for TV in Miami. But I'm trying to stay away from like TV and what really focus on more of the digital sort of like brands or podcast and stuff like that. Right. It seems like that's going to be more of a direct connection. Like if it was promoting a TV show, maybe I guess it's tough. If it's like national TV. Yeah. We're going to reach enough people, but for like a local show, you're probably not going to get as much traction. Right. And as much direct link throughs. Right. So even for like this podcast, it would be, you know, on the YouTube account, anything, it would be like the link to your page or for highly, so then people could actually follow through and find it. Right. Super important. It's also important. The audiences that you're connecting with because if you're going to go on like, like, I don't know, a show that's about farm tractors, like you're not going to really get, even if there's 8 million people. Exactly. You're really not going to pull the right audience there. Exactly. I think what's good is probably that your following is probably really interested in obviously seeing what you have to say. Yeah. They've all kind of grown up too, which is nice because they can transition with me on like what's my new sort of like content. Right. Is that tough though? Because I imagine your audience is pretty young. Yeah. All right. At least what? Like a couple of years ago. Yeah. No. I mean, it hasn't been that hard actually. It was worried about that because they said, well, they're probably not going to understand what I'm doing now, but they've all been really excited and sort of like transitioned fine over to the next project, which is great. Tell me a little bit about we were talking before the show about minimalism. You said you checked out the documentary. Yeah. How do you feel about simple living and minimalism? How do you heard about it before the documentary? No. No. The first time I heard, I mean, I've heard of like simplifying your life, but like not necessarily like what you talk about in the documentary. For me, it changed my life because I first of all, I especially between the ages of like 18 to 21. I just spent a lot of money and I was buying everything and things I didn't need. And even just to buy clothes now, like I don't, I don't go to an even markets or so. I like back in the day, they simply like, oh, you got to wear designer and you have to spend on this money. And I just try it, I go to raw, so I go to marshals and it's just like, why am I going to pay full price for anything? I look so much cuter in this clothes anyway. Yeah. And I'm paying less money for it. And I don't need a closet full of things and shoes. I just, I don't. Yeah. I travel a lot later now. I used to travel with like three bags. I travel so just with a carry on or if not a medium size, but it depends how long I'm staying. Obviously, but I don't take that many things. I've just sort of like everything has been simplified. The makeup thing too. Oh, my gosh. I used to go to Sephora all the time. I got this card called the VAB Rouge, which means you spend over $1,000 a year just on makeup in their store. No. When I got that card, when I got that card, I said, I have a problem. Yeah. I don't, I'm not a professional makeup artist. I don't need all of this. Yeah. I go in the store once I'm off. I need like a concealer that I like, but I don't do what I used to do. With like all these pallets and brushes. I don't need all that stuff. So my spending has gone down tremendously. Even eating too. I don't buy, I used to buy a lot of extra food that would spoil. You know, because you don't use it. I just buy what I, everything is what I need. It's not what I necessarily want. Why do you think that you had gotten caught up in the buying of this stuff? I think a lot of it had to do, especially when I was out here and I was struggling. It was more like a depressive type of thing where I felt I needed something to make me happy. I needed to buy this in order to get me excited. But it was temporarily, you know, such a little window of happiness. You know, it was just like, oh, I got it. I paid for it now. I'm like, oh, why did I spend that money? Then it starts to whole guilt trip thing. Yeah. And it's just not fun. Yeah. And then you end up with just a closet filled with clothing and a lot. Well, I made my money back because I put it all on eBay. Oh, you did. That's amazing. Isn't that exciting? I love doing it. Oh, my God. It was the, when I got into minimalism and I started to pair down. A lot of it is just stuff that, especially with, at least my clothes. It wasn't like nice designer clothes. It was just, okay, give it away to good will. I feel good about that. I can contribute to somebody. You know, if I have a nice jacket, like I remember because I got in a little bit crazy myself. I was just buying like the other jackets and like not that there's anything wrong with it. But like it didn't suit my style personally. But I like bought all this stuff that I didn't need. I had a TV that I have a flat screen TV that I bought when I moved back home to live with my parents. It's like very contradictory because I'm moving home because I don't have any money. And yet I'm depressed and unhappy. So I started spending money. So I feel I get that little hit like you said. But it doesn't do anything. Like there's nothing fulfilling about it. There's no long term fix for just buying stuff. Well, stuff don't validate your worth. You don't know me. It doesn't, or you're happiness. It's just, it's so temporary. People have to understand that that's so temporary. You don't need that stuff. It seems like it may be even a little bit more difficult for somebody like you who, you know, who is seen by a lot of people. Like a lot of what you do is how you present yourself in the world. Yeah. And you have, I mean, so where's that line, right? Where's that line of like you don't need the designer stuff. But so you want to look nice and you want to, you know. Yeah, I mean, for me, I mean, some, it depends what the event is, right? So like a lot of like the big events at kids' choice and stuff. I'm lucky enough that designers will lend me their clothes. And I wear it and I give it back. And that even happens with local shops as well. But like, for example, like this shirt, I've already worn another interview. And I thought, well, I should get another outfit because they're already some. And I was like, why? It's such I love this shirt and it's from top shop. And I'll just do a different, I did my hair picked up with red lips on the other shoe. I'll wear my hair down with like a nude lip on this one. I'm like, hey, if Kate Middleton can recycle her outfits, so cannot. You know what I mean? And that's sort of like, that's what's important to me. It's not. And what I want people to sort of like get for me is more of my message. And yes, I understand that the look is important because you have to sort of like, we have to portray yourself as to who you really are. And this is me, you know. And I love makeup in here and I love all that stuff. But also, too, I don't want to be too extra or try to like come across a somebody I'm not. I'm not going to come in a Valentino dress because, oh, I have to wear a designer. Right, you know. Yeah, because you don't want that to be what impresses someone. I mean, also, if that's if that's what impresses the person that you're hanging out with, maybe that's like not the most healthy relationship. You want people to value what you're bringing to the table. You know, what you've created. Yeah, totally supposed to what you're wearing. And I think our generation is very much like that. I don't think we care so much about that fancy stuff. I think we like more authentic, you know, sort of like authenticity simple. Show me who you really are. Yeah. Not don't be this other person. It is starting to change. And there is like a scale that's being tipped to people valuing experiences more. Like the American dream has changed in a lot of ways. The American dream isn't being a lawyer or a doctor anymore. For a lot of people, it's, you know, having the freedom to work where you want, when you want to not be tied to debt. Yeah. Because obviously debt is now a huge factor in a lot of people's decision making. But I think it's great to have people like you that really promote a healthy message, especially for young girls because I think it's easier for them to get caught up and need the makeup, need the stuff, need the clothing in order to be happy. Yeah, especially with Instagram. The makeup is such a big thing now. Like all these Instagram girls with the highlighter and the contouring and the whole thing. I don't, I don't think you need to. I think you should enhance your face, not change your face. You know, like find the pretty part of your face and highlight that, but don't contour and make yourself look like somebody else. Like I'm in shock when I go on Instagram and I see that. The heaviness of it just becomes someone else. I don't think you should do that. Yeah, because in the same way of masking yourself with this clothing or extra stuff, like you don't want to mask who you are. You want to be able to be comfortable in your own skin and people. And like that's not to say the makeup is bad. You're right, but there's a balance there. There's a balance. You should just enhance. That's it. You should not change who you are. You should not give yourself a nose job or like both talks like with the makeup. You just shouldn't. Like just be you. You know, like I contour very little right here, but I don't, I don't really do that. Do more of our bronzer just because I need to look not pale because my, I don't get sun on my face. Yeah. I refuse to get sun on my face. Oh really? What are you doing? I just, I literally lay out, but I put something over like, like something, either like my shorts or a hat or something to cover. Because like my dad said that he knew this woman in her 80s that she did not have any wrinkles. And her secret was because she didn't get sun. That's it. Now you got to get sun, though. I don't know your face. Oh, what, how do you go to the beach? I just cut my hair hat. Yeah. Well, if I have an umbrella, I'll just put my body out and leave my head inside. Yeah. That's so funny. My girlfriend does the, I mean, she does a lot with the sunscreen and, Yeah. And the sun care for the face. She's very cautious. She's Asian. So her mom who listens to this podcast link. She's amazing. She, she always says, you got to put the eye, the, not the makeup. It's like the eye cream. I guess she's the eye cream. What is the eye cream? What is the eye cream? What is that? Well, it's supposed to prevent wrinkles. I don't know if it really does. Yeah. But it's great, like, for under makeup. Because it's supposed to have to conceal. I mean, I can go on and tell you all these. Yeah. So far it did me well. It sends up like I really learned a lot of tips and tricks. Yeah. Yeah. Somebody just recently said, I just started this vegan diet. So you did. Yeah. I just started it. Because I tried it. It wasn't easy. Yeah. So Rich Roll is on the podcast. Next week. And he's, he's amazing. And he's, he's, he's been a vegan. He basically had this amazing midlife turnaround. Okay. 45 years old where he, uh, became a vegan. And then an ultra endurance athlete sort of running these Iron Man races. He actually ran five Iron Man races in a week. On a vegan diet. Which is crazy because it's a contrary to a lot of people think it. So like, oh, you're going to vegan diet. You're going to get weaker. So my thing is like, I want to go into this vegan diet. But I want to try to get stronger. Right. Somebody actually said that the reason I bring it up is because I was out last night. And the waitress said, I told her I was vegan. And I'm trying to figure out, okay, what can I pick from this menu? And she's helping me out. Right. Honestly, the only thing that I ended up getting was just this arugula salad. It was just like STEM and olives. They didn't have anything else. But now I have a little bit more empathy for people who are vegan. I also understand like you have to look at the menu before you go to the restaurant. Yep. But she said your skin looks amazing. I don't think she might have just been talking to me. It really does. It does. But maybe the vegan diet's helping. No, it works. I mean, when I did it for four months, um, last year. And it works. I actually did lose a lot of weight. Um, but it just wasn't for me. I, um, I wasn't that sort of like situation where you are now. You're trying to figure out like what to eat to make your energy go up. Because I was a very low energy had a lot of headaches. Um, and I wasn't really doing carbs because they were like, oh, well, you probably ate a lot of carbs. And I'm in all the way. I wasn't. I was, I was following. Actually, I was following that book. Um, the 20 day revolution. I haven't heard it. Um, it's Beyonce's trainer or something. Yeah. I should know this. Yeah. Um, but it was good. It was great. But it just wasn't for me. Yeah. It wasn't for me. You know what's great though? I'm going to use the experiment and try things and you have to be open to it because I, I get into that two of it. I would never do vegan diet. I could never do it. I've never do a vegan diet. But then out here, I'm doing it because I think you have to be open to trying new things, Open to new experiences. Not only even if it's minimalism. It's like, all right, Courtney Carver has this amazing project. Three, three, three where it's, yep, we don't down your wardrobe. And I think oftentimes the wardrobe is the best place to start. Because most of us only use 80%. Or sorry, only like 20% of what's in our closet. 80% goes unused. So you just take 33 items, shoes, jewelry, what at the shirts, shoes. And you only live on that for 33 days. That's all you wear. And it's a great experiment to start to figure out what you need, what you don't need. And it's not forever. You still got your stuff. You didn't throw anything out. That's the same thing with me for this diet. So what did you go on now? Is it just no diet? Just what's clean? Like a lot of people talk about that. So cleaning is just, you know, really, if I have something fried, it's not every day. So I mean, what's in the blue moon? Just, you know, a lot of greens. I'd like to make sure that my plate is balanced. Show my protein, my carbs and my veggies. And I have my fruits every day. And a lot of water. I try to get a least a gallon of water a day. Like that sort of like my goal. So that's pretty much it's just very, very clean. And that sense. And very balanced. So I'm not necessarily like on a diet. Which actually did gain some of the way back from the vegan, diet that I did. But it's fine. Like I just wanted my body to sort of like do what it wanted to do in a healthy way. Not to say, you know, because I'm not overweight or underweight. I'm fine. I'm normal. So it's like, I want to work out to feel good about myself. And eat good so that I can survive my days. Yeah. You know what I mean? That's got to be hard though. Going back home with the Cuban meals. Telling me. It's not vegan. No. It is not vegan. Would your parents think about that when you said? Oh, my mom thought I was crazy. She was like, I ate everything. And I was fine as a kid or whatever. She's like, I gave you guys chips. And I gave you this. And I was like, see that. I don't really like to do the process stuff. Yeah. I stay away from from that. Were there any food documentaries for you? That kind of. Oh, yeah. Food ink. Yeah. That was one of the first ones that was like, Oh, shit. I'm not allowed to eat chicken. Yeah. So I eat chicken. I mean, not now. That is 30 day thing. But I do eat chicken. And you know, but you just have to be a little bit more aware of where it comes. Yeah. Yeah. It's amazing what a documentary or a book can do to kind of open your eyes up to a different world. Yeah. A little different. Well, when I was around 22, 23, I got a lot of acne. All of a sudden, like, all over my cheeks, like, really, really bad. And I was never an acne kid or a teenager. And I was really struggling. I was trying everything. And I couldn't get rid of this acne. So I found this book called the. God, I think it's called. Well, she's very big on the glowing green smoothie. But I forgot the name of her book. Kimberly Snyder is her name. The author of this book. I came across her book in a Barnes and Noble. And it, like, in the back, it's a something about like losing weight, but also acne. And I was like, oh, what is this? I got to get into it. So that's when I started educating myself on plant-based diets and green smoothies. And all that sort of, like, stuff that I started to get more curious about food. And I started watching, you know, documentary is like, food ink. And there was a lot of other ones on Netflix that I've watched. I recently did watch What The Health. But I feel at this point, I've watched so many. They're all the same. So it's really hard for me to sort of say, oh, this is what I picked up from this one. Or that they're all kind of the same for me in a way. You know what it tips is that the first one you watch is the most important. Yes. Because then it gets you to start to think a little bit differently. Opens your mind up to a different lifestyle. But then it's the other ones. It keeps you on track. It keeps you focused on eating healthy. Or for me, it's every year I read a book on personal finance. Coming from a place where I was in debt. $100,000 is bought a brand new car. And so I'm in, like, $117,000 in debt living in my parents' basement. I was like, I, that's, that was a low for me. And I was like, I don't ever want to be in that position again. And what helped me, it was first reading a book about personal finance. Dave Ramsey, total money makeover. Incredible book. It's a little bit corny. But it was for me. It was the first time I had gotten really good advice about personal finance. And it was, okay, now every year, it's a same shit. Yeah. I'm like reading about the same stuff every single year. The same principles about not getting into credit card debt, not using your credit cards. Yeah. And a lot of these principles, which, but you just need to relearn them. And just keep yourself motivated. Because oftentimes we can go off track. You know, progress is in a straight line. Yeah. Sometimes we slip up. And sometimes we make mistakes. Sometimes we buy the thing that we don't need. But then we can be aware of that. And then give it up. Yeah. And even with like your career, like I'm always investing my money back in my career. So it doesn't like, well, you know, you've got to kind of go 50, 50. You've got to be got to eat. And then you also got to like, you know, feed the monster of the business. Yeah. But that was a big thing for me too, coming out of every which way was that. I was putting in all my money back into sort of my career. So I had to find a balance. Yeah. That's one of the things where I have the same struggle. And I will make so many excuses to put the money in my business. Well, it's my business. Exactly. Those new headphones. I'm going to do this on that. I'd rather do that with my business in my personal life. Because I know it's not just self satisfying. It's actually building something and helping in some way. But you're right. There's certainly a line. And like I love what you're doing with the your video blogs where it's just everything Shot with your iPhone. Yeah. Well, you know, I was very tempted to buy a camera. I have a camera. So my dad gave me his cannon from like 2010. But the thing is that that camera is very big. And I can't really walk around with it. And I don't have sort of like, I can't have somebody falling me around all the time. Because I don't have the money to pay them anyway. And so I said, you know what, I, this will be really a big lesson for me to learn. But I think that this would help other people that want to sort of log. Now, put excuses to not sort of log because they don't have a camera or lighting or a crew or whatever. So I said, I'm going to do the whole thing off of an iPhone. I don't care what the quality looks like. I don't the whole point is can the story resonate? Can the story be executed? Does it matter the device? Or does it matter what you have? You know what I mean? It's sort of like using what I guess is the minimum minimalism mentality. It's like, okay, what do I have? And this is what I'm going to use. And I'm not going to overextend myself to try to make something happen because I need to impress people. Yeah, the best camera is the one that you have. Don't let the additional questions and the uncertainty of entering into a project prevent you from starting. Exactly. It's so easy to say, I don't have this camera. Oh, I, you know, I'm not really good at editing. What's like, how do you get good? You just start. Start making it. I started out with a Sony handy cam. It was, you know, on the iPhone's shoot a thousand times better than this handy cam. And it was like so, so tedious and so difficult to edit. And when you're capturing the footage, you'd have to literally wait minute by minute. So if I shot five hours of footage, it'd have to wait five hours for it to record onto my computer. And I was editing on a Windows movie maker is like what I started on. And this stuff is not intuitive. It's not that easy back when I started. And but it gave me the skills that I needed to move forward. It gave me a basic understanding of how to tell a story. And you can't expect the first thing you ever make to just take off and be everything. Exactly. It's always about that processing. Learning and correcting on the mistakes that you made before and correcting on the successes you had before. Yeah. You ready for quick questions? Yeah. All right, cool. So there are quick questions, but not quick answers. Okay. So you can feel free to expand on it. Don't feel like you have to answer as quick as possible or in one tweet. So what one book has had the biggest impact on your life? It's a Joel Austin book. And it's called, not what it's called, is called, every day's a Friday. And it's funny because when I picked up that book, I didn't think I needed it. I had, had already come out of sort of this depression, anxiety sort of like situation where I moved back after LA. And I thought I was fine. I was like, I'm fine. I don't really need this book. But I started to kind of look through it. And I said, well, maybe I have little things that I need to fix about myself. And that book changed my whole life. Like just the way that I look at life. And just sort of getting out of this little funk that I was in. And then after that is when things sort of falling into place, like every which way. And just everything just started to make sense. And my life was making sense after that book. What's the outlook that you took out from it? I think it's sort of just that mine switch thing. You know what I mean? It's sort of like when you think of something as bad, just think of always positive, right? So from negative to positive. And I was always like that as a kid. I just had a little bit of it turned off during those three years. Little after that too. I would say for maybe five years that I was sort of dealing with with that mental emotional struggle. And I had to go back to who I used to be. And that booked helped me do that. Because I was always a very positive optimistic kid. I remember going to school and kids were like, why are you always so happy all the time? And I was like, I don't know, I just am. And I just was. I just, oh, I do what I was going to be when I grew up. And it was going to be an actress. You know, my parents were just like these great parents. They gave me a lot of love. My parents were always involved. Like always talking to me about, you know, what's going on in school and just involved. You know, so I had a very good home. And so I was just happy kid. You know? And so I wanted to go back to that person. I wanted to find her again. I wanted to be her again. Yeah, that would help me. It's very easy to lose that and to to overthink as you get older. Yeah, exactly. What drives you? You know, fear drives me a lot. Fear of just like not doing what I want to do. Like my biggest fear is like waking up and I'm 80 and like, I didn't do anything in my life or I didn't try. You know, like, for me, like, it's funny because moving on to a life I felt super natural to me. But a lot of my friends were like, you're not going to go to school. Like, what if you don't make it? And that kind of was like, I had a little bit of fear of that, but not really. I was always like, if I don't do this now, one of my ever going to do this. Like, one of my ever going to really try. I can't say I didn't try. Even if I failed to doing it, I, that's fine. If I failed because of me, it's fine. You know, but I can't feel because I didn't try. That's not okay with me. That doesn't sit well with me at all. So fear drives me everyday all day. Like, I don't care how scared I am. I have to do it because I'm afraid of waking up and saying, Oh, I could have. If I would have just tried a little bit, I could have. You know? How do you consistently push yourself into fear? Because you overcome one thing. You do your first TV show. You do your first interview on TV. It becomes a little bit easier. Is it about continuing to push yourself and find those new fears every day? You just have to do it. Whatever you're scared of doing it, just do it. It's, I think there's a famous sentence. It says, like, feel the fear and do it anyway. And it's sort of you just have to. Because in life, not just in career, but even in personal life, too. Like, I blew my way from for 12 years. And we've done long distance twice. And people are like, how in the world do you guys sort of gathered? I'm like, we're just, we don't give up on each other. I just feel like it's, you can't quit. You just have to keep doing it. And you have to just jump. Just do it. Just do it. Don't be scared. It's great. What one skill have you leveraged in a way that others haven't? Ah, that is such a good question. Oh, my God. I don't even know how to answer this. Because I don't even know, like, you know, you live in your own sort of like head space where you just, you don't really know all the things you've accomplished you're done. I think for me, you know, it's funny. I think for me, it's definitely like, I don't get desperate easily. And I've seen a lot of my friends, especially in the industry. Because they feel like they're always running out of time get desperate. And so they don't have enough patience. And so they make raw mistakes. And then they shoot themselves on the foot. Um, when I start to feel that, because it's very natural for you to feel like you're running out of time or oh, my God, I have got to get this deal or I've got to get this meeting or whatever. Um, and then you sort of just, you don't, first of all, you don't come across very well with that or the person. So they don't really want to work with you. Like, oh, it's a desperate and second of all. You say the wrong things. You know, you're probably not even prepared. Um, it's just that good. I think I manage my desperate tendencies or like, my lack of patience. Well, I feel like once I feel that way, I kind of say, okay, calm down. This is a process. Trust the process. It's going to be fine. You need to have patience. Nothing happens overnight. Um, and I think a lot of people don't know how to do that. Especially your regeneration is a lot of lack of patience. So they need to find that quick. When are you happiest? I'm happiest. Um, okay. So I'm happiest with my family. I'm such a family person. Like, I love being around my family. Like, they all went to Disney World last week. And I was like, really sad that I wasn't there. Because like, my cousins were having babies now. And so like, I feel like I'm there on. Like, although like, I'm not technically. Um, we're very close. Like, all their cousins were very like, we call each other brother and sister. Um, so like, being around my family makes me happiest and working makes me so happy. Like, this whole schedule that I've sort of created for myself because I'm the one creating my whole world is, um, making me happy. Like, the crazier that I am, the busier that I am, the happier that I am. Because I really love what I do so much. Um, it's funny. My boyfriend had asked me that question a long time. And he's like, would you be okay with, like, being a housewife and be financially taking care of and all that? And I was like, no. And he said, but why everybody wants that? I'm like, hmm, not me. Because that's just, that's not my personality. This is suit me. I love to work. I've always loved to work, since I was like a little girl. So like, I love what I'm doing now. This makes me so happy. That's okay. I love it. Um, let's see a couple more questions here. What's the simplest advice that's the most important to follow? You know, not to give up. My dad used to tell me all the time. And also like, if you don't believe in yourself who will. My dad was very big on that as well. Um, not giving up is so simple and so cliché, but it's so true. Like, you just can't. Like, even if it takes you a zillion years to get there, you just have to keep doing it. Because when you really fail is when you quit. That's, that's the true definition of failure. Not you like having these small little setbacks. That's not a failure. You know, that's going to help you to grow to actually accomplish your dream and actually be able to execute. Because you can't be like born and then be the president tomorrow. Like, or be the president of Nickelodeon tomorrow. Like, you have to have a path. Um, there is no overnight success that doesn't exist. Great. Two more questions. Actually, no, oh, man. We got a good one here. Um, so. All right. I've got a big goal to get the rock on my podcast. Oh, oh. You can see over your shoulder. I've got the rock. That's why that's there. I just, I don't have a, I'm not a rocker. The rock is the bomb. The rock is so good. You're from Florida. The rock lives down in Florida. Um, you know, here's the thing. Like, I don't have a lot of, of, of cloud. Like, the rock doesn't know who I am. I'm, I'm, I'm a nobody. I'm just a guy with a podcast. You are not a nobody trust to me. All right. So one of the best documentaries on Netflix. You're not a nobody. I appreciate that. Um, so I, I, I, I feel like to get the rock on my podcast to achieve this goal. I need some friends to help me out and to pitch the rock to come on the podcast. So what I've been having a lot of people do is to look into that camera right there. Okay. And, and ask the rock if you would please come on to Matt's podcast. Okay. It's the way to look at that camera. Yeah. Okay. The rock, the way the rock Johnson, you have to. And I have ordering you to come to Matt's here. To hit the podcast right here. This is amazing. To come and do a podcast with Matt. You want to know why? Because he is one of the best creators I've ever met in my life. He has the best documentary on Netflix right now. The best that I'm running and kidding. So you need to come here and, and you need to be a part of this podcast. Because you're the bomb and he's the bomb. And two bomb people need to be in the same podcast. Okay. So come, that it. You need to come. That's so good. Thank you so much. Appreciate it. Um, that might do it. I feel like that might tip the skin. I think that it was, was good. Oh, my God. Yeah. I mean, a little people for him might work. I'm persuaded. Um, so thank you so much for that. I, I, I, I, what I'm, I'm what I think I'm going to do. And I'm probably, I might cut some of this out. I think this was actually fun though. Something like that. That's so fun. But I want to actually make this like kind of a collaborative video to fish the rock. Because he's got such a great ground up story. He's like, he's so passionate. And he's just the guy that just proves that there is no making it. There is no final destination. It's the work that you do every day. Loving what you do that is the most important part. Yeah. I honestly, for me, he's like, somebody that I admire and strive to be, um, because what he's done and created for himself is sort of like what I would love to do. I think what he does with this production company is just like incredible. So like him, Oprah, while Disney are like my top people. Yeah. Yeah. It also comes back to two of what you're saying about just connecting with the fans and the audience. And just being genuine. Oh my god. It's so so well. He always makes time for people. And I think that's something that, um, it can, it's easily overlooked as the more success comes your way. Well, it's, it's, it's your grateful that that, and that's what he's doing. He's like, I have to be grateful for you because without you, I would not be here where I am today. And so I have to do sort of give back by tweeting you or, you know, or being on this podcast. Great. We'll see. We'll see if that works out. I've got patience. So I guess I'm willing to wait. I'm willing to wait it out on this one. So two more questions here. What one thing should people read watch or listen to before they go to bed tonight? I have this app called Calm that I love. And so it just, like, puts me to sleep because it walks you through sort of, like, your sleep steps. Um, but I'm always out in the first two minutes. I think it's like 20 minutes long and like two minutes. I'm like done. That's great. Okay. So that's our calm. Um, and lastly, where should people connect with you online? Um, so everywhere is at melicacratchet.com. M-E-L-I-C-A-R-C-H-E. All right, Melissa. Thanks for coming on the show. Please don't mind. This is fun. Yeah. Maybe next time when the rocks here. Thanks for listening to the ground up show. If you like this podcast, there's something you can do right now to help. Head on over to iTunes and leave a quick review. I print out every single one and I put them up on my mood board above my bed. Okay, that's not true. But I still notice and appreciate everyone. For more on the ground up show, including behind the scenes videos, check out groundupshow.com. Thanks for listening.
