# Ground Up 011 - Understanding the Mind & Body w/ Nadia Munla
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gkUCDH1ZiGc
http://www.groundupshow.com

Nadia Munla is a health & sensuality coach based in Brooklyn, NY. She’s helping women to understand their bodies by eliminating all the noise and distraction. In our conversation we talk about her previous career as a filmmaker, building an online business & dealing with critics.

Nadia's website:  http://nadiamunla.com/

More from me:  https://www.mattdavella.com
Podcast:  https://www.groundupshow.com
Twitter: https://www.twitter.com/mattdavella
Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/mattdavella
Facebook: https://fb.me/matthewdavella

Music Credits
Hip Hop Old School by Carlsbro
Keep Fallin by The Passion HiFi
That Hip-Hop by Diplodocus
**Keywords:** the ground up show, ground up, mattdavella, Matt D'Avella, Nadia Munla, health, sensuality, coaching, life coach, 
**Date:** 2017-05-03

## Transcript
 I worked for like two weeks. I got like $500 or something and I was like, I'm done with this. Like, I can't do this anymore. Yeah. This week I'm sitting down with Nadia Moonla. She's a health and sexuality coach based in Brooklyn. That's helping women to understand their bodies by eliminating the noise and distraction that often surrounds them. Did you always see yourself where you are now? Absolutely not. In our conversation we talk about lady stuff, her previous career as a filmmaker, building an online business and how to deal with criticism. It's really the person who's in the boxing ring getting beat up but trying that is the hero. This is the Ground Up Show. Can you hear yourself? Can I hear you? Okay. Tell me a little bit about your current work and what it is that you do. I know that you touch on a lot of cultural taboos. Yeah, I guess. That's a really interesting reflection actually. Well, the work that I do is that I'm a health and sexuality coach and I guide women back to their bodies. And the idea behind that is that a lot of women right now in the world are just very disconnected from their bodies for many different reasons because of the messaging that we get growing up because of the diet industry, the media out there that's constantly pushing Photoshop still. I mean, now we're getting a little bit better slowly but took a while. And so as a result, women have a really bad relationship with their bodies, most of them. And also there is we're living in a world a system that very much values certain, let's say, more masculine traits than feminine traits. So being or what I guess in neuroscience or psychiatry world would be left brain versus right brain. So for those who don't know left brain is primarily task oriented. What we consider more masculine. And of course, we both have both. It's just a matter of how much. And right brain is a little bit more, you know, the emotional and the creative. And so a lot of women nowadays have disconnected from, they're so in their masculine. They've disconnected from more of their feminine energy and their feminine genius. So part of the work as well is getting them reconnected to this piece of them that they have, you know, gotten messaging. You know, gotten messaging around is pretty dangerous. So you do a couple of different things. You do some dance classes, like specifically where are some, some of the things that you do. You do some coaching. So it won't be through that. Yeah, sure. So as a coach and I guess an embodiment advocate. I have a few different modalities that I work through, but ultimately the goal is the same, which is to get women more connected to their feminine bodies. And their sensuality, which are of course interconnected. And one way in which I do that is I have one-on-one coaching. So I've programs where I just work with women. They can be anywhere in the world. And we work through Skype, or maybe a million platforms nowadays. But we find a way to connect. And we do all our work online. And then I also have a group program. So I bring together circles of women also from across the globe. Like right now I'm running a group program. I've got a woman in China. I've got a woman Hawaii and everywhere in between. So and we get together and we also explore a lot of these topics. And we go through what I call like the four phases of embodiment, which we feel free to ask about that, down the line of that feels important. And then I have these dance classes, which I teach in New York and sometimes I travel with. And they are essentially classes where we, again, it's a woman-only space because the idea behind that being. And it's for anyone who identifies as woman. So the idea being that it's a space that doesn't have the male gaze. And that's really important because a lot of women don't feel, they feel a little bit scared and unsafe when they're around the male gaze. And so they're able to explore parts of themselves when there isn't men there. And so these classes are essentially depending on whether I'm doing the one hour format or you know a half day format. There are also, you know, we work through, you know, we do some breath work and some dancing work. My sister is a little bit. Yeah, yeah. So mine isn't like, you know, the fancy breath work. She's like the high end breath work sessions. Yeah, yeah, yeah, it's really. So, you know, for me it's all of us know how to breathe, right? Which is part of what's, I mean, this is what we've forgotten. We've forgotten just the basic inhale exhale. And so we work a lot with, you know, them getting present and mindful in their bodies and reconnecting to their curves. And what it feels like to actually explore your body the same way you would, a lover's because we get so excited about touching other people. But mostly women are not in their experience in their bodies when they're actually, you know, being central or even just in their day to day. You could be going down, you know, walking down the street. And there's one way that a woman can walk on a mission and there's another way where she's like, you know, like really in touch with all her senses. And so we, I work through the five senses to get them connected to their sensuality. And then through that, they can access their sensual body and their femininity more. So I want to get into down in a little bit how you built this business like that. I find to be very interesting and fascinating, especially as I've always done client-based work. So to be able to do something in the coaching realm to create programs and classes, this kind of stuff is totally new to me. So I really want to learn about it. But you have an interesting path to, into filmmaking and all this, making a feature-length film. But I want to talk about how you got started out. Like, did you always see yourself where you are now? Absolutely not. So I guess when I, when I started out, ever since I can remember, I mean, since my teen years and, you know, when he started to think about, like, oh, what do I want to be when I grow up? I always had a fascination with women. Like, I feel like women and women's issues have always been sort of the through line in all my work. So when I went to university, I was first really excited about development work and that's what I majored in. And so I was like, I'm going to go to Africa and help women get more water and figure out their own little businesses and started working with the UN and was like, oh, no, this is not what I thought it was going to be. And then, um, worked my way towards actual heat-talkie memory. I was like, oh, I know how to tell stories about, you know, Africa basically because I was thinking about it the time. I was like, oh, documentary. So, um, so I started getting into media a little bit more and eventually ended up doing, um, my masters in film producing with the hopes of getting primary, you know, primarily focusing on documentary. And then what ended up happening was I fell in love with storytelling. I was like, oh, this is really, this is just cool. And so, um, so during my time at USC Film School in LA, I was, uh, I was living with, my roommate was also in the class with me and she was a great screenwriter. And so we decided that we were going to, we came up with this idea while sitting in traffic on the 405 as one would in LA. Like, okay, um, so women are, you know, men are always talking about how it was so easy for women to get laid. And we were like, it really isn't. And so we started, we just from there, this idea blossomed and we, um, created this idea called Hannah has a hope phase and it ended up being my thesis. So she wrote it, what we had to do in film school because it was a producing program. She had to actually option either a script or a treatment and then create like the entire plan for it. So it wasn't actually producing the film, but it was the writing the script. Yes, exactly working with a writer on notes and then coming up with everything from, you know, the scheduling, the budget, the cast list, the entire plan. Was this like, so are you actually planning to make this or you're not expected to in the class? So the actors, are you actually reaching out to them or is it just kind of your like fairy tale? Like, oh, let's get met Damon or totally totally. It was, it was an exercise. It was something that the program recommended you do realistically because they're like, this is great. You have done all this work for you. Why not? Then take it out and do it. No one in my class except us did it. Wow. So I guess not, but I do remember our initial wish, our dream list. Because it was like a 6.5 mill, at the time that made sense. In the industry back in like 20, when was it? In 2009, it made sense to make a 6.5 million dollar film now. It doesn't at all, I'm assuming. And we had Emma Stone, I remember, I was like, our lead girl. And I can't remember the rest, but probably a lot of SNL peeps. Yeah, but. And so, so yeah, we, you know, I did it as just like a fun exercise. And we weren't sure if we wanted to do anything with it. And what we did was we started chopping, chopping it around in Hollywood. And we got some meetings with some agents. And they were all like, oh, you guys are great. The script is great. And we need men in it. And we were like, oh. Is it, well, like, that's not the idea. Yeah, right. The way that, what I read about it online a little bit, but you guys kind of pitched it as American pie for girls. Exactly. Which makes a lot of sense. So they include guys in more men into that would kind of defeat the purpose of the film to begin with. And let me ask you, like, at this time, so what point was this? I know that the film ended up releasing 2012. So at what point were you writing the script and working on this project? This was in 2008 and 2009. And like, if you could remind me, because now, you know, women leads and tons of count, you've brought city. You have a lot of Amy Schumer and a lot of comedies that have women as the main lead. And it's following up female characters. Was this like, comment at the time? Or this is very new. Now, this was all we had to compare it to a sex and the city. We didn't even have like a film version. I think around the time that we were shopping at around, there was this movie. Oh, and I'm going to, I totally don't remember the name with Anna Ferris about her, like, what's your number? I think that's what it was called. And there was a lot of controversy. It wasn't out yet. It was just, I think, being made at one of the studios. And there was all this controversy about, like, well, what is a woman's number? In terms of, you know, what's the number of guys she can see but before she becomes called a whore? Yeah, that was what the movie was about. And I guess, behind the scenes, it was a lot of old white men debating it. You know, well, what, no, that number is two. That's a very high number. Well, we need women on this table, like, making these decisions. Because I don't think you guys know. Yeah. And so that was the only thing I think at the time. I don't remember anything else being around and so we were very much about, you know, we got to have more female sex communities, essentially. It's yes. And then you're pitching this and they tell you that you need more men in it. And what's your reaction and how do you go from there? Yeah, it was really challenging. I think at the time, we were really into this one. We were excited to work with this one agent at WME. And we were like, oh, we're going to let this go. Like, this is, you know, for those who aren't in the industry, I mean, this is a big, this could be a milestone in your career. You know, you can make this movie and then everything else is like, you know, you're sort of, I wouldn't say set. But there's a higher chance of you being set. And that you're early early in your film career as well. Like, that's huge. You should be able to have that kind of jump because some people work their entire life to be able to have that kind of opportunity. Yeah. So you're thinking about potentially kind of giving in to their advice and and following through with adding more definitely thought about it. Definitely thought about it. Yeah, for sure. I was going to hate on you for that. Yeah. And then we decided, no, you know, a bunch of different things were going on in our personal lives and my roommate happened to be from New York. That's where she grew up. And so she moved back here. I had to go back home for a little while, which is Lebanon. And eventually, while I was, we were separated, we were like, oh, we really should just make this movie in New York, which is we had initially written the first draft of the script in New York. But then we changed it to LA because we were like, oh, it's a lot more, you know, they're going to be more excited about LA in Hollywood. It's so hard to do. Yeah. Like it's easier to do. And then we just decided, you know, what? We're going to do it. And we're going to have it be micro budget. It was like post-player witch. And like, there's just like a lot of good buzz around micro budgets at the time. It's really great. We'll just do it for 100,000. I don't know how we'll make that happen. But we will. And I was like, oh, 100,000. Chop it up into 10 pieces. I just need to get 10 investors. 10,000 each. I got this. You know, I did like try to break it up into tasks. Yeah. Yeah. Great idea. It didn't work. But we ended up having 13 investors. And that is not recommended. I mean, it's a lot of people to manage. But it worked out great. I mean, they were wonderful. And for them, you know, they pitched in a small amount. It wasn't huge. So it worked out. I think we also did like one of those kick starters. But maybe at some point when we needed like cash for like 10,000. Yeah. I mean, that's not. That was challenging. Yeah. What is part about about this? Like, is that. At what time were you making this 2010 now? Yeah. And you guys that were making this film weren't like camera operators. Didn't have the technical skills. You had the direction, the writing and all that and the producing. Yeah. So that's like the biggest part of the budget, right? Is like getting the equipment and then paying for the filmmakers and the people to actually create it to pay for the editors. Yeah. So as like a DIY type project, if I were to try to make a feature film, I could probably do it for less. So I'm just trying to think of like, I guess, what were those big expenses for you? And what was the most challenging part of putting either film without having the technical experience to actually operate a camera and shoot the film? I think, you know, I mean, we had technical experience, but I would say probably Jamie, a lot who was my partner on this a lot more than me. I always was like not taking the cinematography classes. And I was like, no, I'll just do more producing. Yeah. But we felt confident that we had great people out there who could execute what we wanted, but still had a relatively decent rate that we could afford. A good chunk of it was more like post and distribution. Yeah. Yeah. Getting into film festivals. And that's awesome. A lot of money. Yeah. We submitted to a lot. Like, I think 80 film festivals. And it costs like five grand. Yeah. It looks all of them because it just adds up. But there's the cost to make the film, which is one thing. The cost to edit it another. And then the cost to distribute it. So it's like, even if you spend 30,000 on making a film, like nobody sees it yet, like to get it out there. And that's usually what most especially big feature and Hollywood budgets, on most of it goes towards marketing and promoting the film. Yeah. People don't know about it. It doesn't exist. What were some of the big, not technical, but what were some of the big challenges of creating this film? Well, we added in this little challenge of having to be fully female, crew. So that was fun. Yeah. How do you go about it? Because that's something even I struggle with. I've been doing this for a while, hiring freelancers. And you just don't come across as many women that are in the film making the industry. Yeah. We found them. We found them. We did everything to find them. You know, what's great is I think once you get heads of departments that are women, it's a lot easier because they know, you know, they'll, because then they're the ones that are really sourcing or recommending people in their department and women, you know, I think are pretty good about supporting other women. You know, one thing we declared early on was that when the time came, if we felt that no woman could fill this job, the way we wanted it, then yes, we would, we would go to a man. But we, it just seemed, it made a lot of sense for us to be making a movie about women by women. And the fun, the fun sort of unintended consequence of this was that, you know, the movie is a lot about a woman who has many encounters with many men. And so we had lots of sex scenes to shoot with a lot of different guys. And they would all show up and they were, we hadn't even thought about this, but they were really just scared to be on set naked with a bunch of women. And we had unintentionally reversed, you know, what a woman's experience probably is quite often on set, which is, you know, is usually a woman running around naked in a lot of, you know, grips and whatnot. Yeah, I'm definitely. Yeah, so we realized that only once we were actually shooting the scene were like, oh, how interesting. Not intended, but sort of fun. Yeah. This is something that you thought you were going to continue to do. And once finishing this film and putting it out there, do you say, like, yeah, I want to keep doing this or were you having doubts and second thoughts about filmmaking? It's a great question. I was definitely having doubts. I think my body was telling me a lot of things like I had not been listening to my body. This is why I'm now doing what I do. Just that I, you know, you sleep for hours a night. I had my, I was sleeping with my phone under my pillow, because I'm the person that when, you know, stuff's going wrong. They have to call. And so I never really, I think fell asleep. I was just taking a little cat nap, going like, what's the next thing that's going to blow up? And, you know, when you're on low budget productions, the food isn't necessarily organic and gluten-free. It's going to be like burritos from the telly. So pizza, if you're lucky. Yeah. And so when you're living a lifestyle like that, I, at some point, my body was like, nope, this is, this is not sustainable. How are you going to be a mother and do this? How are you going to have a family? And so I started to reevaluate, well, okay, what is it that I really love about this? And what is not working for me? And so I think working with women's stories and being inspired by women and, you know, continuing on the theme of, I think, sensuality and feminism. Like, all of that stuff still moved with me into the work that I do now. I just had a slightly different way of presenting itself. Yeah, was there a catalyst or tipping point for you? Because, through four hours of sleep and night, there's only so long that you can do that. And at one point, did you say, I need to make a change, and I need to kind of reassess my priorities here? Yeah. Yeah. So once we finished the film, I wasn't, you know, I actually wasn't sure then that, okay, this is done for me. I got a job at an advertising agency. So I was like production managing there, and still had my production company and working on basically, you know, post and getting the film into film festivals, which, you know, those people who know, it's a quite a few years of just that after the film is done. And so as I was doing all of that, I also was taking on a couple of other little, like, low-budged things here and there on the weekends. And every time I would, I'm like, oh my god, because here was the thing. It was like the advertising agency was, I didn't want to do commercials. I kind of care at all. Like creatively speaking, I was, but the check was nice. You know, and that's what kept me doing the other things. But then I would show up on these like small indie films, with a lot of directors and actors who, you know, you just have to like babysit and egos. And then I was just like, I'm getting paid. I think there was like one job where I like produced a whole, like, second unit shoot or something was going on. I can't remember. I was like four days and I was like, the entire thing. I worked for like two weeks. I got like $500 or something. And I was like, I'm done with this. Like, I can't do this anymore. Yeah. And so at the same time, I just stopped the advertising. I stopped the, I closed my production company. I just like went all out. Like, I'm done with all of this. Yeah. And you're living in New York. Yes, and I'm living in New York. Did you have a little bit of runway? Did you kind of split? Yeah, I did. I did. I had some savings. I had, I knew I had like, you know, worst case scenario. I had my family to fall back on. Or it wasn't, you know. I can't consider myself like, oh, my god, the most courageous hero of all. But what I will say was courageous is that in having to, make the decision of changing my career, I also had to like go of my, my US visa. Because I was here on a visa. Oh, I know. Yeah. And so that was actually the hardest part. It wasn't so much, oh, am I going to have enough money or it was more, oh, I need to leave the US. Like, no, I sort of like New York and I'm having fun here. And I don't necessarily want to go back home. Yeah. Yeah. But I also knew that I couldn't, it wasn't sustainable. Yeah. Have you always been into like entrepreneurial and spirit, in terms of reading self-help books and self-improvement type books? Yes, and no. I never, I always, you know, I had my own production company. So I was an entrepreneur, essentially, even in the film world. And being a producer is like the best, really, the best training for it because you're working with money. You're working with big teams. That sometimes it's more challenging than having, you know, a couple of employees because it's constant, you know, turnaround and huge teams that you're working with. So in that sense, yeah, I didn't feel challenging at all for me to go, okay, well, now I'm going to start another business. I was like, oh, okay, here's just another way of doing what I was already doing. And what I love to do was I love nutrition and holistic healing. I was always geeking out on that just through my own journey with my body and my health. And so I was always sort of termed nurse Nadia in my friends and family circles. So they always be like, okay, what do I need to take for this? Or what do I, you know, and I always had an answer. So I always was really inclined to work in, I guess, the world of health and healing. And so it made sense for me to go out and get certified as a holistic health coach, which is the next step I took at this because it was like, all right, I'm going to do this. You are in essence starting over. Yeah. Yeah, burned all my budget. It's so many budgets. I'm burned them all. Yeah. Well, what, I, my mind is an interesting story because I started my business while it was on the road. So we were, me and my partner were nomadic and hopping around from one awesome place to another. And it was early on in the relationships. So you're in a honeymoon phase, which means you're more inspired and you're more excited. And it's really, the beautiful thing is it's like it's really easy to start an online business in terms of you don't need to have a certain amount of capital, you don't need to rent a place out. You just need your laptop and good ideas. Yeah. And so that was really great. And initially what I did, I mean, on a very pragmatic level was when I officially open the doors to my business. I started off by just using social media to essentially advertise that I was offering a few like scholarship. I think I positioned it something like that. So scholarship slots in coaching in my business. And so you could apply. And so a bunch of people applied and a lot of the mortgage fits. And we, I basically gave them three free sessions. So what I did a lot of coaches, what they'll do is they'll do one free session. Yeah. But then what they do is they'll do like what they are like, oh, I'm doing a 30 day challenge, one person a day who, you know, here's my calendar, book a spot. And this is a great way for you to get better as a coach without feeling the pressure of, oh, my God, someone paid me what if I suck. And what is this is like a 30 minute skype session or 60 minute skype session, something like that. Exactly. And I do 60 minutes. I mean, some other people do 30. Yeah. I don't know how they get anything done. Yeah. What do you do? I like that's a hell of spaciousness. Yeah. And then not feeling constricted. Right. Everything done. Yeah. Yeah. And so I remember being like, yeah. I don't know about this like 30 people that just feels like a lot. I'd rather have 10 people, but each give them three sessions. And what ended up being beautiful about that is that there was enough space for us to develop a certain relationship and then a trustman. So a few of them became paying clients. So I sold them my six-month program and we started working together. And then it was just, you know, you start trying on different things. You know, there's like webinars. There's one way to do it. People sign up. You tell them all the awesome things that you do. And then you go, hey, here's the discount. Why not? Yeah. Yeah, I love that idea. Just the even the coaching. Because that's something I haven't thought about doing. Maybe I will eventually, as I do less and less client work and go more into creating my content. I have had people ask me if I'm like offering mentoring or anything like that. And at this time, I'm like, it seems a little bit too early for me to get into that. Not that I couldn't do it. As in, I'm focused on so many other things. I'm just a little bit overwhelmed with doing stuff now as it is. And once things slow down, I'll certainly do that. Were you like scared? Like in a word, as you said, that you may give people the wrong advice and you may these that at it. Because like, that's the tough thing to do. These are important questions that you're helping people work through. Yeah. Totally. I mean, we all, I think we all have that. And initially, what I realized was I was operating very much in my head. And when those questions come up, it's always ego. Right. It's about you. You start to make it about you. And one thing my partner shared with me was, he's the life coach. Jake, so cool. It's on show. Yeah. Yeah. So all right. So many people are, no him. And he shared with me a really beautiful piece of advice that I constantly come back to, which is, when you start to have those thoughts, you're making this about you. And you are here in service to the other person. And so you need to always go back to them. The focus is on them. And so what would happen is in a way the same way that you sit down for seated meditation and thoughts come through. And you go, okay, I see this thought. And now I release you. Thoughts will come through. As you're coaching, oh my god, what did I just say? What does that totally weird? And then you have to go, I see you. And I release you. And go, again, take that focus back from, oh, what does this say about me? Okay, what is this person saying right now, right? Which is part of being a good listener, which is about 80% of being a good coach. It's like, you know, actually listening. Because so many people, I remember I always think about Oprah, who said that after every single person she's interviewed, no matter how big they are if they're president, or they were pop stars, or they always like the cameras turn off and they turn around and they're like, was I okay? That's so funny. And she's like, what I realize is that people just want to be seen. And when they feel really seen and feeling heard is another way of being seen. That's just the other way. You feel a lot safer, you feel really good. And lately, I've been geeking out a lot more on the neuroscience of a lot of this stuff because I see it experientially happening. But I don't understand what's going on in the brain. And I like, I'm a sciencey person and in the day, I really like to understand, well, what's happening behind the scenes. And as I'm learning more and more from these people who are really good at what they do and therapy and psychiatry, I'm realizing that there is a lot of work done on this and that most of your nervous system really slows down and starts to feel safe and goes out of that fight or flight mode that we have when we're like stress or anxious or scared. We go back into a place of regulation and balance when we feel heard or seen. So that actually really is like most of the work. Just being able to listen and to be able to let them know that you're here and to help them work through their challenges that they're going through. What would you say are the biggest challenges that you've seen? All your clients are women. And I imagine their challenges are a bit different than men might have. What are some of the common themes that you see? Gosh, there's a lot of them. I would say a big one is of course just not being friends with your body. So feeling like your body is something you have to manage and sort of a very top down approach, right? Like this is what we've been fed over and over again by media, diet industry, everywhere it's like fashion industry, like get it in control, get it into those jeans, get it, you know, lose the muffin top due to. And same thing in the patriarchy too in the sense that like we have to again show up a certain way, no matter whether we are, you know, ovulating, gluteal bleeding to the matter. And so we have to, there's all these mechanisms out there to control the body, like okay, here comes the tampon, like make it pretend it's not there. There's like a lot of different things out there that have us doing that, even, you know, numbing out headaches, right? Like what do we do? Or women who don't, you know, who have issues with their period, have to go on the pill, but that's really just like a mask to cover up the symptoms, but it doesn't solve the initial problem. So what we're running around doing in life is instead of listening to our bodies, we're caffeinating, we're numbing out through painkillers or, you know, anything else that you know about with. And, and we're also, you know, taking in external hormones that aren't created by our bodies. And so there's this very much, this like, like, top down approach to the body and to managing it, which causes this riff between women and their bodies. And so what we're doing is we're trying to remove all of those things, listen to what's actually going on, which initially can suck, right? Because when you're like, oh, I'm not going to take the ad, I'm not going to take the, you know, birth control pill, and I'm not, you know, going to do any of the things that I've gotten so used to doing as a crutch. Everything shows up. And so that's a really good time to have a coach because it's really scary and overwhelming when you're on your own. You're probably just call your doctor back up and go, like, actually, I'm going to go back on the hell. Yeah, I'm going to leave those for you. Now you go to Dwayne Reed. You're like, and I'm going to get some ad, you know, you do all the end and then Starbucks for the coffee, right? It's all set up perfectly to, to just manage your, your pain and your, your body's way of speaking to you. And so we, you know, we strip all of that and get to the core of, well, what's actually going on? What's your body saying? And let's address it from the core and get it actually solved, as opposed to cover it up. It seems like there's a lot of overlapping between that and minimalism. And I think when you look at the core of it, and when I was, when we went out and I interviewed, with Josh and Ryan, like 20, 30 people for our documentary, like the one thing that was always the, the tipping point that started everything was that they started asking questions. Because they weren't happy. They were discontent. They were certain things. They're like that they, they didn't, weren't fulfilling the field. So for them to be able to ask these questions, like, what do I really want? What am I feeling? It was bringing in a sense of awareness for them. And I think that that is such an important thing is that most of us don't ask the questions just because it's easier not to. It's easier to just keep going forward, whether it's climbing up the corporate ladder. We kind of distract ourselves with unimportant things because the important questions are, I think a little bit too heavy for us to handle. Yeah, I would add to that that a lot of women come to me saying, I want to connect to my inner voice. I want to connect to my intuition and my wisdom and my, my powers of women. And I go, all right, that's great. We can totally do that. And just know that your intuition and sort of your, your body wisdom speaks in a whisper. And many times it's very inconvenient. So you may be making really great money at a job. You may be like living a very convenient life. But if you're unhappy and you're like, well, I'm trying to figure out like, what is my true purpose? And I want to connect more to my inner voice and then your inner voice is like, quit your job, sell it all. And you know, you know, put all your stuff in a backpack and go traveling. And that person might be like, oh, I don't know about that. I don't know if I'm ready for it. And so you have to also accept that that path is not, it's a bit more uncomfortable. It's a little bit more inconvenient. And so many times what happens is women hear that voice. They pretend they don't because they're not ready to make those changes. It doesn't feel right for them yet. And so I think, yeah, you know, whether you're trying to adopt a minimalist lifestyle or you're trying to connect deeper to your body as a woman, it's all the same thing. We're trying to remove the static or noise, which is what I call it, from our, you know, our like, things, yeah, our energy field, like, oh, I got too moved. Not the place for it here. But you know, it's just in your space. You want to remove all that static, the messaging, the layers, all that stuff that's coming at you. That's like, you should do this. You should do that. And it's only once you remove it. Because those, those come those messages, those messages come as like in a bullhorn. Right? They're like screaming at you. It's like everywhere on the billboards on the, you know, whereas like the whisper of like your connection to something bigger. You're not going to hear any of that when there's like all, that bill, all the different bullhorn screaming happening. So you gotta get rid of that. Do you think it's harder in New York? Totally. New York is like the center of all of it. It's madness. But that's also why. If you get, you know, I think the most enlightened people are in New York too, because those who are able to maintain a lifestyle of connection and spirituality within a place that constantly tests you. Yeah. Then, you know what, you're good. If you can spiritually make it in New York, you can make it anywhere. Totally. Yeah. Yeah. Were there any early wins for you? When you started to coach and you started to build this business that you have now, where you felt like, yeah, I could actually do this. This is something that I could feasibly build upon. Yeah. I mean, I think every, getting every new client was a win. Yeah. Yeah. More money. I can pay rent. And people want to do this because I love doing it. You know, it wasn't just, it wasn't just, oh, hey, I can pay rent. I was good there. This is fulfilling as well. I think that's so important is that it's one thing to create a business and say create a product, whatever it is, that sells and does well. It makes you money. But if you're not fulfilled by it, if there's nothing but money in it for you, I don't think you can take you very far, right? Yeah. Like my favorite favorite favorite. I mean, I love working with one on one so much. But really the, the thing I love to do most just because it's so instantly satisfying is my embody class, which I teach in New York and sometimes travel with, right? Because it's a one hour class and we're dancing the entire time. And the idea is to deepen them into their body more and more and by the end, I just, I get to like witness these women like laying down on the floor, having just danced their hearts out. So connected to themselves. Many very emotional. And I'm like, oh man, this is amazing. Like I just did this, you know? And they're feeling this way and they didn't feel this way an hour ago. All it took was an hour. And so that to me is the most, I think, potent version of the results that make me so happy when I see women so connected to their bodies. And then of course there's the, you know, other versions that I see over Skype. Sure. Yeah. Just as important, those are kind of peak experiences where you have this connection, whether it's with 20 people or one and it's to build upon that. I'm still figuring out the character of my business. So I feel like in the first few years of entrepreneurship, sometimes you have to really be clear about positioning yourself. And I think that I will say that's been an area that's been a lot of a confusing for me. And I feel like I want very high-luxed, boutique experience, which I create for a lot of women. And on the other hand, my socialist spirit is like, but I want it to be accessible to everyone. And so this is a piece that, behind the scenes, I'm still working with someone who supports me and my business strategy. We're figuring that piece out. But what I do know for sure is, and that hasn't been a question since day one, is that something like embody dance class, I want it to be everywhere. Mm-hmm. I just, the more women can be dancing and feeling connected, the better life is going to be for everyone, especially the men, which is what we want. And so, I am starting an embody certification. Actually, this year is going to be the first time we run it, so that we can train other women to run these classes and do it in such a way that they can make it their own. They'll be certain things that are standard, no matter where you are. But then, if they're coaches, they can bring it into a longer workshop that they do with their own, their genius. And then maybe you're a yoga teacher. And you want to start to bring that into your yoga studio and have it be like a special class that you offer on the weekends. If you are in energy healer, like there's so many different ways in which you can start to incorporate it. And that's the idea I want it to just spread I can only be in so many places at the same time. You touched on an interesting point, which is something that I'm struggling with. Not struggling, but I'm trying to figure out what should my audience be. Like who am I talking to? And for you, you've, like, at least have, have it down to women. But then I imagine there's a subset of women who would be more interested in your work than others. And it's like, how specific do you go? And obviously, that's a hard thing to define. And does your audience naturally come towards you? Or do you have to actually set the messaging? And I guess put the lures out there to catch the people who should be hearing your message. Yeah. It's a great question. I think it's, it's a little bit of both cheating with that answer. Yeah. you know, your essence is going to naturally pull in certain types of people. So I definitely, you know, I'm the type of person on my, on my blog. I do a lot of cursing. I'm just speaking my mind. I think that's why a lot of people like to follow me. It's like, I don't, I can, I can think outside of the box. You know, I'll think outside of the box and say it. And I don't really care. Yeah. And so I think, by me, creating that content too. So it comes from my spirit. But because I create that content, more people are reading it, the more, you're going to get those types of people drawn in. So usually, you know, the profile of the woman that, I work with is one who is very similar to me, who was very, you know, overachieving, driven, go get her, and who at some point, or currently, is like just super burned out and going, I don't know about this path. Like, this is not really working for me. And I want to be, you know, I want to feel vibrant and alive and connected. And I want to be that woman that walks into the room, where like, all the heads turn, and they're like, I want them. She's got. All women really desire that. And, and usually when you are working really hard, core, you lose that connection. You lose that vibrancy. And so they're coming to me going, sometimes it's specific to, issues with their health. Sometimes it's specific to hormones. Sometimes it's none of those. They've got their health. They've figured it out. They've worked with an nutritionist in the health coach, but they're just coming to me. It's got more connected to the energetic and emotional piece of their body and their sensuality. So it really just depends, but that's generally the type of woman that will show up. And the woman that I speak to, because, you know, she's listening to the experience that I've had. And she's going, look, this woman who was a film producer in sub four hours and eight burritos is now honoring all her food intolerances, but doing it in a way that still feels nourishing and pleasure-filled, where she's not depriving herself. You know, she's not going on diet or I don't believe that. There's so much stuff involved. I don't know if it's like her up Catholic, but I think that people get it anyway. I think that, and it follows you around, minimalism, like getting rid of my stuff, and then I thought, it helped me massively, but then now I struggle with the guilt of buying stuff. And if I buy a new lens or a new camera, I'm like, oh, man, I don't know. Should I do it? And then you just like, then you have actually repositioned. It's always about guilt. And like, I guess how do you live a life where you can, you can eliminate guilt? And I guess, do you feel guilt in your life and, does that guy do in any way? And how do you control it? I love that you bring this up, because it's so important. And yes, every all women have guilt, and it's usually around sex or food. Because again, that's where we get the strongest messages. And I would say most, you know, most of the time, I've gotten really good about not having guilt around, um, food and, you know, being unapologetically sensual. Like those pieces don't feel difficult to me. I would say, still probably have guilt around like prioritizing my time and like, other things. But in the world that, the stuff that I, that I work with women on, I feel pretty good about it. But when they come to me, I simply explain to them, I say, listen, we are, truly believe that the best way that we can get motivated is by pleasure, right? who doesn't want to follow a pleasure? Great. So, every decision, especially when it comes to food, is either about long-term pleasure or short-term, short-term pleasure. And you can decide, there's no right or wrong. So, when you are sitting at a restaurant, and you know that they have one of those, the best desserts ever, and you're like, I'm not going to be back you for like a year. Short-term pleasure is going to win. You're going to go, Thank you. I will have that, whatever, may I turn me to fancy, deliciousness. And I may feel sort of crappy after, because I have a dairy and gluten tolerance. But, you know, I have a few different tools that, you, I work in to minimize that pain. Yeah. And then of the day, if I die tomorrow, I'll know I had that beautiful dessert. Exactly. And then there's times, where you choose a long-term pleasure, but you're still choosing pleasure. It's just when you're eating that salad, or you're, you know, being really good about, removing the foods that aren't, you know, that are toxic to your system. What you're doing is you're choosing energy. You're choosing vitality. You're choosing, to be more focused, when you go back to work after lunch, and you're not in that like 3 p.m. like, oh, oh, oh, oh, we're like, I'm rocking this. And so your prioritizing is just a different type of pleasure that you are원otizing. So you're never depriving yourself, because whenever we think of it as depriving ourselves. That's one no one wants to deprive themselves the sucks. why? this is a mind trick. It's just a way to reposition in your mind how you approach something like a treat, or dessert. Yeah. You know, I mean, that's an example I'm using just because I happened to have an issue with dairy gluten eggs, the whole situation. But, you know, it could be anything that specifically, because I think it's, you know, this is the other piece that people always forget. It's like, we're not in the 90s anymore. It's not about calories and sugar, and, you know, it's about getting really clear on what's toxic for you, and what's what works for your body, which is going to be totally different than for someone else's. So you've been doing this for a while. I imagine that you've gotten some criticism over the years, whether it's just like random people and YouTube's and stuff or whatever. How do you deal with criticism and how do you view it? I got to say, I haven't. I got one email once in response. That's it. That's all you got. That's amazing. that moment I was like, I haven't arrived. I'm sort of disappointed that I haven't had more because I do talk about a lot of stuff that I can see, you know, which trigger a lot of people, but I don't know. It hasn't really happened. That's great. Maybe it's, you know, I do truly believe that if you're someone who that, that's a fear of yours, more of that's going to come your way. Right. Because it's part of like, the cosmic lesson that you need to learn, whereas I don't really, I mean, like, I don't think I really care if I'm, you know, I actually think it's sort of cool. Yeah. You care enough that you're upset. Like, I don't like reading reviews, because like putting minimalism out there, like people will write reviews. I just assume it's going to be the worst case scenario. Yeah. And I just, and I'm the worst critic. So I could probably pick out the whole better than a movie critic could. So I tend to not to even read them. I'm like, it's not even worth it for me. Because if it's good, I'm going to feel good. If it's bad, it's just going to ruin my day. But like I just stumbled across some like Netflix reviews. And it's just hilarious. I think it's like the crazy people. It's a okay way. It's a, there's people that say, you can't be a minimalist. Like these people get $200 haircuts, and they wear like nice hair product. And like, you don't even, it's not it. Like you could wear hair product, because it doesn't matter how expensive your haircut is. You can be a minimalist. Yeah. That's amazing. But it's like some of the feedback that's like cutting at, I guess maybe some of my own insecurities about where I think I could have done better, which obviously you can always do better, which affect me a little bit more. And it's just something that I continue to work on. But I think the more and more I release content and put stuff out there. It's, I have the same mentality of you, where it's like, you almost kind of encourage it, where I'm like, Like say, say something shitty about it, because I really don't care. Because as long as I really love what I created, and I really like it, and I know that there's going to be a core audience of people that will like it. Then I think that's all that matters. Yeah. And you reminded me actually, you know, I may have not gotten criticism in my coaching business, but so far. But with our film, we definitely got a bunch of reviews that were like, no. I think it was like village, we were very excited because we got written up in the village voice, and it was bad. I was like, you read it. Oh yeah. Because we weren't getting, I mean we're pretty small film. So we were very excited by anyone writing anything. Even if it was. You guys have a party about a bad review. Yeah, we did. Yeah. I mean, it does suck. And I think I've always reminded of, and I made, again, totally slaughter this. But I think it's theater or Roosevelt. Who has this quote about the man in the arena. And it's like, It's a very long quote. So I definitely don't remember it. But it's along the, You know, it's talking about the fact that, it's really easy for those who are like, on the sidelines to go, look at that thing that they missed and look at this thing. But it's really the person who's in the boxing ring, like, getting beat up, but trying. That is the hero. And I think, making something like $100,000 film. All female crew getting into, you know, actually getting distribution. Having there be like pretty pretty decent actors. Like, all of these are victories. And then there's people who are sitting at home. they always talk about how like. People who are like art critics or film critics. So the ones who like really deeply desire to actually do it, but they like, don't have it in them. So they're like, we're just going to sit around and like. And write about it. And just should another people's work. And it's like, how about you try it? Let's see how that goes. I think that it does, it does change your perspective. And I could see even a younger version of myself. Very quickly looking at a film. Very quickly looking, reading a book and saying, I could have done it better. This is, that was a shit movie. And that's what I struggle with. Where it's like, I want to be a critic or criticize somebody. But I think you have to do stand for your ideas. And I won't point. Totally. At one point does that line. You cross the line. I think it has to do with when you're, when you are critiquing. Because I'm, I'm a bit, I think it's important to critique. But there's a way to critique that is respectful and human. And that also, it still has the lens of compassion and understanding that everyone is doing really the best that they can. You know, in their work as a human and just in all aspects. And so we do, you know, sometimes we forget that. We start to get a little, you just be a good person. Because a lot of times you don't see, you're not seeing the people behind it. And that's where you get these anonymous YouTube comments. And anonymous comments online, where people will either troll or just like, be the worst version of themselves possible. When you would never say that in real life. Yeah. Yeah, I mean, I don't know, how, how does anyone have time for that much trolling? They must not have, I mean, I don't know. I don't want to assume. But so I just go, all right. if you have that much time to do that, I'm busy off trying something new, even if I messed up in this last thing. Exactly. That's what drives me, too, is that even if I did make the last thing, I put out with shitty. Yeah. because I just made something today that I'm going to put out. And then it, it almost covers. Yeah. But, all right, that's interesting. So let's get to the four phases of embodiment. I want to hear about that. Okay. And this is for women. Only, okay, men can't do this. Or is this? A little. There's one phase that we're going to have to remove. Okay. For the men. Okay. But I'll go through super quick and, and explain how the men can be involved in all this. Okay. So basically, what, what I realized after doing, you know, different work, the health coaching, the movement piece, my own experiences is that, you know, ultimately, you know, when the desire is to get deeply embodied and to be connected to your body voice, what you have to start off doing is you always have to start with the physical body. So you can't go, oh, I would like to connect to my inner voice and my intuition and my, the, the, the, when you still have basic issues, like migraine, stomach aches, you know, the whole lot. So when women come to me, we always, we go through these four phases. And sometimes we go back and forth through them. We're not swimming necessarily in a very, like linear way. We're going up and down. But essentially, what, what we do is we start off with removing the static, removing the noise. I think about it, like your body voice is on a radio channel, and you're like one knob off. So you're like, I hear the song, but there's like all the static in the middle. And so we're trying to remove that. So that could be, for some people, it's as simple as, you're going to have water, some people, it's, you know, metal, metal detox, because they, too much sushi, for some people, it's, figuring out what their food and tolerance is, which nowadays is a lot more, because thanks, months, and to go and round up, like we all have some issues with their stomachs. And, and so we handle all of that first, get them really mastered, as to how to, what they need to take out, and what they need to add in. Phase two is just understanding, starting to learn the language. So now that the static is removed, you're really starting to, there's a back and forth. There's sort of like, you know, the source and the consequence of, when I eat this, I get a migraine. When I don't eat that, I don't have enough energy. When I, and so on and so forth. So phase two is really, kind of cut in real quick. and it's, because that's something that struck a quarter with me. But, and this, my question is, I guess, our body's changed over time as well. So you always have to be in tune and figuring it out, because recently, I started to develop an intolerance to beer, which is the most, this is the saddest moment of my life. I love beer so much. And then, all of a sudden, I started to notice that I would get headaches when I would drink beer. And you're right, that's one of the things that's, it's very hard to pick out, because if you go out for a night, you usually are drinking beer. You might have wine. You might bring hard alcohol into it. Hard to really identify. But once I started to realize, I have drink one beer just after, work or hanging out playing video games, one beer. The next morning, I wake up with a migraine with a headache. And I'm like, this is, this got to be the beer. And then I stopped drinking beer for two months. I started out, it's just like a one month practice. And then two months went by. I went to a Yankees game. And I was like, let me just do a Miller life. Let me just, a light beer. I just want to try it. And it's part of the game. And then that night, I woke up at three in the morning. I felt like I was going to throw up. I was over top of the toilet. And then, I, then the whole next day, I was hung over like hell. It was just amazing for me to identify that and depressing at the same time. Oh, I know. But you're right. is that by question being, you have to continually keep this process of awareness to understand when certain things you should be eliminating or bringing into your life. Yeah. So I mean, we go through a very specific elimination protocol that is, you know, takes us out for a few weeks. These are slowly bringing one in at a time so that you can observe your body response to it. So we have like, sort of systems, but it is an ongoing practice. there are times where you can, not have an intolerance anymore. And there's times when you develop and you want. And one of the theories for that is that, because we eat so much crap, essentially, and breathe so much crap. We have started to get micro-preferations in our gut lining. And so many things that we eat then get released outside of our digestive tract. And are picked up by the immune system and then the immune system flags it as foreign intruder. So they think it's like a virus. And so your body response to it the same way it would a virus, which is, your histamine levels go up, which is part of why you could get, you know, some people get like sinus E and headaches and stuff. You could have issues with your digestion directly. So there's a lot of different things that happen, but essentially, you can, if you have those micro-preferations, you know, something continuously, it may become an intolerance. So it just really, it's an ongoing fluid process and everyone's trying to figure it out right now. Like in the health and wellness industry, no one really knows what's going on. Yeah, there's a lot of mystery involved. There is, because I mean, there's clearly a rise. It's not like, at some point people were like, this is just BS. And it's like, a lot of people are doing it. It's probably, and everyone feels, every client that comes to me feels better when they're not eating gluten. Yeah. They just do. So I can, you know, I don't want people not to be eating bread. It's not in my philosophy. I'm all about the toast. Um, and French begots, man. Oh, my God. But there's clearly something going on. And so, so, you know, I gotta tell you, with the beer, I'd be curious if you try, have you tried the gluten free beers, and how do you feel then? I don't know if I have, some good ones. Bread. I eat a lot of bread. And it's the bread guy. Yeah, and I'm never hungry from bread. Um, but I would, I should try that. Sighter is fine. I can drink sighter. Corona too is primarily corn. yeah, I wanted to do that. And like say, I'll do it different beer. Maybe you'll be better to space it out to give my body some time. Yeah. You're going to be better. You're going to be better. Yeah. But, so yeah, I think I'm going to do a little experiment. Maybe try stout. Maybe try corona. That's something I thought of, but I haven't. And I don't think I've done the gluten free beer. Yeah. But it's hard because I have looked up online. And there's so many ingredients. And so many different things in beer. You can't really. It's hard to say it's one thing versus another. Totally. Yeah. And that's part of the experimentation process. It's starting to figure out, what is actually going on and why is it that way. But ultimately, what you do know, based on experience, not because, a doctor took your blood and said, this is a problem. You know, I don't feel great the next day. So I'm probably not going to do it. Yeah. Unless I really have time to just hang out. And have a migraine. Um, did we do phase three? Was it? We have not. We have not. So phase three is when we get into specific to a feminine body, which is handling, we're going deeper. We're past the physical symptoms. And we're going into the hormonal body. Because that's a piece. The endocrine system, which is responsible for all our hormones, is you can't see it. And so it's not tangible. And a lot of women don't know how to connect to that part of them. And so a lot of the work we do there, supporting our hormones, because most women are not in a good place. And then getting really connected, what we started the conversation today with, which is, you know, getting connected to your, your phases of your cycle. And, you know, what are you best at? And how do you exercise at different times of the month, which are very different for women. You're not supposed to be exercising. Like, you know, supposed to be doing high impact stuff, as certain times of the month. Other times is great. You do high impact and, you know, guys, it's the same thing. You show up. You do the same thing every day. It's all good. Just like bouncing against the wall, throwing weights around. You know, whatever you need to do, it's the same. But for women, we have to be, we're really nuanced. And we're a lot more rhythmic. And so we have to actually adjust the way that we eat, the way that we exercise, the way that we sleep, and the tasks that we manage throughout the month. And so this phase, with my clients, is very much about, you know, getting them familiar with this philosophy. And having them realize that, you know, their period, their cycle is not a curse, which is what a lot of women think, and that instead, it's a superpower. It doesn't feel like that in 2017. But it really is. And so we get them connected back to that. And then eventually, once we've handled all of those pieces, we can connect to the whisper. We can connect to the energetic and emotional body. We, I may do like certain shocker work. If people feel blocked in certain areas, this is where some of the breath, and what I call moving meditations, come in. We meditate in a way that is more feminine. That isn't seated. We're actually moving and getting into our curves, getting connected to our senses. And that's the piece I do a lot more, also, in person events and whatnot. So, but yeah, that's the slow, deepening into, you know, that connection. Because you can't go, all right, I'm going to sit down and do moving meditations, and feel super connected. If you have a stomach ache, you are going to be so busy trying to, either pretend it's not happening, or get up and go, this is not for me. So, we have to address that physical piece before we can get into the emotional and energetic. What advice would you give somebody who's, trying to build their own business, or build something from scratch? What have you learned that you think would be valuable? Have savings. So true. I see a lot lately, I've been seeing a lot of rhetoric of, you know, it doesn't matter. you know, if you are courageous and believe in yourself, it doesn't matter if you're like in debt, and to do that, you can follow your dreams, and all will, the universe has your back, and all is going to work out. It may take a while. So, and life is expensive these days. And I do think it's really important to understand that, a lot of the people you see out there who are doing amazing, have probably been doing this for really, really long time, and probably done a few different iterations of their business, or maybe had other businesses completely that failed, and that they learned, you know, they learned along the way. So if you're choosing to quit your nine to five and follow your dreams, I'm all for it. But I like to balance out, you know, impulsiveness with a certain amount of game plan. And part of that is your financial game plan, because in order for you to do the best work, and I can speak to this because I did not do this. In order for you to do the best work, and really serve your clients, and bring out your creative genius as much as possible. You need to feel, your nervous system has to feel safe. And for different people, that's going to be at different levels of debt. Some people have the capacity to be like, I'm $20,000 in debt, and all's good, and then some people, if they can't pay off every single credit card in that month, are freaking out. And that's because we each have our own money stories, we each have our own, our nervous system has is wired a certain way, because of a different trauma that we've had growing up. So all of those things need to be taken into account. So if you know that you're someone who doesn't function very well, and goes into complete shutdown or freeze, when you start to freak out about money, then it's going to be really hard to be creative in your business, and therefore you're just going to feel like you're stuck. And so it's really good to have a part-time job, or to be doing something that just at least has you feeling semi-column. And again, that's going to depend on each person, but I think it's important to when you are making a big step, like that to evaluate, okay, what can my nervous system handle right now? Part of what I learned was that in not having, you know, running out of savings pretty soon and feeling very, having just a lot of issues around money, I also had to grow, and so it was really good for me to start to re-adjust how much debt I could handle before I went into shutdown. But if I went back and did it differently, I would probably be like, alright, maybe a little bit more of another job that I could, you know, bring in a little bit of money from so when I have a month where I don't sign up a client, I don't feel like, oh my god, the world is ending. Yeah, in the beginning you're always going to have those months. When I started out, I was... Totally. I started in college, and right after college, I moved in with my sister in Philly, and she was encouraged me that you can do it. We can build a business, and then like, I wasn't making a lot of them. I was making a couple hundred dollars per video. Video work was infrequent at the time, and within six months, my loans would kick in, and I was a hundred thousand dollars in student loan debt. So, that's just like, it feels like forever. It's like going to be 30, 40 years that that loan would run out for. It was about six hundred to seven hundred dollars and just in student loans. And then on top of that, I had rent. I was like, I can't do this. So, I broke the lease, and moved home with my parents, and I lived with my parents for two years, and I lied to everybody. Like, all my clients, I didn't tell anybody that I was living at home with my parents, because that would just that to me would be like the biggest sign of failure, but it was so important for me to do that, because that was my money store. I wouldn't be... I literally would not have been able to do it. I would not have been able to pay rent, but also just that weight. It is like a kind of an emotional weight and a burden on you to have all that money to have all that responsibility of paying this off, while also trying to be creative and start a business. It's just that it's not going to work. So, I think you're right on with that. Yeah, yeah. I mean, so much of your flow state comes when your nervous system is regulated. And so, when we're obstructing that, that's you're doing yourself and what you do best in the world, it is service. Are you ready for rapid fire? Oh, fire. Yeah, let's do it. It's the only segment I have on the show, but it's called rapid fire. I gotta come up with a new name, but it's basically I just have some questions that I ask everybody on the show, and it's really more direct towards people who are just getting started out. Great. So, some of them read you, some of them about giving advice to other people. So, what drives you? Women's bodies. What keeps you creating and connecting? And this is not, it's not a, I say rapid fire, but it's not like a one sentence answer. Oh, okay. I'm ready. Yeah, let's go. Let's go. Next question. Yeah, so you can laugh right on it. Sorry. That's my fault. Okay, let me ask the question. Okay. We can just cut that out now. What drives you? What drives you? Oh, what drives me is a woman deeply connected to herself and therefore deeply connected to the world around her. What's the best feminine advice you could give to men? Get the app, my flow. Get your, let your woman get that app, and they send you emails that tell you where she is in her cycle and how you should be approaching sex and talking to her. What is, if you could give me the general advice, what's like, I guess two or three phases that we should be aware of and how should we be acting? Well, definitely when she is in Ludial, which is what we like to call the PMS phase, you have to be aware that she's, she's a lot more attuned to the things that don't work for her. We may see that as, you know, a tiny or moody, but in fact, it's just that she's like really highly sensitive in attuned and that that's just not a time where you want to try to talk sense to her, you know, come back after the bleed. Yeah. And, you know, when she is ovulating, you know, take her out on a date. You can take her right. Go ahead. I use protection if you're not right. I can't. Absolutely. It's a very good advice. So let's say someone is stuck and they're trying to figure out what path to go down their life. They just don't know which direction to go. What can they do or what should they do today to help them get on the right path? Oh, get into your body. So whatever gives you the most joy for some people might be a kickboxing class from one else that might be a ballet class from one else that might be Zumba. Go get into your body and then come out on the other end. Like right after class and check in with yourself. Where do you think you have the biggest room for improvement in your own life? More business. More so good. This is like that classic interview question like what is your biggest weakness? Yeah, totally. I would say trust. I am not really, I'm not really great with trusting that it all works out. I think that I like to control. I'm still an ongoing journey of feeling like I need to control hustle or create game plans and that there isn't just a natural way in which this will all unfold where it works out, okay? Yeah. Totally. How do you face doubt? I totally check in with my girlfriends and I'm like, just tell me nice things about me. Yeah. Everyone's in a while. Sisterhood man, it's a good self, right? I have the women who I know will reflect back to me and they're not going to give me the bullshit version. They're going to give me the, like, this is truly who I see you as and you're just not seeing that in this moment and so it's a reminder of, all right. Yeah, I totally am that person. Yeah, it's just having the encouragement and support of family or friends and even if it's just one person, Natalie just reminded me about when I was thinking about starting the podcast and kind of going a little bit bigger with this. I was just like, it's so much doubt and I was just, but I just needed her to reassure me that I was doing the right thing and that it was worth it to put this stuff out there and just that little bunch of doing, like, what are you waiting for? And I was like, you're right, I totally need to do this. But it's like, sometimes you know the answer but you just need somebody else who knows you that you trust to be able to kind of push you in your direction. Yeah. What one tool or skill have you utilized that you think you've leveraged in a way that others haven't? Hmm. So for me, it would be moving meditation which is, you know, it could be a one minute practice, a 10 minute practice, so we're a lot to go for two hours but where you essentially, you know, put on a fun song and it could be rocks at, it could be anything that makes you feel good. And, you know, men can totally do this too. That's a huge challenge. Like, that's like you got to be like, super in your mastery there. Yeah. But I think it's primarily more focused for women where, you know, we slow down and we do very simple movements that aren't complicated at all that aren't like a workout or fitness oriented movement. But just slow enough that we're still moving but we can find stillness in the motion. And for me, that always brings me back to my truth, which is that I'm in this body and these are the feelings I can sense and just removes all the like, sugar chatter, stuff happening in my head, all the monkey mind business. Is that your main meditative practice or do you also do still meditation? I do both. I have to say I've been pretty bad recently, but still still. I have that a lot where I know that when I'm meditating and if I'm having some kind of mindfulness practice of drinking tea before bed, I'm happier and more fulfilled, but it is difficult to keep a practice like that going. And I do. I'm a believer in, you know, and I totally didn't embody this right now, but I'm a believer in like, you take on something you adopt something for a while because it's what you need the most right now and that might not be the case in a year or two. So when I first started meditating, I did it every single day for quite a few years. I was very gung-ho about it. And then at some point, I just realized, I got this. It's still incredibly beneficial, but for me what I need right now is more moving meditation, more dance breaks, more other ways to get into my body that serve me better in terms of what I want, which is clear mind and connection to self. All right. All right, so one more question. Name one thing that people need to watch, listen to or read before they go to bed tonight. And you can do all three if you want, or if there's just one night. Yeah, tonight. And it could be just getting started. So if it's a long book, if they read the first paragraph, first chapter. Ah, the body keeps score is what I'm on. I'm doing right now and it's an amazing book about how the body keeps score. And so it's all about how our nervous system wires like trauma and how a lot of the things that pop up in our adult life is really things that are trying to be cleared and solved from that happened when we were much younger. And I find that this is an area that's not spoken about enough in coaching, in wellness because why don't I know why? It's not spoken enough of, but it's the second I got into all of the trauma resolution and neuroscience piece of all of this. I'm like, huh. This answers everything. All right. For me, at least. So this is for men and women. Totally. Yeah. Yeah. This is nothing to do with, yeah. It's not just a woman thing. All right, cool. That's great. Anything to, because I know you're big into this kind of stuff. So anything to listen to or watch. My God, I feel like I'm going to walk away from here and be like, oh, man, there's so many things. Yeah. Well, I'm a big fan of TED Talks and general. I think a lot of people are and I would highly recommend watching Sheila Kelly and her talk is called Let's Get Naked. I would say this one is geared towards the women, but I think it's beautiful for men to watch as well. It's really important for them to understand what's going on in the collective psyche of women. Very important. And what they're calling, I guess, fourth wave feminism. Great. All right. That's a wrap. Thank you so much for coming up. Good show. Thank you for having me. Thanks for tuning into the ground up show. I'm giving away access to two hours worth of extended interviews to anyone who reviews the ground up show on iTunes. These interviews with the producers of minimalism give a never before scene look at how he created the film from nothing. Simply send a screenshot of your review to helloatmatdeevella.com and I'll send you the private links to watch the interviews. This episode was produced by Conrad Gullivak and myself. Thanks for watching.
