# Dreams Don't Come True, Decisions Do // Ground Up 073
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gP6d376oq-U
Say hi to T.K.:  http://tkcoleman.com

T.K. Coleman is a podcaster, blogger & Education Director at Praxis, an apprenticeship program designed to give an alternative to college. On the podcast we discuss the true cost of not following your passion, why you should plan for the worst day of your week, & the value in sharing your dreams with the world.

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** 
**Date:** 2018-08-15

## Transcript
 Hey guys and welcome back to the Ground Up Show. My name is Matt Diavella and today I sit down to talk with TK Coleman. He is a writer, podcaster and the Education Director at a company called Practice. They run up an apprenticeship program designed to give an alternative to college and we cover quite a bit on this show, including the true cost of not following your passion. Why you should plan for the worst day of the week? And the value in sharing your big goals and dreams with the world. So very, very good podcast. I think you guys are going to like it. Let me know what you think in the comments. I'm a book maximalist. I try to get as many books as I can when I go into bookstores. And I look at books. I hear their voices calling out to me like, save me. Take me home and so I have to get them. I got to say I love the look of like a bookshelf just filled with books or a wall filled with books. To me, I'm like, it just feels there's like energy there, right? Yeah. Absolutely. But now that I'm a minimalist, I try to have too much. So I'll usually cycle about 10 to 15 books. Yeah. And I actually just did a video about like six books that changed my life from like Tim Ferriss 4, a work week to the art of possibility, Seth Goat and the dip. And I didn't have those books physically. And I was like, it would be really cool to actually own those books that changed my life. And like obviously visually for the video, it was good. But I also was like, I just, it's kind of nice because then when people come over, it's not exactly about it kind of starts a conversation. You know, people see the books that you've read. Maybe they saw it and then you can have some common ground to discuss things. Yeah, you know, there's a related concept. I think it's, if I say this correctly, the same to lead, he has a concept called the Anti-Library. And so he says, you should have plenty of books in your home that you haven't read. And those books are kind of like your conscience, right? They're there to remind you of how much more you need to know. They're there to nudge you for it. Be sure to finish the book that you're currently on because you still have a lot left to learn. So we not only need books that kind of showcase what's impacted our lives, but we need books that kind of summon us to go even further down the path of knowledge. I love that that's great dude. I feel like I always have a couple books that I'm just, I'm like, meaning to get to that I have in my house. So that makes me feel better. It makes me feel better. Look at the positive side of me, not reading it. When every time I look at it, all I see is guilt. I'm like shit man. But I get some new those. Yeah, that's great dude. So I'm excited to have a conversation with you because as a lot of my listeners know, debt student loan debt was a huge part of my life. I graduated college with $97,000 in student loan debt. And I did the smartest thing I could think of at the time, which was the by brand new car. And just being in that position and also trying to do something different. Trying to be a freelance filmmaker in the beginning. It was weddings and bar mitzvahs, but trying to do something untraditional, which can often be very challenging in the beginning and not as much money as just entering the corporate world. And it was a real struggle. And then I went to your website this morning and you guys at Praxis, the headline was the degree is dead. You need experience. And that just like, that hit me because I don't think enough people are talking about it. And obviously, you see, I just so many people flooding into colleges. So I want to hear from you about what's wrong with the system right now. When it comes to college, when it comes to the status quo, and what people are expected to do when they're 18, 19 years old. Sure, so I'll take an atypical approach to talking about what's wrong with the system because when most people ask that question, they're looking for some kind of knock down argument against college. Some sort of logical reason why no one should ever go to college, why it's wrong for everyone. I'll take a different path. And I'll say the first problem with the system is that it does not successfully accommodate those who fail to fit in. No system is for everyone, right? That's probably the most fundamental truth that for whatever system there is. There are people for whom the system doesn't work. In fact, as an entrepreneur, the definition of being dishonest is being unable to look another person in the eye and say, maybe my product isn't for you, maybe my service isn't for you, right? If we're going to do business with integrity, if we're going to teach with integrity, we have to be able to identify those for whom the product or service we offer is not for. And the traditional system doesn't accommodate those who don't fit in very well. I'll give you an example. So my co-founder, my CEO, Isaac Morhouse, he received an email from a young lady who had just finished like her first year of college. And she was very unhappy. She was doing really well in terms of grades, hitting all the metrics that adults care about. But she was depressed. And she was depressed because she never wanted to go to college in the first place. She never felt like she fit in. But she went because she knew what the social consequences would be of not going. And she knew that she would be drilled with all sorts of difficult questions. She might not have the answer to. She knew that she would be, you know, rejected by her parents. She knew that other people would lick down upon her and see her as a waste of time. You know, see her as wasting her time. Because the way the game is set up for people who don't fit in in college is we call them dropouts. And when we call you a dropout, we don't mean that as a compliment, right? We mean that as you're a loser. We grow up hearing messages like, don't be a fool. Right? So if you drop out, that means you're a loser. And there's a lot of pressure on you. It's Steve Jobs or Bust. It's Bill Gates or Bust. If you go to college, you turn out to be unhappy with your life. It's possible. We'll fill sorry for you. We're certainly not going to blame college. We're not going to say you're unhappy because you went to college. We'll say, well, maybe it's the economy or maybe there are some other things you need to know. Or maybe, you know, you've had some bad luck or whatever it may be or maybe you just need to be patient. But if you don't go to college and you turn out to be unhappy with your life, the risk is really high because the first thing we're going to say to you is you should have went to college. Right? So there's a high cost for not doing the things that everyone else thinks you should do. And you have a lot of people who are in college. They don't want to be there. And the only reason they are there is because they are afraid of the social consequences of not doing this thing that they don't want to do. And so for me, this isn't about twisting anyone's arm and saying, Hey, I don't care if you want to go to college. I'm going to argue with you for 10 hours and try to make you do this thing you don't want to do. This isn't about me looking at people for whom the college experience worked out and saying, Well, you're an idiot because that's the outdated paradigm and you should do things in the way that I think is cool. No. This is about saying, If you went to college and you had a positive experience, Great. God bless you. But you know what? You have thousands of high school guidance counselors who are willing to step up on any given day of the week and validate that decision. You have thousands of politicians, thousands of celebrity, thousands of adults who validate those decisions. But who's stepping up on behalf of those people who say college isn't for me and who's saying, Hey, maybe you're on to something. Maybe you're not a fool. Who's the one that's creating a community, a coaching experience, a curriculum experience, a professional experience that allows those people to have a home. So they can carve out their own path without the unnatural pressure pressure of having to be the next Mark Zuckerberg, just to justify their decision. So I think that's the fundamental problem that we're trying to solve at practices. It's creating that kind of experience that says, Hey, look, if college isn't for you and you still care about your career and you want to launch your career, there's a way to go about this without a college degree. It is possible. The world is changing, but maybe you can't do it on your own. We're here to help. We're here to supply you with the coaching, with the network, with the curriculum, and with the professional opportunity to get your foot in the door. And, you know, you can be one of those people who says, you know, the way I like to say it is not drop out, but opt out, right? You can be one of those people who opt out of the current paradigm and still has a shot at life. Still has a shot at playing this game successfully. So that's the problem. That's what drives us. There needs to be something to replace college. I think for most people, right? Because at 18 years old, we don't have much experience. It's kind of like laughable to think about me at 18 trying to start a business. Like, I didn't really know where I wanted to go. And I think a lot of people are uncertain. A lot of people just get a business degree because they don't know what else to get. So do we need to replace it with something? And, you know, what options are out there for people who may be our second guessing going to college. They don't feel like it's right for them. What path can they go down at that point? Sure. So I don't like the word replace because I think competition is healthy, right? Like, let's say, you know, you look at gym shoes, for instance. We have Nike. Do we need to replace it with Reebok? No. Because if you have an alternative, that's valuable. You don't need to snuff out the other options in order for people to see what you're doing is worth it, right? Like so, again, if college is something that you've thought critically about, and you're really passionate about it, and you're determined to do it, God bless you, right? Preserve your path. But it's not about replacing it. It's about breaking beyond this paradigm where we preach and teach that there is only one way or that this is the right way for everybody. I'm all about free markets. I'm all about having many different options for many different people. And in fact, this is something that we intuitively get about education. Once we step outside of things like elementary secondary and higher ed, let's take music for instance. If you want to learn music, is there just one instrument you have to learn? Like, do you have to go to the piano teacher and ignore guitar, you know, or are you forced to take yoga or could you do Tai Chi if you want? There are a wide variety of options for how you can learn to exercise, how you can learn to eat, you know, what instrument you want to play, and I'm an advocate for having that same element present in education as well. Now, that's partly difficult because higher education is subsidized, and that in some ways creates, you know, a sort of monopolistic effect. But I'm all about alternatives. And I think one of the alternatives that we need, you know, to get to the other part of your question, like what can people do if college is not for them, is a way for people to get their foot in the door where they can acquire professional experience and build skills without having the traditional credential. Because here's the deal. The credential does serve a function, a very important function. And that is to help the people that are making hiring decisions, have some kind of security about the idea that they're not wasting their time. Right? So if I'm interviewing a bunch of people for a position I want to feel, I need to know what makes you different from some other random person that comes in. And so if you have some sort of credential that says, I've studied at this institution, I've learned these things, at least I have some kind of idea of what differentiates you. But now we're at a time where we can create our own credential. We can find new ways to signal to people that we have the capacity to create value. So one thing I would encourage people to do, well, for starters, look into practice, right? Discover practices.com. Because what we do is we streamline this process of developing professional skills, building your portfolio, and getting you that opportunity without you having to have all the creativity on your own. So when people come to our program, they do six months of a boot camp, where they learn professional skills, they do portfolio projects, and so forth. They learn how to build their brand, how to think like an entrepreneur, and then when they're done with that, they get matched up with a business partner in their area of interest or competency. So that could be marketing, operations, technology, sales, and so forth. So if you're just someone out there and you're looking for your own way, I would say, number one, get some work experience. You know, if you take just one year, let's say you graduate high school, you're 17, 18 years old, and you take one year, and you get a part-time job, or a full-time job, you will already be a step ahead of most of your peers, because most of your peers don't know what it's like to have any responsibilities and most of them live in a space where someone else takes all the responsibility for their choices. If you go work somewhere for a year, even if it's fast food, even if it's at a grocery store, you're going to have more self-knowledge and more experience and value creation than many of your peers. And if you decide the college is for you at the end of that year, you'll be able to make more informed decisions about the path that you take, because most people when they go to college don't declare a major in their first year. For most people, their first two years is just really a highly expensive experiment in self-discovery, where you learn the kinds of things about yourself that you learn by going a lot of parties, skipping class, getting drunk, meeting new people. You know, and that's a really expensive way to discover yourself. So one thing I would say is just get a job, or take a gap year program, you know, travel, or, you know, just do anything that involves getting some responsibilities in creating value. Does that make sense? Yeah, and I think a lot of times we feel pressured both to do what everybody else is doing, but also to get right into it and hop right into the job, because we have this fear of missing out, that if we don't jump right into it and start acting now and hustle and have this kind of like, you know, get rich or die trying mindset, then we're never going to get what we want. And that's, you know, that's, I think specifically an American problem, or at least more so here, because you see like people in Australia who have who travel to different countries, they have a gap year where they tend to urge their students and the youth to travel more. And it's not as common here. And I meet a lot of people that haven't traveled out of the country like that are 18 years old. And that was made, like I didn't leave the country for the first time until I was probably 18 or 19. Now actually probably 20. And it was for a job. It was because I, you know, somebody paid me to do it. And so I do think that there is, there is a balance there and if you can actually have life experience, because like we're talking about when you're going to get a job eventually, you want to stand out from everybody else. Everybody that comes in for that interview, you know, many of their resumes look identical. And you have to set yourself apart both in terms of like your personality, how you interact with them, as well as like what that piece of paper says. What ways do you think people can stand out? What ways can people, what ways would you want to, you know, somebody comes into your office and you're thinking about hiring them. What would you want to see out of them? So really quickly funny story about this differentiation thing. So I heard someone tell a story of a gathering where a bunch of university presidents were together. And they did this exercise where they each wrote down their mission statement and they put it in a hat. And then everyone had to reach in and pick their own mission statement. And no one could find their mission statement because every one of them, they were pretty much identical. They all sounded alike. Everyone was making these general safe sounding statements. We are here to uplift and enlighten and strengthen and nurture. And they're all saying the same thing. It's good stuff, but it's the stuff that everyone else is saying. So differentiation, it's a needed every level. What are some things you can do to separate yourself from the crowd? Well, number one, you can actually create. And I make the distinction between creating and being creative. Being creative is ontological. That refers to your state of being. That refers to your personality trait. Your eccentric, your stylish, your weird, your cool, your good dresser. Lots of people in the world are creative. Very few people actually engage in the process of creating. The process of creating is about producing effects. It's about getting up, getting off your butt and working. It's about facing the blank page. It's about taking the risk of being criticized, of being misunderstood. And the best way to compete in a world where everyone in their mom is creative is to be someone that actually creates. I mean, you know how it is, living here in Hollywood, for instance. Every other person is a writer, right? So ontologically, you are a writer, but how many people are actually writing. How many people are putting pin to the pad and shipping it, putting it out there in a way where other people can do it? So don't let your work be a secret. Don't let the things you're learning be a secret. You can separate yourself from the crowd by doing everything from blogs, podcasts, YouTube videos, where you are sharing with other people the things that you are studying, the things that you're learning, one of the things that we do in practice for instance is we eliminate the distinction between learning and creating. And we teach our participants that you are not legitimately learning. If you are separating the process of engaging ideas from the process of solving problems for the world or creating value for others. So let's say for instance, you're studying a tool like Salesforce. And you just spend hours mastering that tool. Okay, that's fine. You learn Salesforce. Good for you. How about creating value for someone else? Turn on that video camera and create a tutorial for beginners. Right? You went through the process of not knowing what you're doing to learning this. Help someone else navigate that process. Or write a blog post where you review Salesforce. You talk about the pros. You talk about the cons. You talk about ways to get maximum value out of it. Do something that helps other people. If you do that, you'll separate yourself from the pack in a very powerful way. A lot of people think that ideas are so special that if you have great ideas, then everything else will fall into place. And this is kind of that same notion of people think that they're creative. But it really doesn't matter in the market. It doesn't matter to the employer when they're sitting down and thinking about hiring you. Because all they're going to see is ego. Absolutely. I mean, one of the things I talk about in a talk. Dreams don't come true decisions do. Is that people don't invest in ideas or creativity. They invest in momentum. Right? The invest in evidence that things will get done. This is why VCs analyze the management team as much as they do if not more than the business. If the business plan needs some room for improvement, that's tolerable. As long as the management team has a track record of getting things done. If the management team is poor, doesn't matter how great the idea is. Because great ideas, the majority of them, often go to the grave. Right? It's about the execution. It's about the ability to navigate the sort of unanticipated complexities that come up along the way. Those are the things that matter. And when you do the kind of stuff I'm talking about, when you learn out loud, when you show your work, when you actually create even if it's not that good, you build trust and respect. And people say, people say about you, this is someone that isn't scared to get out there. This is someone that's willing to take risk. This is someone that can see a project idea from concept to completion. One example of this was the horror movie. I forget the name of it. I think it's paranormal activity, the one where they're in the bedroom or something like that. Word has it that the initial movie was produced for something along the lines of like $10,000. It was very low budget and Steven Spielberg saw it and wanted to get behind it. Well, why would you want to get behind a movie that was produced with a really low budget? Because you don't need to see the perfect rendition of things in order to identify potential. And this is the mistake that a lot of young creators make. They feel like, I'm not going to create anything at all because I only want the world to see the $50 million budget version. But if you let the world see your $2 version, they'll see the thing that matters most. They'll see the potential and they'll see the willingness that you have to invest in things. And the people that have a lot of money. They can imagine how much better that thing would look if they put $50 million behind it. But you got to let them see what you got first. Yeah, and a lot of times decisions seem obvious after the fact. So a lot of times when I'm making a documentary or a movie or even a short video for YouTube. Yeah. People were like, well, of course, that was his vision from the beginning. And it's like, well, no, actually, if I had more money, I would have done a lot of other things. But people don't realize that. And they let that and other excuses get in the way. It's like, oh, I don't have a budget, so I can't make a movie. I don't have this camera, so I can't shoot that video. I don't have this running shoe, so I can't go out for a jog. And all that is, it's just bullshit. You're just trying, you're tricking yourself into thinking that you're not ready for it. When in reality, the people that are actually going to make change, they're actually going to do something important in the world, or those that are resourceful even when they don't have resources. Oh, man. And it's a very self-defeating mindset too. I live that life for many years. A couple of friends of mine. We had a technology startup that was oriented around decentralizing the filmmaking process. I also worked with a couple of guys and independent filmmaking. And we spent a lot of time talking to producers, putting ourselves in a position where all we need it was the check. Right? And basically the pitch came down to change my life, change my life, talking to wealthy people, change my life. And when everything that you do is dependent on someone with power or money, greenlighting your project, that has a very taxing effect on your mindset. It's very disempowering. And so I advocate what I call permissionless creativity, which is identifying the steps that you can take right here, right now, however little without needing anyone to take a vote, without needing anyone to write a check. It might not be a very flattering step, but if you can take it, take it. And the knowledge of what to do next will come after you do that, not while you're contemplating that. You know, I think that's a very self-esteem building way to move things forward, and you actually build momentum when you take that approach. There's a TV show called, are you smarter than a fifth grader? I don't know if it's still on the air. I don't think it is, but you made an appearance on this show on the show. Tell me about your experience going on that. It's pretty funny. So you can watch it on Hulu. I forget what season it is. I think it might be season two or something like that. But the story behind this is pretty crazy. So I was at the mall, the Westville Plaza Century City Mall, and I'm walking through the mall, and this lady stops me. And she says, hey, what do you do? And I'm like, I don't know why you're asking me this, but this is what I do. And she said, have you ever heard of the show? Are you smarter than a fifth grader? And what's funny is my cousin had just told me about it a week earlier. And he told me about it as if it's the show where they embarrass people and make you look stupid. And I was like, oh, yeah, I've heard of that show. And she goes, awesome. I want you to be in it. And I say, I don't think so. I'm not interested in looking stupid around a bunch of fifth graders. She's like, no, no, no. It's not like that. You won't look stupid. And she explained the show to me. And then she said, well, you have the audition to be on it, but I think you'd have a lot of fun on it and you do well. And I'm like, I don't know. And that, you know, I'm okay. And she goes, look, kid, I'm trying to help you out. This is a great opportunity. So anyway, she gives me a card. She tells me to email her. I talked a couple of friends about it. And they're like, yeah, it's a cool opportunity. Do it. So I email her. She gives me the information. And I go, I audition and I get on the show. And I get a chance to meet Jeff Foxworthy. And I'm on television. It's this awesome experience. And you ever know, you know, those like sitcoms that you watch, where someone gets in a spotlight. They're super confident. But then they get in a spotlight. And then they just don't know what to do. Just blank. That happened to me. So I get out there. They're all these lights on. They're all these people in the audience. And I walked out there. Just like, confident and excited. And then I'm like, oh, no. I just forgot everything I ever knew. So the first question. The first question is how many sides want to cue. And the worst part about it is I'm sitting there. And I'm like, okay. Square four times two eight. Jeff Foxworthy comes up to me. He says, hold out your hand. I do this. And he does that. He even helps me, man. He gives it to me. And I guess eight. I get that button. It's a lock and it. And I got the first answer wrong. Now on that show, you do have, you do have like three cheats. And so I used, I used my cheat for that. And so the kid that I picked, he actually saved me on that. And I went on to win $50,000 because I got like the next four or five. Correct. And then the one that I got wrong that got me booted out was, I think, you know, like the interpretation of the words under the statute, like at the base of the statute of liberty or something like that. But I did pretty good. And I had a lot of fun. It was an exciting episode. And I want to decent amount of money. But here's what's funny about that experience. So one of my friends sent me this YouTube link some time later. And it was a video where someone just took that part. Someone just took the part of me getting that first question wrong. And I don't know what the title of it was, but it was like, look at this stupid guy. And the comments, man, the comments were brutal. There were all sorts of comments like, this is everything that's wrong with America right now. You know, like, this is why our country is such a, you know, because of stupid people like this, who don't even know the answer to that question. And it was jarring at first. And it taught me something very valuable about doing cool things, about doing interesting things. And it taught me that, you know, if you want to do, if you want to tell stories that are worth telling. And if you want to look back on your life and say, yeah, I did that. What a sense of pride. That's the cost. You got to be willing to pay. And I think there are a lot of motivational speakers out there who are quick to tell young people, go do cool things, go pursue this or that adventure. And the thing that everyone is afraid of is what I experience. What everyone's afraid of is some is the emotionally equivalent of ending up with a YouTube video about you, where thousands of people are saying the meanest, nastiest things. But none of those things could change the fact that I met Jeff Foxworthy. I was on national television for an hour of my life. My phone was blowing up with friends I had never heard from since high school with people calling my mom. Like I heard from thousands of people who were just like, dude, it's so amazing to see you. It's so cool. And the $50,000 wasn't so bad either. You know, that wasn't so bad either. And that's definitely a price worth paying. But it was a really cool experience, man. It was just an amazing thing to happen and a beautiful lesson learned too. There is a lesson there. That's got to be the biggest fear for a lot of people is to be outcasted to feel rejected when we fail. Because that's inevitable. Like we're all going to fail. The only people that aren't going to fail are those that don't actually try. They don't actually push themselves to do something new. Was that obvious to you that did you give a shit what people thought? Did you care what people were going to say if you screwed up and fumble terribly? Well, thankfully I was naive. I didn't know what was coming. I didn't know that moment in isolation. Because if you watch the entire episode, you can kind of tell yourself a story of a guy that just kind of got nervous. But then warmed up got more comfortable and then did pretty good overall. Because I did pretty decently. But if you just watched that clip in isolation, man does it look bad. So I never knew that anyone would do that. So thankfully I was naive and I just got out there. But I think one of the lessons about failure there is not just that when you fail everything will still be okay. But there are also these benefits that lie on the other side of failure as well. I mean, it's not just the story of a guy that got one question wrong. It's also meeting someone that he really looked up to having a really cool conversation with that person. Winning $50,000. A lot of good things came out of it. And so one of the most powerful coping mechanisms for failure is looking at the whole story and asking yourself, All right, what were the gifts given to me as a result of having this experience? What are the ways I can now go forward and offer good to the world as a result of something that I saw, someone that I met, something cool that I knew. You know what I mean? So it's kind of trying to focus on, I mean, there's a real silver lining there, which is $50,000. Obviously. Like it wasn't at all. You don't always get that. You get the dollar flip side. I don't always get that. But I think that it's important to look at any misstep, any failure as just a stepping stone. And just to look back at it as maybe it won't feel like a positive. You have many, many moments that are cringeworthy where you look back. Like, I don't even want to think about that moment. But if I didn't put myself in that position, you know, what's the alternative regret? Like, is it worth it to live with a life filled with regret? Or is it worth it to live with a life filled with moments where I'm like, I wish that didn't happen. Sure, sure. You know, think about how many of us can identify with the following experience. There was someone that you were just so in love with and sixth grade or your freshman year in high school. And you just thought they were the world. And they didn't like you back. Or maybe you asked them out and they said, no. And at the time, it felt horrible. And maybe for the next couple of years, it felt horrible. But when you look back on it now, it's like, oh, yeah, that's just this thing that happened. You know, I can't imagine how hard I might laugh if I ran into a buddy from high school. And he tried to make me feel bad about some girl that didn't like me in freshman year. You know, I mean, like, hey, man, like, you know, that's gone. That's just a thing that happened along the way. You know, and failures become the same thing. Once you actually experienced them, failure looks very different from the inside out. Then it does when you're analyzing it and theorizing about it. And where most people fall short is they never give themselves the chance to experience failure. But failure is kind of like this, that there was an episode of Stargate Atlantis, where this woman was these entities had hijacked her brain. And they created this allusory reality for her. And the only way that she could escape this allusory reality was by stepping through the stargate. Then she'd be back home again. And because this enemy knew that, they tried everything they could to keep her from stepping through that portal. And once she saw the portal and realized that she needed to step through it, she began to move forward. And at that moment, all of the monsters that were chasing after her got bigger. And stronger and more frightening. And it intensified the closer she got to that stargate. But the moment she stepped through it, the illusion was revealed. And it all disappeared. And I think that's a great metaphor for fear. The closer we get to realizing who we are. The closer we get to dialing in on what our potential really is. That's when fear gets to strongest. That's when the world seems like it's going to grind us under its feet. But once you step through that portal, man, and you say, I'm going to go after the things that matter to me. And I'm going to listen to my voice. Then you see that that was all just an illusion. And that your fears were just a stepping stone to a greater version of yourself. So I got to ask the $50,000. What did you do with it? Is that was money tight for you at the time? Were you doing well? Was that $50,000 did that mean a lot to you? Was that life changing for you at the time? It was life changing for me at the time. It meant a lot to me. I was able to put some of the money into my first startup. I was able to buy an engagement ring for the girl that I was in love with. And that is now my wife. And I was able to put a little something away. So that was a real game changer. It meant an absolute lot to me for sure. It sounds like you did the smart thing there. Where you put it back into your passions. Because I think a lot of people have fantasies about winning the lottery. And the lottery, the tax on the poor. And it's the sad truth that people who don't have money are spending their money in the lottery, which they're never going to win. And I think a lot of people have these fantasies about what they would do with the big win fall of money. And I think their reality is a lot different. When you do make a lot of money, comes a lot of stress, comes with the fear of losing that money. You're doing something wrong with that money. Have you always been very, have you always been smart with your finances in terms of putting in the right places and not being over-indulgent? Absolutely not. And before I let you, before I let you give me too much credit for doing the smart thing, well, sometimes what's smart and what's not is all about the results that you get from it. So I put the money into that first startup, a significant portion of it, not all of it. And that failed. So I lost all that. But no regrets, but less and learn. So no, I haven't always been. I haven't always been cautious of it. And part of that is because I've always identified as a dreamer, as a creative, and I've always prioritized pursuing the adventure, chasing after the risk over thinking about the future. And I think this can be a problem for many young people because as you go older, you think about time more often, right? And your sense of time increases. And it becomes a lot easier for you to think about like when you're 40, it's easier to imagine being 50. It's easier to imagine being 60 and to kind of worry about those things. But when you're 20, it's kind of hard to care about being 40, you know? It's kind of really difficult to imagine that. You kind of have this sensation of everything that will ever matter in my life, is the stuff that's going to happen over the next five years. And this is where I got to really live my life because, you know, once I get 25, I'm just going to go to prison, which might mean getting married and have responsibilities, things like that for people that are younger. So it can be a little hard. And it was definitely hard for me. I didn't start caring about those things until I started experiencing some failures. And those failures started to get tougher and tougher to cope with. And I had to step back and start going, alright. I'm still down with following my dreams. But I need to find a way to go about this. That factors in some of these other things that are going to be important for me to keep following my dreams for the long term. Because I don't want to just be an endo moment dream follower. I want this process to be sustained. I want to be able to do this when I'm 70, when I'm 80, when I'm 90. And in order to do that, I got to develop some financial literacy. I got to start taking responsibility and thinking critically about this money stuff. Yeah, that was my lesson from getting $97,000 in debt. When I entered the real world, that was a very real world lesson about personal finance and realizing that I didn't want to enter this situation ever again. So my life became about calculated risks, where I'm a big believer in taking risks and taking chances. But I'm going to make sure I have a little bit of runway. If I leave my job, I want to make sure I have six months of rent paid. And I think that you have to do that because if you jump before you have your parachute then you're trying to build it on the way down, it's probably not going to end well for you. Yeah. And we say a lot of things like, hey, don't worry about that. Just focus on your passion and the money will take care of itself. But I don't believe that. I don't believe the money will take care of itself. Yeah, I believe in the focus on your passion part. But money just like health. It won't take care of itself. You've got to think about it and you've got to be deliberate with it. What places like inspiration and motivation? Like, where does that play a role in all this in terms of like following our passions and finding out what we really want to do in life? Because I know there are moments when I listen to a Tony Robbins audio tape and I'm just fired up. I'm going to take over the world. I'm going to start a business. I'm going to start working out. I'm going to do all these things. And then it seems like that inspiration that those all those chemicals that rush into my body they dissipate over the coming days. Yeah. So what place does that play? And how do you see habits being developed in the long run? Sure. One of the things I like to say is follow your priorities, not just your passions. Your passions are the things that you get excited about. But your priorities are the things that you're willing to not just die for, but that you're willing to actually live for. Because being excited, that's not something that anything is capable of sustaining. There's no career. There's no object, no possession that can make you feel excited all the time. So I think it's more important to think about what you believe in. What do you believe in so deeply that you're willing to make sacrifices for? That you're willing to commit to even if it's inconvenient. And I think a good analogy for that is the love that a parent has for the child. A parent loves that child. But love here doesn't mean this child never makes me worry. This child never makes me feel stress. Love here means I believe in what I have. I cherish what I have so deeply that even when I'm stressed, even when I'm in convenience. Even when the baby cries at two in the morning and I don't want to get up and I'm complaining about it. I am going to make that decision because I'm coming at this action from a place that's deeper than in the moment feeling good. And I think that's an important thing to remind people because there are a lot of people who talk themselves out of what they're passionate about. Because they have this assumption that says if I were truly passionate, I would feel different. I would behave different. I think I'm a writer but maybe I'm not because I don't enjoy writing all the time. I think I love entrepreneurship but maybe I don't because I don't enjoy it all the time. No, no, no, no. Everyone feels that way about everything they do. There are aspects to every career, every job, every relationship that is just a pain in the neck sometimes. And you have to pursue things based on something deeper than just passion. It's conviction that you have to go after. Yeah, so let's say somebody wants to start a podcast or start a book or start writing. They want to develop a healthy eating habits or whatever it is. All these things are daily practices that you're trying to bring into your life. What advice would you give somebody who's looking to pick one of these either skills or habits up? Yeah, so first I would say start with what you're genuinely interested in or intrigued by, right? Even if it's not always characterized by excitement, that's the best starting point. Because if something kind of fascinates you or stimulates your curiosity, chances are you'll learn about it more. You'll work a little bit harder at it. The second thing I would say is start small. Focus on the feasible. What most people cite themselves out early on by trying to go all or nothing or by feeling like they're insulting the process of professional. Or personal development. If they don't do the biggest version of it. And I've struggled with this myself. So for instance, I love reading. I want to read more. And for me, I would love to just read a book a week. I feel like that's the minimal that I need to do if I'm going to respect this thing that I call reading. But sometimes that just comes down to a blog post a day for me. That's sometimes it's all I have time for. And that's fine. But I have to remind myself at times. That's fine. I'm not insulting my passion by doing it at a level that's realistic for me. The venture capitalist novel says, Read what you love until you love to read. And I think that applies to everything, not just reading. Do it at a level that's easy for you until it becomes easy for you to do it at any level. So start small. If you want to run every day instead of saying running every day equals going for five miles every day. And trying to make that big leap. Start for a block. Do something that's ridiculously easy so that you have absolutely no excuse not to do it. So start with what you're interested in. Start with what's feasible. Another thing I would do is I would say. Conduct experiments rather than. Rather than, you know, making life long commitment. So if there's something that you want to try out. Say, for 30 days, I'm going to commit to this way of doing it for 30 days. So if it's running, I'm going to run every day for 30 days. This isn't a marriage. This isn't a new religion. I'm not going to let myself feel guilty or feel like a flake if I change my mind and switch it up in two months. It's just going to be a 30 day experiment. So when you get 15 days in and you feel like giving up, you know, like, I don't know if this is working out for me. You can tell yourself, I only got 15 more days. Let's go ahead and follow through and finish. And instead of filling like a flake when you're done, you actually get to feel proud of yourself for keeping your word and committing to something. And if you want to switch it up, then you can recalibrate. Or if you want to keep it going, you can say, alright, let's do it for another 30 days. And that's a great way to optimize the guilt that we commonly experience when we change our minds. Take that guilt and transform it into a sense of achievement. And that builds the foundation of self-esteem that allows you to go on to accomplish more. And the beauty of that is that a lot of studies show that habits are formed over the course of 20 to 30 days. So if you can actually stick with it for a very short period of time, look, we get very overwhelmed where even if we're thinking about like a gym membership. I don't know if I can afford that. Like maybe that that personal trainer is a little bit expensive for me. I don't know if it's like worth it. Just say, all right, three one month or three months or whatever it is in terms of a commitment of money or commitment of time. And then it makes it less overwhelming because you're not looking at, I got to do this forever. I don't think I can keep this up. And especially if you're out of shape whether physically or mentally, you're not prepared to do a podcast every week. You have to set yourself up and really kind of look into the future. Yeah. And see what roadblocks you might come across. What things may actually interrupt this new diet. Because a lot of times it's like, oh, travel gets in the way or you get sick and then all of a sudden you fall off. And then three, you know, a three years go by and you're like, whatever. I was so motivated. I was so fired up to change things and all of a sudden it just went away. And I think it's, you know, like you said originally it's like kind of recalibrating and understanding what we actually want to get out of something. Absolutely. You know, one of the things I advise people to do is plan for your worst day of the week. So let's say it's it's reading everyday. I'll pick that for me. And you know, when you're initially setting out, you might say, I'm going to read for three hours every day. Okay, that's great. But does your worst day of the week look like that? Because you know you're going to have one, right? You're going to have that day where the car breaks down where your best friend gets sick and their car also broke down. And they need you to drive them to the hospital. And that's the one day where your mom's got to talk to you today for whatever reason. That's the one day where all sorts of things go wrong. And you only got about 15 minutes. What can you do on that day? Okay, take that and make that the norm. Make that the basis of your experiment. And if you can do more, that's great. You know, making a small commitment never prevents you from doing more. But it does prevent you from filling guilty for doing less. So our brains aren't very good. Like because it takes maybe a couple days and then we completely forget about the thing that we were so passionate about. So are there ways in which you would track or write down certain things? Do you add it to your calendar? Do you add it to a to-do list? Like how do you make sure that safe reading three days a week is something that you want to do without a daily consistency to it? How do we actually keep that up? So I don't know if this is the right way. I haven't done any research on this to say that this is what everybody ought to do. But in the name of doing what's right for me and finding what works for me. I never keep my goals a secret. I know some people preach at a different philosophy. But if I'm going to keep some kind of commitment to myself, even if it's only 30 days, I'm telling someone. And the way that's worked for me is I do this on my blog. So something that's very important to me is reading something every day. So every day on my blog, I publish reading notes. There's a section on my blog and if you go to the reading notes section, you'll see like an intro paragraph where I state why I'm doing this, how often I do this. And then I got a publish every day. So when I have a night like last night, really busy day, long day, and it's about 11.45. And there's nothing that I want more than to close the day out. I realized that I need to do this thing that I love. And if I were on my own, I might decide to forgive myself and then just show up and do it tomorrow. But I'm thinking, man, I got people that look up to me. I got people that look out for me and they're going to see that. And I don't want anybody to see that I missed that day. So I'm just going to stay up. Do about 15 minutes of this and get those study notes published. You're creating accountability. Creating that accountability. Yeah, I think accountability is very important. Yeah, I think, right. And then that would be, you know, it would help you if you're starting a business. Actually, making this documentary minimalism, the only reason I truly believe we were able to make it was because we didn't try to do it alone. And we had each other where, yeah, I did the editing and filmed it. And Josh and Ryan did a lot of the pre-production scheduling. The interviews conducting the interviews. And we all had our different roles in our different parts. But we couldn't have done it without each other. And the main thing is like skills one thing, but also the fact that we were holding each other accountable. That Josh would be like, hey, when's that first cut going to be done? And then I'm like, oh, shit, I didn't even start it yet. Like, I better get started on this thing. And then that really pushed us and carried us forward. And it also helped when we were able to release it, we can kind of lean on each other for support. Even when, you know, maybe it didn't go well at a certain festival or we didn't get the feedback we wanted to get on that first cut. You're there for each other to help organize and figure out a path forward. And accountability. Yeah, I think some people like say that when you put your ideas out in the world that like you release this excitement that then will dissipate and you won't carry through. But I found personally from me accountability has been one of the biggest things to actually create something that you otherwise wouldn't. Yeah, so let's address that though, because Derek Sivers gives an excellent talk about that where he says, you know, don't announce your plans because everyone will be like, oh, yeah, you're going to write that book. I'm so proud of you. And then you kind of your brain doesn't know the difference between finishing the book and being praised for the idea that you're going to write a book. I think there's true, but I think there's a difference between the accountability thing. Notice that in that example, it's pretty vague. There's nothing specific that you're committing to doing. There's no deadline. There's there's no specificity at all. When when are you going to start when will you be finished by that's different, right? So I think I think it is important to not give yourself an out by living off the praise people give you the easy likes that people give you for saying you're going to do this cool thing. I think it's important to say, hey, here's something specific I'm going to do by this time because people aren't going to praise you for that people are going to watch you for that. Right? If I go in Facebook right now and I say, hey guys, I've just been thinking about health and fitness and I'm just tired of just not being healthy anymore. I'm going to start working out. Everyone's going to like that. And then my brain's going to be like, yeah, woo! If then I'll go back to doing whatever I was going before. On the other hand, if I go in Facebook and I say, hey guys, I want to work out more. I need to home myself accountable. Here's what I'm going to do every day. I'm going to run for 15 minutes. And when I do it, I'm going to post a status here saying, I ran for 15 minutes today. Okay? Now what are people going to do? They're going to watch. They're going to send me a message and be like, hey man, I didn't see a status of day for a couple of days. Everything cool, right? And that's just a different game that you're playing. You know, David Allen says in getting things done, he says the mind is for having ideas, not for holding ideas. And I think the key point here is that you don't want to trust your own brain to remember the things that are important to you, and to push you to execute on them, outsourced that to something external. As Teago Fort say says, build a second brain, something that will remind you what's important to you, and something that will reinforce your highest values during those times where you have a difficult time retaining it. I love that. But for the podcast you mentioned a story about a college professor and a 19-year-old girl. Yeah, I'd love to hear that story. Yeah, so this was a girl who, I think I referenced her a little bit earlier, the one who wrote the email to Isaac Morehouse. She had a lot of different entrepreneurial interest, and she was in college performing well, doing it because of the social pressure she felt. And she, she just decided, I'm not going to fake it anymore. I'm not going to pretend to be happy with this. I'm not going to live the next four years of my life depressed going to school just because I'm too afraid to admit my truth. And she confessed to her parents. I don't want to do this. I've always wanted to pursue an alternative. I'm going to drop out of college and her parents let her know. Like, all right, well, you know, we respect your decision, but you've got to provide for yourself if you're going to do that. So that was the first hit she took. She could have it much easier if she just goes to college, plays ball. She can stay at home, have her parents provide. But she decides to pay the cost of her own choice. And so she gets a job. She provides for herself. And she starts to pursue her passions. And about half a year and she's so happy. She's a lot busier. Life is a little bit more challenging because now she's responsible for herself. But she's learning so many skills taking online classes, building her portfolio. And she sends Isaac this message, you know, thinking him for all the material that he's put out there to kind of validate people that don't fit into the traditional system. So with her permission, he shares this post on Facebook. And within minutes of posting it, a professor comes on and calls that girl a fool. He didn't know her. He didn't know anything about her. All he knew was the story that she told about her own life. And in her own story, she said that she was happy. None of that matter to him. Why? She's a fool because that's what we say about people who drop out of college. They're fools. And that shouldn't be hard for anybody to believe. Maybe it was a little course. Maybe he shouldn't have put it out there in that way. But that's the kind of message that we, you know, condition everyone to think. You know, um, here is someone who, for her age is taking on far more responsibility than most of her peers. And she's got guts. The easy thing to do is to say, I'm going to let mom and dad pay for my bills. And I'm going to do this thing that I don't want to do so that I can, you know, get the free laundry, get the free meal and not have to deal with any conflict. And there's nothing wrong with letting mom and dad pay her bills. There's nothing wrong with that at all. But there is something admirable about a 19 year old stepping out there and doing what most people don't want to have anything to do it. Onto their 25 30 that there was just like a new story recently about a 30 year old guy who's parents had to take him to court. Just to get him out of the house because he wouldn't leave. And we mocked that guy. We laugh at that guy. But we don't want to praise the guts of a young lady like this. You know, and when I saw that man, it just really ticked me off. You know, and it put me in a space where I felt a burden of responsibility to use my voice more to validate those who are perceived in our society as being invalid. Don't get me wrong. Just because you drop out of college doesn't mean you're doing something good. Because there are a lot of ways to waste your time. You can waste your time in college. You can waste your time out of college. Nobody gets a free pass just because of the location they're in. But it's about living life in accordance with your values taking responsibility for your choices and pursuing your own definition of success and happiness. And we preach that we talk about like that. We talk about that as if we really believe it. But then there are certain choices we make in the world that that that causes to diverge from the mainstream makes everyone nervous. And then we sort of compromise that whole message about defining your own success. And so it just really challenged me to step up and take responsibility for speaking on behalf of those that quite frankly. I think a lot of people are scared to speak up for. I've had a lot of conversations with a lot of people who have influence. And what they'll say in private is they'll say things like, hey man, between me and you. It's kind of a scam. College. Or they'll say things like, hey man, between me and you, everybody does all this talk about how the value of education is priceless. But they sure are putting a big price tag when you pay on for it, right? You know, or there are lots of Uber drivers I talk to who talk about like, oh, I love what you're doing. I mean, I have a college degree and this is what I was taught to think. And now I'm in a position where no one's valuing my degree the way I, you know, thought they would. And there are a lot of people who get this. But no one wants to step up and say it in public because, well, you're challenging the religion of our day. You're challenging the dogma of our day. You make a lot of people angry, you know, when you say things like colleges and for everyone. You make a lot of people angry when you start saying things like the world is changing. And there is a way for you to create a career without relying on the traditional credential. But I'm willing to make those people angry because I believe this is right. I believe this is the message that our world needs. And I'm not willing to, I'm not willing to let so many people who have dreams. Let those dreams go to the grave or underestimate their potential, just to, you know, make every parent feel comfortable. You know, student loans have to be just breaking the back of millennials of people who are graduating college. Those who otherwise would start businesses. But they have to pay the bills. And is this going to, do you see this continuing from much longer? You can't even get out of, you can't even file bankruptcy to get out of student loans if you wanted to. You can do that for a house. But you can't do it with a massive amount of student loan debt. And so many people, I know more people that have student loan debt than I do that don't. I mean, it's hard for me to pick out a couple people that I know that I graduated with that don't have student loans. Yeah, I mean, can you imagine giving like a six figure loan to someone who's 18, 19 years old? Can you imagine encouraging someone like that to buy a Ferrari, you know, in the name of it's an investment. And for those who say, well, well, it is an investment that you're using a bad analogy. It's not like buying a car. Okay, fine. Can you imagine giving someone $100,000 and say, yeah, put it in the stock market at random. It's an investment. Just because something is in the category of investment doesn't mean you can't go broke doing it. Right? People lose a lot of money and investments all the time. Paul Graham talks about this in an article where he discussed the difference between the mindset it takes to get rich and the mindset that it takes to hold on to your wealth. And he talks about how the number one way that people lose their money when they become wealthy. It's not through spending. It's investing. Right? There is such a thing as bad investment. So just because you're putting your money in an investment don't mean you're putting it into the right things. It doesn't mean you're thinking critically about the best way to invest. And we've sort of given people a free pass when it comes to college. We just assume that if they're going to college, that everything will take care of itself. You know, that it'll all be fine. And I would say that's not just sketchy. That's outright irresponsible. That's outright dangerous. We're asking young people to give up five years of their lives. And if you're 20 years old, that's 25% of your life. Right? We're asking you to give up five years of your life. And anywhere from 50 to 100 grand, you know, without challenging them to think critically. Now compare that to a dropout. If you say, I'm not going to go to college. No one is going to let you get away with that decision without drilling you and making you do a whole lot of philosophy. You're going to need to answer questions from about 50 different people on. Well, what do you plan on doing instead? You know, what if that doesn't work out? Well, what happens if you change your mind and want to do something differently? Well, what if you develop some passion and you try to go get it and they don't accept you without a degree? You're going to have to do the hard work. But when people say I'm going to college, we don't make them do that hard work. You know, I see people on Facebook all the time. I just got accepted into this university. And you know what we do? We say, congratulations. I'm so proud of you. Wait, wait, wait, wait. What are they majoring in? Oh, we don't care. Wait, wait, wait. How do they intend to use that degree? We don't really care. It'll be taken care of. But what if they decide that they're going to major in elementary education and then five, six years later? They decide they don't like kids. We don't really care about that. Everything is going to be fine. We trust that college will take care of them. That's how we treat it. And so young people are making a very significant investment. And we can talk all the smack we want about how knowledge is priceless. But the acquisition of it through college is not priceless. It's one of the most expensive things you'll pay for. And you can call it an investment. But that doesn't mean that you're investing wisely. And we got to challenge people to think critically about that. I would imagine that most of the kids that are entering into the practice have support from their family. Am I wrong in that assumption? Because I would think that it has to start with the parents in some way. Because if parents are putting pressure on you from a very early age that you're going to go to college and that you're going to graduate. It's hard to get out of that mindset even if you are rebellious. So do you find that a lot of the kids that are in your program have that support? So we've got a number of parents that are tremendously supportive. And we even have some participants in the program whose parents are the ones that told them about the program. So we have a tremendous amount of that. And at the same time, in the name of Keeping It Real, we have a number of participants whose parents are very frightened by it. Or whose parents still remain skeptical of it. And a large part of my coaching at times has to involve encouraging young people who are really taking a social hit to do this. And helping them understand why they don't have to be disrespectful towards the people they love in order to disagree with them. And why you're not going to achieve anything by arguing with people who are worried about you. They're worried about you because you're untested. You're unproven. And if you want to win them over, the best thing you can do is be cool. Be respectful. Don't defend yourself. Work hard and prove that you made the right choice by handling your business. And by showcasing what it's like to be an adult through the life that you live. I know that there's, I think it was an episode of Freakonomics, I listened to, where he was agreeing that college is an everything or maybe a Seth Goat. And but somebody was talking about how like, I don't think college is everything, but just based on like the economics of it. And then looking at the numbers, most people that go to college and up having a better salary and then being better off in the long run. What have you seen from people who've gone through your program and you know not necessarily specific numbers. What is it look like when somebody leaves that program, do they end up better off in a better off position? Yeah. So I want to touch at the core of that argument because this is how so many people approach the topic. They look for the answer to the question which one is better? And professors ask me this all the time. It's such an academic question. They ask me all the time. What's the evidence that practice is better? I don't care about that. I don't care about what's better. I care about identifying what people want and then creating value for them on their terms. Right? Is Nike better than Reebok? I don't know. Is basketball better than baseball? I don't know. Who cares? Let people watch what they want to watch. And once people indicate what they're interested, what they're interested are. Then we do the hard work of creating value for them based on that, right? So let's talk about these kinds of statistics. I can produce the same sorts of meaningless stats for other things. I can say that the overwhelming majority of startups fail, right? That if you try to start a business, the odds are overwhelmingly against you. And the statistic show that you will be much better off if you go pursue a degree in accounting, right? Does that mean you should go pursue a degree in accounting or should you start your business? Like, this is an argument that immediately defeats the overwhelming majority of people right now that are working at startups. They all need to leave and go to accounting. In fact, let's stick with accounting. I think it has like a placement rate over 95%. So let's talk about the people who use this argument for college. Okay, fine. You're going to college. Do you know the statistics for theater majors? Because we're letting a lot of young people do that. And we're not discouraging that. Do you know the statistics for philosophy majors for anthropology majors? Everybody ought to be majoring in mechanical engineering or accounting. If we're going to base our life decisions on which position makes the most money. But human beings are more than just their need for money, right? Human beings need to find things that are a good fit for them. They need to find things that they believe in that they want to do. So is it my place to tell all the actors who move out to Hollywood or New York? That, hey, the statistics say you're going to make much more money over a lifetime by going into accounting rather than acting rather than theater rather than business rather than music or about 80% of the things you should be doing. Well, that's silly, right? Because the most important question is what are the results that matter most to you? And this is what's different about my philosophy of education. Most people approach education in this bureaucratic sense. We start with a subject rather than the student. We start with what we think people ought to know in order to be good citizens. So we say everyone ought to know history, everyone ought to know math, everyone ought to know this. And your interests come next. If we've got some time left over to get to your interests, we'll get to that, right? But everybody's learning these things that these bureaucrats have decided are important for everyone. And even though we don't have to live your life, right? We've decided this is what's important for you. For me, I say no. We start with the student. And we ask that student, hey, what are the results you want to create with your life? What matters most to you? You know, what are you after? Just like if you go to a gym, the fitness trainer doesn't start by saying, Hi, what's your name? Matt, that's great. We're going to do the stairmaster. We're going to do some resistance training. No, they say, what brought you to the gym? What are you here for? And then that's when you say something like, hey, like, man, I got a marathon. I'm training for. Or, hey, look, man, I got a wedding coming up. And I want to look good in that touch. And the job of the fitness trainer is to not laugh at that answer. The job is to say, okay, I accept that. That's cool. How much time are you willing to put in? What are you willing to sacrifice? Anything I need to know about what you're not willing to do, injuries and stuff like that? All right, cool. So we got all this equipment in here. But I'm going to have you ignore that. That's irrelevant to your goals. Don't worry about that guy over there. I'm lifting all those weights. Yeah, he's bigger than you as stronger than you has nothing to do with you. I'm going to have you work on these machines over here. We're going to do it like this. We're going to do it like that. And it's a customized plan that's based on your goals. I would contend that if education is not goal oriented, it's not education. What the teacher knows doesn't matter until we have identified what the student wants to create. And that's the approach we take. So I don't care about people's arguments about what's better. I care about satisfying my customers. I love that. Yeah, that's great, man. Let's do a couple of quick questions here. And we'll close out this podcast. If you personally could go back, say 15 years ago, 20 years ago, what would you do differently? Say you're like 20 years old or so. Maybe I just guessed how old you are. It sounds like you're in the ballpark. Yeah, yeah. So you're going back to around like 20 years old. What did you do wrong? What did you wish that you would have done at that time? The advice I would give to my 20 year old self would be, hey, don't fear regret. Don't fear regret. And don't rush trying to get all the answers to all the philosophical questions before you turn 30. Because when you get older, you still have an idea of fun that is unique to that age. And life doesn't end. I think when I was 20, I believed as a lot of 20 years old did that, that there's something about adult responsibilities that marks the end of life. And that whatever cool things you want to do, you got to get it all in before you're 25. And I would tell my 20 year old self, don't buy into that. You got a whole lifetime for life. Do what's important to you now and don't base any decisions on the fear of what you're going to lose and opportunity to do when you're old. If it's interesting to you, that's good enough. pursue it, follow up on it. And don't worry about missing out on anything. That's the thing that scared me most when I was in high school was talking to a couple of teachers and then saying that without a doubt, college was the best years of their life. And kind of almost imprinting that on you. As if the expectation is that the next four years are going to be the best time of my life and then that's it. I just call it quits and then I just live like an ordinary life after that. That terrified me. I'm so glad it was wrong. But for a lot of people that can be true, it could, you know, if the only time you have freedom if the only time you push yourself or create it or have fun and let loose is during college, then yeah, it's going to be the best times of your life. But it's really up to you if that's true or not. Well, you know, we don't, I mean, it's okay if those are the best times of your life. But it's always possible to create better times, right? And I don't think we mean to do this, but sometimes when we speak to young people, we have this sense of urgency about our advice and we want them so badly to take advantage of the unique opportunities they have to be flexible and take risk. You know, like, if you're 19, you're not married, you don't have any children. Someone can call you up and say, hey, man, there's this opportunity over in New York or I need you to come, you know, move to Alaska for two years. You can do that without having any conversations with anybody. And the game is a bit different when you're married or when you have employees or whatever it may be. And as fine as it is to tell young people that they have a unique opportunity, it's important that we don't ignore the flip side of that coin, which is growing older has some really cool opportunities as well. And most of the things we fear missing out on when we're younger, they actually don't look that valuable from the eyes of a 30 year old, from the eyes of a 40 year old. They're not that big of a deal. It's kind of like the old thing I said about the girl that didn't like you, your freshman year in high school. It's just sort of this thing that did or didn't happen. And it's not as important. But, you know, all the commercials that you're watching, all the Instagram posts that you're looking at makes it look like every party is important. Everything that everyone doing is important. And if you miss out on it, you're going to wake up one day and you're going to regret your whole life. And sure, there may be some people who model that for you but it doesn't have to be that way. Being a 40 is pretty cool. And even if you turn out to have not done everything that you want it to do when you turn 40, there's still plenty of opportunity to do other things. So, live your life now. Don't be afraid of age. Is there one skill that you would recommend people sharpen? That's maybe the most important thing, whether it's you or you see for young kids coming up to try to do their own thing. One or two skills that are going to be the most valuable for them to master. Yeah, so I'm not an advocate of preemptive learning. The most common question I get is, hey, what's the one thing people need to learn and people are usually looking for something like well coding, coding is going to be it because a computer is everything. Or you really, the blockchain, everything's happening with that. So you want to learn about the blockchain. I'm a proponent of orienting your education around the results, right? Like you are most likely to successfully learn things when you are incentivized to learn based on your need to know them because of something that you're trying to produce. So, I would say the most important thing to do is to read voraciously about the things that you're curious about, developing the skill of finding, hunting, down, tracking, down, information that's related to the questions that you're asking. Because that will not only develop you intellectually. It will not only develop your critical thinking skills, but interest is kind of like a superpower. Whatever you're interested in at the time, if you consume a ton of content on that, you're going to retain almost everything that you consume. And that interest is sort of like a window of opportunity that will eventually close because you're going to graduate to a stage of life where you no longer have those questions and even if you still own the books and try to read them, you just won't make the interesting connections that you'll make if you consume it at the time that you're highly engaged. So, develop that skill, hunting down information, consuming a ton of content relating to your curiosities because that's the thing that as you get older and as your interest change, that knowledge will still be transferable to other things. Yeah, I think a lot of people wait to be told what to do. They just follow the syllabus and that's it. If you really want to set yourself apart from other people, like just focus on your interest and stay curious and keep creating outside of what your professor is telling you to do. Yeah, you know, Seth Golden calls it ship shipping, right? Put stuff out there. People are so afraid to ship because they cite themselves out with questions like, well, I'm interested in film now, but if I put out a bunch of short films at age 18 and 19, what happens when I'm 25 and I decide I want to be a neurologist. Right? So, people don't ship in relation to the things they're interested in now because they're worried that some version of themselves they don't have access to is going to be interested in something different and no one's going to take them seriously because they'll have this other stuff out there that's unrelated to it. That never happens. What actually happens is when people look at the thing you've created, they respect you as reliable. They respect you as an expert at something and they pay close attention to this new thing that you say you're going to do. So, for instance, I know some guys who are really into self-help and motivation but they never put anything out there, right? So, no one knows. If Kobe Bryant who has no experience being a motivational speaker, Kobe Bryant or LeBron James decided, I'm going to write a self-help book, who do you think's going to get the audience? Who do you think's going to get people to pay attention? Because these guys have focused on what they are good at, what they are interested in, that when those interest change, their current achievements will become leverage for them to acquire an audience and gain respect for those new achievements. So, don't ever be afraid of shipping based on the fact that your interest will change. It'll always build respect and trust for you. How do you feel about setting expectations? Because I find myself with any big project, I try to set my expectations rather low, or I don't even think about what my expectations would be if I put this project into the world. I just focus on the craft, the art, and what I enjoy about the process. And then because a lot of times we don't have any control over how the world is going to receive our ideas. Yeah, so here's where I differ from a lot of people who talk about following dreams. For most people, the reason you should follow your dreams is because the universe is this kind, benevolent, magical place, and perhaps that may be true, but I don't think that's the primary basis for following dreams. I don't think you should follow your dreams because they probably will happen. I think you should follow your dreams because there is a version of you that is superior to the person sitting in front of me in every way. Wiser, funnier, more adaptive, more creative, more intelligent, in every way. And you don't get to be that superior version of yourself unless you face your dreams, get your questions answered, and do the things that your nature compels you to do. So I look at the rock as sort of a symbolic representation of your ideal self. So, and that symbolic representation is just sort of like an inaccurate best guess of what the pinackle for success is for you. But you need something specific to focus on. And you move towards that, but you don't move towards that because getting the rock on your show is the definition of success. It's just something specific for you to focus on, and the real success is being the best that you can be and going as far as you can go. And so if that's driving you, that's great. But what matters is the process that's being driven. The fact that every day you get up and you do all of these amazing things in order to get to that level. And it doesn't matter if you get to that or not because ultimately you get to something so much better than the rock being on your show. You get to you, you get to your course self. You get to become who you were born to be. And that's the real goal. And that's why I believe people should follow their dreams even if you might fail. Because the Pearl of Great Price isn't the possession. The Pearl of Great Price is self-actualization. I got to get to the gym. I feel inspired right now. Well, thank you so much for coming on the podcast. A couple more questions here to wrap up. Since books are such an important part of your life, I'm curious what book has had the greatest impact on your life or book that you keep coming back to because you're like, man, this stays true and resonates with me over the long run. Yeah. So can I get to? Absolutely. Okay. One is finite and infinite games by James Peacars. And I love the subtitle. It's a vision of life as play and possibility. And it's a very good framework for thinking about life not only as a game but as a very specific category of games and sort of opting out of the finite game approach to life into the infinite game approach where the goal is not to win but the goal is to perpetuate play. And it's a way of looking at things that can really make life and all of its obstacles and challenges, feel a lot more light-hearted and playful. And it's a game that sort of takes you beyond the traditional paradigm of just winning and gaining and achieving and defining success on that basis. The second is a book by Robert Fritz called the Path of Lease Resistance. Subtitle becoming the predominant creator force in your own life. And this is a book about the distinction between the reaction response orientation where circumstances are the driving forcing your life and successes about having good reactions to them and versus the creative orientation where intentionality is the driving force in your life. And you're not defined by letting circumstances take the lead and then you reacting to them. But by you deciding what you're going to create and experiencing circumstances as these things that can react to you. So those are two books that I keep coming back to that I'd recommend. Awesome. Yeah. And if people want to find you online, where should we send them? Send them to either discoverpraxis.com or tkcom. Awesome. Thanks for doing the podcast, man. Thank you, man. Thanks for having me. Thank you for listening to this week of the ground up show tkcom and what a legend. Appreciate him coming on the show here. As I said at the beginning, today's the last day to submit to the get the rock on Matt's podcast, jingle competition, trademark, all right to preserve. If you want, if you're creative, if you're musician, if you want to submit, this is it, guys. And then I'm going to set up a like a little web landing page or something to get the rock on Matt's podcast.com where you guys can rush to and vote for your favorite. I really want to get as many people to vote as possible because I want you guys are the one that's going to have to listen to this. So, you know, I'm hoping that you you pick one that brings the most joy to your life. All right, next week's a good one too. I'll see you then.
