# How to Overcome Anxiety
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=GXJjbhIn7fI
More from Quddus 👉 https://www.quddus.co/
My podcast 👉 http://groundupshow.com

Is it possible to reframe anxiety into a good thing? That's what this week's podcast guest Quddus Philippe convinced me. I talk about that conversation and some of the ways we can think differently about negative emotions.

New videos every week! New podcast every Wednesday!

Subscribe:  https://goo.gl/nzS5ri
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com
Instagram:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella/
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella/
**Keywords:** anxiety, stress, doubt, fear, ground up, podcast, the ground up show, film, filmmaking, learn, education, reframe anxiety, create, creator, get started, make, matt davella, matt d'avella, podcasting, start, 
**Date:** 2018-03-30

## Transcript
 All right, so this week on the podcast, I sat down with Caduce Philippe, incredibly inspiring, individual, what an amazing story. If you're anything like me, you grew up watching Caduce on MTV, on MTV's TRL. He was the host of it for many years. His career went on to host television shows and direct music videos. And now, his most recent transformation has been to become an entrepreneur and help those like him who struggle to find themselves in front of the camera. So whether you yourself aren't entrepreneurs, somebody who needs to be answering interviews on camera, or if you're somebody like me who is filming YouTube videos, he really helps people cut down to, I guess, the root of the problem. So it's not just about his program camera ready. It's not just about the surface stuff like covering up pimples, ironing, you're sure looking good on camera. It's about addressing those deep problems that we almost don't want to face. So in my conversation, I asked him, I said, what is like a one-on-one coaching session look like for you? Say, right now, we were doing like a one-on-one coaching session. How does that play out? Like, what questions you ask me? How do you go about that process? The first question is, will it be valuable to focus on right now? What do I feel like I need to work on? Yep, where do I need to improve? We're actually going to do this now. Yeah, let's do it. Where do I want to improve? So yeah, I totally walked right into that and I wasn't prepared for it, although I totally should have expected the conversation to go in that direction. But after a minute of thinking, I came up with something that really, I think, is probably at the heart of a lot of people's lives when they are creating something and putting themselves out there. I'm perfect, man. It's like, I get anxious before interviews. And I've done over 50 of them now. So I feel like I feel a lot better when I head into them. But it's like the unknown and the uncertainty. I prep and I have questions ready, knowing that when it doesn't really matter that much. I can prep 100 questions, but at the end of the day, I really want this to be an authentic conversation. I need to throw those away and just be in the moment. So I think it's the anxiousness of dealing with uncertainty. This is my big thing that I have struggled with. It's gotten better. You know what I mean, the more you do it, it's gotten better. But it's definitely something that comes up for every interview. What if anxiety wasn't a bad thing? Well, how would I reframe anxiety to be a good thing? So there's a study done and it hooked up two people to the same roller coaster ride. So all those things that people that are reading your body, physiology, hookup, two people on the same roller coaster ride. One person had the exact same thing going on physiologically as the other person. And they interpreted it as, oh my god, am I going to die? Is this thing not going to work? I'm going to fly off the side of this thing, anxiety. The other person, the exact same experience, the exact same physiological response. But they interpreted as, oh my god, the best ride ever. So what does that tell you? It's just a reframing. That's where the practice comes in because if I'm able to actually notice that that energy can be reframed as something that is actually fuel, I feel it too. And I've just practiced the interpretation that, oh, this means that what's happening here matters. It matters enough that I care and then I have all this energy about it. And it's here to support me and it's not just a pep talk. I actually feel like it becomes like a fire for me to channel. And when I don't feel that, I actually wonder, should I be here? Right? Because there doesn't seem to be no stakes involved. It doesn't seem to matter enough. And that's where I need to, maybe check off my, why am I here box? Why does this matter box before I even do it? And then create some motivation for myself and some energy for myself. It's so contradictory in so many ways that we want to do something. Like our head knows, this is what I should be doing. I should be putting myself out there in this way, get our body feels uncomfortable. And we're faced with all these emotions that feel negative, anxiety, doubt, fear, uncertainty, overwhelmed. These are all the things that we face as entrepreneurs, as people who are starting something for ourselves, as creatives, as film, whatever you're doing, if you're following an untraditional path. And even if you're following a traditional path, you're going to face these feelings. You're going to be pushing yourself in ways that your body is going to be saying, wait, wait, wait, stop, this doesn't feel right. But something that I always tell myself is that if it was easy, everybody would do it. So there's a reason why it's difficult. There's a reason why it's challenging. And I love the way that Q framed this question. So my doubts and insecurities and anxieties can be faced and looked at as a positive thing. Because I mean, really imagine that. Imagine that world where you don't feel anything heading into your job every day. Or there's no excitement. There's no adrenaline. There's no push or drive to do something. That's like when we feel most alive. And yeah, it probably will make us screw up. And we may trip and we may fall in our face. And God knows I've done it so many times. But when you get back up, dust yourself off, try again, do it in a different way. Those are the moments where you grow and you feel more confident. And then you're going to be stepping into things that you've done once or twice. Things that you've been scared about before. And you're going to have a little bit more confidence. So my question to leave you with today is, what can you look at in your life that maybe in the past has been a negative? Has been something that you were afraid to approach? And now, how can you reframe it? How can you look at it as a positive?
