# I quit my phone for 30 days
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H0Cz1T0lQyk
🎥 My YouTube course is open for enrollment! Learn more here: 
https://slowgrowth.com/master-youtube

Thanks to my mate Josh for the advice: https://fullstackfilms.com.au/

----

New here?

Hi there 👋 My name is Matt D'Avella. I'm a documentary filmmaker, entrepreneur and YouTuber. I've made a couple documentaries for Netflix. I also teach courses on everything from filmmaking to habit change. If you like to nerd out about self-development as much as I do, you can subscribe for weekly videos.

🔗 LINKS
Enroll in my habit's course:  https://slowgrowth.com/simplehabits
Enroll in my YouTube course:  https://slowgrowth.com/masteryoutube
Get my weekly newsletters:  http://slowgrowth.com/newsletter
Follow me on Instagram:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Follow me on Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
**Keywords:** Matt D'Avella, matt davella, self-development, creativity, health, wellness, lifestyle design, lifestyle, advice, 
**Date:** 2023-03-23

## Transcript
 Over the past decade, we've become so dependent upon our smartphones that we rarely leave home without them, so I wondered what would life be like without a phone, would it be possible to get by? Could I find alternatives to replace the tools that I've become so dependent upon? These questions and my hope to finally break my phone addiction led me to some of the most eye-opening lessons I've had when it comes to my relationship with technology, and there might not be any turning back. So I decided to quit my smartphone for 30 days. Let's turn off my phone and put it out of reach. So this isn't my first rodeo when it comes to digital minimalism experiments. I've used a flip phone, a dumb phone, I quit social media, and I've tried just about every rule in the book when it comes to using technology more intentionally. I've tried all of these different experiments because I've genuinely struggled with a phone addiction. We're in front of screens all day, from our laptops and tablets to our televisions, but I think there's something uniquely addictive about the phone. Unlike the larger devices that we use, it fits in our pocket. We carry it around everywhere we go, and possibly consume content in bed, on the toilet, in line at the grocery store, and in between reps. The addiction is enabled through the convenience and accessibility of the device, if not our own social anxieties. As much as I've tried over the years, I've failed to come up with a solution to my problem. How do I get all the utility out of my phone without it making me miserable? I'm hoping that giving up my phone for 30 days will help me find the answer. So this experiment isn't about subjecting myself to pain and discomfort for the hell of it. I'm looking for real solutions to help me get by without my phone. In the first place, I knew I needed to go was my laptop. So a lot of things that I currently do on my phone could very easily be done on my laptop. Face time, messenger, messages, and WhatsApp are the main ways that I communicate with my family and friends. In the past, I've used my phone to access these apps, but now I'm going to start moving these conversations over to my desktop. I think one thing you might notice, if you try quitting your phone for yourself, is how few of the apps on your phone are actually essential. Do you really need an app for banking? How about your real estate search? And the apps that you use for work, Slack, Gmail, and Google Drive, are all of these apps really necessary for you to have at all times. Since I've done similar experiments before, I haven't been all that surprised by my first few days without a phone. I quickly transitioned to using my laptop for most things, occasionally picking up my iPad to browse the internet. My flinch to grab my phone in public has already started to fade away, and I'm just forced to be more present in each moment. But, and this is a big butt. There are a few apps on my phone that I feel like I couldn't live without. The three most important ones for me are calls, texts, and navigation. Since my wife's pregnant, there's a real need for me to be available in case of emergencies. So I've realized that I really do need to figure out a way to stay connected without a phone. And that's when one of my tech forward friends recommended a solution. But one thing you could do is you could use a smart watch. Instead of your phone, then you're getting rid of all of the distractions, you're getting rid of the looking of the screen all over the time, but then if that wants to contact you, she can't. And you can get service on a smart watch. Yeah. Yeah, it's literally like having a 4G phone. I've always been hesitant to use wearable devices. Don't we have enough screens in our lives already? Do we really need to attach them to our bodies? And I recently purchased my first smart watch to track my biometric data for this channel. And my limited experience using it makes me think that it might actually work. If you would say, what is the problem with the phone? It's a screen time. Could you imagine being like, oh man, I spent eight hours looking at my smart watch. Yeah. Because that's not going to happen. So as it turns out, you can't actually update your watch to have cell phone service without your phone. So I need to cheat on this experiment for just a second. So apparently, it only costs an extra $5 per month. And that's in AUD and turning my phone back off. First, I really want to test out a phone call. Hey, Nat. Hi. Sure, I might look like a complete f***ing idiot holding my watch up to my ear like I'm James Bond, but it works. How does the equality sound? It's not like crystal clear, but like I can hear. I learned later that you can actually connect your Bluetooth headphones. Hey, man, what's going on? But what about texting? I've tried texting with a dumb phone and a flip phone before and the results were painful. What does it look like to text on a smart watch? It turns out, it's actually pretty great. The easiest way is with voice to text, which works just as well as when you use it on your phone. Hey, just about ahead to the grocery store, let me know if you need anything. This makes sending longer text really easy. And in those situations where you might not want to talk, let's say you're in a public bathroom, and there's somebody sitting in the stall next to you, what do you do? Instead of voice to text, you can use swipe for texting. It's not perfect, but it's pretty damn good and much faster than texting on a flip phone or a dumb phone. I'm not going to lie replacing my smartphone with a smart watch is an absolute game changer. I still haven't used my phone once, but I now have access to so many useful apps. I've got calls and texts, obviously, but also music, in alarm clock, weather, calculator, and even payments. And since the screen is so small and has such limited capabilities, I literally haven't been able to use it for anything else. But it still early days and I haven't fully put it to the test just yet. So I've been able to make a full time living, creating YouTube videos just like this one. Every day I get to wake up, explore new ideas, and do what I love most. One of my passions is helping other creators do the same. That's why I'm really excited to let you know that my YouTube course is now open for enrollment for a limited time. Master YouTube is your roadmap to building a successful channel with integrity. In it, I share all the systems and strategies that I've used to build this channel with more than three and a half million subscribers. You'll learn how to get more views, how to edit faster, and how to build an audience making videos that you're proud of. The course has helped launch thousands of channels and students have seen some amazing results. There has been a dramatic increase in the production quality of my videos. More people were telling me, wow, you're a really great storyteller. The four months ago I had just under 1,000 subscribers and four months later, I've got over 33,000 subscribers, and I've put pretty much all of that down to do in the Master YouTube course. Master YouTube closes a couple of weeks after I upload this video on April 7th. So if you want to get started, just go to slowgrowth.com slash Master YouTube. That's slowgrowth.com slash Master YouTube. Or even easier, you can click the link in the description below this video. Hope to see you there. So whenever I've replaced my phone with another device, the biggest challenge has always been, what do you use for directions? So it looks like the best navigation that you can get on your Apple Watch is with Apple Maps, and so I'm going to give walking directions a shot. All right, so I wanted to raise the stakes. So Natalie here is going to be driving me to a random location, and I'm going to see if I can't find my way back to the starting point. Feel like you're going to get lost. I feel like I'm, it's going to work. All right, so we're here. Time to get started. All right, so I'm going to plug in the address here and the map. Let's see how we go. So it's telling me to start on Brighton Street. Um, I think that might be done. Wait, after a delayed start, I got back on track pretty quickly. My watch vibrates before each turn reroute quickly when necessary, and the navigation is just as accurate as you'd expect from your phone. Obviously the screen is really small, but it seems to be working pretty well. I made it. Made it! I think in even bigger problem might be driving directions. So I'm using driving directions right now with my watch, and it's actually working out surprisingly well. I've got voice navigation turned on, and it also gives me some pulses and vibrations when I need to make a turn. Go past the stop side. Then turn right onto bridge road. I definitely think that this could be a great solution for short trips, and when I'm not in much of a hurry. There are two main issues that I have with it though. First is the lack of a screen. I get lost in Sydney with a screen, and so having one is helpful for tricky intersections and merging onto highways. The second thing I'm worried about is battery life. Apple says that the battery will last between four and six hours using navigation, which isn't terrible, but that's just an added layer of stress if you're making a big trip, and the only device you have is your watch. I've tried things like printing off directions, and using my cars built-in navigation, but they just don't match the convenience and reliability that I need. So far, this has been the biggest drawback for me when it comes to switching to a smart watch full-time. I've had very little issues using my watch for most utilities. In addition to using it regularly for calls, texts and directions, I've also been using it to make payments every day, listen to music while at the gym, and to catch up on podcasts while walking around my neighborhood. There were some occasional bugs, particularly with the Spotify app, but nothing that I'd consider disruptive. I found a notes app that works very similarly to the functionality of texting, so I can take notes for my videos or business either by writing them out, or by using the voice-to-text feature. I ate a rotisserie chicken every day for 30 days. There are some downsides to not having a phone. It's been impossible to keep up with the speed of group chats. The battery life on my watch isn't so great. I look like a douchebag while making phone calls, and I no longer have access to apps that would be essential while traveling, like Uber or Airbnb. The pros by far outweigh the cons when I look back over the past month, I think some of the biggest things for me are the fact that I haven't been using a device in bed. I don't wake up to a glowing screen. I'm not spending hours every single day looking at my phone. And I will say, actually, I have yet to use a device while sitting on the toilet. I'm not saying I'm Deepak Chopra, but pretty much. So here is the big thing that I've learned from this experiment. Getting rid of your phone is getting rid of some convenience. There is no way around that. Whether you're using a smartwatch or a dumb phone, as far as I can see, there are no replacements that will allow you to have everything that you'd want out of a smartphone without some reduction in utility service or efficiency. But this experiment of quitting my phone has completely changed everything from me. This is the first time that I've finished a 30-day digital minimalism experiment where I've had absolute certainty that this was going to change everything about how I use technology going forward. So what's next? I'm going to change very little about the system. So my phone will continue to stay hidden away 95% of the time, and I will use my smartwatch for everything else on a daily basis. So you might be wondering why not get rid of my phone completely? Well, my watch is a companion device. And so to set it up and to keep it updated, I actually do need a phone. And so I will keep it for that purpose. The other purpose that I'll keep it for is driving navigations. And so I haven't found an appropriate alternative to be able to get around without a phone. And so I'll keep using Apple CarPlay on my phone without actually really using my phone much at all. Whether or not this has me slipping back into my old habits, I guess we'll find out soon enough. Thanks so much for watching. If you want to get more videos, make sure that you click subscribe and also turn on notifications to hear from me in the future. And if you want other content from me like my newsletter as well as my courses, then there are a few links in the description down below this video. See you next time.
