# Things Worth Sacrificing // Ground Up 088
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hFfaW8053pc
Support this podcast & get exclusive videos at http://www.patreon.com/mattdavella
 
Daniel DeArco is an experimental photographer, filmmaker & fabricator that makes creative camera rigs for his projects like a slider that moves 24mph in a split second.

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** create, creator, get started, ground up, make, matt davella, matt d'avella, podcast, podcasting, start, the ground up show, behind the scenes, creative, creators, documentary, film, filmmaker, filmmaking, freelance, freelance life, freelancer, hustle, 
**Date:** 2018-11-21

## Transcript
 Hey everybody and welcome back to the Ground Up Show, the podcast that's hosted right from my dining room. I'm your host Matt Diavella and today I'm sitting down for a great conversation with experimental photographer, filmmaker and fabricator, Daniel de Arco. We talk about the future of technology and independent film. What things are worth sacrificing and how to cultivate new passions? But first, if you've gotten some value from the Ground Up Show, if it's helped you on your journey, I would love it if you would consider contributing on Patreon. Patreon is a small community where I create exclusive videos for on topics like lifestyle, design, business and filmmaking. It's one of the ways that I'm able to keep this YouTube channel 100% advertisement free. You can check it out at patreon.com slash Matt Diavella. There's a link in the description. Thanks for watching and enjoy the show. All right, you ready to start a podcast? Ready. We're starting out with a little bit of background noise, which is totally fine. People might hear the light hum of landscaping next door, which is, this is the second time it's happened on the podcast. But fingers crossed it. It goes away soon. But a noise never hurt no one. It never hurt no one. And this is like the things that you go through as filmmakers and photographers, where there's always something that comes up. There's always something that will disrupt your shoot problems that arise. And you either can fix them or you just deal with them and live with them. Uh, usually the latter. Usually the latter. Yeah, for me, the biggest thing is wind. Wind has been my biggest thing because it'll knock over light stands or props or little bother, you know, models or something or like people do hair and makeup and stuff. It like makes it grow all crazy. Uh, is it a lot of your work outdoors then? No, I mean, sometimes clients just want that. Like I'm doing a shoot tomorrow actually for returning client and same deal. It's going to be outdoors. So I'm just hoping it's not too windy. Yeah, we'll see. So how about we start out, give me a little bit of introduction. So your experimental photographer, filmmaker, youtuber, fabricator, the first fabricator I've had before. Yeah. Kind of, I know it's kind of a weird sort of a bizarre hybrid anomaly, but basically I consider myself kind of, I've been a photographer for the past seven years, but I've also been really big on fabrication and building stuff for the past seven years too. And then, and really hyperactive in that for the past three, four years. So I consider myself now these kind of more of a camera rig designer, so I like building stuff for my camera. Okay. And then I like using it for stuff. One of the things I saw was you said you had built one of the fastest sliders ever made which is like really cool. It's one of the things you got to see to believe. It's kind of the endurance. Talk about that. Yeah, it looks like it. Talk about that a little bit, but also what are there kind of stuff are you making for your camera rigs? So I am really big on sort of getting into mechatronics, which is sort of robotics is a sort of subdivision of mechatronics where you combine mechanical applications or mechanical things designs with electronics. And so I've always been kind of nerding out about that. And so that's essentially what our cameras are is sort of a product of mechatronics. And so I kind of built that as a fun little experiment because I wanted to see what could somebody do to kind of push slow motion to its limit or just do something a little bit different. It wasn't really to challenge other people or to like, I didn't want the video to blow up per se, but I just wanted to do it for myself to see what would happen. So at the time I didn't have a GoPro 6, I think I had a GoPro Hero 5 or something like that. And I had this idea for using an industrial motor to sort of power this camera slider. So the exactly that, I programmed the industrial motor. It's a servo motor and the rest of this history. It was pretty fast actually. I think it was something like 20 miles per hour. I didn't do the calculation just because I was a little bit lazy. And I was busy making the video and I think after I posted it, I think pedipixel F stoppers and maybe DP review or something, they all shared it and then this guy, maybe he's like a mathematician or something, you're like, oh, he calculated, you know, he did the equation and if he found that it was something like 20 miles per hour. And we're talking about over two feet, three feet slider of five foot slider, 20 miles an hour and less and like a split second. So it accelerated to that speed and like 0.15 seconds. It's kind of wild to think about technology like that. By the time, like no human could ever make something move like that in that way because by the time it's starting, it's stopping. Like it's happening so fast. Well, the interesting thing is, and I don't want to dog anyone or like talk badly about sort of our industry because it's not a bad thing. But I just noticed, as it started getting more to fabrication and like, you know, understanding manufacturing and everything, I started seeing the patterns that a lot of stuff that is applied in photography and filmmaking equipment has already been done. It's just been taken from other industries, sort of like robotics, for example. So when I, when I saw other sort of linear actuators moving at that speed, I was like, oh, I just put a camera on there, right. But no one kind of wanted to do that for cameras because I guess no one really put those two things together, like, oh, slow motion and super fast camera slider. But I saw like the matrix a long time ago, and I was thinking, what if you could do that in sort of one shot instead of having 20 cameras staggered, knowing that? Yeah. Is there any specific technologies that you are most excited about? Like, I mean, you think about over the past five years with camera technology, it's been crazy that drones are as prevalent as they are and gimbals are now changing the game when we had to use these manual sliders for so long. And now you can just put a camera on a gimbal, you know, obviously you have to manually balance it a little bit. But what it can do and the functions that you can perform now on a tiny handheld rig would be impossible five years ago. I think that industrial robotic arms are going to be a thing of the next, two to five years, and I don't mean, like, I don't mean just in Hollywood productions because they're certainly used in that. Sometimes they'll take a cook a robot or a fanick robot, which is used mostly for cars assemblies and factories, and then they'll actually just, like, paint a black or something, make it look really cool, and they'll put a camera in there. And so they'll, they have a couple of camera robots, I think what's called the bolts, one's called, you know, something else. It's a glam bot. Yeah, like five axis ones, like something like that. Yeah, the one is, uh, I had Cole Wallace who's a commercial director, and he has like Emmy red carpet and stuff, but it's the glam bot where it's, um, it's like a robot arm, and then it just goes, it's with a Phantom camera on it, and it goes with you. And then it does these split seconds in slow motion. It's kind of like a big slider itself, right? But it kind of can go up and down, and it's like, it's, it's like, I mean, the thing must cost like over a million dollars. Yeah, and so usually those types of robots for factories, I think they started something like 25 or 50,000 starting. Yeah. And the ones you can lift things like cars probably over a million, I think, or at least over a quarter million. But, um, but definitely, I think those are going to be accessible, um, to normal, sort of prosumer filmmakers, probably the next, uh, two to five years, I think. I actually want to build one myself and my garage, but we'll see what happens, because I have to learn a bit more about like the programming and what it takes to make it think, you know, what, what it takes to make it move the way I want it to, there's a lot of, a lot of mechanical stuff about it is complicated. This is why it's so expensive. But I think besides that, the gimbal technology is going to get so good to the point where it's, you know, what we had five years ago is going to be totally just obsolete. No, no manual, anything anymore. It's kind of like skateboards, you know, like everyone has like the, like booster board booster board, which I was that don't know, it's just like an electrical. Yeah, they were just used like some kind of brushless DC motor, I think, but then it's funny, like they're, they're using similar technologies for all these different applications. And in general, I think there's something called the Moore's Law, which is technology, it'll, it'll get better twice as fast per what every two or five years or something like that. Yeah, I may be quoting that wrong, but it's exponential. Like if you look at from the early 1900s until now, it's like, it's ridiculous. Crazy hockey stick. Yeah, I mean, looking back five years ago, I think a lot of people are still doing their own DIY sliders. And not, not like, I built my own at the PVC pipe and skateboard, we've all been there. I love that stuff, I love that stuff. And, and I love seeing that, and I think that, you know, even even five years ago, though, the people are doing DIY sliders, they weren't motorized in any way. So nowadays, it's like, you can buy that for a hundred bucks, 200 bucks. So it's kind of crazy. I don't know. A little bit scary where things are going, but in a good way. Yeah, it's, it's exciting too. This stuff is cool. It doesn't really change your story. Does it, it's not necessary. Does it, it's not necessary, does it help? Depends on your vision, I think. I think, what is it? I actually was watching a couple of clips of your previous podcasts. And then, yeah, one thing that Mangostreet said about knowing exactly what you want is important, but also knowing exactly what you just do not need period, right? So it's, they talked about lenses, for example. It's like, if you don't need a motorized slider, don't get one. I actually, you probably have more gear than I do. Mm-hmm. I want to clean it. I probably do. Yeah, I mean, I have four cameras. Yeah, you can do a podcast, three cameras set up. Like, and I got all the lenses. I have three Metabones adapters. Oh, it's, it's a massive amount of gear. Yeah. Those, those adapters by themselves are what, like, 700 bucks. 400 dollars? Oh, okay. I mean, this is one of the things with technology, where it's like, I went down investing in good glass with cannon. And then, I never saw Sony come in through and producing amazing cameras and lenses. So I'm probably going to, I'm my end up switching over, eventually. But it's one of those things where it's like, I'm not going to rush into it. What I have now works well. But it is, it's all about the purpose, right? And even though I'm a minimalist filmmaker. And for me, ideally, I, like, I would love to only have one camera. But the stuff that I do needs three cameras. Like, I really want to, I have a vision for how I want to make this thing. So it requires those extra bits. And maybe that's what you're saying with a vision of having a motorized slider. You have this idea for this film that you want to create. That shot that you want to get requires you to use this new technology. Yeah, definitely, definitely for podcasting, you would need more than one camera, I guess. So it makes sense. Yeah, I actually, I don't own a three-axis gimbal. I don't own any gimbals at all. I only, the funny thing is I had that, that super crazy fast camera slider. But I only used it for that video. I never actually really used it. I never had a motorized slider before that. So it was only until, not until recently where I got one. But I don't have a lot of stuff in general. Pretty minimal with the lighting too, and I only have two cameras. In terms of having a vision for, I guess, the shots you want to create, it's my sound kind of funny, but I get a lot of inspiration for cinematography from anime. And I'm not a big enemy nerd or anything. I like some enemies, not all of them. But the interesting thing is their illustrations, right? So the camera movements, camera movements, you see in those enemies, they're not real movements, like they're illustrated. So something traveling around a subject really fast. It's not possible with our current technology. So I kind of like seeing how I can manipulate things with electronics or camera, just something to make those things sort of generally more, I guess, attainable. When you even mention that, it makes me think of the one shot that you did with, you have a permanent marker and you throw it up in the air and you flip and then the camera spins around. As the, like, reaches, as the marker reaches the camera lens. And I think one of the things that, and I need you to break that down for me, but I think the thing that we do, and we're making those kind of things, it's like, you want to make a cool shot. You want somebody to be like, it's kind of magic. Where did you do that? Totally. Because when you're making a movie, all you see is the frame. And in essence, you can create your own magic within that frame. It's corny as it sounds. But like you have 50, of crew of 50 behind you, there might be a crew of two people. But like, it doesn't matter what's behind you, how you orchestrate and pull the strings. What matters is how you can visually pull it off in that frame. So how did you do it? So that was also a motorized thingy that I made. I actually want to make a video about that. Rebuilding that rig, pretty soon. I have a lot of plans for my channel. I've been MIA. I took a hiatus recently because there's a lot of stuff going on in my personal life too. Like, I'm not sure if I want to live in California. So considering possibly moving either to different places in LA or just out of state or something. And also trying to re-plan videos for the channel. But that is one of the videos I wanted to do was sort of actually showing a build for that. Because I could also use that build as sort of a base for a robotic arm or something later on, like repurpose it for something else. But yeah, it was essentially just like a thing that that was sort of held my GoPro at a slight 45 angle like this and then kind of offset. So when the pen reached here, it just circled around it. Like that and then it went back down. It wasn't that hard to program anything. It's just a simple, right? But sometimes it's cool how just a simple move like that is something that you're like, how do they do that? Because that wasn't hand-held. That wasn't, you know, I've never seen a slider built for that. And I think that that's where creativity and experimenting comes to play. Yeah, definitely. It seems like experimenting is a huge part of what you do. There is the definitely the traditional safe path that people can take. Especially as a photographer or filmmaker. Why do you decide to tinker and experiment and push into these kind of places that other people haven't gone before? Well, okay, so I only got it's a photography because I almost died. I had like a near-death experience where a lot of people don't know this, I guess. Well, family and friends know this, like close friends. But a lot of people on social media don't know that over 70 years ago, I was an acrobat. So I was a break dancer for seven years before that. And then I got tech robotics and everything. And so there was basically an accident one day when I was training by myself. And then my head pretty much got severed from my body in a way. But it was held on because the, what is it, SEM muscles here? And I had really big traps. So it was, it was stabilized in my head from kind of stepping over. But my C4 and C5 were completely wrecked. And I had to go to the hospital, like one of the best hospitals in California. I think it's John Muir. They might be like one of the top five or something. And they had to get one of the best neurosurgeons to come out and then work on me. So he told me he was like, yeah, I want to call you one full person. But your head isn't really connected rigidly to your body. It's sort of just stabilized there by your muscles. And so I was kind of thanking myself for being, you know, really fit back. Then I was a lot bigger back then. But at the same time, I kind of screwed myself over. So my dream before like all this stuff was to be in Cirque du Soleil. And to be a traveling, performing artists and all that stuff. They had to work on me for maybe six or eight hours. Reput me back together. My neck is like, it's like 50% metal now. I think it's, it's titanium, tantalum screws and plates in there. And they have what's called a bone graft. So they, they perform what's called spinal fusion, which is essentially this kind of this fake bone graft thing that that goes inside of in between your bones. And then your bones grow in and outside of it. So it fuses together. And you know, when I got back home, because I had to learn how to walk again and everything like, I lost on my muscle, it was just a crazy experience. And the whole story would take a while to tell. How old were you in this happened? I was 19. Yeah. So I'm 26 now. So that was like, what, seven years ago, almost, almost seven years. And yeah, I, you know, the doctors told me they said, you know, Daniel, there was a kid who came in a year ago with this, this exact same injury and he died. So you know, when he get back home, it's time for you to move mountains. And really think about what you want to do with your life. And I was, I was just like, thank God, you know, I, I almost died, you know, what am I going to live for now? I was so depressed. And when I got back home, I was sitting there thinking, like, who am I? What do I want to do with myself? Because that's, that was my dream. That was one thing I didn't want to give up was being kind of like this performing artist and I loved all that stuff. But if I were to do that for a company now, it'd be a liability. So I, I got, I actually got back in shape about six months later on. Um, miraculously because, you know, I shouldn't have been working out in general that same year. But I had a camera and I was thinking, I kind of just want to express myself and take pictures and explore my creative side again, because I was always making things as a kid. I think that career would have taken me away from creativity, I think, because it was kind of splitting this way. So I picked up my camera, just started experimenting, taking videos, shooting photos, all that stuff. And then I got super invested into it. But while I was taking pictures, I always had this curiosity about what happened to me. And I was thinking, what is a bone graft? Like, how is it made? How's it manufactured? Like, what kind of materials have to go into making these, like, titanium, these bone grafts and like titanium screws? What's a manufacturing method? So I just started tinkering. I started, like, kind of behind the scenes outside of photography, like building stuff, getting into DIY fabrication. Yeah, and then it just sort of fused eventually over time. Because I was building props and everything for my shoots, too. Well, what's amazing about that is that a lot of people think that you can only have one passion in life. Right. That, oh, you're born to be a filmmaker, baseball player, whatever it is, and if it doesn't work out with that, then you're hopeless. And you can cultivate and create and find new passions. You just have to be open to it. How did your career progresses a photographer? Because it sounds like you were starting over. You know, you built up all these skills. You put so much time into the craft of aerobatics. And then now you're going to start over with a camera. And you said you were like a bit depressed at that time. Oh, super depressed. How do you get out of that? And was it the photography, did that help you pull you out of it? Or was it just life moving forward in general? Yeah, I mean, you know, I think experience is like that. They can cause a lot of subconscious trauma in a person. So for a long time, I was struggling with sort of like this alternate reality version of myself where I was like, okay, I don't know what would happen if I didn't break my neck. But, you know, I'm on this path where clearly it did. So I got to figure things out. And so that kind of affected me for years and years and years. And I mean, for the most part, though, like it was motivation for me to push through. And it was inspiration for other people when they heard that story. So I wouldn't tell them unless they asked, but then when I did, they were like, I had no idea that happened to you. And I would tell them, yeah, so you know, like, cherish what you do, just like, you know, don't stop, keep doing, keep creating, keep making new stuff. And for me, I guess that was a big motivation for pushing me towards a photography. Mm-hmm. So I was pursuing that or started pursuing that seven years ago. And yeah, it was just a big component to my life. Yeah, from what I've seen in some of the videos I've watched online, it wasn't straightforward, it wasn't easy, it wasn't an overnight success in photography. Yeah, um, what were some of the hurdles that you had to overcome early on? I know you were working three jobs in college and trying to find time to even create and make something for yourself. Yeah. So how does someone go from that position to being able to be a full-time photographer? I, the word obsession comes to mind. You have to actually lose sleep, practicing, training yourself to do something like researching it. And then over time, I guess that obsession as it grows, you try to find innovative ways to get there. So as long as you have that, um, it's not really a sense of if it's going to happen, it's more like, what are you going to do creatively to make it happen? You obviously have to be talented to you and like pretty good at what you do, and you have to get good if you're not good. Mm-hmm. But I feel as if if you have that obsession with getting somewhere, you'll find some crazy way to get there. Mm-hmm. Because there's, there's, there's not just this one template, this one way to be successful. There is definitely not an infinite number of ways. And you can, you can really define it for yourself. Mm-hmm. You can really figure out and say, all right, well, it's not about making a million dollars. It's about making a living. Yeah. Being able to pay the bills as a full-time photographer is a massive win. 100%. Honestly, like, getting to that point. And this is what a lot of people in creative fields, I think, believe you look at stand-up comedians, being a stand-up comedian full-time. Like, I think it's way more challenging than photography. I must be so hard. Yeah. It's crazy. I've got a lot of friends that are in stand-up. And you have to really hustle. And it takes a while before you can get paying gigs. And when you get paying gigs, you're getting 50 bucks for a show. You can't make 50 bucks what, and every three, three nights a week, you're making $50. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. It takes a very long time to build up to where you can make a living off of it. And sometimes you have to be creative. And not so rigid. Because it's, you may have a vision in the beginning of, like, this is how a success is going to look for me. I'm going to be doing nothing but, you know, magazine covers. But then you find a niche in music videos. You know what I mean? And then you start finding that you're getting work somewhere else. So you have to adapt and change and not be so rigid in your process. But it's such a good point. Because I struggled a lot with my sort of ongoing identity crises throughout the years. And I spent, it wasn't until the past year where I decided to kind of innovate, innovate in a certain direction that I wasn't thinking about before. Because, you know, like I said, for seven years, I was trying, I was doing photography from start to development to doing it for money. And I started doing YouTube for fun, just to kind of get away from, like, industry BS or stress or whatever, to kind of further express myself creatively, outside of taking just stills. And like I mentioned before, the whole tinkering, personal interest in things like manufacturing fabrication, I never told anybody about that. That was something I kept kind of under wraps as a secret. And last time I was building a prop for a shooter something. And then I put out a few videos and then friends were like, you have a 3D printer? Why? And then there was a video where I was building props for this, this beauty should I did with two agency models and then my friends, when I saw them in person, they said, dude, you were making something out of metal, you were using an angle grinder, you had all this stuff that we had no idea you did. And they said, you should do more of that. And I was thinking, well, why don't you want to see the photos? Like, isn't that something that, you know, photographers would want to see more of? And so the irony is that majority of my audience began, it was photographers, maybe 90% photographers, like young creative photographers, filmmakers, content creators, whatever. But I would get a lot of DM saying, hey, once you're next fabrication video or something, from a photographer, like you're going to build anything for your camera next week and like, what the heck is going on? Like, you don't want to see photos that has wrong with you. And so it was just like a really funny thing. So I struggled a lot with that for the past year because I was thinking, well, if I make more videos on YouTube, shouldn't it be photography tutorials or some kind of guide or how to, you know, something something with your camera? Or some kind of content about lenses or something. But the kind of proof was in the pudding. And what all the feedback and comments and I guess the views were telling me was that the videos where I was making some kind of weird prism spinner thing for a video shoot I did. They liked that stuff, like that weird kind of creative building process. Yeah, I think I watched that video this morning where you had to make three props for the video. Yeah. And so the, yeah, explain it. Well, the one was a prism and a lot of these things heavily visual. So yeah, I'll link to your work. So people can find you who are listening to this. But let's just do our best to describe just those three props because I think it's kind of unique. And it gives a little bit more of an idea of the kind of things that you can make. And you can get creative with to pull off a different look. And also like, this is DIY. You're like just pulling tools from, you know, how much money you're spending on these tools. And maybe like get into those three that you had made for that specific shoot. Yeah, there was, there was a guy once who saw a picture of my workshop and he was like, oh, you're so lucky. Wish I had all that. This power tools and that workshop. And I said, why had to sell maybe 80% of my camera gear to get the workshop? Because I had to sell that money than use it to, you know, buy a metal lathe and like a three prints or at least things. So I want to say I have, I don't know how much money exactly. It's, it's probably a lot. But probably just as much as anybody would spend on kind of like a whole plethora of camera gear. Yeah. You know, you just buy, you know, industrial machines or something. But I mean, I'm more specifically like when you're looking, I guess that's one thing that I didn't think about is that those tools three printers are very expensive. But like when you were creating those three props. Oh, I see. It seems like you're just like pulling supplies and it's very, you know what I mean? It didn't seem like it was that expensive to make those things. Oh, those weren't expensive, no. But I definitely had a lot of these materials just sitting around from like previous projects that I didn't use. So a lot of that was was, I think I, when I used, I used plywood. I think a sheet of plywood A2 by 4, like just a cut of a 2 by 4. And then what else? What else did I make? I mean, the prison spinner. There was a prison spinner. Air cannon thing. And which actually, so I blew out the dust. Was it sand? Like color pink color powder or something? Yeah, like I think people have seen those kind of videos online. We're just, oh, yeah. And then I casted this, like I shattered a bunch of glass and put instead of a PVC tube and then and casted this resin crystal thingy. Yeah. That wasn't bad expense. But it's just like super creative. Oh, and it's just the idea behind it is that some people, you know what I mean? These are cool little tricks that especially when you're on a budget can be very helpful to manipulate the frame. Oh, definitely. Yeah. I think I feel, I feel like as creatives, photographers, filmmakers, whatever. I almost want to promote this kind of, not necessarily to the extreme fabrication stuff that I'm doing, but just DIY mindset in general, because I think that it's kind of getting lost in the consumerism. A lot of people are like trying to buy new things, lenses, cameras, whatever. It's all about the new tech coming out. All the way. I love technology. I'm such a huge advocate of new tech and utilizing it for creative needs. I do think that this whole do it yourself. You know what? I'm going to make it happen no matter what kind of mindset is really important for people who are sort of in photography or filmmaking or content creation, because ultimately it's like we talked about before there might be a weedwacker or some kind of wind or some sort of insane environmental hazard or something that happens. And then you kind of have to innovate your way out of it. It's like Steve Jobs said. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, look, I'm lighting this right now with a paper lantern. Oh, that's 30 dollars on Amazon. And it produces like, you can compare it to a thousand dollar light and say, well, yeah, the thousand dollar light. It definitely doesn't have a greenish tint to it. And maybe it's a little bit softer. And but like at the end of the day, they're two different things. And the fact that you can get even close with the $30 light to a thousand dollar light is massive. And I think it's something that you can't forget when you've gotten to a certain point. Because if you're creative and then all of a sudden now, you're working on these really high budget projects and maybe you're trying to help young people. It's not always helpful. You know, it's helpful to keep in mind that there is a way to make this happen for much less. And that's, you're right though with the consumerism, is that people are you see it, like every time a new camera comes out, everybody has to do a review on it, everybody has to get their hands on it. And you know, the A73 came out and everybody's getting rid of their A7R2s and A7S2s because it's got a better XYZ. And I was like, you know, my cameras that I have now, like these are just fine. I got them a year, a year and a half ago. And they still work, just as fine for the purposes that I need them. And maybe there will come a time when I've worn the camera down enough or I'm ready to sell it and the new features make the difference. Yeah. But you have to be very thoughtful about the new features. And is it really making the difference at the end of the day? Oh, I have a good story. So, do you know, do you know that camera brand? Oh, I don't want to exaggeration say it. Yeah, let's say, you know, X camera brand. It's a, it's a, it's a big medium format camera brand. Yeah. And there's only like two. So it's got to be one of the other. But I'm not going to say which one. In 2014 or 13, I had a shoot that I was doing with silver body paint and the whole idea that it had, it was very avant-garde. This wasn't for a client. It was for like a portfolio kind of personal shoot at three models or dancers. And then the idea was to paint them silver, like have silver chrome body paint. And then I was, I made these three props like just shapes. And they were also painted silver. And so they were kind of interacting with their shapes and sort of mimicking those, their shapes during the shoot. And Profoto actually, one of the reps, he sponsored me lights for that project. And so I did, I think maybe that shoot in another one. And on the second shoots, or maybe he was that one actually. The, the camera that I had, I think it was like an older cannon, like one DS Mark II or one DS Mark III or something. One of the first, you know, four frame digital cameras for cannon. It wasn't working with a Profoto trigger for some strange reason. Like it kept, it wasn't triggering right? Can you, can you for, for the layman's out there? Yeah, and also for me, because I'm not big enough photography. Oh, well, well, one, can you explain what a medium format camera is? It's just, imagine, imagine the cameras that you use now, like a DSLR, but way more hefty, a lot bigger. There's, there's sensors, like that big. Massive sensor. Giant sensor. So the depth of field that you get from those, those cameras is, is so shallow. So the point where it, it, it, it's just insane. You know, you move a hair and then everything is so blurry. But in a good way, because you have such massive depth from that sensor and so much color information, so much information in the shadows and the highlights that you can bring back anything if you want. So the size of the sensor has something to do with the depth of field. I didn't know that. I thought it was just based on the F stop. F stop contributes to it. F stop allows more light to get in there. And also, yeah, it contributes to the depth of field that you get, whether it be shallow or, you know, a lot more deep, I guess. But, you know, there's, there's larger format, you know, I'm not a film guy, but the larger format, like, film camera's way back when. It was a similar deal. That's why a lot of them have, like, really, really precise, you know, manufactured bellow ways and everything so that you can crank it. And so when it gets through certain point, then they stop. And there was a lot more meticulous back then. But then with medium format cameras, because the sensor's so big, yeah, it does contribute a lot to the depth of field. That's interesting. I didn't know that. Okay. And then you also said there is the, the clicker thing. What was the, with the Canon camera? Okay. Their trigger to make the flashes go off. Wasn't working on my camera, uh, which was like an older Canon back then. So because of that, I was like, holy crap, I got to pull out my very, very, very first DSLR, my Canon T when I, which came out like 2009 or 2008. It was a super old rebel camera. It really, tiny thing. And for some reason, it was working on there. I just did the whole sheet with that little tiny Canon rebel, like one of the first two Canon rebels ever. And I think probably now you can buy one for like a hundred bucks or two hundred bucks or something like that. It's super cheap. Then a few months down the line, one of the medium format companies because they weren't involved up to this point. Later on, one of the medium format camera companies are rep called me. And he said, um, hey Daniel, this is someone so from, you know, this company. And I really love your website. You know, what can't, what, what medium format we're using for that shot on your website because it, it became the photo from that should became the, uh, like the header image. Um, and it said, medium format, I don't use medium format. I said, I would love one, but I don't have one. And he said, oh, I thought you're shooting medium format. I mean, that image looks amazing on, on that front page. I said, dude, that's a Canon rebel T one eye. I was just thinking, it's got to be fired. But besides that, I was just, I was just, it hit me that even somebody who is a representative of this giant sort of, oh man, this insanely prestigious, uh, camera company, he thought I was using like a medium format camera because I maybe the lighting techniques or like just the, the way they're posing or it made it look kind of, um, high quality or add, I have no idea. But, uh, that was one of the points that made me think that gear isn't that important. It's important, but only to a point. And so everything beyond that, um, like the DIY, the props that we made, the silver body paint, the content that we put into that video was really what made him gravitate towards calling me. It wasn't necessarily the quality of the image, um, or like the, the, the, the, the file, it was the quality of like the content inside of it. We, you have the, the one thing is somebody who's at professional in the space, and now he may not be a photographer, but he's somebody who looks at these photos all day. Sure. Sure. He knows, um, he knows quality when he sees it period. He may not be able to pick out the camera, just as a wine connoisseur may not be able to tell like, you know, this $1,000 wine bottle versus a $20 bottle, uh, which is really interesting. But then, he is somebody who's kind of like an expert in this space, but the people that we're creating for oftentimes aren't the photographers or the filmmakers. It's, you know, if I'm going to make a movie, like a 15 minute documentary, unless it's about film and the filmmaking process, it's going to be for people who don't have that same, uh, totally. So what can you actually get away with? And I think you can get away with a lot more than you think. You know, uh, I think I made a video about that point, uh, while back, it was, I called it the photographer's paradox. Just, I don't know, just for fun. And, uh, that was actually the same point was that other photographers and filmmakers, content creators, whatever. They're not paying our bills. It's, it's the clients that we shoot for. It's, it's a lot of times the normal consumers, because either shooting B2B, like business to business or B2C, business to consumer. And, um, I've had so many creative directors, art directors, whatever, who, who they're like, I don't really care about what light you use. I just want to have a good photo. You know, they're not really concerned with if you use brown color or, you know, a pro photo or, you know, uh, or a meeting format camera or something. Um, here's what it's, and yeah, I mean, there's lights are amazing, but again, relative to the quality that the client wants. What I will say though, yeah, it depends on your relationship with the client, but a lot of times, if you are moving into the higher end space, I wouldn't bring a paper like I wouldn't bring a, a paper land. Oh, yeah, definitely. To a professionally page shoot to a corporate shoot. I've only done it one time, and it's because, uh, we had to take these tiny cargo planes, and it was like really bootstrapped, and it was like under that expectation that hey, we can't fit a massive light kit here. So we're going to bring this one. Yeah. But for, you know, if it's professional shoot, if it's client paid, if it's higher end. So there, there is something to say about looking professional and having the gear. The thing though is that most most people, if you go into a corporate shoot, uh, unless like they, they really have been on a hundred shoots before, but a lot of times I might be working with a startup company that it's their first time hiring video, like we don't even know what the charge. And you have to like figure out, you know, is it worth it to run out the red camera on that when they won't know the difference between a C200? Yeah, and you could get just this good quality. Um, I don't want to say just as good, but to the point that nobody would notice the difference, they would find it would not notice the difference. Yeah. And I think that the tolerance for that is getting a lot, a lot broader, um, nowadays because, you know, attention spans are decreasing significantly. I mean, even, I myself, I can't find myself on Instagram scrolling through without just completely swiping over maybe 30 photos. You know, and I think if this were 10 years ago, and I had access to all these images in the palm of my hand, I would have been cherishing them like crazy, just analyzing every detail on those images. It's not just me, per se, but I think a lot of people like the next generation millennial, gen X, whatever. They definitely are being conditioned to kind of not necessarily look at all the details that we might have when we first started, you know, so I think that, you know, maybe they're not your clients, but I think that that tolerance is definitely getting a lot more flexible. Is there, is there less of an appreciation? I think so. The crafts, I guess, the photography and filmmaking, because it's so prevalent, because you open up your phone. Yeah. I think there's also more access, like you have access to, you could, if you wanted to follow the top 100, not that, I mean, it's an impossible thing to quantify, but you could find 100 amazing photographers who are world-class, follow them, and that's in your newsfeed every day. You almost become desensitized to it when you see so much beauty. That's a good word. Yeah. You know? Yeah. I think that's an appropriate way to describe it, because it's, I mean, it's like with anything, if somebody, you know, say you really love candy. And there was a guy in the court of your street who was handing off free candy every single week, every Sunday, 9 a.m. And you go there for the first two weeks, you're like, oh, free candy, amazing. And by like the third month, you're kind of thinking, okay, no more, please. I kind of have my fill, you know, of too much access to it, I kind of want to break actually from having so much sugar and candy. So similarly with content creation and, you know, whether it be YouTube videos or Instagram posts or whatever, I think that definitely people are becoming a bit desensitized to the content that's out there, and also the access, the idea of having access to these things. Yeah. I think probably the biggest detriment to our well being, though, would probably be the comparison. It's because for one word of sensitized to it, a little bit, or at least, but mainly you're looking at it, I mean, like damn, like that photo is amazing. Oh, yeah. And you see photos from all over the world, all these amazing locations with the best lighting and the most, you know, medium format, beautiful cameras, and you compare yourself to every one of those photos. You compare yourself to the best versions of everybody else, and it can, I think, hurt your well-being to where this is a new thing, you know, we're talking about, I think quite a lot these days. It's the role of social media, and I don't know, it's in our life, but I think we need to talk about it. And we need to really think about our relationship with it. And that's where I have been experimenting with like social media, detoxes, and just taking a break from social media, or just say, okay, 30 days. I'm not going to go on social media for 30 days. Let me see how I'm going to feel, how is that going to change my behavior and my overall well-being? And you notice in the first couple of days that you just start, you pull up your phone, and then, or I'll go to my computer, and I'll like, you know, open up the browser and just start typing in Twitter. So TWIT and I'm like, oh shit, I think I'm going Twitter. And but then if you think about conscious behavior like that, and you go down that rabbit hole, where does that lead me? It leads me to browsing the internet, seeing other creators, seeing other people, making stuff, seeing other people who are, you know, saying really funny things, which there's a place for that, right? There's inspiration that can be found in that. Right. But I don't think it helps you be a better creator, or a filmmaker, or a photographer. Yeah, it kind of depends on a person's personality type and character type. In my opinion, I've been taking a break, like you just said, from Instagram and and I feel great. You know, I, I think I went, I started maybe two weeks ago, three weeks ago. And by the third day, I was like, oh, I didn't die. You know, my phone just because I'm not opening it isn't going to kill me. And it's nice to have that reminder every once in a while because I don't think that, I think Instagram and all this access to the content is amazing for people who constantly crave inspiration and they're not concerned with other people's lives. They're kind of concerned about just getting the inspiration they need and then taking off and then making something. But I think Instagram can be a little bit bad. It can be kind of bad for people who are neurotic. Think a lot, have a lot of anxiety, slightly depressed. I'm definitely neurotic. I think a lot. So if I see all these posts and everything, it'll kind of trigger like a certain thought process or memory or something. I don't know, and comparisons, too. And I'm like, yeah, kind of just want to get off of Instagram. And so I'm not too involved. I try to post it and just kind of get off of it. But definitely like you're saying, it can sort of be kind of bad for people who maybe think a lot too. I think that I'm so glad that you said that because sometimes I get into this phase of over generalizing things because if I even look at my partner Natalie, she doesn't have this, she's like, I don't have that same kind of thing with social media. Where I like, and it's crazy because I will look at her feed. I don't know if you've ever done this. I just scroll through somebody else's feed. It's like an alien planet. You're like, who are these people? And she's just falling all these celebrities and all these makeup brands and clothing brands. And she's definitely not a minimalist at all. And I'm like, do you feel yourself like comparing yourself to these people and feeling like bad when you look at it? She's like, no, I enjoy looking through looking at this stuff. And she doesn't, you know, for whatever reason, she's just wired a little bit differently. Yeah. Where for me, I feel like it starts to nag at me a little bit more. Even in a, it's not even subconscious. I see the thoughts popping in my head. Sometimes, audibly, you'll say something like, oh, it's person. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, always posing naked. Yeah, I, so I took a break for a while from Instagram for the past, you know, month or something a few weeks. And then, then maybe a couple of times a day, I'll just open it to see like the first post and then get off. Just because I know subconsciously I'll go on Instagram, but then I try to talk myself out of it. And then I think it was probably yesterday. I went on Instagram, I was like, whatever, I'm kind of bored. Click, I want to Instagram. First picture that showed up on the main feed was like, this guy who was naked and his thigh was covering his crotch. And I'm like, never mind. I got off Instagram. All right, but I'm totally that guy. I think I think that it's like we're saying people are wired differently. Sometimes, I just can't relate. You know, it's like, oh, I love all the inspiration. It's so amazing. And I never, I never compare myself to other people. And I'm thinking, I envy you because I feel like I do that a little bit too much. And questions, is your girlfriend, is she creative like you? She has gotten more, her, her skill set has gotten more creative recently. So she's in strategy. So she'll kind of figure out how to, you got a TV show or a movie. It's like, how do we position this in the market? Oh, so she's strategist. So she's, she's probably a bit more left-brained. Like, she's very, against strategic. She's probably solving something. Yeah, they've solved her. Probably very good with, not just innovating problems, but then staying focused and linear thinking, I guess, whereas hyper, hyper creative people, like maybe yourself and I get very neurotic because we're always thinking about ideas and what other people are up to and how we can cross-reference that with what we're doing. And so I think that that's a big reason why I think a lot in what have anxiety with Instagram. It's because I'm hyper creative. Can't turn it off. I can't control it. There's a part of it that needs to be tamed and controlled and quieted through meditation or long locks or going to the gym. Yeah. And then there's a part of it where it almost can act as fuel. Because I don't think if I had that kind of nagging feeling, the the desire to create and to get moving, I feel like then maybe I wouldn't make any. You know what I mean? Like, maybe that's the kick in the ass. And even when you're first starting out and you have no money and you feel like overwhelmed because you're so far from where you want to be, that kind of drive, even though it's from a lack of having, I think pushes you forward to achieve and to get where you want to go. I personally always felt like motivation is born from fire and inspiration is born from a place of tears and maybe anxiety or depression or neurosis like you're saying, a place where you kind of feel like you want to get things done and you feel overwhelmed with all this stimuli that you eventually just do it, you know. And so I guess for me, it's actually really hard for me to find inspiration. It's really hard. I don't know why, but when I, it's definitely not an Instagram. So I have to go to the beach or like have a conversation with somebody. A lot of times that's where I'll find the inspiration. It's from like hearing a story, you know, and then it's like a step before like the inspiration will come from something that they've been through. And then I'm like, oh, I have this cool idea for video, you know. But just saying all the stimuli, all of like the positive PR for the people, again, it kind of comes down to comparing yourself to other people, which I hate doing that, you know. Yeah, it actually did remind me of something that the rock said in one of these inspirational YouTube clips. And actually now, now that I mentioned the rock, you would have them on the podcast, right? Yeah, I'd have you saw that, but I have to play the jingle. Yeah, he's cool. I didn't have a cue, but I have a jingle here. Is it like a rock song? Yeah, it's actually a jingle that one of my listeners made. Hey, the rock, don't be impolite, if Matt's invite to do the ground up, show. And that's Sam too. Sam's here made that jingle. He won the get the rock, get the rock on Matt's podcast, jingle competition. So I had a competition in a lot of people submitted and Sam's here won. So basically anytime I mentioned the rock on the podcast, I have to bring that up. That was one of the first times that I've done it. But to the rock, he said that he was given like this talk to, I think, Alfred, whatever, it was like a young group of football players or whatever. And he was like, whenever I go into the, you know, first day of filming or a big meeting or anything, because like, even though he's the rock, he still is in places where he is overwhelmed and timidated a little bit, hesitant and unsure of himself. Oh, and he says he pictures himself when he was just starting out, when he had seven dollars to his name, when he had nothing. And the kind of drive, and he pulls from those same kind of emotions. Yeah, called with a neural linguistic programming. Whatever it is, it's imagining yourself back at that place, putting yourself in those shoes. And then it helps to drive and fire you up. And I think that's kind of part of the reason, like to make the podcast too, like we were talking about before the show, is that to never forget where you came from and to always remember that. So good, fires you up, man. It makes you excited for it. And it's the saddest thing to see people who have, quote, unquote, made it have gotten to this certain point. And then they forget about everybody. They forget about where they came from. They're in their high castle. And they're no longer connected to the rest of the way. It would be incredible, though, if you had, I was just thinking this whole time, I was kind of dozing off imagining the rock sitting right here. Dude, I think I think of that quite often. If you crazy. I don't know. I mean, it's funny because as far as I get into this, the further I get, the better it is, because I think it just sounds better that I've been trying to get the rock on my podcast for 10 years. 10 years. I don't know though. People keep saying it's going to happen. And it's at least a goal to shoot for, you know what I mean? Yeah. I mean, you're at least on his radar. So I'm wondering if he's just trying to, if he's just not trying to put it out, there in case he gets too busy to do it, you know, last second. Because I'm sure he's doing a million things in one day. But I have a feeling he's probably thought about it. Yeah. There's a website for it. Yeah. I've got a rap battle going on now with Lewis House. Lewis House is, you know, Lewis House? No, I don't. Okay. He's a very big prominent podcaster. But I'm imagining you're rapping. Yeah. And I was on an actual rap battle, but you know how rappers have beef with each other? Yeah. Yeah. It's quite distracts. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Although he's like, he's not playing the game. I'm like this in him. I'm not really missing him. But we like, he tweeted out like, who wants to see the rock on my podcast? Because he's trying to get the rock on his podcast. Oh man. So now it's, it's on. Now I feel like the pressure is on. When you got the website. Yeah. Now I think I'm ahead. Do do you have any crazy ambitious ideas like a rock type vision where it's like, oh, I really want to, I mean, it may not be specific, but it may be who I would really love to create this or make this in the future. Well, one thing I have always wanted to do, again, this is kind of pertaining to sort of the, the theme of my YouTube channel, which is building camera rigs and everything I guess for, for what I'm doing. I would love to engineer and manufacture in my garage a success robot arm, just like we're because those things are just a huge thing. Like a big undertaking. I would love to probably start a new business in the next year or two. From your perspective of being inside the kind of creator, fabrication kind of world. Yeah. Does it seem like you could create an innovative new product? Something that would be really kind of cool and clever that would be useful for filmmakers or because from my perspective, I would never even be able to conjure up that idea, but it seems like you're tinkering with these cool concepts that could potentially come to the market and be valuable. Are there any ideas like that that you think that you could see where you could create something? So in the timeline of when I went from, you know, the whole almost dying accident thing to becoming a photographer and then secretly getting to building stuff, I didn't really get serious about it until maybe three or four years ago and then so when I moved to my apartment, me and the school broke up and then I bought a 3D printer and I had an idea for a product that I wanted to make and I had one for the photography industry, one for a different industry, it was actually like fitness stuff, but I didn't really like where either of them was going. So and then I just kept making stuff and so when I made videos about them, it kind of ends up turning into this thing on YouTube where it's like, I fell in love with the process of making things. Whereas before it wasn't that serious, but it was just something I was doing for fun. Are you very goal oriented? Like, do goals drive you to say, I want to accomplish this or do are you more the type that let's the kind of inspiration guide them in the moment? Um, I do the, I do the ladder in individual projects. So when I'm making a video or something, I'll kind of let it flow and take its course, it's natural course, like I'll storyboard it, but then transitions like the word you voiceovers, how I edit things, I'll kind of just let that free flow. But I am very goal oriented. So when I first started trying to be a photographer full time, that was like my dream. That was like the biggest thing I wanted to do. I didn't care how much money I made or where I lived or what or what it took. I just wanted to do that. And so again, I just did whatever took. I worked. I worked, you know, my way up from being, not saying you have to work your way up, but I started being, you know, an assistant photographer and a retoucher to being like production artists to shooting inside that same company, inside their studio here and there. And then I built a portfolio of images I was shooting for myself outside of work. And then yeah, and then I moved to LA and then I just kept doing more of that and then getting more work so it's an amazing how impossible it feels in the beginning. Like it really does when you're getting started out, you're like, if I could just make a living doing it. Realistically, there are so many people that make a living doing photography or filmmaking that it's way more possible than you think. And I think the hardest thing is just figuring out first steps. It's just figuring out how to, when you have no opportunities very early on, you have to kind of create them. And I think that's what you did with even just picking up a camera. I mean, that's always one thing you can do is actually just start the craft no matter if you are going in your backyard and taking photos or if you're, you know, working with other people and trying to find talent and models and make it that way. But then it's also about finding the opportunities, about finding the job posting, you know, whether it's something at your school or working with a professional photographer. You almost have to be a bit of an opportunist and be willing to sacrifice a lot of the things that you care about. Just to make that one thing happen. And you know, the way I measure things like love is how much sacrifices you're making. You know, so if you love something that much, you would have probably made more sacrifices to make it work out. And if, you know, if I hear about a person who like move to different country and they they quit their job from their old country and then they're working at, you know, restaurants and they're shooting every single weekend, et cetera, et cetera. I know that that person probably cares a lot about what they're doing. And I want to say that I was kind of a version of that when I was pursuing photography. I would I would work at 9 to 5, then I would get home and then it works some more until 2 a.m. And then it's leap and then get four as a sleep. Four hours of sleep wake up at 6 a.m. go back to 9 to 5, which is an hour to have drive away hour drive away. Um, and yeah, that was just my life for like six months. I remember at one point four hours of sleep every single night. It was pretty bad. Is it true that you have to sacrifice more in the beginning that in the beginning, you might it may be a bit more of a grind. Yeah. Um, because once you've established yourself, right? Because in those times, you're, you're not making a really a livable wage, right? You're not making a few bucks an hour and you're just trying to get by. And the only spare time you have, if you really want to make it as a creative, you need to devote to that craft. Um, so there are a lot of sacrifices early on. And you can't get around it. And I think it's just kind of very fluff to say that you can just follow your inspiration and you know, you can have a balanced life at the very beginning. Definitely not. I, I, I believe that in the very beginning, the sacrifices are more severe. And the balancing is going to be way more tipped over because you're, you're doing one thing. And you're starting from the very, like, maybe that one thing, maybe it's a day job or something you're right here. And the thing you're trying to start is all the way down here. So you, making that jump is like jumping off a super tall ass ladder, you know? And then you're hoping that your legs don't break. And um, and that sacrifice is kind of huge in the very beginning because that transitions gigantic. But I guess as you develop the high paying skills, that ratio even's a little bit more. So if you wanted to go back to a day job, you could. And if you want to quit that day job, you still have those high paying skills that you developed after you were to meet that first jump in the very beginning. The sacrifices don't go away though. But they don't. They're always going to have to sacrifice something because you can't do everything. There's always going to be sacrifices. But I think somebody who's kind of new in like filmmaking or photography or something who has kind of no skills yet, they got to make a huge sacrifice time-wise too. And it also money-wise because maybe they don't have a camera themselves, you know, or like any lenses or maybe they want to have a be a filmmaker, but they don't have a tripod yet. So it's a lot of financial and also time sacrifices that go into just development, you know? Are there things today, right? Now that you've, you're a full-time photographer, you have a bit more balance in your life, are there certain things that you will not sacrifice? Like, what is so important to you that it's not worth putting off for work? Well, I won't sacrifice family. That's like a huge thing because they've always been around since the very beginning. Family never believes and you're in the very beginning. They always kind of call you when your bullshit like, huh, good one, Daniel. You want to be a photographer? Yeah, try harder. And I mean, they didn't say that to me. But I always say that. I always say for every motivation you know, you're just sibling rolling their eyes. Definitely, yeah, yeah. And so, you know, at the very beginning, it's kind of hard just to get them more out behind you because the family, you can't really expect them. You can't be entitled to their belief in you because you have to prove yourself. It's like Shark Tank in a way, or like getting an investor. So you kind of develop your skills, develop your portfolio, or like work history, or something, and show them that you have something for them to believe in. So I won't give up family though because as I developed, they started pushing me even more and more and then showing more support, like visiting me, all that stuff. Won't give up that. Yeah, and for those for those that may not have even close family. Yeah, family doesn't have to be blood. You can also have close friends, intimate partners, that are your family. I wouldn't sacrifice, I guess, my ethics just to, I guess, get any attention I could. You know, like I know that in the creative fields, a lot of is about who you know, what you've done, kind of like the sauce behind what you're doing. But I just feel like I couldn't give up sort of my ethics that I was I was brought up with to put out some crazy click-bitty thing that's, I don't know, it generates a lot of views, but it doesn't feel good to make, you know, I want to make something with depth. So I don't want to give up the craftsmanship behind what I do. There's this common title that I see in videos. It's actually with filmmakers. It is you need this, like you need this one thing. Every photographer needs this, and it is so clickable. So many people, oh, I know, what do I need? But it really cuts to the most cliché, advertising strategy, which just create desire, makes somebody feel like they need something, and then you open it up, and it's like 70 to 200 millimeter lens, and you're like, like, I don't need that, like you don't even know what I'm doing, right? And I think that there is it's one thing to get excited about new products, and I do as well, and like it's really fun to play with new lenses and, you know, new sliders, whatever. It's great to get excited about it, and it's also great to share the things that you've gotten value with. But I think that there is a language that's important, and I think, like you said, it's important not to make sensational clickbait titles and posts that are strictly drawn just to drive traffic and not build a deeper connection. And, you know, people might not care, but it doesn't matter, because it's really about what you feel. You know what I mean? It really matters on your ethics and your principles. Yeah, there's definitely two halves to that, because I don't want to say most companies, but Dan Locke, this really amazing business kind of marketing guy, he's amazing. He said it a really good way. He said that people don't buy for logic, people use logic to rationalize their emotional purchases. So people purchase something because it makes them feel good. You know, and when people say you need this lens, they're making money off of your inadequacies, because it's making you feel like, oh, if I don't have this, I'm not a good photographer. You know, and that's what we're talking about, kind of, like, the consumers and spiraling out of control, because a lot of people are making clickbaity things like that to make you feel inadequate if you don't get it. And then the other half is people like being addicted to things. I have some people I know who have just this unfathomable amount of photography and video gear. It's ridiculous. Like you open their closet, probably like five sea stands drop in your face or something, or like 20 lens is just like roll that up, another lens, sorry about that. But I have some friends who have so much gear and they only apply about 20% of it. And I don't bother trying to talk them out of buying stuff, because I know they like the addiction they get from buying things. It's dopamine, you know, if you think about clicking the purchase button, they feel really amazing. It feels like a problem solved. It feels like golden to finally, I got, yep, golden to get, I got that one thing. Yeah. And now all my problems are solved. Everything's going to be easy. Yeah. And we all do this all fall into it. And I don't want people to think that I'm any different than anybody else because like, I'm not different. Yeah. I'll be like, you know, I've been running around vlogging with a as ice 25 millimeter lens. And it's like for it, it's pretty tight when I'm vlogging and I'm holding the camera to myself. A 25 millimeter. And I was like, oh man, I really need that 16 to 35 millimeter lens. Yeah. And then I end up getting it. Because I like, in the end, it won me out where I was like, oh, it's going to help me. And then I'll just have this one lens. And I think it is about just being very, it's about being very thoughtful about the things that you bring into your life, whether it's a lens, a camera, or clothing. Yeah. Because a lot of people have that same kind of mentality, the 80, 20 principle when it comes to clothes. You look in your closet, you only use 20% of your clothes. So why even have the other 80%. It's ridiculous. I'm trying to be more like you. I'm trying to be minimalist more like you because I, I fall into this trap sometimes where it feels almost overwhelming having all these things that, you know, it's like, what if I want to move one day or what if I want to take off and go on a road trip and have all the stuff to organize, you know. And so what I've been trying to do is I have this, this really cool old school kind of brass balancing scale. And whenever I buy something, I just put some, you know, some stuff on there to weigh it down. And I have to walk by that every single day. And it's off balance like this. And when I buy something new, I have to sacrifice something else third away, sell it, put on Craigslist, something to balance out my life. So that I know that there is a given take. There's almost, there's a sacrifice I have to make to get something new. And I mean, it works because I want to see that I'm like, that bothers me, having a scale that she's like tipped over like that all the time and you walk by it. It's amazing that you have an actual physical representation of the balance in your life. I think you are like mate. That sounds like none of us are perfect. And the idea is that we have to be constantly mindful and thoughtful about these things. And, you know, we make mistakes. And sometimes we get a little bit out of balance. Yeah. And it's our job to make sure that we can recalibrate. Yeah, I mean, there's nothing wrong with buying stuff as long as you're kind of aware. And also, I think that if you buy something that is solving a problem that's hindering your productivity, then you can buy it. Like you're saying, you can't physically hold your camera here without it being like, yeah. So you have to get a wider lens. It's just inevitable. You're going to need one eventually because otherwise you need a two-foot long selfie stick. Yeah. Which no one uses. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I think that that is an important thing to mention is that if it's going to solve a problem, if it's going to help your life a little bit, if it's going to reduce some friction. Right. Then yeah, buy it. But not every single product you buy is solving a problem. And it's your job to be honest with yourself. If if that's what you want to do, you know, which is very hard to be honest with yourself sometimes. Sorry to cut you off. I, with the people who are kind of addicted to gear. And again, this is an uncomfortable topic. Now, do people are talking about this. But I think that people who are addicted to gear, again, they like being addicted to gear. It's like people who gamble. They will do anything in their power to rationalize gambling. Well, I won last week. I won the three weeks before that. I'm going to win this time again. The probability of me winning is going to happen. And so when people are, when people become so good at rationalizing or being addicted to something, they get better at length in themselves. So if they're, if they're not listening to themselves, you can't possibly talk them out of it. You know? So self-awareness is such a huge thing. Yeah. I think I honestly think that as cliche as it is, meditation can really help, or just the act of being able to sit still or do simple tasks like read a book. Right. You know, find some hobbies. And I think you have to keep your mind distracted and at bay because we're preset to be just hungry. To fill this void to gamble. Like it, it, a lot of us have a very addictive nature. And right, it may not be everybody, but certain, many of us in our culture are predisposed to want to consume more and more. And absolutely creative people too. Because like I mentioned earlier, I believe that creative people are on the spectrum of people who have more access to their emotions. They, they like expressing themselves when they look at art, they're like, I feel how that is representative of the gentrification in San Francisco. It's just like, that's just a dog taking your shit, you know, like, but, but, sorry. But yeah, I, I think that creative tend to have more access to their emotions. Even my brother and I, we are complete opposites. And when we're talking about stuff like emotions, he doesn't necessarily, I guess, we don't have a great interaction with that. But if I talk to him about something like a problem, maybe to solve or something algorithmic or computer-related or philosophically, we definitely drive with that. If you were to give advice to creatives, people who are just getting started out, what would you tell them? Creativity is all about perspective. So, I think there's a saying that you take two things who aren't normally in the same room together. You put them together, all of a sudden, it's a creative new thing. So, creativity is relative to kind of the perspective you have. And, you know, me building camera rigs or manufacturing something at home for my camera, the only reason people see that is creative. I don't see this creative. I see it as something I got from engineering or, like, from craftsmanship or, like, metalworking or something like that. So, um, again, it's a relative thing. If you want to stick out and be seen as creative, try combining what you're doing with, with, like, a secret obsession of yours. And you'll probably stand out a little bit. Daniel, thank you so much for coming on the podcast, too. Thank you for the very thoughtful conversation. If we want to send people to your work, where should we send them? So, youtube.com slash, Daniel Diarco, Instagram, Daniel Diarco is my handle, just my first name last name. There's also my website, DanielDarco.com, but I definitely want to branch off more into, like, the creative build projects for my camera. I love that. Yeah. Cool, man. Thanks for your in the show. Thank you for having me. Thanks for listening to The Ground Up Show. If you're getting some value from the podcast, you can support the show on Patreon. Every month, I create exclusive videos exploring lifestyle design, minimalism, creativity, and business. These vlogs and AMA podcast episodes, which can be found nowhere else, give a rarely seen look into my work and personal life. I'll support the show for the cost of a cup of coffee a week and get access to all this content at patreon.com slash mat deavella. Again, that's patreon.com slash mat deavella. Thanks for listening and I'll see you next week.
