# The Myth of Success // Ground Up 063
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hHzNhPdEA1I
Amber's book:  https://choosewonder.com

Amber Rae is an author, blogger & coach. On this episode of The Ground Up Show we discuss everything that's wrong with our view of success, what stops people from starting & how to finish your next project.

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** amber rae, choose wonder over worry, choose wonder, wonder, self-help, coach, life coach, amber, seth godin, domino project, create, creator, get started, ground up, make, matt davella, matt d'avella, podcast, podcasting, start, the ground up show, declutter, lifestyle, lifestyle design, minimalism, minimalist, simple living, simplicity, 
**Date:** 2018-06-06

## Transcript
 I actually didn't really know what success was. I just knew society's definition of success, which is sort of the more better faster get ahead, make great money, and have a great lifestyle, and get the house, and have the kids, and get married, and that whole checkbox sort of life. But that led to this breakdown moment in this panic attack where I realized, like, whoa, this definition of success is actually not serving me. That's Amber Ray, author, blogger, and creative person. On this episode of The Ground Up Show, we talk about success, specifically the stock version of success that we are usually sold, and why it's complete bullshit. We also talk about what stops people from starting, as well as what prevents people from finishing their creative pursuits. It's a very good podcast, and I am excited to share it with you before we get to it. If you want to support the show, there's a couple ways that you can help leave a review on iTunes. It takes just a couple moments, and it helps out a lot. Thank you to everybody who's done it so far. You can also share an episode with a friend, create an Instagram DM. I love seeing you guys sharing your screenshots of the episode you're listening to, as well as some of the value you're getting out of it. Please, please continue to do that, continue to share your thoughts with me. I love hearing where you're getting the most value from on this show. All right, let's get to the podcast. This is Amber Ray. You're listening to The Ground Up Show, a podcast that inspires creatives to make meaningful content and pursue their passions. My name is Matthew Evela, and I'm a filmmaker best known for the Netflix documentary minimalism. And I'm sitting down with creators to talk about their process, the lessons they've learned, and how to make an impact. Amber, thank you so much for coming on the podcast. Of course. Thanks for having me. You're in the middle of a pretty big spring right now. You just finished your first book. You're doing tons and tons of interviews. How are you feeling right now? How's your energy? How's life at this point? My energy is pretty off the charts, but it's a little up and down. It's interesting because I feel like my prime in terms of the book journey and process is writing it. And then promoting it, evangelizing it, talking about it, media interviews, I come alive in this space, and it requires a lot of energy and exertion. And so I think I underestimated the amount of rest to recovery time. That's needed. And so it's like, I have an event and I'm like exploding with energy. And then I'm like, whoa, I need to have a cool down. Yeah, it's hard to make that balance. And I think sometimes in life, you have to just keep yourself in check where, where especially I'm sure like even writing the book or making a documentary, whatever it is, you're putting so much energy into it, and you're just like, especially towards the end, we create, you have to create some kind of deadline. The book's gotta be done at some point. So eventually you exhaust yourself and you're like, all right, at least for me, I'm like, how can I not just wear myself down to the bone on this next project? Totally. And I want to start out this conversation just with talking about the idea of success. Mm-hmm. And how you used to view success. Like, what did it look like? You're starting out your career early on. Mm-hmm. I don't know you have a lot of like crazy entrepreneurial ventures as that even a kid, which we'll get into. But what did success look like at that very early stage for you when you're just setting off into the quote-unquote real world? Yeah, success to me was getting ahead, you know, climbing the ladder, having financial stability, having a great job that other people deemed as prestigious. I felt like I actually didn't really know what success was. I just knew society's definition of success, which is sort of the more better faster get ahead and, you know, make great money and have a great lifestyle and get the house and have the kids and get married and that whole checkbox sort of life. And it was a moment in my early 20s where I had a breakdown moment as I was, if you would have met me a decade ago, I was like, like, climbing the ranks and Silicon Valley and being recruited by big companies in that area. And I had a breakdown moment because I was popping out of all to get more done and to be, you know, out of all was like great performance drug as well as like stay thin and like look the part because I want everyone to like me and improve with me and I had this story that if I was thin, I would be loved. And, you know, I was really being driven by all these notions of I think what it looks like to be successful and also as a woman in tech, which was a male-dominated industry, I had this desire to prove myself. And so I was hustling for approval and making these moves to really show like, hey, look at me, I'm successful. But that led to this, this breakdown moment in this panic attack where I realized like, whoa, this definition of success is actually not serving me and why am I being driven in these ways and what might success actually look like or what might it actually feel like? Like, what does success feel like? I think we so attach it to outcomes rather than the process of getting there and how we want to feel in the process. And the reason we have goals is because we ultimately want to feel a certain way. And so that's when I began to really peel back the layers of the definitions, I was telling myself to, you know, create a new one. We're in such a success-driven culture where it seems like achievement and material success and getting the things to prove to other people and also to prove to ourselves that we are something, that we've done something, you know, that we're here for a reason. And that doesn't go away even in a non-traditional world, right? So even in a world where we maybe are pursuing our own blogs, our own books, our own entrepreneurial path, those same ideas of success are still at play. So how do you, how do you drop it? Like, how do you shed away these past ideas to put ourselves on the right course? Yeah, for me it was a shift from getting ahead to coming alive. And so getting ahead was competitive, coming alive was collaborative. Getting ahead was success by all means no matter what get to the end goal. And coming alive was focusing on the process, focusing on the steps I can take each day that really serve the kind of work I want to be doing. And I feel like my old version of success was really doing what I thought I was supposed to do with society wanted and following that really traditional path. And for me being able to explore my entrepreneurial curiosities, my creativity and to ensure that the moves that we're making were enabling me to grow as a human being was how I shifted from the more traditional to the less traditional. So it's, you know, for me it was, as a, you know, as a, I just wrote this book. Of course I want the book to get as many hands as possible. I want the message to reach as many people. But I, it's, I'm doing it from a different place. It almost feels like, it's like this energy I can feel in my body. It feels like a soul, mission, purpose. This is my reason for being space that I'm creating from and not a, I need to hustle and prove my worth space. So when I, I think my old definition of success was really productivity as self worth. And now it's productivity as self expression. I feel like it also opens you up in a way where just looking at the way you are promoting and talking about the book. You can sell a book and it can still come from a place that is kind and giving and has these kind of new ideas of success in terms of our, our old versions of them, which is inspiring because a lot of people, a lot of artists have trouble selling themselves and pitching themselves. And in a lot of, a lot of ways, a lot of cases we see it every day, people are doing it really poorly. And there may be copying others, you know, formulas. And it's just not working for them. Like, how do you, I guess, is where does that place start in terms of actually putting something out in the world selling it, making money for it. But having a come from a place where it's not, you know, just driven to make that success or just sell that extra book. Yeah. So first actually you, something that's sprung by my mind that I want to talk about, which is Tara Sophia Moore, she talked about this concept that I read on 99 you, I think, five or six years ago. And she talked about the three parts of any creator. There's the inner artist, the inner editor and the inner agent. And the reason we self-sabotage our projects or they don't go how we would like them to go is oftentimes because we're bringing the wrong part of ourselves to the table. So the inner artist is that sensitive creator who needs space to create free flow inspiration ideas. And the editor is the part of us that thinks, okay, now who is this for? And how do I edit what the artist has created such that it reaches the intended audience? And then the agent is, okay, how are we going to sell this? How are we going to promote this in a way that represents and embodies the core values of the project and what this whole idea stands for? And so oftentimes, you know, I talked to a lot of creators who do their, you know, they're an artist and they struggle to bring out that agent in them or they're so an agent mode that they've lost touch with the artist. And it's so important to like, if we're meeting, and we're going to an important meeting, it's time to be the agent. If we're getting messy in the creative process and creating the, you know, the outline for the project or just beginning to feel into where we wanted to go, that's where the artist is. If we're an editing, obviously, we want the editor. And so it's knowing who's showing up at what stage of the creative process and which role is really playing the lead? Do we trick ourselves into believing that we are just a certain type of person? We are a right brain. We are a left brain. We are creative or we're not creative. It seems like we actually can be all of those things at the same time. Yeah, and that's something that people say, well, don't you think I should just be the artist and never be the agent? And I mean, a lot of industries actually do work that way. It's like talent, agent, and then you have the editor. I have the literary agent, and I have an editor. That doesn't mean that I'm not thinking strategically about the sales and promotion process. And I'm not thinking who I'm writing for as I'm writing. And so, you know, of course, there's going to be a place where I think we're stronger. We might be stronger at pitching and promoting other people. We may be stronger at the artistic process. Though I think there's always room to learn and grow and to expand those parts of ourselves so that the projects and the things that we spend our energy and time on, we can really bring forth. And I think something also important to remember is that if you're working on a creative project, you probably don't want three artists. You probably want someone who is a dominant artist. Someone who's a dominant editor and someone who's a dominant agent. And that will support and making an balanced project. Right. Where you look at a lot of people who will enter into small startups or whatever, any kind of collaborative project where you have two or three people that do the same exact thing. And it's like, all right, I get it. It's your sibling or whatever. It's a close friend. But if you're really trying to get the most out of it, a lot of times it helps to have people with varying skills. That way, if maybe I'm not as good as communicating how to promote a show and how to get guessed on the show, that's somebody who I can hire to bring on. Is that something you think about when you're bringing on collaborations? And oh, totally. Yeah. Yeah. It's, you know, what value am I bringing, what value can they bring and making sure that that value combines and fits together? Even in the beginning of the book, you're talking about how the book, it's almost was not created. What is it that stops people from starting? For me, it was am I good enough? Am I ready? Does my voice matter? Who the hell am I to write a book? And you know, I had all these critical and her voices that were telling me that the book was not mine to write. And it's funny. I have an example where years ago when I worked with Seth Goden, he presented the opportunity for me to write one of the 12 books that we were publishing. And this goes back to the artist the editor in the agent. And I was, you know, thrilled. This was the opportunity of a lifetime. And he gave me an assignment and I never finished it. And I never finished it because I showed up to get feedback from him as the artist. And so all the feedback he gave me, I took personally and made mean that my writing wasn't good enough. I wasn't good enough and I couldn't do it. Rather than being the agent in that meeting where it's like, okay, this is valuable. There are actually the editor. This is valuable. Here's how I can improve the work. And so for me, the book almost didn't get written because I had all these stories about who I was and what my capabilities were. It's kind of funny because sometimes we look back. You can look back at that experience or you look, look back at old stuff that you've created. And it's so easy to critique it. It's so easy to see flaws in it or see, oh, well, okay, I could have done this better or if you were to like see the feedback somebody had given you at that time. You're like, oh, maybe they were right. But is it just our ego just takes control in those moments where we're so close to this art that it's hard to hear any kind of feedback that might change our minds? Yeah, I think it's a, when we're in the artist mode, particularly, it's, you know, we're so sensitive. And so it is. It is the ego flare us up or our sensitivity flare us up. And we take what we hear as personal versus as feedback is just another person's point of view that they're sharing with us. Sometimes it might improve the work. Sometimes it's just coming through their perspective and it's actually not relevant to the work. And so it's how do we discern between the feedback that improves the project and the feedback that actually just isn't resonant for us? And how do you do that? Is that just like comes down to the gut where you're like, you just have to maybe take a step back, maybe be mindful that your ego might be in play, what are some of the ways in which you take feedback and across the board, whether it's a YouTube comment or coming from your parents? Yeah, I, I feel like I need to be in this space for it. And so I've, like, so far with my fiance, I'm always like, if you're going to give me feedback or we call it feed forward, if you're going to give me feed forward, just tell me you're going to do it so I'm prepared. Because sometimes it's like, I think you need to change this and this isn't working. It's like, you know, it's like, it's a little shocking. But if it's like, hey, can I give you some feedback on this? I feel like I'm way, then I can like adjust and prepare myself emotionally. It's like just a one second shift, which always doesn't happen. But for me, feedback, I really think about who's giving it to me. And the point of view that they're offering. So when I gave someone I really respect and early copy of the book, they actually told me to take all the swear words out. And at one point I actually did take all the swear words out. And then I was like, what, I like to swear sometimes when it's appropriate. And I think swear words are, you know, when used appropriately, really make a point. And so I then decided to put it back in. And I knew where they were coming from was, you know, mass appeal, you will offend some people. And then I had to think about who I was really writing for. And the person I was really writing for, this is my editor playing. The person I was really writing for appreciated the occasional swear word. And so, you know, that's, I feel like a high level example of always like, okay, why are they giving this feedback? What's the perspective it's coming from? Does that align and resonate for me? And then making the ultimate choice. Right. There is an element too that there is so much noise. There's so many books written. There's so many videos on YouTube that if you continue to do what everybody's done in the past, there's no way you're going to be able to set your voice apart from other people. And that's actually one thing that I've done as well in a lot of my YouTube videos where I will openly curse. I think I forget what it was. I've just done a couple of videos on minimalism and minimalist YouTubers are generically kind of vanilla. And like, very boring in general, I want to say, I know a bunch of them that are amazing people. But a lot of times it's like, there's just no extra edge to it. So I don't know if it was a conscious decision or me just being like, I just want to be myself in these videos where I just started cursing. And then there's people that are make comments. Like, this would be a lot better without all the GDs with all the goddamn's. And I'm like, I guess I do say goddamn a lot. But that's me. Totally. Totally. And I love what you say right there, which it's being you. And that's the most important thing. I remember when some copies of the book got out to people on like net galley where they got a free copy to give a review. And these are people that probably aren't part of my target demo. And there were a few like really harsh reviews. And I reached out to a friend, because I was feeling really sore from the rejection sensation of reading their review. And I love what she said. She said, some people love the color pink, or they hate the color pink. But that doesn't mean anything is wrong with the color pink. Imagine if pink wanted to be a faded version of itself. And I think that's the challenge when we try to make something for everyone is that it becomes a faded version of itself, because it's trying to please too many people. And really, the task is how do we put more of ourselves into our work such that it almost has a polarizing effect where people either fucking love it, or they're like me, not for me, or like actually I'm really offended by this because of this, which it's great, because if we don't offend anyone, you know, we're not really creating for anyone. That's amazing. How do we find ourselves? I mean, that's a big question, right? But it's something that I talk a lot about on this podcast, because it's not such a straightforward answer. And I think a lot of it involves time. And I think that's where wisdom comes in, where we can learn about ourselves over time. But of course, we know a lot of people that are older and might be stuck in their ways or unwilling to change. How do we find ourselves and find our voice? Yeah, a great question. You know, for me, it started with questions and knowing the questions that I was asking. So when I did have that breakdown moment I mentioned earlier in my early 20s, that's when I started asking myself the big questions. Who am I? Why am I here? How can I express my gifts? What are my gifts? I had no idea. And so I'm a big believer in living for the question and creating the space to experience the answers. So for me, I asked who am I and I did a series of experiments both like internal and external in order to explore that question. And so, you know, in the internal was every day I would wake up in journal. And I would ask how am I feeling? Where am I feeling pulled? What are my gifts? And it was a journey of doing some of this inner work while also making this move to New York, putting myself out there, trying on different ideas, throwing a bunch of ideas and creative projects against a wall to see what would stick. It was both, you know, this journey of taking action both internally and then again externally. A lot of experimenting, like not exactly like lab science experiments where you're like, I'm going to try this and then this and then this. But it's like being willing to adjust when things aren't working. And also knowing when to keep going, when something doesn't feel like it is working, which I think is probably the hardest part. Actually, that was, that was in a domino project book, but the dip from Seth Goethe was books that's like, it just allows you to see that, yes, there's always excitement in the beginning of a project. But then there's always that directory that you're going to have to get through inevitably. Yeah, and do you quite or do you stick? Which is always the question. And, you know, for me, I did, I felt like my life was this living laboratory of sorts where I was a guinea pig, but I wasn't like measuring the data of every single thing. I was more like, how does this field, does this field right, does this field aligned? Do I see myself doing this for the next five years? Did I, am I learning and growing still? And there were a lot of times where I did this art project called The World We Want and at first, I just wanted to create public art in my neighborhood of Dumbo. And when I did the project, people from around the world wanted to create it in their neighborhoods. And so the project ended up spreading to 20 countries. And then I felt this sense of obligation and guilt. Like I was supposed to carry it on. And I had to like, you know, keep moving with the project, even though it didn't, it wasn't like a financial motivating project. It was just a passionate project. But when do we keep projects going and when do we pause and let it take on a life of its own? So it's always a big question. Right. Yeah. And it's not like we could give anybody the answer to that question. It's like these are things that we all have to figure out on our own time. There's something about you, like you've had a hustle since you were a kid. Like there's some kind of energy or spirit of creating, where you just from, and I think maybe a lot of people have that early on, but maybe for some of us, it gets stifled with like, you know, get into the real world and make money. But tell me a little bit about your experiences, like 11 years old, 10 years old, just like getting into it and making things. So my mom was a badass entrepreneur and my mom was in construction and development in Chicago. She's, so she was doing residential and commercial projects, high-rise buildings, complexes. She had, you know, 20, 30, maybe 40 men working for her. And I just admired and respected her so much. And when I was five years old, she sat me down and she's like, here's how we make money. And she like bought me this calculator book where I could begin to think about how I wanted to earn money. And so I started a candy business in my neighborhood, went to Sam's Club, would buy candy in bulk, figure out the cost per item, and then resell it. And I remember at one point I made a lottery system where if you bought it, for a dollar, you could get a ticket. And at the end of the week, one person would win like the big package of candy, which was like $3 of candy. And I would make like 70 bucks on the $3 winning of candy until parents got mad. Then I was sort of stealing their kids money. Right. Like she was created like a casino. So, you know, I was just this adventurous kid and then when the candy was done, I moved to carpet samples. And then I remember this point when I was, I think 9 or 10. And I was looking at magazines and this was when I really was beginning to see, you know, I think of like the good girl conditioning performed perfect do it while you would see women and advertisements on the face of magazines, which at that point, I don't think we knew they were photoshopped. And so it was like, that's the ideal in how you're supposed to look. And I remember thinking, you know, is that really, is that real? And seeing like, how to make always like you and how to do well in school. And it just didn't fully resonate with me. And so I started this online magazine called Teen Zane, where this is the AOL chatroom day. So I would go into AOL chat rooms and I would ask young girls if they wanted to be a part of their, this email. I would collect their, or this newsletter. I would collect their email and send out every Sunday the Teen Zane magazine. And it was, you know, it's so funny because oftentimes when people are looking for clarity on what their curiosities are, they're at a place where they're stuck and they don't know what's next. Oftentimes looking to what we were doing at childhood is revelatory. And so when I was in that early 20s moment in tech, I looked back and I was like, I was creating online magazines and like selling candy. Clearly, there's like creative content, entrepreneurial parts of me that I haven't really been allowing a space to be expressed. So it was kind of always there in the background. And I guess it, it carried with you a little bit. But did you went to college? Yeah. Yeah. You went to college and then graduating college, you went to Silicon Valley. Or what was the path there? I worked with Apple and college. And I was the, the campus from my university. So it was both like creating events and just getting the word about Apple out. And so that led me to the word, the world of word of mouth marketing. So I joined a digital agency in Chicago. Did that for about two years before it was recruited to move to San Francisco and join a startup. And that was kind of like the experience of, I guess the, the rat race a little bit. Yeah. And you know, I, I did love the work. You know, as a creative being in the like brand advertising world, it was fun. But ultimately I was making men feel insecure, making women feel insecure. So they would buy a product. And remember this distinct moment where the CEO took us in. And there was a new shoe shine product that we had gotten. So let's make men feel insecure about their shoes not being shine. So they buy this product. And I was like, moral issue here. And just not wanting to tap into people's insecurities for the sake of capitalism. Isn't that most of advertising? Yes. It's hard to find an advertisement that's truly genuine that is trying to show, because inevitably when you're trying to sell a product, you're telling people why they aren't currently happy and how this product is going to help them. How do you view advertising and how do you avoid letting those things get to you? I think it's, you know, it's different if you're identifying someone's pain point and a product genuinely solves that versus like tapping into insecurity as motivation, which is a fear-based motivator versus more of a like solution-based motivator. Where it's like, you know, maybe I feel stuck in my career. So I do want to go to this workshop with someone who can support me, moving on of it. Or maybe I'm trying to think, I'm like, what's a good product that's been advertised? The Dove Real Beauty campaign, I think did a really great job of positivity, focused advertising, where it was celebrating all shapes and sizes in women and having that tie to their brand. So even though that was driving a product, I felt like they genuinely cared about celebrating women and celebrating all kinds of women, which was challenging everything and advertising norms at that point, because again, it was like photoshopped women as models for every campaign. That's how I got into filmmaking, really. I mean, well besides doing weddings and that stuff, I would do a lot of like tech and just figuring out ways to sell products and through film and video. And being in the craft, I can watch a lot of commercials and be like, that's incredible. Or like, that really made me emotional. Oh man, that was really great. So I'm still like trying to figure out how I feel about advertising, and because it's a trick you world. Because we live in a world where if you want to say create original content, that's 95% of all money that's being made is really through advertisements. If you listen to any podcast or if you have a blog, that's where most people make money. Do you see that as a negative thing if it's done in the right way? Because there's certainly a lot of people who they won't only pitch products or do reads on things that truly have helped them and think, well, add value to their audience lives. Is that okay? Is there like a gray area? Or should we try to get to a world where we just eliminate all advertising? I mean, if we're advertising or product, we believe and I think that's beautiful. And you know, like, I think of Squarespace. I'm obsessed with Squarespace. Squarespace, how is this? My, my website. I would happily promote, clearly. I'm sort of prudent. I'm proud to buy Squarespace. I actually like, I used them for my website too. And they're really great. Yeah. I actually thought they're advertising is amazing. Yeah, it's really good. It's really clever. I actually felt the same thing. That's what got me to start questioning it about even having ads on the podcast because currently I don't. But I'm like, man, there's so many digital products that really add value to my life that I would recommend through and through. And if they ended up being like, for whatever reason Squarespace, like, turns on a dime and ends up being a terrible platform, I would never recommend it again. And I wouldn't pick their money for it. Exactly. And that I think that's the key word right there is recommend. And actually what I did learn when I was in the word of mouth world is that it was all about how do we create recommendations? And if we are representing something, promoting something that we truly genuinely recommend because it's aligned with our values and supports our life, I think that's beautiful, to beautiful exchange of, you know, bringing an audience that's new to this product. And I think there's an amazing flow there. I think it's dangerous territory when we're trying to manipulate people to buy products. What was the, the breaking point was there, you know, a lot of times we love to find the moment. And there might not have been one. But for you, did you know when you were done with this path and you wanted to pursue something else? You know, I think the panic attack because I took too much at her all and hadn't slept for 36 hours. And then was shaking on my floor was a little bit of a intense wake-up moment. So there was a moment. I mean, there were there were a series of moments. And there's always moments. And in the truth was I wasn't listening. I felt the pull. I felt the call. I knew it's time to make a change. And I was like, shh, shh, go away. And so it just built and built and built until for me it was more of a very loud wake up. And so a lot of the work for me has been to ongoing and have the practice of listening every day, every week, reflecting daily or journaling daily, reflecting weekly, revising, revisiting monthly so that I don't push things away and repress things and have them blow up in a more dangerous way. And so yeah, the breakdown was when I was so caught in this cycle of hustling for approval and hustling to reach an end goal that it led to the breakdown. When you made that move to New York, you said that you got rid of most of your stuff. What a little bit of a minimalistic inside of you. Like, what was that decision? Why did you decide to like give up the material stuff at that moment to kind of start from scratch? I felt like I needed a huge massive drastic change. And it's funny. Colin Wright was a friend and an inspiration. And I remember him at one point saying that like everything is almost like a prison. Like it was chaining me down. And you know, one of my stories was, oh, I can't move to New York because I have a furniture of stuff. And I'm like, am I going to let a furniture of things that I don't particularly want, but think that I want to prevent me from doing and pursuing what matters. And in my mom, because she was in the design construction business, she had given me all this beautiful furniture from the design centers that she acquired through her process of doing some project. And so it was, you know, it was more the story of am I going to let her down, because she gave me all these things that she thought that I wanted to create the successful life. And really, I didn't want any of those things. None of those things meant anything to me at that point. And so I, you know, I felt, I thought about it for about nine months. And then Colin was a huge inspiration as was Amit Gupta, who was a new friend. And we met and we sat down and I told him, you know, I want to move to New York. I feel like this call in my body and I want to follow it. And he said, go, I was like, what do you mean go? And he's like, oh, I'm like, yeah, but I have the furniture. Go. But I have the job quit. But I have a car, sell it. He literally hadn't excuse for everything. So very much into that minimalism perspective. And so in this 48 hour period, I said, fuck it. Let's do it. I only got rid of everything and just wanted a sense of freedom and not to be attached to these things that didn't actually matter to me. It takes a while sometimes to realize that these things are actually holding us back from pursuing what we want. And for some people, maybe that is the ideal life for them to have certain things. And obviously, I think that the things that we feel in our space are important. And we need to be mindful of them. But as soon as you are allowing them to hold you back from experiences when you... What they're weighing you down because there's like too much clutter. Yeah. And like you think about how much it costs to maintain these things and to look after these things and clean the things. And then like you said, when you were making a move, you were like, well, how am I going to bring all my things with me? You know, you don't have to. There's an option where you decide to just get rid of everything, sell your stuff and start completely over. You can sleep on a mattress for months. You can get by. And I think in a lot of ways, that has helped me to know, especially when I'm starting out something new. When maybe I don't have a lot of money where I, you know, things aren't as certain. Not having a lot of stuff or not wanting a lot of stuff helps me to just focus on that craft and not on how am I going to be able to afford this amazing apartment because I can just, you know, share a bedroom at a family family or friend's house. Totally. So you go to New York, what's the kind of progression in there? I mean, that must have been at least a struggle in the beginning, right? Like, one of the early versions of this podcast, at least the title of it, was going to be how to make it in New York. Because I lived in Brooklyn for a while. I lived in Hoboken. Making it in New York is so challenging. Rens high. It's two damn high. And usually starting salaries are incredibly low. So how do you start to make a dent when there's all this competition and you're trying to figure out your place in the world? So for me it was challenging and not challenging. And this was complete luck. I had started a blog prior to moving. And this blog I started as an outlet for myself really to express my feelings, what I was thinking about, these big questions I was asking, I was really documenting the journey of finding myself. And in doing so, I accidentally built a following of people saying, oh, I feel this way too. Or I totally understand we were coming from, or, wow, these are great questions that I can now ask myself, which was totally unexpected. And so when I made the leap from New York to San Francisco, I wrote a post right before I got on the plane. And when I landed in New York that posted gone viral. And so, I'm it and like a few people who were influential in tech in San Francisco decided to share it. This is when Tumblr was a thing. So I had a Tumblr blog and everyone like retumbled it or whatever. And so I landed in New York and I have dozens of emails including like CEOs of companies who want to hire me, which I was like, did you read the post where I said, I'm not interested basically in getting hired? Right. And it was, you know, so interesting because, and then I had this TV production company that wanted to create a reality television show about the journey. It was like all these opportunities were popping, which was actually more the challenge. Because here I was trying to create space in my life and all of a sudden all this noise came in. And I was like, well, maybe I should get that job. Maybe I should like create a TV show around this and immediately start documenting my life even though. I don't even know what the hell I'm doing yet. And, you know, it brought about all these shudds. And so, the challenge for me was more reflecting and discerning on what opportunities were actually worth exploring. And, you know, I didn't have any savings when I made the leap. I think I like, I remember one point, I like, negative three dollars living in New York. And then I called up my friend Almond and I was like, hey, can I be the East Coast side kick for your company? Because he had this amazing photography company called Photoggio. And so, they were mostly West Coast based. And so, I was just like, literally putting myself out there and hustling around any idea that felt remotely meaningful and interesting. And so, he ended up connecting me to all these tech brands. And so, actually, I had a meeting with Squarespace and I went in there and sold a very large ad deal in about five minutes and made a cut of that. So, it was like, negative three dollars to like a significant amount of cash that I can survive for two more months in New York. And it was this like constant like, you know, Evan Flow. And then on the side, I had all these different projects that I was testing. And, you know, at this time I was actually working late at night a lot. And so, I tweeted what if there was a co-working group at night. And this guy, Alan and I were like, yeah, let's start in New York night owls. So, we started this late night co-working group, which ended up in three months spreading to 20 countries and being on the front page of the New York Times, which was so random and unexpected. Because, you know, the New York Times is like, why are these people working from 9pm till 3am? It was an interesting story that I didn't even realize was being created. So, it was this like blend of like not having money, just making money, having ideas be successful and not knowing how to translate those. But that really all culminated to me getting the gig with Seth Gaudin. And I want to talk about that. The one thing that I do want to mention just because I think it's important is you have this moment, right? You get off the plane. Your posts is viral. Things are going crazy. And you get all these opportunities. Is there a decision before that, right? I mean, maybe it's the post that you actually made, where you kind of set your intention and intentions and your values. Because when all these opportunities come in, these are decisions now you have to make. And we kind of get decision fatigue after a while, where you can experience it if you go to IKEA, where you know, in the beginning you're very like, all right, we're going to make really smart decisions about everything we're buying and then somewhere between like the throw pillows and the toiletries, you're just throwing stuff in your cart because you're trying to get out of there. When you have all these emails coming in these different opportunities, like, did you know? Very easy. Okay, I'm going to say no to every kind of this opportunity because I know where I'm headed. I know what my values are and what I stand for. Yes and no, I knew I had some sense of, and I love where you're going with this, because I think filtering is so key. So I knew I didn't want to work at a desk. I knew I was not interested in the hours of nine to five. At least for a period of time, I wanted to try something new. I knew that I wanted to do things that were around like personal development in self-expression. I knew that I wanted to test my entrepreneurial pursuits. And so I had those sort of vague things. So I was able to eliminate like 50% of the opportunities immediately, which were jobs to go to the desk and help accompany, which was, you know, those could have been perfectly great jobs, but it just wasn't where I was at in that moment. And I did take a lot of meetings just to like spark my curiosity, but a big thing for me is body awareness and listening to the impulses of the body. And so I would walk in somewhere in my body when it immediately goes, and I would know, okay, this isn't right, or I would meet with the CEO and have a conversation with him and I would feel tension in my chest. And that was telling me, okay, this is not right. And so, you know, some of it was putting one foot in the water just to see and then noticing and being a tune to my body's responses. Sometimes we have to go against that, though, don't we? Because a lot of times our bodies telling us, don't go on that stage. Don't do that, right? Like when we're scared. Yeah. Uh, those are two different responses, though, right? Like when we're in a room with somebody that makes us feel uncomfortable and you feel an energy from them, we're like, uh, we're not really vibing versus I'm scared to do this because I don't want to fail. Yeah, I think it's a difference between fear and intuition. And fear is very loud. A lot of voices in the head. It's highly emotional. So it's, of course, you're about to get on stage. Your heart's beating really fast. Oh my God, what are people going to think of me? Are they going to judge me? That's fear. And that's fear calling you to step forward because you're stepping into growth towards something you care about. Intuition is a little quieter. It's a little softer. It's not screaming. It's not highly emotional. So, like, if I would notice like my, uh, my body caving in this meeting, I don't think that was fear if you want to do this. That was more of my body saying, no, this isn't aligned. And it wasn't like, oh my God, raging. I'm so emotional right now, this doesn't feel quite right. It's a little softer, a little quieter. And we have to be very observant. And it's, sometimes it's challenging to actually listen to ourselves. Like, as we spoke about, there's a lot of noise. There's a lot of different distractions out there. There's people telling us we should be doing this. And I think it takes like almost a mindfulness practice. Totally. Do you meditate much? I do. Yeah, I'm sure that helps. Just so. Meditation journaling. Yeah, the space to just quiet and hear yourself is so critical. Because maybe, you know, maybe it was fear in that moment. But I would, you know, giving ourselves a few days. We don't need to act on things as urgently or as immediately as we sometimes think. But space to just like really sit with it and feel into, is this the next right move for me? Yeah. And I think some, a lot of times we don't, especially for living with significant others, or if we have roommates, we very rarely find that space. Or even the aren't our phones. Like, so you work all day. You're, you know, constantly talking with other people. You're always around other people. Then you come home from work and you put on the TV. You're lift up your phone and you're scrolling through social media. And like, where does it end? Where do you actually ask yourself these difficult questions? How do you listen yourself? And know what you want out of life if you don't actually take the space and the time to do it? Totally. Yeah, I think that's all about just setting a daily practice. It's got to be daily. It's got to be every day. And having an intentionality, because, you know, scrolling through social media, TV, that can become a mild form of numbing and addiction to things that just take us away from ourselves. Seth, go ahead and, that's a big opportunity. How did that come about? Seth put out a call on his blog that he wanted apprentices because he was going to reimagine publishing. And I remember about 14 people forward it to me and we're like, you must apply for this. That's like, okay, clearly, people are feeling this. And it was the first time because it was about nine months after I moved to New York and it was the first time I thought, this is something that really means a lot to me because I've always been interested in books and spreading ideas, particularly ideas that actually matter. Because I feel like, you know, the world of branding and advertising, all that was really about spreading ideas. But in the pages of a book can be an idea that changed someone's life. And I knew Seth, I loved his blog, I loved his writing, I loved how he was able to take something and make it so tangible in the form of a book. And so I filled out the application. It was like a 14 hour process, sent the application in and, you know, thousands of people have applied. And then I got an email that I was one of 21 to come and spend the day with him for two days to basically do like a Seth style boot camp of, are you right for this team? And I remember there was this moment where he's like, what do you afraid of? And I was like, this moment. That's so good. He was just like, I was like, he didn't yell, but he'd be like, how do you relate to fear? And it was, you know, all of these like boot camp style exercises. And I remember leaving thinking, there's no way in hell that I'm going to make it to this team. Like, I did not feel like I performed well. I was like anxious. I was feeling all of the feelings. And then I got an email that I was one of seven picked to be part of the Domino project. And then when we arrived, he's like, okay, what do you want your role entitled to be? He asked all of us. And it became very clear. We each had a very different skill set. And so I ended up becoming the chief evangelist, which my role was to figure out how do we spread the ideas far and why it is possible, which is really taking from my background in marketing. It's kind of an open ended role. Yeah. Where it's like, you can do anything, you know, but it's also something that's measurable and a very scary way. Yeah. Where it's clear if something's not working, right? Totally. It's our, are we selling books or not? It's like the core metric. And then what are all the things? All of the KPIs to get there, which was it was challenging to define, because some things, you know, building awareness, like, how do we know if, you know, it's a worthwhile tactic or not. So there's a lot of experimentation. Thanks seem to work out with that project. It seemed to do pretty well, didn't it? Every book became a best seller, so that's crazy. I mean, the influence of Seth is definitely normal. Right. That's actually one thing that I've recommended to other filmmakers and people just starting out is like, if you have put in the time in your craft, if you're very good, just like what I did with minimalism, like, I've been doing film making my entire life. And then I joined up with Josh and Ryan to make this film. They had an audience. You know, we had something that was there. People that wanted this film. So I used my skills. They brought their talents, their skills, their writing, as well as their audience. And then we were able to create something together and deliver it to them. And that's something that I think a lot of people are missing, where people think like, oh, I got to build an audience. I got to do all this. It's like, no, there's other ways to make an impact and use your talents to reach people. Totally. Tap into already existing audiences. I mean, I think of when when I was working with Seth, that's when I had the opportunity to contribute to fast company. And so every article of mine got like, one of them got 2 million views. I didn't have that big of an audience, but I could put my work into a platform that did. And that's a way of growing your message and putting the ideas out there. What did you learn? If you kind of step back from the domino projects, specifically, were there any lessons in there that stuck with you? Make more mistakes and don't take the mistakes personally. I feel like it was a big one. I feel like I went into that project so afraid of failing. And so afraid of what I made failure mean, which is that I was a failure. My self-worth was very tied to the outcomes that I did or did not create. And so I felt like that experience really brought a lot of that story that wasn't serving me to the surface. And it was, I mean, it was one of the probably some of the most challenging six months of my life. Because I was so thrown into discomfort, so pushed outside of my norm. And every day, having the opportunity to question myself and question my process. And I remember Seth saying at one point, you know, the question isn't what if we fail or what if I fail? It's you will fail so when you do what do we do about it? And so there were just like powerful mindset shifts that I learned from him around rejection, around failure, around mistakes. And like, you know, his whole thing was make more mistakes. Because if we make mistakes, we figure out what doesn't work and what does work. And then we adjust. So it was, and just so much uncertainty, we had no idea it was a six month sort of apprenticeship. And at the end of the six months, we didn't know what would happen. And we didn't find out until like the last week of the six months. And so, you know, I felt like I was a more okay with that than some members of the team who really wanted very clear certainty, so they could figure out the next steps in their life. But Seth, I felt like very purposely did that. So we learned to be comfortable with the uncomfortable. When you look back, we talked a lot about early on reading books and learning through that. Obviously, first hand experience is almost like, you know, a book on steroids, right? So when you look back at most of your learnings, do they all or at least most of them that stick come from actually experiencing it and being the moment and putting them into practice versus like reading an inspirational quote? Absolutely. I mean, it's one thing to intellectualize something into like, get it. But it's another thing to embody it, experience it, feel it, feel what's in it, and to be able to move through it. So, I mean, my book is all based on these hard earned, I guess, lessons that that I have gone through over the last 10 years, really the last 30, through years. Right. So, I mean, what the dominant project must have been like eight years ago or so, like long 2011, I think, yeah. 2011. So that's seven years ago. Let's cover that seven years real quick. Well, just do it in like one sentence. So, no, I mean, in one sentence, you kind of stumbled into to coaching and you did, you know, you what held retreats all around the world. Like, there's been a lot of inspirational stuff that you've done, and I think probably continuing to find your calling and find your voice as it's evolved. So, yeah, what were some of the learning lessons over those years? You know, in one word, it would be experiment, adjust, experiment, adjust. That was my my path. So, coaching happened super organically. I wasn't like, I want to be a coach for people because I was blogging, sharing my process, sharing everything I was doing with Seth. All of a sudden, I started getting hundreds and hundreds of emails from people, hey, I saw you made this leap. Can you help me, too? And I remember thinking, I'm 25 years old, why would anyone want me to help them with their life? This is very interesting, definitely feeling the imposter syndrome. And so, I figured, let's start an experiment. I literally called it the passion experiment and worked with people for four weeks, charged to some of money, and saw what sort of changes we could make. And the changes were pretty pivotal, like, started a consulting business and landed to clients. Got a 15% raise, wrote the thing I always wanted to write, but was afraid to write. And so, as I started to create more there and build a business around it, that led to the bold academy, which was this life accelerator program, where it was about bringing people together in a space over a, you know, we've all lived in a house together, 10 days, mentors from around the world to really catapult people, and get them outside their comfort zone. And then what was interesting, because that, you know, that I sort of fell into that, then I had this realization that I was hiding behind other people's creativity and ideas. And it was far easier for me to help someone else launch their book in the world than it was to sit down and write my own. Or far easier to support someone in catalyzing their movement, rather than to stand up and say, wait, I want to create a movement. So I was doing what Julia Cameron calls being a shadow artist. And when I had that realization, I was like, oh, damn, like, woof! And that's when I really, and this was probably about five years ago, maybe four and a half years ago, where I decided, okay, I'm declaring myself an artist, a creative, and I want to create my own projects. And that's when I started to explore art and speaking, and, you know, taking a lot of the same ideas and concepts, but expressing them in a way that was using my voice as a speaker, as an artist, and now as an author. I think Julian Smith, who wrote the French, who I believe was, that was a dominant project from, I remember reading about his story and very similar, where he felt like all he was, he was writing a lot and blogging and incredible writer, but he's like, but I haven't created anything in a while. And then he started this startup breather, which went on to do really well. But it's just, it's, it's so interesting because I could see how you could just get kind of caught in that path, where it's obviously, you could just continue to do that forever, and you would be, I'm sure very successful. But then there's probably still that artist in you from 11, 10 years old, where you're like, you know, haven't even made anything yet, or never wrote that book. And I know this book was really challenging for you to write, and it was hard to even get start. I mean, you started it a how many times, and you stopped, and then you made all these ways to try to remind yourself, you put posts on the mirror. It's like, and I just so, like, fascinated by, like, what it takes to actually create that, or to finish that project, that you keep trying to start, and you can't make it stick. What did you learn? Is there any, like, tell me the secret recipe? The secret recipe, oh boy. Yeah, how, how did you make it happen? How did you actually finish the book? So I went to a workshop with Elizabeth Gilbert, and when I went to that workshop, I remember thinking, oh, I hope Liz tells me all of her secret formula, formulas as well. Right. And someone in the audience asked, like, Liz, how do you do all the things that you do? And Liz said, she told a story about when she was a struggling writer and not really putting her work out into the world. And she went to this wise older woman and was complaining a bit about not doing the writing she wants to do. And the wise older woman stopped her and she said, listen, Liz, you're going to have to say, notice some things to claim the life that you say that you want. And Liz was like, yes, I should say no to things that I think I should do, things I don't really want to do. And the woman stopped her and said, no, you need to say, notice some things that you do want to say, yes, to what you want even more. And that moment, I had this aha moment, because it wasn't so much that I, you know, didn't want to do the book. Of course, there was that good kind of fear that like paralyzing almost what I referred to as toxic worry in the book, which was like, am I good enough can I do this does my voice matter, which is just all indicating of how much this project means to me. But I was like, kind of starting a podcast and working on a journal project and doing our installations around the world and getting on stages. And I was doing like 17 different things. And wasn't getting the sort of depth that that I wanted. And so I went home and I made two lists. I said, I want this and they're like 17 things there. And then I want this even more. And the one thing that I wanted more than all the other things was my book in bookstores. And I feel like in that moment, for me, it was just full commitment. Like, I'm going all in, no matter what, no matter how uncomfortable it is, knowing that I'm going to feel anxious and fearful and afraid. And it's going to not like, I'm going to be outside my comfort zone and I'm going to want to give up. And that's all okay. Because again, that's indicating to me how much I care. And I just committed that I would show up every day and do a little bit of writing. And I gave myself a deadline, which was really important. I said, you know, in three weeks, I want to have the very first version of this proposal. And then I want to send it out to the literary agents that I have relationships with, or my friends have published books with since I'd helped some any friends publish books at that point. And I'm just going to, I'm going to just see and not attach so much to the damn outcome. Not hold on to it or make it mean that I'm good or bad or worthy or not worthy. But I'm just going to show up and do a little bit every day. And so that I felt like took away the pressure of like doing this big thing that was, that was, you know, it was a yes is the most important thing. And let me make it not so hard. And I, I committed that I would write, like, you know, for an hour or two every day. And so at the end of three weeks, I finished the proposal. And I went to this event, Sarah Jones, she's a playwright in New York. And she had this event in New York City. It was a friends and family event. And I'm sitting there, the day I finished my proposal, I look across the room and Liz Gilbert is also in the audience. And it was crazy to me because it was the workshop with her three weeks prior where I had committed. And so I was like, that is the sign. And so of course I screamed her name. We hugged it out. I tried not to be too much of a super fan all night. I was a bit of a super fan. And I think she was less freaked out because it was a friend's and family event. So she's like, somehow this woman knows Sarah. So she's not totally nuts. Right. That helped. If it was on the street, it may not have gone over as well. I don't think she had been hugging me. And then I like, you know, put the proposal out there and ended up, I remember getting one of the first literary agents wrote back to me and suggested I go on an egoless journey for three or four more years before I give any more thought to a book. And I was immediately crushed, definitely cried it out, considered like, maybe he was right. And I wasn't ready and who the hell was I to think I could write this book. But I was like, screw it. Let me send out five more emails. And one of those emails landed in the hands of this literary agent who called me was like, I love this. This needs, I want to represent this. And so signed with her. And then like, it was interesting. It was like, once I actually completed the proposal, it's like, the gremlins sort of, they didn't, they didn't go away. But they got quieter because I was finally and actually doing the thing and making the moves. The hardest point was actually making the commitment and sitting down and doing it. And it was like, once I got to that point, things began to shift. It starts to feel like an actual thing. Yeah, it feels like a thing. Yeah, and like it's your, even if it's not, that's not getting published online. There is a step in the right direction, as opposed to just thinking about it, even like starting to write the actual book. I don't know as, as enough, as crazy as that sound. It's like, when we started minimalism, it was my first documentary. I'd try to do things like that before and they had given up. This time I had partners to work on it with. But then what we did was we started with like, let's build the website. Let's make a teaser. I'm just going to, I've went to New York. I grabbed my camera and I just shot footage around downtown New York and then I stitched together some b-roll, Colin Wright actually did the voice over for it. And it was just like, you know, kind of the ethos of what this documentary was going to be about. And it was going to be our way to attract people who would want to sit down and like take an interview with us because we never done a dock before. It wasn't guaranteed people were going to actually give us their time. And a lot of people didn't. But it was, all right, let's just create this because it's going to help us. It's practical. But at the same time, I didn't realize it. It was also like putting it out there in the world. It was saying, hey, we're making a documentary. And even if it, what, maybe 20 people or 100 people saw the video, it, it put us in the right mindset and on the course to make it. So I think those little things as small as they might seem, help to get things going. Totally anchors you and I'm making progress. And so it was, it totally, I love what you're saying there. It's like, what's the next small thing? And then once you do that thing, it's like, okay, now what is the next small thing? So I was like, okay, well, I send this out to literary agents. Okay, now that I have a literary agent, what's the next small thing? Well, I finished this proposal, so we can take it to publishers. And it was again, like not attaching too much to like, whether or not it worked out, just like going all in and showing up. Then five months later, we had an 80-page proposal. It went out to 29 publishers. Next thing I know, I have nine meetings. And then it's like, okay, I show it for the meetings. And then I show it for the meetings. And then several of them like it. And then it went into auction. I was like, okay, now an auction's happening. Hopefully I get a book deal. And then, you know, the book deal happened. Then I had three months to write the book, a deadline. And then I like, went and disappeared from the face of the earth and wrote a book of three months. And I'm merged. And I was like, okay, now I have a book lunch to plan. Oh, okay, now I need to hire a team. And it was like, just one thing, a little thing after the next thing. And really just trusting that I can figure it all out real time. Which I did. Right. Yeah, right. Yeah, it's like, I think we get overwhelmed stepping back and looking at the big picture. When in reality, it's like, you look at that first domino, which might have been that event. And then you just see, okay, cool, that got me to do that. And then I do that. And then you, you face those challenges as they come, but try not to get overwhelmed with the big picture. Because you just have to trust that you will figure shit out when it comes down. Totally. Totally. If I was like thinking about the marketing full marketing launch plan when I was writing the very first version of the proposal, I probably, you know, I would have gotten overwhelmed by the things I needed to do a year from now. You know, and so it is always like, what is that thing right here right now that I can do? I've got some questions for you from Instagram, uh, but before we get into those, you, you stole Oprah's seat. And I need to hear about this story. You told me that there's a story, uh, where you had the UN and you stole Oprah's seat. And it, that may be like the whole story, but it still needs to hear it in your words. So I went to the UN because Oprah was having an event for her new series called Belief. And I, my friend, who came with me, I had no idea. Apparently he was like on the board of the UN. So like, we're like walking down the places packed. There's no seats left. And he showed some badge. I was like, who the hell is this guy? Who am I with? And so he like usher's past security. And there are three seats in the very front, like facing the stage. And so, and they were like pulled off to the side. And so I'm like, okay, let me let's just move these seats up to where we want to be seating. And then we sit down. And then Oprah comes out. She gives this incredible, you know, incredible talk. I could share a little bit of what those insights were. If we want to elaborate on the story. But then she finishes her talk and she comes off stage. And she goes to sit and there's no seat for her. Because I have pulled her seat. And I have pulled it up to where I wanted to sit. And I'm sitting down. So I immediately stand up and I'm like, oops. Do you want the seat back? Oh my god. And the woman running the vet was like, you know, no, no, no, you end get more seats. So she ended up getting more seats. But it's so funny because she ended up then sitting behind me. And the entire time I felt like as she was on stage, because I literally was front row looking at her. I always think that there's like the one person in the room who's so enthusiastically guessing. And like you're rude. I was like, you're hard actually talking. And so she kept looking at me and doing this. Oh my god. There's a moment there between you and Oprah. And then she sat behind you. Then she sat behind you. And the whole time are you just thinking like, Oprah's right behind me. Oprah's right behind me. And I was like, would it be too awkward if I was like, try to selfie this. Oh my god. I decided not to selfie it. Yeah, that would've been bad. That would've been so bad. But there was a part of me that, because she like, she was really locking. I was with me at points. I was like, I felt like she was like, go, grasshopper. If you had your turn. It's your turn. What I guess real quick, because, you know, any time I can fit some Oprah wisdom into a show is a good thing. So what was her take away from that talk? One that I really loved, as she said, that after 35,000 interviews, whether it was Beyonce or someone who murdered their children, the question they would all ask her after the interview ended was, was that okay? And so she made the point to say, like, you know, we all just want to know that we're doing okay? And it doesn't matter the amount of success, fame, or accolades that we've created, or if we'd like literally, you know, killed our children, like, it's the human need to feel like we matter. And making the point that we all matter, regardless of what we do or do not do, or, you know, where we're at in our lives, but that we all want to feel like we belong, and that we're okay. That's great. I love it. Let's do some Instagram questions. I need a jingle. I need a jingle. You know, like a little music, a music jingle. I wanted to start. I'm going to try to do this in the future, but where I just actually do live phone calls, where I have people give me their phone number on Instagram, and then just call them in the moment, but I just, yeah, I love that idea. Yeah, I'm going to eventually do that, but it's so risky, because then I don't know. People will probably not pick up their phone, but we'll see. Anyway, for now, I have a question here from Jessica. This one's Taylor, perfectly for you. One of my dreams has always been to write a book. I have some time this summer. I am currently in high school. And I would love to get started on something small before writing something bigger, like a book. Do you have any suggestions on how to get started? I remember Ryan holiday. I read somewhere that he said, don't write a word of your book until you have the structure figured out, and I would say ignore that advice. You might think, oh, I need to figure out what this book is about. I need to have what the beginning, middle, and end are. I need to have it all planned out before I begin writing, but I would actually encourage you to begin writing and to start with the stories. So what is the story you want to tell? Who are the characters of your story? What are your characters like? You know, the character could be you and people in your lives. I don't know if you're writing fiction or nonfiction, but I would really focus on building out the elements of whatever book you want to write. Again, those stories and of those stories that you tell, what is the inside of the takeaway you want to be for the reader? And of those characters, what are they like? What do they feel like? How do you want people to relate to them? And to begin to build out those elements? And then I would say set a deadline into set a writing goal. So it sounds like you have summer. I know that I had three months to write a book and that was 55,000 words. So that was basically broken down to 611 words a day. And when you think about it 611 words a day, isn't that harder scary? And so take whatever your goal is if it's a word count or whatever it is and break that down into small manageable daily steps. And then when you get stuck, the biggest thing which was I felt like really an unorthodox approach, but something that really helped me was to talk to the book. So I like to think that the book was almost coming through me. And so anytime I would get stuck, I would be like, hey, book, where do you want to take this? What direction are you feeling pulled in? Or what story do you want me to tell next? And to be in dialogue with the piece of art that I was creating allowed insights to bubble up that I don't think I could have thought up? Hmm, because there is almost a mystery in that kind of creation where you can't where that next sentence comes from is almost a mystery. You're like, how did I even think of that? It's almost just like a train of thought where like we were saying it, you know, you kind of as we want to look back and look at the whole picture and try to figure out, all right, how am I going to be able to do all these different steps? But it's like just focus on that sentence right in front of you. Focus on what you're going to write next or I love that advice. That's really good. Nick Friend from Nashville. I have an interest in diving into different mediums. For instance, I call myself a filmmaker and YouTuber first and foremost, but I also market myself as a photographer and I'm about to get started podcasting. What are some key tactics to effectively market myself as a multi-faceted content creator without neglecting any of these mediums? Interesting. Well, I feel like you just said it there, you're a multi-faceted content creator. And, you know, a part of I had a concern come up. My concern was I was trying to do too many things and can you do them all well? And so, like I think of Austin Clion, he says he's a writer who draws and I love that because his primary thing is writing, but then he has drawings like all along with it. So, I would get Clion around what it is that makes you unique in whatever you're creating. So, I have a friend of mine who's a filmmaker who also edits and can edit in 24 hours an exceptional video. And so, that sort of become his thing and it's what makes him, you know, what is the word set to use as I'm forgetting? Purple cow. Like a purple cow. And so, you know, for you, if you are doing all these different things across these different mediums, A, can you effectively do all of that really well? And B, what is it that makes you you and has you stand out? And I think a lot of times these skills will complement each other. And if you look at just what I'm doing here, I'm a filmmaker first, not a podcaster. And I can take, so I kind of infuse that. I'm like, all right, well, let me just do what I do best, which is filmmaking, and then how can I break that down? So, a lot of the content that I push out 90% of it comes from the podcast. So, I'll even do like short excerpt videos on YouTube. I'm going to pull out some brilliant piece of wisdom that you shared on this episode. And then I'm going to discuss it further in like a YouTube short format video. And there's different ways that you can take a pillar, like one kind of content. And then, you know, that's what's Hollywood for you. That I swear to God, every, it happens more often than not where I'm doing a video and there's somebody beeping right outside the window. But anyway, so it's like folk, it's actually like, try to get as simple as you can. What's one thing I can do that includes all of these different skills. Yeah. But also, if he's trying to make money as a freelancer, it may be a little bit different where I remember when I was a filmmaker, I had a different website and a different branding for my wedding films than I did for my corporate and tech videos. Because the corporate of tech client doesn't want to see your wedding videos. And it's really just going to reduce your rate and they're not going to see you as professional. So, I think you do have to be mindful and maybe it is about having these different kind of channels that showcase your work. But of course, don't be mindful that you may be doing too much, right? Like, there could be an element where you have to say no to some things that you enjoy doing. So, you can say yes to the things that you're really passionate about. And we've got a couple more questions. What's going on? I don't know. Ronda from Texas. I'm an aspiring writer and I work a regular full-time job. I'm struggling with the motivation to write because I can't seem to focus when I get home from work in the evenings. How do you recommend I overcome this? Start in the morning. It's that simple. Even if you have to wake up a little bit earlier and might be difficult for the first week, but your body will adjust. I would. I always think of my energy flow and when I have the most energy is when I want to do the highest impact activities of the day. So, for me, the writing is the highest impact. So, I know I'm going to wake up and write because that's when I have the most aliveness and energy to do it. And back when I was working with other clients, doing other things, that would always fuel the work that I would go into. And so, I found that when I did the work I loved first, I would actually have more energy at the end of the day because I wasn't thinking of my head again, I didn't do the thing I wanted. So, prioritize what you want to do first. And I also like to remember that everything is a bit of a negotiation. So, maybe you can convince your job that you work from home one day a week. I wonder how you might be able to in the full-time work that you're doing also be able to meet your own needs a little bit there, too. Do you have a morning routine or a night time routine? Both, yeah. Yeah, please. I wake up and I meditate. I love guided meditation. So, I'm using, it's called, what is it called? Something timer. In sight timer, I'll have to tell you after I've read, remember what the app looks like. And it's a guided visualization. I'll start 10 minutes like a wake up meditation. I then grab my journal and I do stream of consciousness writing, three pages. Then, from there, I open my planner and I map out what my day is, what my schedule is. I write it all in, in addition to what's on Google Calendar, just because I'm such a pen and paper person. And then, you know, coffee tea, that sort of thing. And then, as I step into my day, I think one of the biggest things that's impacted me is that after every task or thing on my to-do list that I do, I write down either E and or D. E is energized me and was neutral and D was drained me. And then, I indicate why it energized me, why it was neutral, why it drained me. And that helps me every day adjust toward doing less of what drains me and doing more of what energizes me. I love it. That's amazing. Did you make that up? I did. Yeah, that's true. I'm sure someone else has come up with it as well. But one day, I was like, how can I track and capture my energy level throughout the day? Because I was also beginning to like assess my time and where I was feeling really tired at certain times of the day. And I was like, okay, well, maybe the things that energizes me, I could do here. Or, oh, it just so happens that I keep doing things that drain me at this time of the day. Hmm. Yeah, I think Steve Pinker, he's got a book about that. I was listening, he was on Tim Ferriss's podcast and he was talking about that where, you know, just based on like, David, you know, they they research a lot of people. And so when you should be doing certain types of tasks and it is kind of like that, we're in the morning you should be doing more creative work. So then you should be batching all your emails or phone calls during this specific period of time. Maybe if you do podcasts or interviews, you should, you should do it after that. Because there's kind of these certain laws as we go through the day. But obviously, like, it's so individual that you kind of have to listen to yourself. And I love that way of just annotating and realizing, all right, maybe this is draining to me, maybe also maybe I'm not enjoying this thing. Yeah. And I think that's probably the best indicator to realize, you know, if you're ready to hire somebody, you hire somebody that's going to do the shit. You don't want to do it. I don't like to do. So you can focus more on the stuff that's giving you energy. Totally. And do you even need to be doing the things that drain me? I realized, like, I kept thinking I had to like do more content that I was creating. And I was getting drained because I was trying to create too much content that was all original. And then finally, I was like, why am I drained every time it comes to content time? I love creating. And I was like, oh, that's because I think I need to do this much. And so it was actually like deleting things, minimalism, taking things off my plate. So I could, you know, bring more energy to what I was. What is your your content strategy look like these days? So, you know, what platforms do primarily focus on and what kind of content are you putting out there for your audience? Yeah, I don't have like, who is my content strategy? But for me, Instagram is the big one. That's where I have the largest audience. So it's my email list in Instagram. And I've been doing a ton of content on other people's platforms. And now I'm beginning to like repurpose pieces of that to give people a dose and to celebrate the people who's platforms have been a part of and to drive people there as well. What's that balance for you in terms of creating content for other people's platforms versus your own? And because I know that was something early on when I started, I've tried to focus more on ways to create for other platforms because you don't have an audience, right? Or at least, you know, I mean, you did, but at the same time, it's pulling new people in versus engaging your current audience and then hopefully getting them to share the message, right? There's almost a balance there between creating original content for yourself, but then also doing it for the people. Yeah, it's like, how do I develop my audience? And then how do I engage my audience? Different things. And so, you know, around a book launch, I probably spent 75% of my time around developing new audiences by creating content and places where I didn't exist. So more people could find out about me. But then I had enough engaging content that I was creating like Instagram. I tried to do a post today, enough engaging content that would make those new people want to stay. And so it's always a balance and I think it depends like, you know, once I'm out of the major push mode, I'll continue to want to have interviews and content in other places to drive more people. But I think it's a me more about engaging and serving the people that I have. It's always, it's always a dance. I think 50-50 is pretty healthy. Yeah, and I know that the, like, this is kind of technical logistical. It's not the most important things, but I think it's certainly helpful and interesting for people to understand what it takes. So obviously, you're doing a lot of interviews. I think you said you did a hundred interviews in one day? Was that, no, no, no, it was like 23. 23 interviews. Yeah, it doesn't matter. At that point, it doesn't matter. It's over 20, it's all to say. So you're packing your days. You're pretty busy in terms of, you know, promoting the book. How do you schedule the post? If you still want to put out a post a day, are using, you know, an online app to push out these posts or are you scheduling them in a different way? I was using it online app, I think I was using later, but I didn't like the lack of control. And so, and I, so I've an assistant who does a lot of my content scheduling for me, my favorite ways to save things as draft and Instagram. And then to go in, because I feel like I'm a real-time writer. Like, today, I highlighted some piece of content. And in two minutes, I wrote the piece that went along with it, but it was like a very real-time. So it's, you know, I don't know if it's the most sustainable approach to be honest. Right now, it's I have my assistant doing certain things on social, like, she'll do the podcast posts or, like, the clips in the story. Some of them. But, you know, right, right now, it's a lot of, like, real-time creation. Yeah, that's, that's, uh, I find that that's tough because it's easy to let it slip. At least for me. I batch content. So I'll create all the content. Usually, like, a week in advance, I'll create a week's worth of content. And then I store it all in drafts and Instagram. Oh, okay. So I think that's actually that, that separates it a little bit where you just take that day to have all the photos ready for the week. And then maybe it's the writing and the editing and kind of putting it out there. And sometimes maybe if you're not feeling inspired, you can just do a couple of emojis. Yeah, post the photo. Yeah. And it's, it's, some of it is all, like, the main idea I want to say is here. But I find that I, like, if I'm in, like, artist art mode, because, like, each piece I like to think of as a piece of art is a different part of me than, like, reflection writing mode. And so I separate those two things. Oh, okay, cool. That's super helpful. Let's do one more question here. Manuel Lopez Vasquez. How do you know when you have an idea worth creating? Hmm. For me, it starts with the feeling in my body where it's just, like, there's this energy around the idea that I can feel inside of me, a sense of energy, enthusiasm. It's like, it just really excites me, but also scares me a little bit. And so it's this blend of, like, oh, I want that so bad. And I'm afraid. And so I feel like, you know, that for me, is just what is directing me toward what matters. And then, you know, a piece of it is also, like, does it land for other people? And so, you know, when I was, when I came up with the idea for this book, and I knew, like, that's it. I also went to people and started hosting different focus groups or just having conversations with people one on one to be like, so here's the idea I'm thinking about. How do you feel about this? And just to get other people's perspective of, like, oh, that part really lands for me. And so it's both, like, having the idea come from me and knowing, like, that's the thing I want to focus on because it's equally terrifying and exhilarating. And it's really landing and resonating for other people. So I think there's something to it. That's great. And to wrap up, let's, we got one book to give away. Yeah. On the show. And then you can sign one from me too. I'm going to keep one of those. Um, okay. I don't know how I'm going to give this away. How about, okay, how about send me a DM on Instagram and tell me a time when you overcame your worry to create something. Yeah. And then maybe maybe like the first word, just say, hey, Amber, right? And then that way I know because otherwise I'm not going to know who if you're messaging about this. Oh, yeah, my, my Instagram is at Met Devel. Perfect. Can I just sign the book? Cool. Awesome. Um, choose one or over worry in book stores now. Congratulations. That's amazing. I'm super excited to get into it. I only read the first chapter, but it's so good. Thank you. And, oh, one more thing. Yeah. Obviously, go buy the book, Amazon, your website. You got lots of stuff. But if people wanted to connect with you online and follow you, where should we send them? Instagram, hey, Amber, so it's H-E-Y-A-N-B-E-R-R-A-E. And I'm also that on Twitter as well. And I love hearing like, what from this interview landed for you? What insight did you take away? What aha moment did you have? Feel free to comment on anything and tell me because I always love hearing from hearing from people. Great. Thank you so much for doing the podcast. Yeah. Thank you. And that's the podcast. Thank you guys so much for listening and for watching. I appreciate you being a part of the show. If you want to help support it, go to iTunes and leave overview. Share it with a friend. Get those Instagram DMs going. Or, no, no. It's Instagram's story. That's what it is. But it comes up as a DM. I should redo the intro. I'm not going to. Anyway, there's actually more. That's right. There's like an extra five minutes at the end of this podcast because I was talking with Amber. She brought up some interesting topics that I figured would be great to explore a little bit further. And I wanted to give her a chance to talk about those topics that were super important to her. So, one of the first times ever, let's do a post podcast podcast. This is Amber Ray. So, this is a bonus. This is the bonus extension of the podcast. First time ever, I think. So, I didn't do a good hosting job. No. Is there anything you would like to add? But you mentioned a couple of topics that are really important to you. And I think really need to be talked about. So, tell me a little bit about what we were just talking about. Yeah. So, my life's work I really see is being around emotional literacy and mastery, which is understanding what our emotions are trying to tell us and the messages beneath them. And I find with so many creatives that these emotions like envy or anger or fear or anxiety, we feel like can stunt us. And I know that for me, I was conditioned to sort of like push the uncomfortable feelings away. Maybe, you know, like take, have the third glass of wine to take the edge off or numb the feelings rather than turn toward them, which is a lot of where this curiosity came from. And these emotions that we sometimes want to push away are actually really useful when we learn to turn toward them. So, envy, for example, I love to think of envy as inspiration and disguise. So, if I'm scrolling through Instagram and I see someone who's doing something that I really want to do, which for a long time was people publishing books. I'd be like, damn them, you know, like, they're doing the thing I want to do, but what that was actually revealing to me is the untapped potential within me. So, whenever we experience envy, we can see that as illuminating something that we can step into if we can move beyond the story that they have it. So, I can't too. It's more, they did it. So, of course, I can too. And so, I remember at one point of my career, actually been creating a, or my exploration journey, an envy map, where I put all the people who I felt envy yourself or secretly inspired by all on a sheet of paper and explained why it was envy. So, it was like Austin Cleon because of, you know, steel like an artist in the way he brought his books to life. And it was Elizabeth Gilbert for her memoir style, Rich Writing. And each person had something a little bit different that I felt envyous of. And when it came to my own work, I was able to take all of those elements, which were, it was just me seeing myself in them, take all of those elements and apply it to the creative work that I was doing. So, in a way, you can reframe how you look at a specific topic to, to almost get, to get strength from it and not a weakness. Totally. Because a lot of times, you know, that was actually one thing that mutual friend could do, he came on the podcast and one thing that took away from that was, I actually, I forced it, I forced him to like give me almost like a coaching session where I'm like, let's talk about, he's like, all right, what do you want to talk about? I was like, sometimes I get anxious, I get anxiety and I feel like nervous about doing interviews and whatever it is, like, there's certain times when I just, I don't, it doesn't feel good. And he said, well, what if you just reframe it and where you just kind of saw that as excitement? Imagine your life without any anxious energy, without any of that feeling of like, oh my god, this is something new. And I feel like if we can do that in every way and just see the silver lining, or it would just kind of flip it, then be much happier people. Totally. It's like, you know, why is anxiety showing up for me? Getting curious about it. Like, I like to think the book Choose Wonder Over Warrior, bring to life warrior and wonder as these two characters. And wonder is our curious and our guide who has three side kicks? One is curiosity. So it's like, if I'm feeling anxious versus being like, oh man, I'm anxious. This means something's wrong. Being like, hey, anxiety, you're here. What's up? Like, oh, I'm really excited. Oh, this is new. Oh, this is a little uncomfortable. Of course, anxiety is going to show up because anxiety points us in a direction of new and growing. It seems like there's almost like a vulnerability movement happening across the board. I might be wrong, but I feel like it comes more intuitive to women to be open and vulnerable and men to repress, hold back, don't let things out. But that seems to be to be changing. What advice would you give to people who are, I guess having trouble opening themselves up and being vulnerable. Both, I would say both to like their family friends, as well as to say their audience. Yeah, um, hmm. I'd say a little bit at a time. It's like, you know, opening up in vulnerability. It's like any muscle. So we go to the gym. We're not going to be like jacked after one or two sessions of working out. But it's like, how can I be a little bit more vulnerable today? How can I expose something that feels just slightly uncomfortable? And like, for me, this is what Instagram and blogging are so useful for. It's like, I put out a post where I'm just a tiny bit more vulnerable. I reveal something that makes me feel like, eh, should I say that? And every time I audience, those are the things that my audience is drawn toward. They're like, that thing you revealed, I'm not alone. Like, I love what you said sometimes I feel anxious before interviews. Now I feel like your audience is going to be like, oh, you know, well, I feel anxious before I do something. So if he can do it, so can I. And that's where I think it's so powerful just to reveal a part of ourselves to our audience, because the audience opens to the artist that is open. And yeah, like you said, just scrolling through social media, we can almost have like a misrepresented view of what we're seeing. Because we see the final product. We see the final polish on it. And we don't see the stress, anxiousness, the doubt that people go through before they create something and put their art in the world. Yeah, which is so natural and part of every creative process. Right. All right. Well, we could go on for another hour. Is there anything else that you want to close on? I feel I feel complete now. I feel pretty good. Okay. I'm so glad that we did this. All right. Thanks again for coming on the show. Of course. And that's it. Yay.
