# The Disciplined Pursuit of Less
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=hsFefdPhL3w
Get the full 1 hr interview w/ Greg:  http://patreon.com/mattdavella


🙊 Here are the goods I mention in this video:
(Some are affiliate links. All are my genuine recommendations): 
Get Greg's book (it's really good):  https://amzn.to/2OU6Gjz

🎥 Credits
Thanks to Joe Nation for helping me capture the b rolls for this video: https://www.youtube.com/charitypants

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** 
**Date:** 2019-03-26

## Transcript
 The justification for slowing down becoming more deliberate, becoming more focused is single, and it's this. If you really believe that a few things are exceptionally valuable and most other things are noise, then you will automatically naturally start to change your behavior. It's about what matters most to you in life. It's not just about less, it's about essential things, essential relationships, essential living. Most of the stuff that's going on is not vital. It's a trivial many verses to fight with few. We sometimes forget that we have a choice. We make decisions impossibly, say yes before we think it through, and burden ourselves with commitment. The end result, we feel overworked, overwhelmed, and stretched tooth in. Greg McEwen is the author of the New York Times' bestselling book, Essentialism, the discipline pursuit of less. In the book, Greg describes an approach similar to minimalism that gets us to take stock of our lives and ask the right questions about where we're spending our time, energy, and effort. He first started thinking about these ideas when he noticed his priorities in life had shifted, seemingly without his control. One of the experiences that led me to really focus on this subject in this book was that, I mean, you know, I got an email from my colleague at the time said, look Friday would be a very bad time for your wife to have a baby because I need you to be at this client meeting between one and two. Look, and I'm sure they were joking. And yet somehow I took it as a responsibility of burden, you know, I got to navigate this balance, this Friday comes along that is when we're in the hospital, my wife just had our daughter where instead of being focused, I allow another passion, another interest to confuse it. And so I go to my shame to the meeting. And even if some great thing had come from that meeting, which in fact it didn't, I surely and clearly, I made a fool's bargain. What I learned from that lesson is the simplest idea, which is if you don't prioritize your life, someone else will. That idea of heightened awareness of what the priority is, and making sure that we aren't just busy pursuing lots of things, but that we are creating space to actually pause and discern, and make sure that we're sleeping enough so that our discernment is intact, so that we can keep on figuring out what is the most important contribution I can make. And so that's what I'm saying. I say, there's an inherent trade-off. When people are just, I'm so interested in something so bad, I have to do more of everything. Yeah, there's an advantage to that for a time, perhaps. But you're giving up something along the way as well. You have to be careful about what you're giving up, because otherwise you wake up one day and you say, my goodness, I've done all these different things, but I basically lost my way. I don't know what it is anymore that I want to do, and you're so consumed, and you've been so consumed, and this happens for years for people's lives, and that they were, why am I even doing this? And they got disconnected. Finding what is essential to our lives is becoming more and more difficult as our world has become more distracting. The tools that we use to be productive can just as easily be used to pacify us. And when we travel with them 24-7, bringing them into bed with us, the truly important things can be lost with the non-essential. And in many ways, this behavior is encouraged. Business has become a badge of honor. When I look at our culture, I would say in America, but I'm sure it's spread pretty far. There is this work hard, hustle, grind it out, busyness, that is promoted. How do you view our hustle culture today? And is that something that you would describe it? When I first came to America, I would ask people how they are. And this is, we're talking almost 20 years ago, and they would say, you know, they'd say, I'm great, great. It was almost like, I'm American. Of course, I'm great. And I liked it. I liked this sort of inherent optimism and positivity. I connected to that. I related to that. But if you ask people now, as often as not, when you ask them how they are, now the first word will be busy. I'm busy. I'm so busy. I'm good, I'm good, but I'm busy. I'm busy. I mean, this whole flavors of busy. And so I do think that something has changed. It's not just in our own mind. Something has significant has changed. And even in those years, I think we've gone from being connected to hyper connected. That's not a small change in the human condition. It shifts from a place where, sometimes we had information overload. Yes, we've had that for a long time, but we're now in a state of opinion overload. And so this is particularly the kind of business that I think is is most potentially harmful. Is where we're busy, not because we just have a sense of internal mission, that matters a sense of contribution that we want to make in the world. It's that we're busy because other people are busy. We're doing things because other people are doing stuff. We see them on social media. Oh, that person's doing this thing. They're in that place. They're pursuing this idea. And so keeping up with the Joneses has been a deep part of human nature. I'm sure forever. But when you add into it this hyper connection, this hyper comparison, then I think it gets to the point where people do feel pretty crazy all the time. People feel busy, but not productive. They feel stretched to thin work or at home, but they don't feel a sense of accomplishment with it. They feel, instead, a constant sense of other people hijacking their agenda. How do we say no to things? Because saying no is really uncomfortable. Saying yes feels good. When somebody says hey, like would love to grab coffee and pick your brain or just chat a little bit. Right. Saying yes leaves you feeling good. leaves them feeling good for the short term. And the long term then when it comes that day when you have to meet up with them, I'm already so busy. I don't have time to do this. I actually think the first thing you have to accept is that we are saying no all the time. And everybody is. What we are not aware of is that we are saying no. Every time I check email, every time I randomly go on social media, every time you get pulled into some binging watching something, you're saying no to stuff. And so in a sense we're quite good at saying no. We just don't use the words no. And so we have to in a way apply that same logic to more important projects, more important work, so that we just pause before saying yeah, I'm going to do that. The first thing we need to learn about saying no is is just within ourselves. If you believe that all things are approximately of the same value, then it's like you're just shoveling coal. You're in a coal bone. You're just trying to get out as much as possible. Your job is to get more and more of it. And the way to do it is just to push more and more shovel more and more. But coming essentially, it's like discovering that you've got your whole life and it's called mine, you suddenly go, it's not called mine. I mean I'm in a diamond mine. Here I was thinking it was all about just how much it's about finding those things that are really precious and valuable and important. And as soon as you suddenly wake up, you're in a diamond mine, you behave your shifts. And that's the same, this is the driver of the communicator's centralist, it's to suddenly see somebody else says, it's difficult to overstate the unimportant of practically everything. There are ideas, get that, get that new thinking in. And as soon as you start to look at the world through that lens, you find, yep, that is in fact far closer to reality. The most of the stuff that's going on is not vital. It's a trivial many verses to fight with you. And I think it's not just one more thing to figure out what those vital few things are. It is the work of life. Figure out what they are, eliminate what they aren't and build a system that protects and enables you to pursue those things that you've said I'm most important. To get my full one hour uncut interview with Greg McEwen, go to patreon.com slash mattheabella and sign up at the exclusive videos tier. You'll also get access to extra videos every month, including behind the scenes, personal vlogs, and my private AMA. There's a link down in the description below. Thanks for watching, and I'll see you next time. Thanks for watching, and I'll see you next time.
