# Should I keep it?
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=HUWxurkRwmE
Submit your film on Twitter using #weekendfilmfest
Tag Us... http://twitter.com/colinandsamir & https://twitter.com/mattdavella

The Rules:
1. Make a film about a commitment you've made or are going to make.
2. Upload to Twitter with the hashtag #weekendfilmfest
3. Must be 60 seconds or less.
4. Must be uploaded by 5pm PST Sunday 1/27

Thanks to Colin & Samir for helping me launch it:  http://youtube.com/colinandsamir


Hi my name's Matt & I make videos on this channel every week about minimalism, lifestyle design & habits. Subscribe if you'd like to see more from me.

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** behind the scenes, creative, creator, creators, documentary, film, filmmaker, filmmaking, freelance, freelance life, freelancer, hustle, silver play button, giveaway, film festival, competition, weekend film fest, colin & samir, colin and samir, matt davella, Matt D'Avella, 
**Date:** 2019-01-25

## Transcript
 So, this right here is my silver play button. This is awarded to those who passed 100,000 subscribers on YouTube and it really, it's an amazing milestone and it's one that I didn't pass lightly in one that I'm still amazed with to look back on today that I was actually able to do it. Obviously, I have a lot more than 100,000 subscribers now. YouTube just took a little bit of a long time to make this, but that's because it was made with care. But here's the thing, like it's great. I love it to me. It means so much. It means more to me, though. The fact that I've been able to connect with so many people, this is just a symbol of that. And for me, when I look around my apartment, I feel like it just, it doesn't really fit the decor. I mean, I know I got the rock frame there. It just doesn't feel like it would match everything. So, what I want to do is actually give this away to one of you guys. And I don't want to just give it away, though. I've got a little bit of an idea for how you can actually win this. So, let me just, I'll tell you on the road. We'll head there and then I'll fill you in. So, one of the things that has driven me the most in creating for this YouTube channel as well as my podcast is inspiring people to overcome that doubt and just get started. So, whether you are a photographer or you're simply trying to build healthy habits in your life, there's a lot that holds us back. And my friends Colin and Samir have done an amazing job of encouraging people to take action. After attending South by Southwest Film Festival, they were inspired to create a festival of their own, but they wanted to make it more accessible, so they brought it to Twitter. We can to film Fest was born. Take whatever camera you have, go out, film something, edit it, and send it our way right here on Twitter. A 48-hour film festival that's motivated hundreds of creatives to get started. So, I'm on my way right now to their studio so they can help me launch a film festival today. Hey, dude. I'm vlogging like you guys. Wow. Yeah. So, are you doing all right? Yeah, it's in focus. Oh, great. Here it is. Wow. Thanks, man. So, this is for us. You guys have one of these? Yeah, we don't have one that says Matt Diavella. Yeah, so we'd like to give it to special guests. This is the one I've always wanted. You were just going to be having a conversation. I guess, is it cool with my knee up? Yeah, it's very casual. It was sudden. This feels like if we were part of a drawing class and we had to make a portrait of you. We were like, if you could just put one knee right and elbow to knee. And take your shirt off. Tell me a little bit about weekend, film fest. Specifically, what you guys think makes it so special. One thing we didn't realize was going to happen was that people would start uploading, but then there was going to be active members of the community who were also there just liking, commenting, retweet it. And you realize, sometimes it's really hard to push yourself to create something and put it out online when you're putting it out into like a black hole, right? If you're just starting on YouTube, it's going to be really hard to start to garner an audience. But when you put it out into, you know, onto Twitter and you hashtag we can film fest and it's a part of this community, then people are going through who have submitted and watching the other submissions. So you can kind of have built an audience no matter what. In addition to having a really supportive audience, what I love about weekend film fest is the constraints. There's an immediate deadline. There's a video length requirement and there's a theme to base your film around. There's a myth that constraints restrict your creativity. When in fact, they do the exact opposite. That's when creativity is most important. When you've got a limited budget, finite amount of time and a big problem to solve. So when we give you the constraints and you have a deadline, it makes you kick into high gear, you only have 48 hours to create this. And if you've always had some idea, now you have to just get up, do it, turn it into something tangible. And once you do that, you can actually then build upon that. We're also in this age when there are so many options presented to us at all times. Even just scrolling in Instagram, you see so many different styles of life. You could be living types of content. You could be making. And you can't do all of them at once. Like you only learn from actually committing and starting and trying and then getting better. But if you try and attack every outlet at one time for your creativity, you can't actually progress. In the past, Collin and Samir have given away tripods, cameras, and special shoutouts. This weekend, we're giving away my signed silver play button. And I'll be honest, I don't know if anyone actually wants this thing. If you win and you don't want it, you can trade it for a pack of gun. So we need a prompt for this weekend. What are people going to make a film about? So the theme for this weekend is commitment. This plaque represents your commitment to your creativity and your idea. And so we want to hear from people an idea that they've committed to or an idea that they're going to commit to from this film. There are a lot of constraints that are piled into this weekend film fest. What are they looking like? So videos have to be 60 seconds or less uploaded to Twitter and you have to hashtag we can film fest. The videos also have to be submitted by 5pm Pacific time. And I think bonus points if you make us laugh. 100. Yeah. We can't film fest this weekend. Like right now it starts right now. It ends at 5pm Pacific time on Sunday. Make a video about something that you have committed to or an idea you want to commit to from here on out. hashtag we can film fest 60 seconds or less uploaded to Twitter. We can't wait to see what you guys make. Call you got nothing. I said everything. I was going to say 60 seconds and then Twitter and you can win this. And the winner gets this. And the winner gets this silver play button. you
