# Ground Up 009 - The War Against Clickbait w/ Billy Disney
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Hw-82PJxS1g
http://www.groundupshow.com

This week on The Ground Up Show I’ve got Billy Disney. He was an early influencer of video content at companies like The Verge and Mic.com. Now he’s an executive producer for one of the strangest and most innovative media companies on the web called The Outline. We talk about how he built relationships and leveraged his skills to create opportunities where none existed.

Billy is on the Internet:  http://www.billyd.tv
Watch his videos on The Outline:  http://www.theoutline.com

More from me:  https://www.mattdavella.com
Podcast:  https://www.groundupshow.com
Twitter: https://www.twitter.com/mattdavella
Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/mattdavella
Facebook: https://fb.me/matthewdavella

Music Credits
Hip Hop Old School by Carlsbro
Keep Fallin by The Passion HiFi
That Hip-Hop by Diplodocus
**Keywords:** the ground up show, ground up, podcast, billy disney, the outline, Matt D'Avella, matt davella, film, filmmaking, the verge, creative, video content, strategy, how to make it, 
**Date:** 2017-04-11

## Transcript
 Alright, this is the moment I like, really go for it. I guess this week is Billy Disney. You might not know his name, but you've definitely seen his videos. Billy was an early influencer of video content at companies like the Verge and Mike.com, but not everyone bought into his vision from the beginning. I don't think anyone else gets like what this could be, but this is like a whole another category of web video. So what did he do when no one would give him permission? He did it anyway. I was just like, no, we're like doing it now, and I just like started making stuff, just became real because we kind of just like, wield it. He learned early on that he couldn't do it alone. He put like a lot of time and energy and heart into developing these relationships. For me, it's really worth it. That's the thing. That's the thing I value the most. This is the ground up show. Today on the show, I have the other Disney Billy Disney, not Walt. It's right. Welcome to the show. Thank you. You get that a lot. Yes. In fact, that's my email address is Billy and not Walt. Right. I've embraced it now. I used to hate it. Really? The younger? Yeah, I was just like, I don't know. When you're younger, anything predictable is like annoying to you. Right. But now it's like, oh yeah, and I don't have to think to have some small talk with you for a few minutes. This is great. It's a great name. You ever know that feeling when you watch somebody's work and then it's so good that you just hate it and you hate that person. That's how I feel when I watch most of your videos. Okay, great. I'm like God damn it. This is next level. The stuff that you're doing is really good. Thank you. I've been doing it for a really long time. It's not like the first thing I decided I wanted to be when I was a kid, but it was like the culmination of all the things that I like to do, like I would mix music from my friends or like, you know, I would make like websites and stuff and so like videos specifically like digitally distributed video just kind of was like the culmination. It was like the right timing though too, because I think I think we'd probably went to school around the same time where we graduated from the same school the same year. Yeah, I didn't know you at all. Wait, really? Yeah. Well, I think, did you do communications? We, oh, you mean temple? Yeah. I mean, scary. For some reason, I was thinking about high school. Yeah, we went to the same level. Yeah. I was like, you threw me in a locker once, but I never, I was like, I was going to say, I was like, yeah. Honestly, I got really nervous. I was like, oh my God. I'm such an asshole. I was such a cool kid back then. Yeah. Mom's were best friends. Exactly. Oh my God. I'm pretty sure I knew that we went to temple. Yeah, I was in film. Yeah, I only took one film class. And I think, are you happy that you did film? Because I know that I took one film class and it was, there's a different group of people than the mass communications group. Yeah, I mean, film school is like, it, like, if you made a list of all the stereotypes of film school, for most people I talk to, like, they can check every box on that whole list. Like my first, I remember my very first class film 101. It's like in a big auditorium, and I got there pretty early, and then this guy comes in. It sits in the front row and he has like a beret on me and I'm like, all right, strap in. This is what the next four years are going to be like. Yeah, the one class I took, everybody was wearing a black sweater. I was like, is this, I can't, and then, you know what's funny is that I'm not like really a filmy or like a film head, and, but like, everybody in this class was. So I had, we had to write a paper and critique one film, and I'm not good at that. And I'm just, and I, I don't really, I watch movies, but it's not like with really that much of a critical eye, I would say. Right. So I did like reservoir dogs, which is like the most cliche choice, and I'm pretty sure that's why I got to see in that class. What was your experience like though, in, in film school, because doing broadcast journalism is like I'm running around to film the soccer games, interviewing the star soccer players at like a division three school, what was it like in the film department, what kind of projects we're working on? At least at Temple, like it was valuable, there was like a lot of things like, you know, like we'd shoot on Rolex cameras, which would force you to like figure out how to light things. If I'm being completely honest, I didn't, like, I was like, I should figure out how to do this in this little time as possible when I was there. Like, I was like, I think I should do this, but I don't want to be here the whole time. I was like, I was always trying to figure out how to graduate early. Oh, did you? No. But that was the plan. But yeah, you know, I mean, if I was planning to graduate in four years, who knows, I'd still be there. Right. When you were in college, did you do a lot of side projects and personal projects? It sounds like you were always kind of dabbling, whether making music or websites? Yeah, that was, that was the thing, and I think that's like the, that was like the ancillary benefit that was like hard to predict and is like hard, hard to like assign a certain value to, probably not worth the like cost of debt that I ended up with, but it allowed me to start doing a bunch of other projects that were more serious and so I just tried to keep busy with that stuff. So I was always like more focused on what I was doing outside of school, even though like being a film student somehow gave me like a certain level of credibility where people would pay me a few hundred dollars to do something or like let me be their intern or whatever. I went to Bloomsburg first and then I transferred to Temple. But when I went to Bloomsburg, it was just nobody there, like did stuff on their own. They just did whatever they had to do in class, whatever was written in the course syllabus and that was it. And I feel like a lot of the people that I look at that have like progressed rather quickly or that didn't have problems getting jobs right out of college was because that they were already like they weren't just doing whatever everybody else is doing. Yeah, that was kind of my experience where like we would have a class where, you know, like the whole class, the whole semester you're supposed to come out with like one project. And I got, I was like, I went down this path because the things I enjoyed in like grade school were projects like I did terrible and everything else, but I was good at like writing or like giving a presentation or like making a poster or whatever. Then I got to film school and it's like, oh yeah, we're going to have one project this whole semester and to me, I was like, I don't want to just like come in, you know, like once a week put in like an hour on it and then like I could put six hours in on this like tonight and get it done and then like go do something else. So we graduate in 2010 and I didn't actually graduate in the spring. I had missed two classes that the two credits that I needed and do you know what my last two classes were? It was like beginner algebra and weightlifting. That was what I needed to get my mask communications made or weightlifting. Yeah, well, it was like a some channel recreational and I destroyed the weightlifting. I certainly missed it. It's a really neat weightlifting. But I didn't know you'd like go to like like your student advisor and maybe like, well, so it looks good, but like, do you even lift? Bro, let's see that on here and then it's like you have to say for the summer. So then that was another $10,000 just to do $10,000 to the weightlifting and algebra, but that's just, it's, I can only blame myself because I could have looked earlier like two three years earlier and said, okay, what do I need to finish it? I take up a couple of extra credits. Like you, it's a hard to rationalize the debt that you, that you get into and to say, yeah, that was a great idea, but I think I look at like where we are now and I think the connections we were able to make at that time, the stuff you're able to do outside of school, the people you're able to meet, I think that's what makes it worth it. Yeah, it's almost like helpful to have permission for a few years to just accumulate as much debt as you possibly could have, like that's what you're supposed to do. Exactly, that's what you're supposed to do. It's got to be a middle ground there, so. Right, yeah. The most valuable thing was, like, I would just apply to random, like Craigslist ads and stuff. And I don't know if that's exactly advisable, but it threw me in all of these just like completely random, unpredictable situations that I think. I need more details because it's going to be anything. Yeah, yeah, so like one of the first things that I remember doing as like an internship was I applied for this thing on Craigslist that was like, work with this music company and make videos. And I was like, that's awesome. I love music, I love videos. And it was just like these two guys that basically like made a fake company so that they could get backstage into concerts and like interview. It's actually brilliant. Yeah, yeah, it was like, they both had like other jobs. They weren't making any money from it, but they're like, we could just like get unpaid college interns off of Craigslist and like have them bring whatever cameras they have access to and I just wound up in so many random situations like, you know, they called me one day and we're like, hey, would you like to go shoot video at Bonnaroo? And I was like, that's awesome. You guys got credentialed to shoot video at Bonnaroo and they're like, no, well, no. But we're going to go and we're going to figure it out. We always figure it out. So I was like, okay, I just learned how many things people can get away with, which is sometimes useful. They went to the hotel where all the artists stay at Bonnaroo and they had like a, what was called a netbook at the time, which isn't even a thing anymore, but they had a netbook and a printer like hooked into the car through the cigarette lighter and they took a picture on a digital camera of like the badge on the front of the car. Holy cow. That gets you access to be able to drive backstage into Bonnaroo. These guys are next level. Yeah. And so they like took a picture, like printed it out, like taped it on the inside of the window and then they would just like drive in and they could just drive like right back stage, which is terrifying. Yeah. Was there ever a time where you did something like, we're maybe filming or otherwise, we're like, this is like, I'm going to get in trouble to initiate. No, I mean, sticking with that same example, like that same trip, they, they like basically didn't hesitate to throw me into all kinds of situations like they were like, okay, we need an interview with this band. They want trumes. That's the only way they'll do the interview, figure it out. And so like they would make you do that. Yeah. In a video intern. Yeah. A trume run. Right. Yeah. And like I didn't, I hadn't bought trumes at a festival before. So I would, I, this is the first time. Yeah. Now you've done it many times. Yeah. I had to like do a little, you know, like asking around, like, you know, what's the process like, and the advice that the friendly, like, tent dwellers of Bonnaroo gave me was that you just like, they were like, just find the first person who's walking around by themselves with a backpack on, I was like, oh, okay, and that was all it took. But I'm probably lucky like that that was the extent of the stuff. I probably would have done far crazy. You would have to, I mean, I might have killed a guy, yeah. You might have, yeah, if you had to. If they, or at least if they asked you. I guess I have to do that now. Yeah. One of the reasons why I was excited to talk with you was because you went down a path that was a path that I wanted to go down. And I tried to at least write in college and after college, I applied for jobs at like, college humor. And these companies that are doing video in a really cool way. And then I got turned, I just got turned down by everybody. It was just very difficult to get a job. And then I started to pick up some freelance jobs here and there. And eventually was able to start doing that full time. You've worked at some really amazing companies that are doing video in incredible ways. So what was that process like of even getting that your first foot in the door? My move was always, I always approach places that weren't doing any video at all. And it was like the one that tried to convince them to do it. Or were just at the beginning stages of it. And I like tried to convince them that it could be something bigger. My first full-time job at a school was for this company, Viddler, which you had done some work for. That's how we know each other. When the iPhone came out, I went to the Apple Store just to see what the scene was. I couldn't afford one or anything. But I was just like, this seems like a cultural moment. I should go and just see what's going on here. And I met the founders of the company there. And so from there, I was able to convince them to let me do some freelance work. And I recruited some friends to help me with that. And I remember, because so you had left Viddler, and you started working on some other companies. But I remember like coming on board and looking at videos. And I'm like, fuck, man, these are good. Like what are you guys? Sometimes I'll work with clients who have done video and had other film makers work with them before. And you look back at their work, and it's terrible. And you're like, oh, this is going to be great. This is going to be easy to make something that is better than that. But when I saw your work, I was like, shit. Now I have my work put out for me. I really have to kick ass on these projects. Because you put a lot into this. I credit my friend and who I'm actually working with now, Jordan Oplinger, with a lot of that because he basically shot all of those. I was like a terrible shooter at the time. But I knew it. My thing was like, I was good at editing. So I played to that strength. And I was also good at convincing people to let me do things. So I was like, yeah, I'll convince them. Then I'll hire you, Jordan. Then we'll edit it. And hopefully it'll turn out great. You work with Vittler for a bit. And then what was the next step after that? Working there was really valuable because I got to meet a lot of people who were doing online video and who were in media and got like, I was always kind of into web stuff and into video and followed it pretty closely. But this job let me actually meet some of those people because they were their clients. And I was like profiling them and stuff. So the same thing happened to me. Oh, really? Yeah, it was at the TechCrunch, guys. Or was it? What was the connection that you got? Engage it. Engage it. That was it. Right. Right. And this was kind of spawned this whole thing. For me, I did a testimonial like a client profile with envision. Who, I don't know if you know envision, but we just did a feature length document. Yeah, like I got them because of the vida profile. But it's just crazy how those kind of one meetings can. Yeah, I mean, yeah. And I begged for a while, but I knew they were about to do something new like that they were going to, like they had all left AOL, which on's end gadget. And like there's rumors that they were going to do something new. So I was like, all right, this is like, this is the moment I like really go for it. Because it seemed really exciting. Like they were going to build a new thing from the ground up. And so I was just like emailing them just like just checking in regularly. I would help them with random stuff. And yeah, and eventually I got a job out of it. I got like a promise of a job. And I quit my job, which is like a thing. I've done a couple of times, which is not advisable. If we're giving advice, like maybe wait till the like the job is real. All these people were starting the verge. And that was like my first like New York media company experience. And so I managed to get in before they launched. And was like helping how with stuff as they built up to launch. But like originally they were like, yeah, video. I mean, video is important, but I don't know if it's a priority right away. And I mean, there was plenty of people. Chad Mom who still at Vox was like obviously like really probing up video and like trying to make it a big part of the company. And did and has and continues to. But like, I think people were just like, I don't know. We got to like figure out what our brand is first and like what what our voice is. And like, and then we'll like hire some video people down the road maybe. And I was just like, no, we're like doing it now. And I just like started making stuff, started recruiting friends. And it just yeah, it just went from there. It just became real because we kind of just like wield it. You just started doing it. And this is like this is like it's hard to like describe how important video is the verge. Like even now and like at that time at the very beginning, I can't believe it's just kind of it's hard to imagine that that wasn't like the most one of the most important things that they were thinking about at the time. Yeah, they were planning to do like the show like they did a talk show. But beyond that, they weren't really sure. It was kind of just, I mean, at the time, a lot of like tech blogs and and tech news sites. Like the move was to just have the writer like hold a camera above the phone or whatever they're reviewing and just kind of like just handheld style like do a review. And so we just came in and just started like now we're going to like we're going to make a shot list and we're going to have all these like fancy shots of the thing. And then we're going to like track on text with like stats. And then that became like a whole thing like now that it's like all over the place. Like you see like just random youtubers doing that. So you know, I was really proud to just like be there. It seems like a silly thing now like phone reviews or whatever, but like it was like a category that didn't really exist the way it exists now and we had just like this like moment in time that we could just seize and like make it. Yes. And there was just a quality and a style to those videos that I don't think you really saw with media companies before that. And now you've worked at like every single media company I think in New York. Like everyone that's like doing really cool videos. Because you kind of I you see that style like among all of them now and it just wasn't there. It was really just me at first and then my friend Jordan who I worked with on the Villa stuff was like I was like dude we got it. We got to do this. It seems like a great opportunity. We're like yeah, we're just going to make these reviews like as insane as possible. And then we tried to do we wanted to make sure that that didn't seem like the only type of thing. We were doing like we instantly were like let's not be limited by the artists. So a writer was going to Kansas to see these decommissioned nuclear missile silos that the government had like fire sold to random people for like really cheap. And then those people were turning them into like apocalypse bunkers. One guy was like building a condo like a multi-level condo inside a old nuclear missile silo. And they were like oh this seems visual. Billy maybe you should just like go and like shoot some b-roll and I was like wait a second like I'm not just going to go shoot b-roll like this is a story. He's so crazy. I had always wanted to get into more like documentary stuff so I was like this is such a good story like this is crazy. So it was my first four-day into that and I basically had to like convince them to let me bring Jordan and that was like a process. Like I said no to like three or four times but eventually like I made a good enough case for it. I don't think anyone else gets like what this could be but this is like a whole another like category of web video we can like to see on the ground floor of. So we just did it and yeah we made like this little dock and it went up on the launch day of the site and I think it really like cemented that they were about video the company more broadly was about video and it wasn't just like you know whatever the lowest hanging fruit is like there's a new iPhone like we'll get a million views that we do a video and the iPhone is like we're also doing these big ambitious stories and now you see that stuff all over the place and obviously like vice was already around there's already like places doing it but I don't think there was like a wide range of it and I don't think a lot of people like really thought that it was like a viable thing to be doing within a media company right so it felt it felt awesome it was like if it I don't know that's when I fell in love with like journalism and being part of like a journalistic team because like you have access to these stories and these people that really understand storytelling and these opportunities come up that you can just like jump on and just like go all along. You pushed really hard to make this stuff happen and to bring this stuff to life and it's just like wonder what would have happened like with the verge have really focused on video maybe would have just been iPhone videos or maybe like it eventually it seems as if that's the way the trend that these media companies and journalism companies have been going they may have been just too slow to catch up to get it right was this this is kind of an inevitable thing to happen but you would just at the very beginning when it yeah exactly like it just like I could see the opportunity of it and like yeah maybe if I didn't do it they wouldn't have done it for like three more months or six more months or whatever but like somebody eventually would have seized that opportunity and so I was I just felt very fortunate to be like in the right place of the right time to just be like yes that's the thing let's focus on this and just go for it. I think it's cool that you had like your buddy Jordan there for a pretty long and that's like what what I've found to be true is that it's like if you're just doing this stuff by yourself it's not really fun but to like be able to go out and like film in this nuclear silo bunker like it's somebody else they're able to share in that experience and it seems like you've kind of had that throughout your career now right where it it seems like a lot of the people that you work with they seem to overlap at the same companies absolutely that's the thing to me that's like exciting about working at these places is one just like the opportunity to work on like a specific kind of story that's hard to you know otherwise might be like once in a lifetime as a filmmaker but you like have access to like all these journalists who are like working on stories all the time that and then like the opportunity to try to build a team like a support of team around making films out of that opportunity that's kind of this is like what I'm most ambious about I think is that because I still do for the most part work by myself yeah I've got a company it's called Catalyst but it's just me and that just allows me to charge clients more money yeah but that's like one thing that I would love to have and I'm curious about what your experience has been like kind of what are some of the challenges and what are some of the benefits of working with a team and now your your video team is relatively small you three people but you've worked with bigger teams before yeah yeah I mean it's really hard it's hard to like scale up a good team the reasons I would leave certain jobs is because the way the team was shake out or like this like either like the team was going to be broken up or like there was like new initiatives that I like didn't I didn't quite agree on as like the future of like where we could build the team to so it's tough like it's you put like a lot of time and energy and heart into like developing these relationships but I mean ultimately it's like for me it's really worth it that's the thing that's the thing I value the most this might even get technical which is fine but I'm curious about how you build these teams because I think it probably differs pretty much from me when when you're a freelancer and you're hiring other freelancers especially you're staying small you tend to just hire generalists they'd know a little bit about everything they can do a little bit of animation a little bit of editing a little bit of shooting if they're great at all of them that's that's amazing but it's pretty rare um when you're actually hiring and building these teams so I know that you guys hire at some of these companies you'll hire animators and you're you'll hire um people who are just editors or people who are just shooters right and like so what's the I imagine you start small you guys are probably all generalists at your current company like three of you guys you do everything yeah but beyond that and when you're building it out what are these different parts of the team that you would add on first that's the thing I'm still trying to figure out is like what's the right formula for building like a healthy efficient creative team one of the best like opportunities for like myself at the verge was getting to go to Pixar and like learn a bit about how Pixar works because it's a really fascinating company and it was kind of like we you know they were just they brought us in because they wanted to promote their new movie monsters university but but getting to see the company then I was like oh I got to read the book and like I got to like learn more because we would meet all these people who had been there for 30 years and then then I started to learn like some of them started in one department and ended up in like a completely different department and that was like a thing built into the DNA of the company where you know they didn't want people to just like burn out on their interest in a particular thing especially within a company like at a certain point like you hit a ceiling but I think the great thing in a creative field is that like your skills can be applied to different things and so they have like classes where you can learn how to do you know different parts of the production and then you can actually start to work on them and so if you wanted to switch from one department to the other you can so I think that's what I've always tried to figure out is like you know collaborate with people who are sort of generalists or at least like have a generalist mentality in that they they find creative happiness in just dabbling and whatever but but then you know for certain things you need to focus what people are working on so I think having some kind of fluidity to it is important but it's really hard to yeah yeah so why didn't you ever go into the freelance world I mean you have dabble to a little bit but um you decided not to to go that route yeah I started in freelance but I don't I don't think I'm very good at it maybe it was just because I was young but uh yeah I mean it was like when I was in school so I was already accumulating debt and then I was not like asking for a lot of money for things so it's like the money I was making was basically like nonsense money it was like gas money I like to think big picture and I like to get consumed in like the project I'm working on and just like tunnel vision into a project but thinking like the just like one step away or like you know what's happening next week or next month not what's happening in five years or what's happening now but like what's happening in a little bit um has always been the most challenging thing for me and I think that's like a really like essential skill as a freelancer otherwise you not only do you just not end up with work you'd up but you also find yourself in this like emotional roller coaster of like the highs and lows of having fulfilling work and then just being left like in a void of of nothing way like welcome to my life yeah like I mean uh yeah when I quit the verge I spent six months like trying to figure out like should I try to start a production company I like dabbleed in that with a few of my friends we like took on some freelance but like maybe one day it'll make sense for me I think there's like some skills I have to accumulate though before I could do it and like reliably make a living it is it is a very difficult path and it's a long one where like the first year I made like five thousand dollars right which was amazing I was like oh my this is incredible like I'm rich right and then I moved home with my parents right and I was like all right let's just see if I can slowly build this thing up but it's just very very slow in the beginning there might be a quicker way around it and some people might get lucky and build it up even quicker but I think that you have to be a little bit patient man I could say like I have maybe the next two months planned but then after that I don't like I really that's much better than I ever managed to do yeah I had like a project that I was working on and then maybe like a phone number of someone you know yeah it's always scary though when you finish all the work and then because normally you're kind of going from one project to the next or at least when you're busy but when you just you're like that's it I've got all my work done and I have like I was never good at that like I'm not gonna call somebody or I'm not gonna email and try to get work cold calling and does that to me is just the it's unappealing I just I feel bad for talking the person asking them for something yeah and most of the time it doesn't work because these are people that aren't like you work for you in the beginning when you're working for these large companies when you can for some reason you just kept pushing them in the right right well that's I think that was the thing for me that was a big part of it why I kind of like steered away from freelance was that I had the ambition and just like I had the ambition to reach out to random people who I barely knew and like beg them for work but I didn't want to like beg for work I wanted to like pitch them on some big idea and it was much easier for me to do that as like this could be a vital part of your company and you should hire me like help do it so I think I I often just ended up pitching like these like really grand ideas and that in a strange way was like easier for me than just being like hey do you have any like shoots coming up where you need a shooter which I don't I don't know why any of those people trusted me like I was just figuring it out so yeah now but I think that's what you have to do is at the beginning you have to just fake it and it's a pretend like you know what you're doing just at confident that's why I like I I try to be pretty brief if I'm talking to somebody on the phone like and especially if somebody asks me for a like oh what's that's gonna cost and I know I'm gonna I'm gonna downplay it in my lying well I think it's it might call it might if if it's okay with you I like to charge you there's much right and I could be much more confident I just send an email and be like this is what it costs right but I think that there are a lot of subtleties in terms of like language and how you communicate that are pretty important especially early on when you don't know what you're doing and you're just making it yeah totally and now having to like having to interview people and try to figure out like who's a who's the valuable employee I realize that like one of the most valuable things for people to do if they're trying to get a job from someone and want to be trusted with something big is like just get on the same page and like assert that you understand their values and you share those values but you also have like opinions and ideas of your own and so I think that was the thing I was just good at bullshitting and it worked out it wasn't like a strategic thing I was just like I just had a lot of ambition them would just like be sitting around a two a.m. and shoot out an email to someone or like queue it up so that it goes out at six a.m. so I would say a thing yeah definitely done that where like I'm like late on a project and I'm like working through the night I'm working till like like 4 a.m. and I'm finished with it but I'm like I'm not sending this to them now because I want them to think I have my shit together so I just know where I get for like 8.32. I do rise early. So just for me and it's just to understand kind of where you the companies that you work for and there's all of me just to kind of put together a timeline but you did Vittler for a bit and then you went to the verge after that and then from verge me and a couple other people that had left just like or trying to figure out what to do next like we all just left without a plan so me and my friends Regina Delay and Sam Thonis just ended up you know just like hanging out talking about what we could be doing just trying to be a support system for each other because I was driving myself completely crazy like I had like sprinted so hard for three years and then just like getting off the treadmill I had no I was completely disoriented like I had to just like go on random blocks just to like not drive myself crazy and I was just like editing all kinds of just random stuff that I didn't have any plans to put anywhere I just had this like itch that I like needed to do something usually I feel like after a huge project or say working at a company like that and then leaving you kind of at least for me there's an excitement to be done with it and to be like relieved and they're like oh cool I'm just going to like do nothing now but then you just like you're you have to do something like a week goes by I compare it to like going when you're in college and when you get off for school break it's like that was it was cool for a week or two but then you're like I got to fill my summer something I got to do a good job right so yeah what did you do from that at that point I don't know we were making a lot of pitches but I think the success I had and just like randomly pitching people on stuff when I was younger was suddenly a lot harder because like the scale had changed like we were all more expensive like our ideas were bigger our I mean I had big ideas early on but it was like oh we're gonna start here and then we'll build to that and it's like I had like bigger day one plans and you know I think we had like a certain standard and this is the industry had changed and there's more competition and so I was doing that for maybe like six months and we got like lots of bites and lots of good leads but like a lot of it was just like yes this will be a thing soon like let's keep in touch but you guys are also in New York City right yeah exactly very expensive and there's like so long right that's so much runway that you could have before you need to really you know get a job or make work right yeah we booked enough work to like not take too much of a hit but I was probably booking the least just because I was like the biggest with my ambitions and then we I just called emailed this company Mike and my c.com and they they hadn't I just noticed that I was like oh wait this is a media company in New York that isn't doing any video yet like they hadn't done any video at all and I was like that seems like an opportunity so I managed to like get in the door there like talk to some people there and they were like really into it but they didn't know where to start but then a freelance opportunity came up where they like the CEO of starbucks was coming in they wanted to do an interview and so we just did that freelance and then we ended up like booking a month or two of just like full-time freelance with them and then decided like oh this seems like another opportunity to like try to build a team within a young company that doesn't have a video team yet so wow and how many people were at Mike at that time because I remember when you guys hired me for what is it what do you could call it like Mike's 50 the Mike 50 right but it was I guess because you guys could do it because you guys are journalists so branded branded content right so you guys hired me for this branded content piece yeah and I remember the company it seemed pretty big like there was over a hundred people I think on the floor there yeah I think they were like right in that like gross part face I think it may have been like 30 people or something yeah maybe even less when we walked in there probably less man yeah yeah this is like the story of your life right just like randomly asking people hey can I make videos for you and then you're like yeah sure right that's higher your whole team so they hired all three yeah I mean usually there's like a lot of like nose and babies in between there but like certain ones if you're persistent with I at least like lucked out and I think there's a lot of right is that you're going to people are going to say no a lot and then you just have to keep kind of pounding through yeah that's so cool so then you regina was it Jordan as well no so he actually ended up going to Reddit and um helping develop a video team he's still there that Reddit no so now we're both at I'll get out of line now I mean that's so cool yeah this is made it back together yeah what kind of projects are you working on at Mike um yeah so it was kind of a clean slate when we started and so we just decided to try to make shows so there was like this really incredible journalist activists like web presence Liz Plank who worked there she's now Vox and we all kind of like quickly became friends with her but also recognized like this like this person is great on video and it's like great with video teams and like developing the ideas I mean like in front of the camera which is like as the team of people who's behind the camera you're always like desperate for the right kind of person this isn't making it so much easier it really does everything and so um and she like could do both you know like producing the stuff um and so I'm like remembering this now because you guys did like this is like you guys like invented this format of like the walk and talk on the street right like like the kind of steady cam shot opening and then it goes into the story like this is a format I don't think that was really done much before that is that right yeah not a lot and actually at the time like hardly anyone was doing Facebook videos kind of like new territory there weren't like any direct ways to remember yeah even at the time like you're learning this too because I remember Regina was when I was working on the mic 50 she was saying like oh shit I forgot to upload the subtitles to Facebook because the video is play silently and there's so many different things you have to navigate and yeah you guys really took on the Facebook video yeah and at first it was so frustrating it was like like Facebook videos started to blow up but they were it took them a while they'll like figure out the product so it was like it was I think it was like on mobile you got the the subtitles when it auto played but desktop you didn't which is why so many people ended up baking subtitles into videos and they eventually like fixed it so that's more uniform but then the style had already existed and that was always kind of like against it both just like aesthetically like as a filmmaker like didn't want to put a bunch of text on top of the burn it in yeah the burn I didn't want to burn it in but also like from an accessibility standpoint you know it's better for that stuff to be actual data that you know someone's seeing impaired like their software can like read the file also for SEO like search engines can crawl that stuff and make it easier for find the stuff yeah so you know there's all these frustrations with it as a new format but it was a great opportunity there to like figure out how to do it because we I think we had maybe toyed with it a little bit when I was still at Vox Media but we hadn't it wasn't really like a big thing like the push was still like either on platform or YouTube and then obviously now Facebook videos like get the thirst for Facebook videos well that's unquenchable I would like to actually get some advice now because this is really for me the first time creating original content and sharing it and then I like this is something that you've been a part of for a while it was like you create the content you guys also have to figure out where to what platform do we share it on when do we share it and all these things so it's like do you guys even share YouTube videos on Facebook anymore or it's like it's not even worth it to share the link because there's only a certain percentage of people that are going to see it versus if you actually upload the video yeah I generally try to do native on the platform whenever possible even sweater like you're going to upload it right to sweater you're going to upload it right to Instagram or like a one minute cut of that video and then you know you go link in the bio to see the full video I don't think you guys do that sometimes you know if you're making a lot of content you can tell me every hour you're changing but yeah so what's your like general strategy in terms of the pushing of the content so you make this content that's interesting and engaging and then how to share it like it was certain times when it's best to share these videos or do you guys you're going to just anarchists and you just throw it out there yeah like I said we try to do like whatever's the most native to the platform sometimes it can be really frustrating like Twitter's kind of at the stage the Facebook video was at where it's like it doesn't have native subtitle support you can't do a video it's over 10 minutes even to do like a video it's over like two and a half minutes or something you need like a special account so there's like a lot of just like weird hurdles but it's like the stuff performs so much better if you just do it the like the way the platform wants you to do it right so there's nothing like there's no system or platform that will push it to all of them is there like you have to go to Facebook go to Twitter go to Instagram go to Reddit and like give the post them all on these sites separately yeah exactly well yeah and there's some tools but they're always kind of clunky yeah and yeah and I think it's getting harder to build those tools I remember like back in the day when I was first starting there's this tool called tube mogul I think is what it was called and it like pushed to it was like right when YouTube was starting to blow up so there's all these like clones of YouTube that's kind of what they learn what's originally born out of but there was like you know there's like 50 to 100 of these sites like all trying to do the same thing and you could like put a video on there and kind of push to all of them and then now like as I've gone back and tried to delete some stuff I'm embarrassed of it's become a real one yeah but it's good for me when I do my research podcast I can find some of these weird videos yeah but so I think it's better to be like intentional about like this is what I'm trying to do this audience right yeah and I think it's like obviously it always comes down to the content so like if you post shitty content at 8 a.m it's going to be the same at posting it as 10 a.m yeah yeah so you went from Mike to genius is that right yeah okay dude and then but genius just they just did you start their video or like because they weren't really doing video like they they're doing now and now it's a huge thing yeah so they had one guy doing video who wasn't who just kind of like fell into it he was part of what they call their bricks quad which is like the team that like just like helps with like office stuff whether it's like setting people up with computers or just like restarting the video yeah like he I think he just had like an interest in it and like had a DSLR and so like you know wait he was like stocking the fridge and then also like shooting videos yeah and then they'd be like two changes here and he'd be like let me grab my camera yeah and like he did an amazing job considering like he didn't really have a background is amazing yeah and video so he really kicked it off and then I think because of the work he did they were like we need to get more serious about this so that's where there was an opening for me to come in and did you know that they kind of were dabbling with video you'd heard of them before yeah this is kind of cool too because this is you going back to your roots of music I mean that was basically the pitch I was like I've done all this work in music and it didn't easier now for you yeah yeah this portfolio of work right yeah yeah there was like a very obvious opportunity there to start building a team and I think the like genesis of it really resonated with me because I could really relate to the scrappiness that this guy opened the guy who started doing video there I could like really relate to just like using whatever you have and just like making happen despite it not being like an actual thing in the company yet and so I think yeah I just like really vibbed with him and it was a really exciting time yeah so when you look at the the styles of video from verge to mic to genius it's like they all have a very distinct tone that are distinctly for that company and especially with genius and like the bright yellows and even like filming people on bright yellow backdrops yeah these are obviously all conscious decisions that you're making right in terms of like how to style and how to make this like do you guys have conversations about that or is it just something that you intuitively click into um a lot of it I just kind of roll with because like I said my strategy often is just to like try to make something first and then like use that as an example to show people that like this is important and which would be doing more of this for me it's usually just about like figuring out what the kind of aesthetic or vibe of the brand is in general um so they had already been doing some stuff with like a yellow backdrop at genius because that's like their brand color and so I just like pushed it a little further I was like well because it was just like in front of like a lit backdrop and I was like what if it's just like stark yellow like like pure like the hex value on any point of it is the same like make it feel really like internet native um which I like I'm not a whole lot of places have been doing um yeah that that would even be go it go against my intuition so I have to be more of like a kind of a thing you have you know ages right a little bit bouquet I uh I tried to convince Regina to join me and and luckily eventually she did because I was like I it was one of those situations again where I was like I need this person of this thing's gonna really work um and so she joined and then I think she I mean she immediately like started running with things there so when it came a natural time for me to leave when I got this like offer that I couldn't really turn down you know it was like a very like it was a very natural transition that she was able to pick it up because she was basically running shit there anyway so I was just like everyone's in a while like what if the background's more yellow um now that's the brains behind sure um that's so cool and then outline one of the strangest companies on the internet yeah so cool man I was so excited when I saw you guys starting to make stuff um talk a little bit about that the I mean I just want to know more about this company too because like I see stuff and I read some of the articles and it's just like you just got the the design is very like again very distinct of the outline was founded by the guy Josh Tapolsky who is the you know who was my boss at the verge and who co-founded the the verge and it's technically credited with co-founding Vox Media because at the time it was just like a network of sports blogs and they did the verge and then they did all these other brands and so I mean he was like he was kind of like my like phone call that I could get at any point and if he had like the right opportunity I'd be like alright I'm in so it was like really tough for me because I just started at genius and I was like really into what we were doing but you know he was like he was the best boss I ever had in terms of like really having our values aligned and really just like having our ambition meld and they're like a really productive exciting way like working at the verge for the first three years was like the biggest personal growth that I had ever had so to have the opportunity to do that again I couldn't say no to so so he you know after the verge he had gone to Bloomberg and it done some like really innovative wild things there I like some of the you know he did this big redesign there that eventually got scaled back a bit but was like equally wild purple and the white colors yeah yeah and that's also credited to a lot of like the cool designers they have there but he had worked with this company code and theory to do it which he had also worked with on the verge design and and gadget and and and now he was like he had left Bloomberg and was collaborating with them to like design this really wild looking thing and like I love design that was like the first thing I wanted to do when I was a kid when I started to think about like jobs I could do I was like I love to be a designer and so like I was just I mean beyond him just being someone that I would like always pick up the phone for and like take seriously like seeing the initial mockups of the site were just like wild to me so I was like I got a I got to get in on this because if this is like what the site looks like who knows like in a few years what the video could look like so yeah it's we're a very young company we're very small our team is like absurdly small but we're focused on covering culture the future and power power as it relates to like political power and corporate power and personal power um not like windmills though yeah maybe one mills that could be the future yeah um I think like it's exciting though too and to be there at the the the very beginning you know what I mean like I mean these people are starting this company and what they're only a handful from at the time yeah that's a part of saying no to that right and that's the thing I had never like truly had the opportunity to do like I got in on the verge technically before it started what it was part of a bigger company that had already existed and you know similar situation with all these other ones so it was like this was it was a totally new opportunity in that sense where it's like you're gonna have a big role from the beginning and just like figuring out what this thing is being inspired by like going to Pixar like this is the kind of plays I'd like to build a kind of team where people are around for 30 years or whatever you know it's a good advice that I got from somebody was I as I started to build my company I started to do less and less of like the physical work and the shooting and I would still do the editing but like a lot of the technical stuff I would start to hire other people before which I think is great and I think you have to do but he's told me like don't lose that the skills I don't know if you can necessarily lose it but like you could certainly lose touch with it and so like just keep shooting and keep working and like if you didn't do that specifically you wouldn't be able to take a risk and work at a company like the outline where now it's a video team of three people where you really do have to do all this work and kind of start from the ground up there yeah yeah what what's it like right now working at the outline very small team it seems like I guess is how long has it been around for about a year now a little bit less yeah the company technically started like late summer last summer but we didn't launch till December so wow it's been like four months yeah it's hardly been any time of all day how do you build traction from nothing the directive is like just try to figure out what our voice is like what we believe in and the way the site is kind of built it's got like you know it's like an experience it's kind of like more like Snapchat than it is like the New York Times or whatever but there's like a long-form journalism on it like videos that aren't just like Snapchat videos but it's kind of got like this kind of mobile native navigation to it and so I think the in an environment where a lot of media companies are like going away from having their own platforms the outlines really invested and like figuring out its own thing in its own way of presenting it so I think like right now that's the primary focus is just like how do we make this work and that was one of the things that really attracted me to genius too is that they had their own platform it wasn't just about like making Facebook videos or making you know like Google AMP articles or whatever like sometimes with some of these companies does it become about clicks and and views is that like yeah absolutely there's a pressure to get that yeah and I think that that was also one of the other things that really attracted me to the outline is that one of Josh's pitches from the beginning is that that we're like trying to target a specific audience and there's a ceiling to that audience like there's not a year after year exponential growth like hopefully it like grows and is like vibrant and active but it's not it's not like chasing the same like impossible goal that a lot of other media companies seem to be chasing where it's just like you need to be like 10 times bigger every year has so many comparisons to people's paths traditionally in life it's like think about it as your bank account and it's like you could always make more money and you could always grow your your net worth but at the end of the day it's like you have to realize what's enough what's actually going to make you happy for like a business like yours you know you don't need to have hundreds or tens of millions of views for every video you just need the right engagement yeah exactly yeah and I think the thinking is that if we build a very specific kind of experience and really like cater to our audience and respect them as like smart and intelligent and savvy that that can be a really valuable audience despite not being like on the scale of the entire world you know which is a lot of other you really can't write it to the entire world if you're trying to make something that's you have an integrity and you're not going to kind of go down a click baity type right and so I think the thinking is like then you can you know you can sell the ads at a higher rate and you can I mean it's like this is one thing I think actually podcast have figured out really well is that like a lot of them have really specific audiences often are kind of like stagnant in terms of numbers but they're like a really engaged audience and people have figured out a way to monetize that podcasting is the highest rate of revenue right per listen or pew per view than anything which is crazy right but I mean you're right it's because if somebody's going to listen to a two hour three hour podcast they're likely engaged like that that if you do a mid roll ad on that then that's going to be significantly higher right in terms of talking about mobile and this might be technical as well but I imagine at least 50% of your audience is watching on a mobile tablets that right around yes actually at launch it was like skewed the other way like more desktop than mobile which we had built like a mobile first thing so we're like oh yeah but I think that's just the initial like it's mostly just media people at work looking at it at first until you start to grow an audience and so it quickly then shifted the other way and it's like there's more mobile users right and so do you think about that when you're making a video is it like mostly close-ups or are you do not even have that in your mind yeah so we actually tried this really a wild concept originally with how we were making video that we abandoned though we might get back to originally I think we were a little ahead of the game but basically we were making multiple formats of every single video we did so we would shoot them in 4k we would actually shoot them vertically because we found so basically what we wanted to do was make a vertical virgin horizontal virgin for desktop and then a square version for social because square it seems to be the best on social because it's like it works the best in a vertical feed right it's not like too big that it takes up too much space and so Facebook and Twitter and you know they like push square a bit so we're making a vertical horizontal and square and we're shooting in 4k vertical because we found that you know it's easier like if we are mostly shooting like people and that kind of subjects it's easier to like shoot someone long and then crop them this way for the whole time you shot 4k you're so your cameras on the side like yeah we mounted everything the sideways on l mounts and yeah would crop this way for we'd crop this way for horizontal and square and then we'd have a vertical version and it was completely insane little bit ahead of the game on that one yeah I mean especially for a three person team like we don't have like a assistant editors or anything like that so that's a very technical job to be compressing out all these videos right yeah so it would kind of take like all hands on deck when what video needed when a video reached that phase we basically edited it vertically because that's how it was shot and then once it was kind of locked then we would fork it in three different directions and like often it ended up like each one of us were like doing a different pants game and I'll just take like a day to do that on one day like a couple hours at least yeah it often did and that was the problem especially in context of like I mean we're not like chasing breaking news but we are like we are a news media company and the sense so it's like the longer things get delayed the more scale they become and it was it was it was not quite efficient yet but I think you know with the right team we could have maybe made it work if there was like more editing support but um those kind of things like we got a lot of like positive feedback on it because when you're on the phone it plays full screen the way you're holding it and it looks really great on social and stuff but we we just kind of reached a point I I was the last hold out on it and the other two guys Sam and Jordan were like dude we got it we you got to know and to just like be like we were ahead of the game on this maybe we'll get back to it yeah I was like okay you're right because we probably would have like went down at flames just trying to make three words that nobody watches right yeah it doesn't do well right yeah but yeah I do remember you putting out some of the square videos it made me start the thing like oh shit like yeah that that actually might be a good strategy for me at least on a small scale it's pretty easy and so what I've been doing in terms of building my audiences like um so I just did a series called Making Minimalism it goes behind the scenes at how we made this documentary and the minimalists I don't know if you thought you're familiar with them but they have a pretty big audience on the launchers film it's you did that man I appreciate that and so then sorry teamed up with these guys and they have a huge audience so it's like all right since I'm starting my own thing I'm doing a podcast and doing all this stuff um can I make content that's gonna that's works for their platform that can send people back to me and so that's pretty much but so the basically what I'll do is I'll make two different cuts of a video I'll do like and it's pretty much just the end tag that's different and it's like cater or maybe a couple words in there that give more background to who I am yeah and and give more of a shout out to Josh and Ryan that way that like their audience knows them and they know the connection to me and then so for me to cut two videos and that's it's not like too much of an investment for me and I'm not creating content on the level you guys are in terms of scale but that I think has worked well and I think that's something that it's kind of important in the beginning we had done more of it initially and then scaled some of it back so that actually I yeah like yeah we had YouTube and cards and all that stuff and we had to figure out a way where it's like okay what's more important like if this is holding us from doing other stuff right now should we be just focused on making the best stuff we can or be like obsessing over these formats and so I think it's good that we did it because now we know how to do it so that if it becomes more of a thing we can kind of spin it up really fast like a lot of people like so when the outline first came out so many people were just like bugging me about how we were even doing it and so to me that was like good-looking you about how you were doing it yeah maybe like let's hang out and then they be like so the thing is that's actually I mean honestly that is insane like whoever who thought of that to go hey let's turn the camera on the side that's a great idea yeah I mean well the like multiple formats it's funny like I had like tweeted about it I was like wouldn't it be cool of like YouTube like supported you uploading multiple crops of something and then depending on the platform like play the right one and then like Josh kind of independently just like thinking about how the website works have those like texted all of us just like a really late at night one night or something it was like what if we did three formats and and so I don't know I think it's like maybe there's probably other people that like thought to do it but maybe like couldn't quite figure it out and to be honest we couldn't quite figure it out but I think I think it will become more of a thing yeah I think like it has to a Netflix apparently announced that they're going to start doing it for certain things really where they're going to have like a mobile crop and then like a TV crop and so I don't know if that means they're doing more short form stuff because I think if it's more than a few minutes like the the ask of having someone turn their phone isn't a big ass but if it's like a 30 second thing like you want a better vertical experience so that was one of the other reasons we've been a day we just found ourselves doing more long form stuff because that was resonating more with our audience so we're like maybe we'll get back to this as we start to do more short. Yeah and you would think that the technology if that's the way that the the output needs to be eventually there's going to be a way to easily compress four different types. I don't know because I feel like there's probably they're going to integrate that into whatever editing platform you use to that way you can just shift these pieces around or maybe you can even read the pieces to figure out how to crop it best. Yeah everything else and like web design now is adaptive so you would think there would be a better way for the video. All right so let's wrap this up here let's do we got a few questions that we that have been asking is the rapid fire rounds called rapid fire but it's not the only like the music that comes in yeah oh man see I got to do that haven't really fully integrated the music and that way we like like if you come back on the show we can do like a rap battle or like make sure the music comes through here's where the flames come exact right yeah let's say somebody is stuck right now doesn't know what to do next in terms of say they're just out of college or maybe they're in a transition point like you've been at what advice would you give them to do today or to do in the near future to kind of set them on the right path. Yeah I mean I think just like it's corny but just like invest in people and relationships I think that's like the most universally valuable advice because like you know I feel really fortunate and lucky that like some of my like wild cold emails and stuff like that worked out and that like that's not like a thing that I can say with confidence will work for everybody for a lot of different reasons and but the the thing that seems to be universally true is that like if you put time into your relationships with people and you like really try hard to be a good friend and a good collaborator like you will all help lift each other up and so I would say like if you're in a rut that's like the perfect time to just hang out with your friends and like just make something for the fun of it you know if somebody doesn't have friends yeah well you know it's you know it's hard though is that like even coming to New York my network is not that big and it certainly be bigger like do you is there's things that you did when you came to New York or certain things that you do now to or some of these connections no I think I'm actually kind of terrible at making friends and the like one of the only ways I ever knew how to make friends was to make stuff and recruit people to make it with me and and then like you know the best way to like make a friend is like to go through some kind of rollercoaster and experience together and creative projects are often that that's actually how I met Jordan originally I was working on some student project with my roommate and he put up an ad on Facebook for someone to take behind the scenes photos and he just like showed up at our student and took behind the scenes photos because he you know was just trying to meet people and then ended up being like one of the most like essential collaborators in my career that I met so I think just like just decide to do something and do it with whatever resources you have and there will be people there will be other people that are interested yeah that's actually what I had when I was living at home I was a hundred thousand dollars in debt and I was like just barely getting client work barely getting by I started a series which I only created one episode that I never released but I released a trailer and it was just called limbo and it was just a personal project that I had done and there was you know no money in it I spent a little bit of money invested into making it and traveling around filming one of my friends first professional MMA fights and it was that video I posted on my video account and like I probably got a few jobs from that because people saw that and they saw the style and the the direction that I had from it but it was a project that wouldn't have existed if you know if you don't have anything to do just make something like you especially now now the tools are cheaper than they've ever been like we were talking about before you have lenses now that really high quality lenses that cost like thirty dollars because you got them on eBay from what like Japan or I don't know where you know lenses Russia yeah how do you face doubt so I imagine you know you've had points where things weren't going so well I guess at what what do you do in the face of doubt in those situations is there something that you do to kind of get you out of the negative thinking yeah I mean for me again it all just goes back to just making something like that's the whole reason I'm in a creative field and so when I get desperate I just start making something I take whatever opportunity I can get and just like try to like pour everything I have into it and hopefully something comes of that and if it doesn't it's at least like an example of something I can wave in front of other people so I yeah I mean I went through a lot of doubt like I like I said I I left my first like really big job and was a pretty confident like I'd be able to figure out something immediately and it took me six months which is about six months longer than I thought it would take and but the thing that pulled me back in was just like getting a small project and just pouring all of my energy into it. What one tool or skill have you leveraged or do you think that you've leveraged in a way that others haven't or in a way that's benefited you along the way. The the internet honestly like the internet to me was the thing that got me into this I you know my dad helped me build my own computer when I was in fourth grade I think and so I was very fortunate in that regard that I just suddenly had like access to the whole world and also like had the opportunity to do it in a way where I kind of understood what the thing was I was using and like how all the parts work together and so like from that point on I was just like I I was always making web pages I made like I was just always getting in trouble I got suspended because I like hosted a web proxy that like helped students at my school get around the filters yeah yeah and you know I like I had a section of my website where like we'd post like old pictures of teachers we would find like yes and I got in trouble for that and we had like a there's I installed like a script I found that like let you run like collaborative storytelling thing on your website and then that quickly got I mean you can imagine what like middle schoolers and high schoolers would do something like that so I was kind of always getting in trouble with it but I for very early on was able to wrap my head around the power of internet distribution and I remember after 9-11 I was in 8th grade when 9-11 happened and when I was confused about the world I always turned to my computer it was like my access point to figuring shit out and I remember being on the website Metafilter which is like kind of like an early like sort of you know somewhere between like reddit and like a forum and like and I was just going through the comments on Metafilter and it was like people were like documenting things as they were happening and it was basically like what Twitter is now and I was like I it was so comforting to me beyond just like watching scary images on TV to like see all these people talking around something and I think I've like started to understand the power of it and then you see quickly after like that point in time those kind of things like tools that people join together around like massive things that are happening in the world. All right let's do one last question name one thing that people should watch listen to or read before they go to bed tonight. The Pixar book it's honestly like just to me like figuring out how to do something in an environment where you can be supportive of each other and also like have a high standard of what you're making and be pretty confident in your ability to make it and I mean that team obviously is like expanded that into other parts of Disney at this point and I think like I don't know for as far as like media companies for me there's like nothing else quite like them I think film is often like groups that band together for a project break apart and maybe there's some overlap with their next project break apart and I think there's like a new opportunity in doing stuff basically like what Pixar did with animation like no one has quite done that for Doc storytelling. All right so if people want to connect with you online where do they go? You can follow me on Twitter, uh bill at Billy D. But really go to the outline like that's I'm putting all of my energy into the outline right now so the outline.com. All right man well thank you so much for coming on the show. Thank you this is not right sweet thanks for listening to the show for a limited time I'm gonna give something special to those who give us a review on iTunes I'll send you the hour-long interviews I conducted with the producers of minimalism a documentary about the important things including interviews with Josh and Ryan from theminimalist.com as well as our media team Spire you'll get the full scoop on how we made the movie the lessons learned and all the things we would have done differently. They're really fun conversations that I think you'll get a lot of value from leave your review and send a screenshot of it to met the evella at gmail.com. These reviews help to get the word out for the show so it would mean a lot. Subscribe to the ground up show on iTunes, YouTube or anywhere else you get your podcasts. This episode was produced by Conrad Gallipet as well as myself. See you next time. you
