# Lead Without Being an A**Hole
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IeytkvymMEo
Get my podcast 👉 http://groundupshow.com

When you step into a role as a leader for the first time it’s easy to get defensive. You think you need to prove yourself.

But you’re probably spending so much time thinking about yourself… how you look and how you’re being perceived that you’re not creating your best work. Communication is so important.

Share your vision. Listen to others. Ask questions. But most of all don’t be an asshole.

New videos every week. New podcast every Wednesday.

Subscribe:  https://goo.gl/nzS5ri
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com
Instagram:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella/
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella/

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** behind the scenes, creative, creator, creators, documentary, film, filmmaker, filmmaking, freelance, freelance life, freelancer, hustle, create, get started, ground up, make, matt davella, matt d'avella, podcast, podcasting, start, the ground up show, lead, leadership, business, learn, education, tools, 
**Date:** 2018-05-18

## Transcript
 So early on as a filmmaker, I did a lot of small jobs. I was shooting weddings, barmits for intro videos, local TV commercials, not very glamorous jobs, but they taught me a lot about what it means to be a creative and how to be a filmmaker. The one thing I didn't learn was how to be a great leader. Because when you're working on some of these small shoots, oftentimes I'm doing everything. I'm filming with two cameras. I'm monitoring the audio. I'm conducting the interview. The list goes on from producing, directing, doing the sound. You have to do it all early on because you just don't have a budget. And then as I started to get more and more experience, I started to build out my portfolio, I was starting to take on bigger and bigger projects, which meant bigger budgets, which meant I had to hire other people to help me. And I was not prepared for what it means to be a leader on some of these jobs. Adam Showberg is a documentary and commercial filmmaker that's traveled to over 60 countries working on both independent and full-scale productions. Cool, man. Well, thank you so much for coming on the podcast. Thanks for having me. On our podcast episode together, we talk about the growing pains and mistakes you can make as you enter a position of leadership for the first time. It forces you to have to deal with your insecurities because everyone has them. And I think some directors will to make up for the fact that they're insecure or to avoid getting pushed back. They'll become like maniacal and just like be an asshole on set or just be non-collaborative. And then there's other people that will just unnecessarily cave to anything that their crew or editor wants. And I think that there's sort of a in-between of knowing what you're knowing that you have a very a point of view and there's a reason you're directing this thing. But also being willing to kind of have that feedback and know that you hired your DP for a reason, too. And that's because your DP's good. You know, I worked with an editor when we were working, trying to get to picture lock and I am an editor as well. I've edited a lot of my own stuff. And we were just like three in the morning stressed out frustrated, not communicating the best. And she's at the wheel. But I'm like trying to explain to her something that I wanted her to do. And I can't even remember what it was at this point. And I was like, can I just take the wheel for a second? And she let me and I like quickly did what I was trying to explain to her. But I felt like Ikki felt bad that I had done that. And I apologized to her the next day. Like we eventually like all went to bed and it was just like, okay, it's too late to be working right now. And the next day I was like, I'm sorry, yesterday that I took the keyboard away from you. And she was like, yeah, you know, she's like it's fine. But there's she was like, there's something to learning how to articulate what you want to your crew. Like there's actually that is something you have to learn. That isn't something that just comes naturally. And I took that, I took that to heart. And I've really working with an editor on docs that I've applied that to working on set, whether it's with actors or with a larger crew on commercial projects on other stuff, that that's a really important skill to hone is not to just assume that everyone can read your mind. And when you're doing the run and gun smaller stuff where you're editing, directing and producing the whole thing, shooting the whole thing, you can just live in your own head and you know what you mean. But learning how to talk about what you mean is it's not easy and you have to practice it. Yeah, and I think it starts at the beginning. It's like letting that crew know. And I've certainly made this mistake before where for commercial stuff or even doc stuff where we set out. And my crew only has a vague idea of what we're shooting that day. We're a vague idea of what the big picture is. And that's something that's important because I think the crew first of all just wants to know that they're a part of something. They want to know, you know, it matters what I'm filming, it matters what I'm creating and what I'm recording sound for. So that's important. But then also like just to then when something comes up, when a question comes up later, like, well, why do we want to shoot this interview in this sit down way when we could do it this way? It's like, oh, because that's what, you know, every other interview was like during this doc or like, it all makes sense because you already articulated what you wanted from the very beginning, which isn't always so straightforward. I mean, it's always a learning lesson. And I think that's the thing that you said you just can't have an ego about it. Yeah. You can't, you just have to be able to listen to other people, take people's advice and know how to communicate. Yeah, you have to, um, I remember watching a at Austin Film Festival. I saw PT Anderson and Jonathan Demi interview each other to great directors, not, um, PT Anderson's never made docs, but Jonathan Demi's made a ton of docs. Both of them have very different styles of working and John, PT Anderson's sort of the at tour where he's like, I'm, I have my point of view and I'm going to just tell everyone to fall in line. Whereas, um, Jonathan Demi is very collaborative. And a lot of his films like Rachel getting married are kind of doc style where he doesn't have a, there's not a script per se. And I remember thinking about those two things and I'm like, you know, I don't, I don't want to be a full Jonathan Demi and I don't want to be a full PT Anderson. Like, I want to be able to be a bit of an entrepreneur where I do have a vision. I know what I want and people are confident that even when it seems crazy, I know what this guy can do and I trust that he's going to make the right decisions, even though I maybe can't picture it. But I also, if there's a problem, I want to, I want to like collaborate on how to solve it, you know, or if there's, and that's where Jonathan, what Jonathan Demi pointed out is he's like, if there's a problem on set, it's usually not one person's problem. Like, it's usually not one person went awry. It's usually like several people or some circumstance or some line that isn't working and gathering the team and saying, okay, how can we make this scene work? Whether that's on a dock in an interview or on a feature, like I think that a certain amount of collaboration is crucial. When you step into the role as a leader for the very first time, it's easy to get defensive. I remember back to the first time that I worked on some of these 10, 15 person shoots or productions. And early on, I was only thinking about myself. I wanted to make sure that people thought I was smart and creative and funny, and I had all the right things to say, and that I had a vision. But the problem is, when you encounter difficulties on a shoot, when things come up that you don't expect, and that's going to happen on every single shoot, you need to work as a team to resolve these problems. And the only way that you're going to do that is by listening to the experts that you hire. I think sometimes we think of leaders in this very narrow mindset, very charismatic, very over-the-top, they certainly can be good leaders. But I've also known leaders to be quiet and thoughtful, those that ask really good questions, those that listen to people, and have and create a very welcoming, productive, creative environment. And those have been my favorite leaders, and the people that I continue to want to work with. Because at the end of the day, I don't care if you are the most brilliant filmmaker of all time if you're an asshole. I want to work with nice people. I want to work with people that make me feel good about myself and the projects that I'm working on. The ground up show is a podcast that inspires creatives to make things happen. It's available on your favorite podcasting app. Go to groundupshow.com to get all the links.
