# Ground Up 055 - Minimize Distractions w/ Anthony Ongaro
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IGW9V2g6_SQ
Get my podcast 👉 http://groundupshow.com

Anthony Ongaro (http://breakthetwitch.com) is the filmmaker & writer behind Break the Twitch where he inspires people to their minimize distractions and do more of what matters. In our conversation we cover…

1. How to fail forward and learn from the mistakes we’ve made.

2. The steps it takes to leave your corporate job to pursue an untraditional path. Anthony talks about what he would do differently as well as the things that worked.

3. How to control our content when we live in a world where we host it on other platforms. What can you do to regain some control?

New videos every week! New podcast every Wednesday!

Subscribe:  https://goo.gl/nzS5ri
Instagram:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella/
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella/

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** declutter, lifestyle, lifestyle design, minimalism, minimalist, simple living, simplicity, behind the scenes, creative, creator, creators, documentary, film, filmmaker, filmmaking, freelance, freelance life, freelancer, hustle, create, get started, ground up, make, matt davella, matt d'avella, podcast, podcasting, start, the ground up show, 
**Date:** 2018-04-18

## Transcript
 I was mindlessly clicking this byte now, but and it felt good, right? It felt good to buy something because it felt like a solution sort of maybe to a problem I was having or like, oh this thing will be the right cable for this or whatever. And that sort of action felt more like just a muscle movement, like the twitch. In this impulsive thing and then it sort of I realized that idea of falling through to checking your smartphone pulling things out feeling uncomfortable, just standing in line or at a street corner or just waiting for a friend instead of just idling and sort of being going to exist in space. This episode of The Ground Up Show is brought to you by the present moment, the present moment where you are right now. It's the new exhilarating product that fast company is calling the blank space between your thoughts. Studies show that the present moment increases awareness overall well being and libido. Get the present moment today. These claims have not been verified by the FDA, please contact a doctor at the present moment last more than four hours. What's going on guys and welcome back to The Ground Up Show. Today I've got an amazing guest. It's Anthony Ungaro. He's the filmmaker and writer behind Break of Twitch. You've probably seen his content online. He inspires people to minimize their distractions to do more of what matters. In our conversation, we cover how to fail forward and learn from the mistakes that we've made in the past. I'm a complete Jedi master. I just got a text message. That's terrible. I got to turn the notifications off. This is hilarious because this is what this podcast is about. It's about the distractions about that twitch. It's like that urge to go after a phone. That was a very great reminder for me that I should turn off that notification. Anyway, yeah, so I'm a Jedi master at making terrible, terrible mistakes. But he talks about how we can learn from them and how we can move forward and how we can make sure that we don't ever make those mistakes twice. The next one is we talk about the steps it takes to leave your corporate job to follow an untraditional path. This is something that I know a lot of people are struggling with. A lot of people are trying to figure out how to do it. Anthony has done it himself and he talks about what he would do differently and also the things that he got right when he first left his job. And we also talk about something important to content creators, which is how to control our content in a world where we are giving control away. We are uploading our videos to YouTube, posting photos to Instagram. We are giving all of our content to these other platforms. And we are at the whim of their algorithms. We are at the whim of whether these products and applications stay in business. You know, obviously this is folklore at this point, but my space went out of business and people had built their entire lives. And their income streams around this one thing. Talk about like, how can we actually regain control today? How can we best approach this world as content creators to both deliver amazing content to reach an audience? But also to make sure that we're not putting all of our eggs in one basket. That and a whole lot more on this episode of The Ground Up Show. Do you have a question for my guests or I about how to live in meaningful life? How to make killer content? How to get your message heard? Well, if you've got a question, I love it. If you record a short audio or video clip and sent it to helloatmatiavela.com. I've been playing and answering some of your questions on the podcast since the beginning of the year. And it's been amazing to hear from you and the specific things that you guys are going for. Record those video and audio clips. Send them to helloatmatiavela.com. Keep them under two minutes and we will get you on the show excited to continue to hear from you guys and the things that you are working on. And one last thing before we get to the show. If you've gotten some value out of the podcast and you want to help support the show, it only takes 15 seconds. Go to iTunes, leave a review and let me know and let people know what you think about the show, what value you've gotten out of it. That really helps to get the word out. And it just really means a lot to me to be able to see how you've been affected by the show and it helps me make sure that I'm steering in the right direction as I move forward. And here we go. I first met Anthony about a year ago, but digitally not in person. This was the first time we met in person to record this podcast. But I reached out to him because I know he had been making videos around minimalism and filmmaking and all this stuff for the past couple years. So I wanted to try to build some allies and learn from him and see what he had to say about Jesus again. That's sorry. Sorry, that was an alarm. I sent an alarm to remind myself to to book in reservations for this restaurant. So that's this is hilarious that on the episode that we talk about distractions. I am the one being distracted from recording the intro. Sorry about that. So yeah, first met Anthony about a year ago, he really helped me. He helped me get to the bottom of the things that I was struggling with and he helped me to to understand the direction that I should be heading with my own content creation. So I think you guys are going to find this conversation equally inspiring and equally helpful. So without that with that, I don't know. Let's start the show. Let's go. Let's do it. You're listening to the ground up show, a podcast that inspires creatives to make meaningful content and pursue their passion. My name is Matthew Evela and I'm a filmmaker best known for the Netflix documentary minimalism. And I'm sitting down with creators to talk about their process, the lessons they've learned and how to make an impact. I can shoot videos of other people all day. But when I go to shoot a video myself, it's like, give me an extra three hours of set up time and then like you shoot a video and realize you're like, oh shit, I didn't get that one shot. Because you're thinking about a hundred different things at once. And then you go to the edit. That's why actually a lot of times when I shoot a video if it's on the couch here or just in like a talking head thing, I will keep everything set up, pop it in the computer. Maybe do a quick one through and then I'm like, oh shit, I did forget to say that. My SD card comes out, I go look, everything stays set up and then I before I move on to be roll or whatever. I'm always checking. Yeah. What I've, that's the thing and there's like obviously a certain, there's like a format, a style of videos. And I try not to get trapped in to think like, oh, I have to make the video in this certain way. So lately I've been doing, yeah, you can move that around. Basically I've been doing, you know, what if I just open it up with a little bit of a talking head and then I just go into voiceover. Because, oh, our voiceover is easy to make. And it's like, are they, because for me, it's the opposite. Really? Yeah, I don't know. How's that? What's the problem with this? Because I only outline my videos. I don't script at all. And so I'm like, okay, here's what I want to talk about. And so I feel like for me, just for me personally, I'm not as good at memorizing and doing that kind of stuff. And I don't want to read from a teleprompter. So for me, what kind of became natural is just outlining and then talking through the subject and then editing through. And hitting certain lines, making sure certain things happen. And so I want to try actually, I mean, you, in a way, have inspired me to want to try doing some more voiceover stuff. One, because I think it'll push me more as a filmmaker trying to like, just trying to really tightly plan the thing. Uh, fully instead of like, okay, this can shape together and kind of pulling it together and post. You know what I'm saying? Yeah, but I think there's also a balance too that like some people will script out an entire storyboard and go, I like never do storyboards. And people, I, some people are just, I think, visual visually that way and how they prepare things. They just want to draw everything out and they're really good at illustrating. I just, yeah, I don't really do that. So you do it, did it once. But I'm like, just to show Amy, Amy was filming it. Oh, okay. It was really like good. I would have to do that too. There's what I'm thinking. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, my, uh, because I'll have like my sister and my, my girlfriend helped me out with videos and my sister said, uh, very passive aggressive relationship. Oh, I guess this is why directors need to be good at communicating. And I'm like, you know what? I don't need your help anymore. Uh, but like, so, so obviously it can be, it's just stressful working with family. Don't work with family. Maybe I don't know. It can work out. No, it is. I would say that, uh, for me, it's like I don't really store boarded, but I do usually come up with a script in a lot of times, like, I did a video, the new normal about a toaster and like, that would have to be very scripted because there's kind of punches and jokes and certain things that I wanted to carry out. Um, for me, it depends upon, uh, if this subject is visual. And that's really the toughest thing. And I've actually been thinking about a video. I'm like, I should just do a video about just the dilemma of the filmmaker of like, it's like, what do you put on this screen? Like, when there's something that you're talking about that's an abstract thought. How do you visualize that and represent it? Because, yeah, you could put a, you know, sunset of L.A. And like, you could put people walking down the street and I did lots of that in minimalism, but it's like, oh, man, I wish there was an easier way to, like, represent those ideas. Uh, that's why a lot of times when I'm thinking about videos, I try to be as visual as possible. And I'm like, oh, a toaster. Great. I can get a toaster on Amazon and then return it. And then, like, for that time while I have it over that two weeks, I'll like shoot a bunch of footage with it and then it actually represents and talks about an idea. But it is very hard to kind of come up with those. Well, that's the credit to me. That's a creativity of it. And I think you do that really well. You know, it's like, it's how do you tell this story without telling it. Without today, I, you know, and just feeling like you writing it. Right. Like, how do you, like, you don't want to represent it. It's a little bit, you got to be a little bit creative with it. But anyway, Anthony, thanks for coming on the podcast. Really excited to have you here. Thanks for having me. Yeah, man. This is, it's funny when I first started to do the original content. Like, this was right after I made minimalism. And I was just kind of, I was like, I wanted to make my own stuff. And then I saw what you were doing. And I had seen your videos pop up over the over, you know, the past couple years before that. And I was like, man, I should, I should just reach out. And like, because like, you're, you're at a place where I wanted to be. And I was like, Dan, like, he's making good videos. And he's got consistent stuff he's put out on YouTube. And he's built up an audience. And we hopped on a Skype call early on. You gave me some really good advice. So thank you for that. Absolutely. Um, what's, tell me a little bit about kind of what you've been up to lately. And then we'll kind of hop back and talk a little bit about your story. Yeah, sounds good. So lately, I've been doing two things. One is writing and making YouTube videos for break the twitch. A little less recently, specifically. But, uh, I've also been doing quite a bit of client film work. So, so different projects, um, shooting some online courses, shooting some projects for, for different clients and things like that. And now I'm actually moving forward into just focusing on break the twitch for a while again, because I'm just being, feeling very cold to do that and, and really, uh, just want to spend more time on it. Yeah, that's funny because when, when we had that initial call, we were both going on separate paths. Like, I was starting to leave the client work and then you were starting to get into the client work. I was starting to, you know, build my own thing, original content, and then you're going that way. Um, what did you learn about the client work and that side of things, as you started to build that up over the past year or so? Yeah. So, what I found is that I am really passionate and I really love, uh, many aspects of that. I love working on set with people. I love creatively collaborating. And I love helping essentially establish and manifest a vision that people have. So, in, in a sense, um, taking an idea and then putting that into a visual medium, and then handing it over, like this is what you want it, right? This is the kind of the cool thing we were working on. And, uh, so I really like that. I really like working with, um, people to do that on set. But then I found that doing client work a lot of the time, uh, that was like 5% of the work. Like, it's actually being onset, creating it, working to make it. And a lot of it, as you know, comes together in, you're sitting at a computer for 10 hours, uh, in a day, just sort of editing and stuff, which I enjoy as a process as well. But essentially, uh, that's not what I really, really wanted to do. So, um, it kind of got to a point where it's either okay. Well, I need to grow and, and hire an editor or bring on a bigger team, and then start scaling this or, uh, I need to do something else. Yeah. Yeah, I do. I don't have to. And I was definitely at that place as well, where, I mean, because if you're not enjoying, you know, the editing or like the, the grunt work of it, you either have to scale up or figure out another way to get it done or do something else entirely. Um, and it can be, that can be challenging because when you're, that's really committing when you start to bring on employees, and then you have an editor full time. Um, and that probably will be where this road leads you anyway, right? Like, as you do, you build out break the Twitch and it grows, you eventually would want to be able to hire people that can help you put together the videos. Yeah. Um, have you, I'm, you've hired, I'm sure, like subcontractors and stuff. Have you ever had an employee at for either company? No, no. So I haven't, I've actually, so I've had like a virtual assistant to someone working with me on Break the Twitch, doing a lot of like back-and-type stuff for WordPress and different things. Um, and did that for a while, and the experience was good. I definitely learned a lot about myself in terms of being a manager and being someone that uh, needs to essentially establish the process first and then hand it over. Right. And which is a huge lesson, I think, especially in all of this practice of intentional living, these ideas of like, living in alignment with what you actually care about what you want to do. Um, you have to first know what that is before you can help someone else do that. No, obviously. Yeah. And so, um, yeah. So I did have someone working with me for Break the Twitch now. My wife and I work together, Amy, um, and I both work on the stuff. So it's been, uh, really interesting a lot of fun doing that. But, uh, yeah. So I've worked with people on set. I hire people to come on with me or different projects and things like that. Yeah. I've done that. I've only done like the subcontractors that I've hired out, usually friends. People that I know, um, you know, if I'm working in a random city, you'll have to just reach out and find connections and people that I know there to work with. But never in a full time capacity. I did hire like a personal assistant for a little while. But this was when I was doing client work. And it just, there wasn't that many tasks that needed to be done. Yeah. Uh, that's the thing. I'm like, oh, shit. I don't even know. The tough thing is that, like, I think in the beginning, you, you, you actually need more skilled people than you do that. Not to say that personal assistants aren't skilled. I'm sure there is some that are amazing and incredibly talented. I'm pretty amazing one. Yeah. There are some good enough. But like, um, I guess I, I don't spend a whole lot of time with those tasks. These days, like, I don't get too caught up in email or whatever it is that I would need them to do like creating counters and scheduling things. Um, but like the main time, if I look at 90% of my time, it's editing. Yeah. So it's like that. It would be the first place that I'd probably eventually bring somebody on. It's to like, edit these podcasts episodes or edit down the short form content. Um, because, but that costs money and that's way more expensive than a personal assistant. So it's, there's definitely two sides to it. Absolutely. I think what I realized with the transition that kind of put the cap on everything from, I mean, you know, I may still do client work if a fun project comes up for different things. I don't know, but I just know that the priority the focus now is going back to, to break the twitch and doing this. But, uh, what really put the cap on it was realizing that I wanted to be the, the catalyst with bringing people on and, you know, having, uh, a fun collaboration or projects like this and, and bringing you in on it and coming out to LA and like, filming it, shooting it and making stuff for our channels and, and being the person that brought people together, uh, to do that under a break the twitch, run to the project or whatever. Instead of, hey, here's this thing I need you to make. Here's money for it. Like, yeah. Go for it. It's cool. Money's great. Yeah. And like there's a certain time in your life when that's going to be, uh, the most important thing is, you know, for me, it was graduating with, with $97,000 in student loan debt and, man, like, just purely pursuing a passion without thinking about how is this going to make me money? I think would have been a mistake. Like, I'm like, I needed to make money. I was able to bring a passion filmmaking into it and really build that out and actually create a company and like, it was very slow in the beginning. But, like, there's obviously to each their own. There's people take other paths and, um, the guys that living on $1, they made that documentary without any experience filmmaking. They're just like, oh, wow. They're passionate about it. Yeah. Yeah. They were like, let's just go, they're on the podcast, uh, Chris and Zach and they just, they went down with a couple other filmmakers and then they just made this thing with no money and they put it together. So like, that worked for them and it turned out great. It was, there's a lot of struggle, a lot of hustle for me. It was like doing weddings and bar mitzvahs and like, making money and like, there was a passion to that, but at the same time it's like, obviously I would rather have been doing something else. It's an immense privilege to be like, no, just pursue your passion. Yeah. Like, you, I think it's a worthwhile pursuit, right? And it's what we all want in a lot of ways, but to make a lot of money working with our, in our passion and our thing we care about. At the end of the day, like, you need to balance, like, think of your student loan debt or paying the rents. Yeah. Like, their real life shit. And that's, that's what I think a lot of times people glaze over that, right? Just in the pursuit of passion and like, I don't know. I agree. I agree. Like you said, but practically practical about it. You know, figure out a way to turn whatever you, somebody once said, find something that you really like to do that you can get paid for, so you can do, and so you have time to do the stuff that you really love. And I think that's a great way to look at it. And yeah, there's obviously some antics there where maybe find something you love to do, short, whatever. But like, find stuff that you really like to do that you actually enjoy because nine to five, plus. I mean, a lot of us work more than nine to five in our work days. So you have to love that. You should really, or really like it at least. That's much as possible. Yeah. What's cool to have you on the podcast is that you're the first other minimalist filmmaker that I've had on the show. And we were talking about before the podcast, not many. Yeah. There's not many minimalist filmmakers out there on YouTube. I was on Craig Adams podcast. Yeah. I don't see any stuff here. He's great. Really, really great dude. He, he just started a podcast and he's been doing the minimalist filmmaking on YouTube for a while. But in term, I guess there's not many minimalist filmmakers, but there's definitely not a lot of minimalist men making videos online. What have you seen in that space? I mean, I think that's true. And I think it's a space that definitely, there are a lot of really big men bloggers, writers, authors, right, which is interesting. And I've spoken with some of my female friends that are in this space. And that question comes up. I've seen it come up on Twitter. Like, what's the balance here? Why is, like, on YouTube? It's more woman-dominated in a lot of ways in the space of intentional living. And things like that. And I'm not sure. I don't know exactly why that is. And a lot of this stuff, I think, is more, maybe more of like a sense, not like sensitive, but it's like kind of a... Yeah, yeah, yeah. No, I was there. It's a little bit self-conscious to put yourself on camera and talk with that stuff. I was thinking that for being vulnerable. Yeah, that might be it. Because I was thinking, like, women, like, they're like, you know, to put themselves out there to get ridiculed and all the YouTube comments and shit that they might get. It's messed up. Yeah, I'm like- Women have it so much worse on YouTube than right. And that's what I was thinking was like, well, that shouldn't deter, but the vulnerability aspect of it. Women are much more able to be vulnerable and open with their emotions. And men, we just like, hold it back. And we don't let that out. So like, that was a big thing. When I first started my channel, I was like, I'm starting a YouTube channel. It was like the same day my brother got into the Air Force. I started a YouTube channel. I was like, God damn it. Like, obviously we're going to very different paths. My brother's like- Top Gun, Tom Cruise, I'm like, dude making like dick jokes on YouTube. But, no, that's, I mean, that's a good point. Did you face that when you first started putting videos on YouTube? Uh, yes and no. Uh, I think so that's like vulnerability, right? And, and the idea of facing that. And, and I've always, I don't know, I've always been sort of okay exploring the personal development space talking through this stuff. And so, I don't know that I had the immediate thing, but I definitely had the fear of like, I was starting it. So, I kind of started on YouTube. Uh, my very first video is just like a three-quarter shot of me not even looking at the camera. I want to do it. I love it. I always have to, if I have a YouTuber on, I'm like, I gotta watch your first video. Yeah, I love it. It was great. You didn't have a microphone. It was just no on camera mic. It was on camera mic. Yeah. Like, eight and a half feet away. You know, I was, I'm not very part with the looking. Was that sometimes you look at the camera and then sometimes you would just look like, yeah. I did the same thing. If you don't know where to look. So, for a long time, one of the hardest things about that for me was being able to talk while looking into the camera. Mm-hmm. So, which I actually just darted over and looked at the camera. Yeah. That's the best. Dang it. Show them. And so, I was talking to my wife in that video. In order for it, because I had a friend there. It's like, look, just, if you want to experiment with video, just shoot one. Just do it. Yeah. I don't know. I just feel like, I was being trying to be too perfectionist about it. Even though I didn't know a ton about it at that point. And, yeah. So, I had to talk to Amy. And I think for people that are starting out on YouTube starting out with this stuff, it's weird to look into a lens and just talk like you're talking to a person. It didn't flow for me. And for me, the best content, the best video is the best ideas come out when you're talking to someone and it comes up in conversation and you get into that flow state where you forget that everything else is going on. It can be intimidating to just look into a lens. Yes. It's just like, it seems like an empty void. Yeah. But like, because it's so, it's, isn't a bizarre just that then when you put it on light, it just seems so natural. When, if you can actually deliver and, like, you have a little bit of person out, they, like, it just seems like, and you can cut and edit. And it just seems like, not that weird. But if you were in that room, if you just saw a fly on the wall behind the scenes without music or anything, you just like, well, this is weird. It's awkward. Yeah. Yeah. But so that goes away. I mean, I think that's the biggest thing. It's just like the flow principle of, as you get into something the more times you do it, the more natural it becomes. And you get used to it. And then you can talk to a camera lens and not feel weird about it and feel like you're. Yeah. I don't think I could have done that with Natalie. I'm looking at that. I feel like she would have just, like, shit on me. It'd be fun to meet all the time. Yeah. It would have been difficult. She doesn't take my work seriously. But, no. No. I thought you did a, you were, you were as much as I was your first video. I still felt like it seemed natural. And it seemed like you were riffing very well in terms of your talking points. Thank you. Obviously, that was then a pursuit to get better at filmmaking. I want to kind of go down that road. And then I saw kind of after that, you started to do a little bit of vlogging. Or at least that's what you called some early videos were vlogs. That's what I thought I was doing. Yeah. I don't know. Like, yeah. I guess I'm vlogging about this stuff now. And walking around. It was hilarious. Like, I kind of miss some of that aspect of just like the, the, the Casey nice dot rig of just walking around and talking. But then I'll be like out of breath. Oh my god. No, actually. I probably watched too many of your videos. But like, the one, oh my god. That was so good. You were just talking about walking past somebody. I was like, dude, that's like how I feel. And that's why I don't vlog. It's just because I just, I'd just be too embarrassed. And especially in LA. Like, I just don't want to be that guy. As much as like, it looks cool. The video is a lot of people make great vlog videos. But I'm like, I don't know. I also, there's that element just everybody's doing it. You know, everybody's running around with their road mic on top of their A7S. And they're, yeah. Jobby, go, whatever the heck those things are called. Yeah, the goat and job. I've got one to realize. I've got one. But like, it, I don't know. It just seems like, do we really want to know about everybody's day? So, so the daily vlog used to be a fantastic way to build a YouTube channel. Back when they were like six people doing it. It was like, what's his name? Shane. The, the, the, Shade Tards. I think they called themselves and like, like, filled to Franco making the daily news videos and people making daily content. Uh, became a very effective way to build a channel. And that's not the case anymore. So people that are daily vlogging a trip around the world right now. And not getting far, like, not getting subscribers. And they're doing amazing stuff where, you know, a few years ago, maybe that would be like a very solid way to build a channel. But now I think why I haven't gone that route to why I don't do a lot of that is just simply because I want to make stuff that's really helpful to people that people can search for and find. Uh, that's a lot of what you're doing now is like, two, which I think is super helpful. Really a good thing to do just because I want to create resources. I want to help people. I want to, I want to share what I've learned along the way. And I think the best way to do that isn't through just showing what I did today. You can instill cool stuff into that and learnings, but it just becomes, I'd rather, or focus it in. I guess. Yeah. Yeah. I think that's a great way to look at it. And there's a lot of, uh, I don't know if they still recommend the, the, the guarantees and the, um, and the Casey nice dad. It's like, I definitely think they, they recommend creating lots of content. Uh, I'm like, like, I used to watch their stuff a little bit more than I do these days. Uh, but it was like, just create every day and release every day. Just keep what stuff puts stuff out there. You gotta be in the feed. Gotta be in the feed. That was their whole thing. But now I think it's way, way, way, way different. It's like, you just make really good shit. Make one great video per week. Um, and like, you know, if you could do two great videos a week, obviously that's better. But just, as long as it's really good, it's really thoughtful. I think that's probably the best use of your energy. And like you said, if you want to add some vlogging elements, I know I just came across Peter McKinnon. Oh yeah. Who's doing some great stuff? I mean, he does a great job. Oh my God. Yeah. There's actually, it's funny. I talked about this yesterday, but, uh, on another podcast, but I, uh, because I saw him right when I hit like 50,000 subscribers, I saw he got like a million or two million in a year. And I was like, Yeah. I'm nothing. But I'm like, I mean, what am I doing? This is not why I'm doing this. It's not for the followers, not for this. No, no, no, no. And like, you have to really, you can frame the way you look at other people. And when you look at that, and just see it as inspiring. And you're like, wow, he really inspires me to want to step up my filmmaking game to become better and hone the craft and get better. And I think that's the, that what you have to look at anybody who's doing something differently than you or better than you. I'm absolutely. Yeah. Yeah. Well, I look at your stuff and I feel like I get totally inspired by the stuff you're creating. And you have so much more experience as a filmmaker than I do. And I look at your stuff and I'm just like, man, that's awesome. Thanks. And so sometimes you look at other people and you're like, God damn it. And I hate you. No, I don't feel that way. You know, it's healthy. I get it. No, I totally, I totally get it. And I think some of that is healthy. And some of that is like, it's like pushing you. You know, because you just got it. You got to keep going. That's what matters. You can feel, you can feel that and you like, but as long as that turns into like, all right, I want to be better. And I want to see what this can lead to for me. Right. And how I can show up. Like, that's great. The scariest thing is to be, feel defeated. Yeah. If you feel defeated, if you feel like, oh, I'm never going to be able to do that. Then you're just done the conversations over. Yeah. So yeah, I think that's so important. And that's why sometimes it's great to be inspired by people that are like, not doing good work that have a huge audience. That is so inspiring to make some like, okay. I guess like you can, you know what I mean? Like, I feel like I'm doing pretty good work. And if they have, you know, this reach and if they're able, they're message resonates and people are really getting value from what they're saying. And then it's like, all right, then maybe there's a place for me. Yeah. So how did you like, as a filmmaker? So you obviously got a lot better after that first video. I hope. Yeah. And like, started to, you know, get better at crafting lighting. And you got a microphone. Like, how did that journey progress? And how did you see yourself improving as a filmmaker? Yeah, definitely. So I've been a very, I don't think the term is, I don't love the term, but fail forward type of thing. And I don't even know if I'm using that phrase in context properly. But I think what it means is that I love trying stuff. And I sort of just slowly build and slowly just make choices around getting excited about things and wanting to learn more about them and then just adding to my kit and going progressively. So when I was starting out, I borrowed just like a 60D from work and shot that on that. And realized, I don't like that there's a light bouncing in my glasses constantly in this. And the sound is not clear. And I want to start doing this. As I started vlogging, I started doing different formats and started experimenting that sort of went in. I left my full-time job in February. I worked for a bike share company before doing what I do now. And so once I left, I started experimenting with like, okay, my wife, Amy and I have been on this sort of journey. I've been an entrepreneur in different forums. I sold headlights online at one point with some friends actually friends that I'm out here visiting as well. And just done different things. So I've always known that I sort of like doing things differently, like doing things in a way that works for me that might not work in a traditional job situation. And so it just sort of evolved. And I started doing the YouTube videos, started vlogging, and people would kind of just try to improve each one a little bit. I spent a little more time on it and get down what was going on. And then a friend would say, hey, I see you're doing this YouTube stuff. Can you make a video for my home page for my office or whatever? And so I'd bring my camera over and do stuff. And each time that would happen, I would turn that into a microphone. Or turn that into, okay, like this lens will be helpful for this and trying to balance it's hard. I think as a filmmaker to be a minimalist filmmaker. Because it's not the irony of it all. It's just a lot of stuff like audio cables and power cables and batteries and all this stuff. And so trying to carefully choose what I was doing and just sort of evolving along the way. And it took three years maybe. I mean, it took two and a half, three years to just slowly build up a kit to where now I can go to Alaska and film. Five day thing with the gear that I have and it didn't happen all at once, you know. And it's, I'm sure you can resonate with this is like. It's not most often the camera or the gear you're shooting with doesn't matter. I mean, you want good audio, obviously, that's a high priority. But the first question for many people is, oh, what lens were you using? Like, what camera were you using? And I don't want to discredit that. There's a big part of that of having gear that looks nice. If you have a full frame camera, it's going to have that nice. You know, that the field going on and things, but it's really easy, especially without this idea of. Practicing intentionality around it to think like, oh, I can buy a better filmmaker. If I buy myself into being a better filmmaker and I found that's not true. Yeah, I know I completely agree. I think that the gear is important, like you said, it does add a tremendous amount of value. Otherwise, we wouldn't spend so much time thinking about it. And I know both of us have spent a lot of time because you're making big choices. It's different if you're going to the store and you're like, I'm going to pick a different coffee out today. And it's like, all right, well, that's a difference of a dollar. But when you're buying a camera, that's a thousand, two thousand dollar investment. So I do think you should put the time and thought and do it and be like, which camera is going to work for me. But like at the end of the day, if you spend an extra $3,000 on a camera, because you think it's going to make you a better filmmaker, your dead wrong, that's not going to be the way that you're going to improve. So yeah, but it's definitely a balance. I found like you, the best thing that I ever did was reinvesting in myself. The first thing I ever bought was a pair of headphones. I got a hundred dollars from following around a clothing company for a day. I remember I took a photo. I sent it to my brother and I was like, dude, making money. I was like, I made a hundred dollars. I was in college. I got a sell rate that. Oh, it was amazing. And then the first thing I did was take that hundred dollars, and I bought a hundred dollar pair of headphones. I wasn't very good with business practices trying to actually paying myself. Move this over here. And now profit. But it was that element of just reinvesting and reinvesting in myself. And a lot of times it might not be the, the gear that you're investing in. It might be a book that you're buying. It may be a course. It may be your time invested in actually working on this stuff. So I think it's like you got to look at all of it. But if you're reinvesting in yourself in your craft, that's like the best way to go about it. Absolutely. You did use, so we kind of brushed over a little bit, but it was you leaving your job. Yeah. That's a big deal. That's not like a small decision. And that happened in February 2015, 16. 16. Okay. So tell me about that process. The channel and your, your stuff for about a year. Is that right? Yep. Or maybe more. No, yeah. Exactly that. So for three years, I was the marking director of the bike share system in Minneapolis. So those like bike vending machines basically. And now they're all going to a kind of free role model. But it's changing. Yeah. It's changing. But I was working there for three years. And I think it was around the end of 2014 that I met Joshua Becker of becoming minimalist. At an event. And we started talking and over the following few years became friends. And that initial meeting, I think, really influenced Amy and I in a way that, that changed our perspective about things. We'd always been interested in the idea of intentional living, of conscious living, of doing things, not differently. Because I don't find myself to be a contrarian in any way. Or like, I don't know, maybe that's just what we're perspective. This is contrarian stuff, you know, but I think learning about minimalism, learning about this stuff, really inspired me to start looking at my life and intentionally shaping it. Instead of just like, it drew a line between what we knew we wanted, which was more flexibility, more freedom, and where we were. And I think that is what led to eventually starting the blog when this idea of the twitch came to me with the Amazon spending and realizing that was more of just like a muscle movement than a choice, than an intentional choice that I was making. And then exploring that through the blog. And then I got to a point where it was halfway in between being ready to leave what I was doing, not because of a bad situation, but just because I was ready. I think three years was the longest I'd had a job at that point. I've just done a lot of different sort of things over my career and really enjoyed that path, I guess. And so I was ready to do something else and break the twitch was there. And the video was starting to happen. And so I was starting to explore that stuff and push more into that. And so it was sort of like a weirdly joint. And so for a big period of 2016, both Amy and I were freelancing and doing this stuff full time. It was intense. It's terrifying. Actually, legitimately it was okay. Well, let's just see what happens. And kind of it was it was very stressful and we did it probably not very well. And now we're doing it again, but with where we should have been doing it back then. Okay. So what did you learn and what are you doing differently now? Yeah. That's a great question. So a friend of mine Jeff Goynt. He talks about instead of leaping, don't leap, build a bridge. So a lot of it, like Chris Gillibow right now, it's talking a lot about side hustle. Building something on the side, doing something that you care about that can build extra income and build a bridge. I think there is value in a leap if you creatively can grow from that and you can figure out more quickly what it is that you need to do to make it all work. But yeah, what I would do differently is build more of a bridge obviously have a bigger thing to go to. And I don't know that that's particularly helpful information. But Colin Wright said he's like, don't, you know, when you take the jump, make sure your parachute's already built. Don't try to build your parachute on the way down. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And I completely agree. And that's where I like always say calculated risk. So like everything I've done since going into debt, you know, since I graduated. Obviously those decisions were calculated since I bought a car right after I graduated. A brand new car. It's been about like being very calculated about the risks I take because I knew from those experiences that if you take a big risk and you take on the student loan debt or you take on that brand new car. It comes with a very high cost that's much more than just the price tag that you're signing in on for. Yeah. So it's like, how can I then, you know, start to build a business and all right, move home with my parents and as I make the leap from doing weddings and bar mitzvist is strictly corporate client work. Do I have enough corporate client work coming in that I can just say no to those weddings? Yeah. And then switch from that point I was like switching to doing freelance to the original stuff and it's like now I'm not making money, but I'm like I was very thoughtful about it and I didn't just jump without having some money saved up that's going to last me a while. Yeah. And it sounds a bit ignorant to say like, oh, we just leapt and we didn't do that. Like it was it was a choice. It was a timing thing and it was a hey, let's spend six months like exploring. Amy started freelancing in a business she had never done before. I started freelancing in a business. I had never done before, which is that's right when I started doing like super low budget client shoots like 100 bucks 200 bucks just to shoot. Make some money. Make that money. Make that money. Yeah. And so. Yeah. I mean, it was an experiment for us. It was one that was incredibly valuable. So like I said, my mentality through life is always I learned best by doing and learning what not to do and then hopefully sharing that with others. What not to do and how it worked. I think there's something to say in that and that like how many entrepreneurial books can you read before you actually start a business. And like that was me early on. Like I read every Seth Goden book. Like Chris Gilboe was super inspiring for me early on. Like the art of non-conformity was huge and like just kind of read up everything. And realizing that I was spending more time consuming than I was creating. Yeah. And like that was an important shift for me to be like all right. This stuff is helpful and it really I think it lays the groundwork for the direction you should head because like a lot of times. There's a lot of information out there that's either wrong or misguided or that's I think going to be hurtful to people's happiness in the long run. Right. Like if you kind of like look at these images of success and not to name names where there's like definitely people out there that kind of drive it in you. That to be successful is to have a huge audience to be successful. To make all millions of dollars making courses or whatever you're doing. And it's like maybe that's not what's going to make you happy. Maybe it's actually the work that you're doing every day, you know. Like everybody's trying to because that's sexy to sell the destination to sell where you're going to arrive at. The laptop lifestyle. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. And it's like I think that what what it takes though because I talk a lot about making meaningful content and think what it takes is actually just take that extra thought and think about like every title you make or every video you make. Just an extra thought to be like, am I being honest and genuine? It's just going to help people. Like I think that's actually all it takes as simple as it is. Yeah. Definitely the extra thought and and being willing to make mistakes instead of not taking action. Yeah. I think that's one of the biggest things is it's really easy to look at a mistake as a failure. And that is just it just serves no one. It doesn't serve you. It doesn't serve anyone you're around. Failure is the greatest way to move forward into better. And life is long most of the time. In the sense of it's too short, but it's it's long in the sense of we have today. And assume we'll get tomorrow and you can do it again. You know, you can try again. Yeah. And that's I think what most people forget. It's like the the idea of most people overestimate what they can do in a day undressed or what they can do in a year. I think they'll get said that. I think it was Einstein Einstein. Yeah. No, but no dude. I love that quote and that's that's so true. And it's and also like we try to always kind of put a plan together. Business plan which kind of figure out this is exactly where I'm going to be. And X amount of years and it's just it's pointless. Maybe fun and food for thought, but at the same time it's like. If you just put it in the work every day, that's all you need to do. You need to. And show up. Yeah, show up every single day, but also like be focused on improving. And you know, don't hit your head against the wall. If it's not working out, try to figure out a way to make it work. You know, it's it's there's no science to it. I love break the twitch. I love the name. I love like the whole idea behind it. Talk a little bit about when you first came about with this name. And when this kind of the the twitch started to take hold in your life. Yeah. So much like you talk about your student debt and buying a car and just making these sort of decisions that Probably didn't align with your best interest in what you really wanted out of all of this immediately. And and so for me that looks like. Amazon. Now, I want to start off by saying I don't have anything against Amazon directly. I think Amazon's a tool, which is like a hammer and like anything else. You can use it for lots of different things, right? But for me, it was Amazon and it was Amazon Prime specifically. And I had a lot of just sort of packages showing up to my porch regularly. And I saw this pattern and in my wife and I sort of also saw this pattern. It was a jointly seen pattern of these things coming. And I got to point where like sometimes I would not know what it was that was arriving. Like did I order something? Did it with this? Which one was this again? And and so after a while, I went into my Amazon account. You can do this. You can go in and in your settings. You can pull up. You can download a list of all your purchases and export a. Excel spreadsheet. And that's what I did. So I did the previous four years of spending history. And I grafted it all out and charted it. And now the numbers each year, I think the numbers, the amount I spent or whatever, gets less and less relevant to this actual thing. The point was that I was buying something every three days for four years straight, basically. And the amount is like again, people get their grocery series on now. So I don't think that's irrelevant anymore. But the point is I was mindlessly clicking this by now button. And it felt good, right? It felt good to buy something because it felt like a solution sort of maybe to a problem I was having. Or like, oh, this thing will be the right cable for this or whatever. And that sort of action felt more like just a muscle movement, like a twitch. And then it sort of realized that idea of followed through to checking your smartphone, pulling things out, feeling uncomfortable, just standing in line or at a street corner or just waiting for a friend. Instead of just idling and sort of being willing to exist in space. We get that urge that twitch to pull out our phone to do something. And so that's where the twitch came from. But the story about the this spending is I charted all of this stuff out. And I spent all this money very frequently. And the chart was ridiculous because on the high end, I bought a laptop. You know, like a MacBook Air from 2012. And a camera. But that was really it. There weren't a ton of items of really high value for the amount that I spent. Most of the things like 300 of the 350 items were well below 40 30 bucks in that range. And so it was these small decisions that were adding up to become substantially impactful over a long period of time. It was like reverse compound interest. You know what I'm saying? Like just save $10 a week. And that will add up over time. I was in the opposite of that. And it added up over time. And I realized that that's why I wasn't able to live like I thought I wanted to, right? I did decently paying job and things were fine. But every month like the credit card bills sort of was not ideal. Yeah. Yeah. So that's kind of where this idea of the Twitch came from. All of these collective experiences of being on social media, scrolling through the feelings we have when that stuff is happening. And and wanting more and more of it. And and so then I started exploring what it means to break that twitch to choose differently to to align action with intention. One of my favorite things about this whole thing is is actually naming it. And then calling it the twitch. Because I find myself even using that vernacular in my day to day. Like oftentimes I try to get into the practice of not bringing my phone everywhere. I'm sure you do this as well. Yeah. And it's like you go to the grocery store for the first time without your phone. And it's like you every moment that you pause. Every time you go up to your waiting in line to get your that water your salmon at the fish counter or your at the line to actually check out. And anytime there's a brief pause. You pop your phone out. Yeah. And when your phone's not there. You're like oh shit. But if you didn't have that, it wouldn't even have thought the process wouldn't have come up. Oh my god. I have a problem. So like how do you mindfully go about your day now in terms of ensuring that you that twitch while it. I don't know if it's you've killed it. No. Yeah. It's there. How do you control the twitch? Yeah. So a lot of it. Is practice. A lot of his practice. And so I do different things. And in what I talk about it comes on different ways. So doing like digital detoxes and different things to work to create the space again. That doesn't automatically get filled by the twitch. And so some of the things that that I talk about one are like first recognize the feeling. That's just the first step of even exploring this stuff is recognize the feeling when you feel like you're needing to take out your phone. You can just go just pause for a second. Just recognize it. And the really important thing too is not to feel guilty that you're experiencing that. Because it is a programmed condition. It's a programmed thing. Apps and everything we use in our daily lives. The new competition is addiction. Right. The idea of creating addiction to the apps we use to the way we purchase. Making it so seamless that it's just quick and addictive. So recognizing that is the first step. Oh, I'm twitching right now. This is totally this thing. And then the second sort of step is like. Pauzing and and allowing yourself to sort of be in that moment. And and exploring what it means and not do that. Some really good ways to do that are by putting very direct blocks on your ability to do that. So doing things like taking a 90 day sabbatical sabbatical is a weird word for that. Taking a 90 day shopping ban from Amazon. And if you get your paper towels and toy the paper and stuff from Amazon automatically like cancel all of it. Just don't even go near the site for 90 days and allow yourself your brain to disconnect that short wire. That makes it click without even really thinking about it. Same thing like the Facebook out. If you're on Facebook in our two hours a day. You need to move the app icon. I'd be willing to bet that most people could open Facebook. If you have the app, you can open Facebook without opening your eyes. You can open your phone and know exactly where that button is. I think for some people it might be Instagram too. I think it's going to take over. Yeah, I think the Instagram's taking over and it's got that quick nature of flipping through. Yeah. So if you have it, you can probably open it without even thinking about it. And so creating that space, creating the the resistance in there and it's like intentional friction. What do I call it? You basically move it into a place where you don't know where it is. And so you actually have to scroll through or open a couple folders to find it. That's another great way to give yourself that space. Because if you don't give yourself that space, you don't have a fighting chance to really, you know, make that choice. Yeah. I think you probably could delete it too. I actually, I just did with, uh, I just made the decision yesterday. I didn't actually delete my Facebook accounts because it's, you know, maybe I'm being a bad minimalist. I'm the minimalist. They just hides their shit and like they pretend like they're minimalist. But they still have like a garage filled with stuff. But I actually, I realized, alright, I'm not going to, I don't use my personal account anymore. But I had the business account that I wanted to actually promote stuff. Yeah. But I just, you know, the traction hasn't been the same. You know, I get two likes on a video. I'm like, this is pointless. I'm not, it's not worth the time and energy. Even if it's like, even if I just have, I can push it through buffer. Another third party app to upload it to Facebook. It's just there. It's like in my thoughts and then I still check it all the time. Yeah. So I logged out from everything because I didn't want to delete it because I have the, the domain name. And I'm like, who knows what the hell is going to happen in 10 years, five years. It's like, I better at at least keep that domain. The, the Facebook.com slash Matt Diavella. Yep. So I'm like, I keep it, but I'm going to log out and I'm going to never use it again. And so I've been this day too. So it has been very long. Hey, that's what the first two days are usually hardest. Yeah. But that's the thing is that we were talking about focus. And I think in terms of business, specifically, I think that you have to look at the benefits of what you'll get by doing these things. There's a lot of times it's like, you know, break the Twitch, stop getting his ownifications. But when you actually are doing that and you're resisting the temptation to do all these things, you could be more productive. You have more control over your thoughts and what you're going to be doing today. And so for me, it was like, all right, well, what do I want to focus on? I don't want to, Facebook's not important to me. What, what if I move that out of my life, then I have more time to focus on, you know, publishing content and making stuff for other channels. Yeah. It's, it's, it's, it's, uh, pull versus push or push versus pull. It's, it's, it's the idea that, uh, instead of being told how to spend our time by notifications that come up that aren't relevant to anything that we need in that moment. It's like, if an app, I don't ever need to know if there's a new Netflix special out immediately. Like, maybe it has a rock in it, right? If the rock is in it, done. I've got, he's the only person I fall in Twitter. So I'm, I'm, I'm finding out what the rock's doing at any given time. It's a problem. It's a problem. But, you know, I never, really personally, I, I never need to know that. And I, I don't need to know a, a most of what any app needs to tell me instantly. And so I, I found that turning off all that stuff is really helpful. And you said, uh, the word productive, which I love that word, uh, but I think it's really important to distinguish productivity that, rest is productivity. Hmm. But actual rest, restorative rest, like, not laying on the couch, scrolling through Instagram, feeling all the things that are going on with that and, like, engaging and getting the dope up, kind of more likes or whatever they're engaging with that sort of dopamine experience of that. That's not rest. It's not productive rest. And so I've got, I've been into this very big thing of thinking about what it means to be productive in all aspects of life and monotask. Just this, there's a obsession with multitasking. And what does it look like to monotask to sit and drink coffee? Like when is less than you sat and drank coffee without doing something else? Uh, I mean, it's been a while for me. Yeah. But, you know, the, like the point is, um, we can be so productive and so much more balanced in a, you know, really good place when we're not trying to do eight things at once. This is especially when it comes to resting because if you rest well, you work well. Yeah. And you play well. Yeah. So people wonder why they're overwhelmed. Oh, my life is so overwhelming. It's, you're making it overwhelming. It doesn't have to be like that. You don't have to be on your phone all the time in between every single moment. You have a chance to take a break. And naturally, some people's lives are a little bit busy. You know, you, if you've got kids and you've got a job and you, you're, you're maybe taking night class at school. Like that's a pretty busy life. Don't make it worse by like picking up your phone in between every moment that you actually just need to not think. And the, the problem is that it feels even if you, you're working. You have night school and you have kids. Um, those moments feel like an escape. Now, I don't, I don't have kids. Uh, but I, so I'm only speaking from my perspective here, obviously. Those moments feel like an, oh, I just like to mindlessly scroll through Facebook or watch like reality TV. Oh, it just lets me kind of relax. But that's sort of like a trap, right? It's like a cycle. And it does feel good that you can sort of let go and just watch this stuff or scroll through. But as soon as you get out of it, so if you stop that for a week, it feels uncomfortable because you, you changed a comfortable sort of thing that felt like a repeated habit and what felt easy. But then after about a week, two weeks of it, you realize that that was filling, that was like a, in a way, a twitch, right? It was filling a space that you, you have, but it's not actually fulfilling. That's what you realize. It's like sugar. When you stop eating sugar, it sucks for the first couple days. Because you, that's what your body expects. And it doesn't feel good. Like, well, this isn't good. I, this is clearly not a good idea. I need to go back to sugar. But then after a week or two weeks, you feel so much better. And so you know what I'm saying? Like, there's always, it's always a little uncomfortable because the twitch makes it comfortable. That's the point of it. That addiction, that sort of, that sort of desire to plot the phone, it makes standing in line or standing in an awkward place, waiting for a friend, not sure what you're gonna do. You're gonna do more comfortable. And so we have to step outside of what it means to be comfortable, so that we can actually be comfortable being ourselves, being present, being there without that extra thing going on. Well, put it. I don't want people to, the one thing I don't want people to, to feel after hearing this, is guilt over those things that they're doing. And I mean, that's something, that's my life. I was born, I was raised Catholic. And guilt is very much a part of my life. And it's something that it's very hard to get rid of, and it takes some mindfulness practices to make sure. But I can certainly feel guilty about everything. From check my phone too much, I'm on the computer too much, I check Facebook too much, I am not creating enough videos, I'm not putting enough content out there, I'm ignoring Instagram stories. Why should, why should be posting more Instagram stories? You know what I mean, like all these things, how do you, how do you view guilt? And how do you make sure that it just doesn't hurt your well being? Yeah, guilt to me has no place in this space. There is no shame in this. Like I said, these, these things are designed. Like the person that came up with the idea for the like button at Facebook, recently wrote an article or a, you know, came out about this was like, oh, no. What did I do? What have we done? Yeah. And these things were just features and things, hey, it'd be cool if your friends can affirm what you do and show a like and engage with it that way. Instead of just leave in comments, and that changed everything. And it continually, these things are designed because I mean, we've talked about the advertising model, right? It more eyeballs for longer amounts of time equals more money under the current advertising revenue stream. So, whether it's a new site, whether it's YouTube, whether it's, whether it's, whether it's whatever it is and app, the more time you spend in it, the more money they make. So the more addicted they can keep you, the more money they make. And that, and it's corporate America, at least in the context, we're talking about. So they use whatever they need to. There's a whole movement. Tristan Harris right now is like coming out of this whole movement of ethical technology. What does it mean to have ethical thought, thought through technology? Because right now, it's just, there's no, there's no, the APA, attention protection agency. That doesn't exist. We don't have a space for this. We're in unprecedented times that we don't have an organization. Not that we need one, but we need to kind of choose these things ourselves, obviously, but there's no agency that's saying like, this is a manipulative psychological practice that teen should not be subjected to. Like growing minds, people that are in their most vulnerable periods of life should not be subjected to the type of psychological things that are going on with this level of technology. And I am not an expert in this, but I know that these things, we should not feel guilty about these things. Because most often that just leads to the spiral of guilt, the guilt spiral, which is the worst. And I, you know, I get that. In a lot of ways, we are in every way, a possible, we are a part of this ourselves, being content creators. We want eyeballs. We want likes. We want comments. We want all this stuff. We want, obviously, to help people. But part of that is being a part of this system. So what do we, and you did touch on this a little bit with the break in the Twitch, but like I guess what do we do as creators specifically to ensure that we're not making things worse, that we're actually making people's experiences and lives better? Yeah. I think that comes down to a case by case basis around what matters most to you and what you think is is what you would want based on your own experience. I do, I think again, so I have ads on my YouTube videos that I just run because I think people at this point either use an ad blocker or they're so used to them that, that, you know, that it doesn't it's not as invasive as it used to be. For a long time I didn't run ads and I think, you know, we've talked about not maybe wanting to run ads in the future as well. Or not needs to or want to. But I don't have any ads or anything. I don't run ads since or any of that stuff in my blog. It's just clean. It's just my content. I don't do sponsored posts. I don't do things that basically influence the way that I would want to talk about stuff and I think it's really important to just sort of authentically talk about what you want to share and that sort of thing. So I think it's a mix because for a long time it's very against ads on YouTube and I kind of went, I'm going back and forth with that just because it seems like, again, it's not as invasive. Maybe as it used to be or maybe it is. Or maybe people are just so used to it that, well, like, if it's on your website, that's one thing because then it's like, you're trying to create this beautiful hub. But on YouTube, everybody else has ads. And I'm curious because I don't, right now my videos aren't monetized. I'm not against it and it might not, it might be something I do in the future. But I am, I think it's great that you've actually had that experience. So what has been your experience? Has it been worth it? Can you make money through monetization on YouTube at least enough money? You know what I mean? What is it looking like? How many views do you need to actually make a living off a YouTube? Yeah. So my sort of perspective on this has always been basically, if you get a million views a month, that's you're making about 22 to 26 hundred dollars a month from that. So, so you're a millionaire. And basically you're just an entirely wealthy. Wow. Yeah. That's so many views. It is a lot of views. It is a lot of views. That's 30-ish thousand views a day on average for the channel. And so, I think, is it worth it? I don't know. I could probably turn off ads right now and be just fine between my book and the other partnership deals that I have and the different things that I do. But I don't know if it's an extra three to 600 a month or just some amount as a creator as what you're doing like that to me. I'm reinvesting all of that back into what I'm doing for the most part. And so, is the cost of having people see an ad in front of my videos more than me being able to continually step up what I'm doing and try to make better things for them? I don't know. Yeah. I think, yeah, it's a challenging thing because then certainly once, I think it's a harder, it's harder decision to make down the road. And when, say, if you have, you're getting three four million views for a month. And then all of a sudden, now by not doing advertising, it's like, wow, I could be making $200,000 a year just to click a button. And that is very tempting. But then I imagine if you are also getting that kind of traction and you're doing fine. You're doing fine. You can make a course. Some people do Patreon. I don't know if you do Patreon. I don't like Patreon. Yeah. That's weird. I was talking about this with Sarah Deech. He just about like the different ways that YouTubers and just creators in general can make money. And it's just, there's only, there's not so many. You know, Patreon's one of them. And I just don't know. I just don't know. What do you think about Patreon? I just think it's, you know, I've got a couple of friends that use Patreon and it works really well for them. I just find it to be weird from a business perspective because I am a transactional person. So like, if I want something, and I think it's going to add value to my life and it costs money, I will pay for it. But then like most people, like you might get one or two percent of your audience to contribute through Patreon. And it just doesn't feel like motivating enough for people to do it. And it comes across as a bit baggy, which is weird. I think it's just the, I know it's a wrong because we put out so much free shit that like, you shouldn't feel guilty about asking people for like two bucks. Right. A month or whatever you want to, I have people pay you. But it's still there. It's still that weird dynamic where I'm like, I don't want to put my hand out. I want to actually make something a value that I can sell to people. Absolutely. And I think that's my perspective for the most part as well is that I want to make things I want to package my information in a way that's like affordable and that people that want it and want to support what I'm doing can do can transactionaly choose to support what I'm doing because I'm making things of value. And that's been my perspective all along in a way. In fact, that's why it's easy to not do ads when you have a thousand subscribers on YouTube, because you're not, you don't make any money anyway. So, you know, it's not, like you said, the hard decision comes later on. Yeah. But with Patreon, it kind of goes against what I feel about creating on the internet and YouTube in a way does as well. I've always felt very strongly about owning my properties online because like you've seen with Facebook. If your entire audience is on Facebook, you don't have a website. And Facebook says we're going to put the exposure down from 5% to 2% now just because we want you to spend more money on ads. You don't, there's nothing you can do. A lot of people, when vine, vine disappeared. A lot of people transfer their audiences from vine to Instagram and then YouTube with a lot of success. But a lot of people didn't. And so, if you don't have control over your platform, if you don't own what you create, you aren't in a position to make better choices about it. And so, to me, Patreon feels very much like that. I know it works well for some people. And I'm sure it might be a good solution for me. But even two months ago, Patreon came out and said, hey, we're changing the way that people do fees. Now, the first 75 cents will come to us. And then you get everything after that. Wait, but don't a lot of people just contributed a dollar a month. And that's going to mean I get 25 cents after you take your 75 cents. And they backpuddled from that because everyone freaked out. Yeah. But that just means that they're giving that. And then the second aspect of that is, I want to create because I want to create and not because that monthly payment is coming in. And I feel like I owe it. I want to give it. Does that make sense? Like, I want to make stuff and give it. Yeah. Not. Okay. You paid me. So here's this. Yeah. Did you get that? Yeah. It's almost like that client. It becomes it. Yeah. Exactly. Yeah. And then also like a lot of people then feel this drive to like, well, I have to make popular shit, right? Like, that's the thing is like, if your main income stream is just YouTube monetization, your paycheck relies on getting lots of views. And if that doesn't influence the kind of content you're creating, then I don't know what will. Like literally saying, all right, well, if I make this a little bit more sensational, if I make this thumbnail a little bit more pretty and colorful, then I'm going to make, you know, 5,000 more dollars this month or whatever it might be, that to me is the difficulty with it, where like, it's hard to kind of wrap my head around where it's like, ah, advertising might not be for me right now. But like, how do we take control of when we're putting all of our content on other platforms? And then you have a blog, a lot of YouTubers just go straight YouTube. That's it. Just poppin videos up or they have the Instagram and Twitter, you know, how can we take control of our content in a world where all of our content is hosted elsewhere? Yeah. So the big things, at least the traditional thinking is one owning a domain, paying, actually, no, I can answer this very simply, pay for what you use. Because the traditional adages, if you're not paying for something, you are the product, right? So if you're not paying to use Facebook, a service that costs billions of dollars to run and a service that is incredibly expensive to provide the connection and the different, the good sides of what it offers, then you are what is being sold to advertisers. So do the opposite of that and pay for Netflix. Like, pay to host a website. Even if it's 10 bucks a month or five bucks a month, you can choose to own and be the person that. You know what I'm saying? You can choose to not see ads or you can choose to own the content that you put out by having on your own domain, your own website. And then obviously YouTube is a huge platform and it's a huge discovery platform for what we do. So how a lot of people find us, it's the second biggest search engine in the world. And so you need to keep publishing there and then you kind of have to see where things go with that. Obviously, we don't know what the future of YouTube is, but it doesn't seem like there are any major competitors coming up right now. But as much as possible, owning your content, I think. And so that you do have control over making what you really want to make and what you really want to do. I'm curious what you would think about that too. I think you're right. And I see a lot of the YouTubers and just other people in general investing all their time and energy into specific platforms that they don't own. Like you got to really think about it. You know, at one point, this is becoming an old folklore at this point, but my space was very big when I was in college. And you invested a lot of time in energy into building up these profiles, making them beautiful. And a lot of people, like, were able to turn those into careers. But then what happens when it just falls apart and then you have nothing. And honestly, like, man, maybe this is me. And maybe this is just my circle and people that I know, but I see less less and less usage on Facebook. So what happens if when you invest all your time and energy into Facebook and it seems like it's never going to die. But then in five years, maybe even your audience isn't active on Facebook anymore. Yeah. So it's like investing, you know, you wouldn't put all your money in one company, put all your company in and run. And then what happens when they go bankrupt, you lose everything. So I think it's about diversifying. Yeah. And not diversifying too broadly and widely that you're not going to get a return. Yeah. Like we were just talking about before where you like have picked a few. Yeah. So it's like, so right now my main focus is like, and I just wrote this out yesterday. I actually have it here. I think it's like, where is it? Yeah, that's somewhere. I think here. The business strategy 2018. And so I said, are I going to focus on these three platforms? YouTube podcast and Instagram? So those are like the platforms I'm going to invest in building an audience outside of my website. Yeah. And I'm just going to try to focus all my energy into those three. And then, you know, it's not that simple because I do have my website that I will be driving people to from time to time and hosting the videos there to almost create it. I guess an organized way for people to see my work. Yeah. That people can go to and be like, oh, that's a project he did. That's a series he did. I don't think there's any other way to organize that, you know, through YouTube. You can make a playlist, but I think that's the best way to do it. And then also to have my email newsletter, which is the big one, which is that when I sort of reach out people like you and Josh and Ryan from the minimalist, they were like, you know, make sure you set up an email newsletter and start capturing those emails because while MailChimp has a bit of control over like, you know, the reach and how much you spend to have an account. And like if you have a hundred thousand subscribers, you're paying a lot more money. Yeah. But you still have those emails and those emails a year as if you want to reach out to them. And it's your list exactly. So the website and email list are still like the two probably the two main things that most writers, people doing what we're doing, like online entrepreneurs are different people that are creating in this space would say, and that's been that way for a while. It's still like you can't own your list of people who follow you on anything except for email. So yeah. It's just a good way to reach people. Yeah. I think that you're right, though, in that it's it's about the discovery. The discovery happens on YouTube has been huge. Instagram, not as much for in terms of like actual organic discovery. But with YouTube, I've just found that like, if just because people tend to be on YouTube to watch videos and they click through to other videos and they explore and they find new people. So that has been a big push. But then it's like, all right, where do you want to send them? How do you want to turn this into a business and monetize it? Like we're saying and like sending them back to your site? Or really, I think it's just building fans and building an audience that cares about what you make. First and foremost, right? It's not about necessarily, we're going to send these people what can I have them do. It's like, I just want people to think, oh, Matt, he makes great videos. That's, you know, I trust him whenever I see his thumbnail pop up on the right. And it's new. But I'll check that out. Yeah. And I think that's probably bare minimum. What we're trying to do here. Yep. All right, Matt, you want to do quick questions and finish up this podcast. Let's do it. Cool. Oh, by the way, was there anything that we didn't talk about yet that you were like, Oh, I wanted to talk about that on the podcast or did we kind of cover? I think we, I think we got through stuff. I mean, we definitely focused more on the kind of creator, a YouTuber side of things and the, what, like, the break the Twitch type minimalism type interview stuff. I usually do, which is great because I almost never get to talk about this side of things. So it's actually really refreshing. Yeah. Yeah. That's what I, I've been trying to do. And I want, I also didn't want to get caught up in the minimalist stuff. So much to be branded is just like, that's all that I make. And like, because I don't think I would find it that interesting in the long run to just do nothing but minimalism content. So it's like the balance between making the minimalist videos and the doc and that stuff. But then also being like, I just love the process, like creating stuff and being a filmmaker and behind the scenes. And I just made so many mistakes myself that I'm like, are other people going through this shit? Like, are other people having a hard time too because this is really difficult. Yeah. Yeah. The answer is yes. Yeah. A million times. Yeah. And I mean, to that point, like, I started, break the Twitch was minimalism blog because of literally declutter blog. And I'm like, wait. So we've decluttered what now. We have space. Oh, happens. Like, that's, then it became okay. We have to show up. How you spend your days, how you spend your lives, right? Any dillard. And so it became habits and minimalism blog. And then I realized, like, once you have a foundation of habits, getting into creative flow and creating. I think everyone is creative. I don't just mean like, creatives. I think the goal of unicorn. Right. Like, our inner creativity, whether you're a teacher, whether you're an engineer, getting into the flow. State of that is part of this like trifecta of living well and like doing work that matters to you. And so that's how break this, which became minimalism, habits, creativity. Yeah. It's like, okay, I've created space. I'm decluttered. This is awesome. But I feel kind of empty now. Like, what do we fill it with? What do we? How do we put in the good things back in? Yeah. And I love that. I mean, I think that illustrates just how we naturally evolve as ourselves and as business is to kind of push ourselves. Do something new. If something feels like it's getting repetitive or you've just said the same thing a hundred times. Yeah. Like, maybe I can teach something new. Vermeats, Sadie. I don't know. Yeah. I would teach you to be rich. In terms of money. But then it turned into how can I teach you to live a rich life, which is like a clever little twist and spin on it. But then it allows him to open it up and teach all this other stuff and learn about different aspects of life and teach it in a way that he otherwise couldn't. Yeah. Quick questions. Not quick answers. So you can elaborate if you like. But let's start out here with what one book has had the biggest impact on your life. Man, that's hard because I've always been very into the books you were talking about earlier. Just like the non-fiction business and personal development type books. You know, the biggest impact, I hate to say it almost, but the four hour work week. Yeah. Was the one in 2007, 2008, that I read as a 20, early, you know, like 21 or 20 year or whatever. And that fundamentally changed how I thought about what was possible. And so when it comes down, I've read a lot of very good books. The snowball by Warren Buffett is just an amazing, not by Warren, but about Warren Buffett is an amazing book. And just different things that have changed my perspective around this. But yeah, to be completely frank, I think the biggest change was what got me thinking about all of this set me down the path of writing, doing different things over the last decade was the four hour work week. Not because I wanted to work four hours a week, but just because I think a fundamental shift of realizing that you can detach the money you make from the time you spend on it. And you can create things that then can go out into the world and become assets. I never really was in that group of thinking about it that way. I had so that was a big book for me. Yeah, I love four hour work week. It lights, I love books like that that just light a fire under your ass and you're like, oh shit. I feel really inspired. And while we know that inspiration and motivation will fade, that the lighting of the fire and that inkling, those ideas I think are so important. And they actually will push you to start something. And it's, you know, the matter of keeping it going is a different story. But like that spark and four hour work week was like super inspirational for me to early on. Yeah. What one skill have you leveraged in a way that others haven't? My willingness, my willingness to fail. And I don't know that that's a skill. But I, throughout my life, I've always been willing to try and see what happens and get excited about things. And I think that's something that not everyone has. And I've leveraged that to become a filmmaker to get on YouTube to start writing. This is something I've literally never talked about publicly before and I'm about to give it to you. I failed college English three times. Wow. And I hated it. Yeah. And I'm a writer now. I'm a writer and a YouTuber. And that's just something that like, I think it's really, I want people to know now because first of all, if you're struggling with a traditional format of education, you're not done for like it's it's just the beginning, right? It's one thing. And secondly, um, all you have to do is just fail and learn from it and be okay and and and just keep trying like really that's that's if you can just be willing to fail, try, and then be okay with it and then get up and do it again, you will be fine. No matter where you're coming from, no matter what you're doing. I think that's that's that's an amazing story here though because a lot of times if you fail English, you feel like I'm never going to be a writer. I'm a failure. And the story that I was always told grown up is about Michael Jordan and how he didn't make his high school basketball team. Yeah. If he came like, make his high school basketball team the greatest basketball player of all time, and it's like, all right, well, if I screw up if I fail a little bit, if I trip up here, it's not about that. It's about what you do. And like a lot of this comes cliche, but it's true. That's yourself off. Keep making shit. It's real. Um, yeah. And anyone with kids that are struggling in school, I would say. Like, there's hope. Don't don't feel like that is if they don't do this, they're never going to make it. It's anything because it just encourages them to keep working at it. Yeah. Where do you go when you're feeling doubt? Doubt or yeah. That question could be taken in many different ways. Yeah. It's, it has been taken in a couple of different ways. Yeah. Usually, I think the best answer would be inward. I usually don't dwell on it for too long, and I think that comes back to the answer to the last question. Of, uh, I've been okay with things, me trying things in them not going well. Um, and so I tend to not get stuck in a ton of that. I'm a pretty optimistic guy. So I think I'm blessed with, uh, with a relatively present and relatively optimistic, just kind of existence. But, um, yeah. I usually try to do something, and usually just try to turn inward a bit, or just let go of it. And I know that's a vague and not very great answer, but it's, uh, it's just kind of how I process it, maybe. Yeah. Two more questions. What one thing should people read, watch or listen to before going bed tonight, besides the four hour work week? Um, I just upload a video about a lifestyle experiments, and I think that's a really good one, because it's been a big proponent of how I've lived my life for the last three years. just trying things. So if it's one of my videos, you can watch the video that I just did about lifestyle experiments on my channel. Um, and then, uh, I would say a book, I'm reading deep work right now. Yeah. I mentioned that about eight times on this planet. Yeah. So far. And, uh, I just... Cal Newport, right? Yeah. Um, so, yeah. Cal, he, he's a really just intriguing guy, and, uh, uh, it really opens up for perspective about, hey, actually maybe you don't have, we feel so, uh, but everyone else is there, and we have, maybe you don't have to do that, and it provides a very valuable perspective about why. Yeah. All right, man. One last question, where should people go to find you online? Yeah. So the primary place is BreakTheTwitch.com and, uh, that is basically the hub of everything I do writing and YouTube videos are linked there or YouTube.com slash BreakTheTwitch. Cool, man. Thanks so much for doing the show. Thanks for having me. Thank you for listening to the show. Anthony is a complete legend. He just was in town visiting LA, so it was great to, to finally link up with him, um, do you yourself a favor? And check out his YouTube channel. He posts there pretty frequently. Uh, it's called BreakTheTwitch. Just YouTube search. BreakTheTwitch. And you'll find it. Um, again, send in your questions. You got a question. We've got answers, or attempted answers. We will do our best. Uh, send them in two minutes. What about creativity, about living a meaningful life? Whatever you're struggling with, send it in to HelloAtMatTheEvelop.com. That's HelloAtMatTheEvelop.com. And if you're not busy right now, if you're not like going to work or if you want to slap off a work, here's something that you can do to help. Uh, Leave a review for the ground up show on iTunes. That helps tremendously. And the last thing you can do, if you want to subscribe to YouTube, I make videos every week. I break down some of the things we talk about on this show. And I also, uh, makes shorter video short form content that I deliver on a weekly basis around topics of minimalism, simple living, dealing with distractions, and how to create meaningful content. So check that out. Uh, I think you'll like some of this stuff I'm making there. And for a lot of behind the scenes stuff, even for this intro outro type deal, I did a behind the scenes, Instagram Stories, uh, which people have been finding pretty helpful to really see how this is going and me talking through some of the ways that I set up this recording. So, Instagram, it's AtMatTheEvelop. And maybe T-T-D-A-V-E-L-L-A. Alright guys, we'll see you next week. Thanks for listening. Thanks for watching.
