# The Fearless Creative // Ground Up 087
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IH9VGh29VSc
Puno made these:  http://www.ilovecreatives.com & http://www.peoplemap.co.
Find her here:  https://www.instagram.com/punodostres

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** create, creator, get started, ground up, make, matt davella, matt d'avella, podcast, podcasting, start, the ground up show, lifestyle design, simple living, 
**Date:** 2018-11-14

## Transcript
 Welcome back to the ground up show. I'm your host Matt Dihevella and today I'm having a conversation with Puno. Puno is a serial founder of Business's Websites vlogs and many other creative ventures. On this episode we talk about why you should be bringing your personality into everything you create, why you shouldn't settle for anything less than a complete love for the projects you work on, as well as why you need to be okay with failing. I think you guys are really going to enjoy the energy of this conversation. But first, if you've gotten some value out of this podcast, you might be aware that I have a Patreon account. By becoming a Patreon member, you help to support this ad-free podcast, but you also get some pretty great video content in return. Videos on lifestyle design, business, filmmaking, creativity and lots more. I actually just uploaded a video, breaking down how I was able to grow my audience on YouTube and also giving tips that might help you. If you want to check it out, you can get it at patreon.com slash Matt Dihevella. And of course, if you do not have the money to contribute right now, do not feel pressured to do so. I appreciate you guys listening and to me that is enough. Okay, let's get into this week's episode with Puno. Fanny packs are coming back. They are back. They're back. It's not even coming. I don't know. I don't have any friends with Fanny packs, but maybe my friends aren't cool enough. You know, it's this. It's a shoulder pack now. It's a Fanny pack. I don't think that that really counts. If you're throwing around the shoulder, it's a bag and you don't have the courage to put it around your waist. Or you just are a minimalist. You don't need to carry all that shit with you. That's true. Yeah, right? A minimalist would never have a Fanny pack. Neither would his friends. But anyway, you are the maker of many businesses websites, vlogs, pants, you make a lot of stuff. Who is Puno? Who are you? What do you create? What drives you? Okay, so let's start from the top. I have a website called ILoveCreatives.com. It's like a Craigslist for Creative People. That's how it started where different creatives would put ads on there for jobs, or they needed help, or trade spaces, events, and then I just kind of started adding all of these things to it. Just because, like you said, I just do all sorts of random stuff. Then I also have a website called PeopleMap.co, which is an Instagram marketing tool that I built with my husband, and he's a full-stack programmer. We built that when we were both growing, made with map, which is this travel app that I quit my job for, and we both built it together, and we needed to grow it, and we went to Instagram, and as I was doing that, it was just like really cumbersome to do the kind of aggressive community growth that I wanted to do just on my phone. And so I was like, hey, can you tap it at the Instagram API? And he was like, yeah, and so that's where it started, and then we decided, just we were like, that made with map isn't really got business bones to it, or at least the way that we want it to have a business, and so we pivoted to people map, and so now that's our thing. And then I've just got like random other shit that I do all the time, just because I feel like I need to always have something fun to do, that kind of balances the business side of things. So I just random, like, I'll do a cat calendar, or I made the pants with my friend, or I'll do a vlog just because I wanted to see what it's like with YouTube, and I don't know, I'm just like that. I want to talk more about people map in a second, because I think it's just a really cool idea, and I even see myself going through and watching your video and some of the walkthrough demonstrations you've done, I'm like, I could use this in a lot of ways. I also want to talk about the cat calendar, but first, I feel like everything that you create, it just has a touch to it, that's very unique, that it's effortlessly unique, it's effortlessly creative. Is that something that you intentionally think about? Are you thinking about how might people perceive this, or do you create without a filter? We're like, I don't care what people think, I'm just going to make what I find to be interesting, and what I find to be valuable. Yeah, death, the latter. I mean, former. Wait, which one? I forget what I said. It's the, I don't care, I'll just put it up there. So I was an advertising for, when I first started, and I had to do everybody else's brand, and so it wasn't really until I started my own businesses that I was like, oh, I can really just do whatever the hell I want. And yeah, and that's, I think that's the freedom. It's like, when you actually start building your own platforms and you start building your own things, I just naturally was like the whole point of this is so I can just do the design the way I want to do the design, use the photos I want to use, and etc. So yeah, it's, I think it's definitely no filter, just put it out there. Yeah, maybe in terms of the creative energy and the tone of what you're creating, but I imagine there must be some thinking about an experience of a user. In a platform, I guess it's two different things there, but that's probably something you have to really think about. All right, how is somebody going to perceive this from a user experience type? And so I, I actually was a UX director for a little bit. I was, so I was an, I was an advertising, and then I was an art director. UX design didn't even exist, and then my husband was actually UX designer, and I had just gotten laid off at DDB as an advertising art director, and his boss was like, I think you'd be really good UX designer. And I was like, what is that? How do I do that? He just told me a couple of things that I needed to do just to show my thinking. And I was like, oh, it's about like, how do you think about the process? How do you think about, you know, the experience that you can create digitally? What pixels need to be created in order for that to happen? And ever since then, I just kind of really loved the idea of like, how can I make a party? Or how can I show everything that I want in just a few pixels? And sometimes that means, like you said, the fonts are like the photography. It's just, what's the vibe that they get so that they're excited to click more and like to really explore what you've created online? So yeah, I do, I really do think about the user experience a lot. And I think my approach to is to try to be the person that you are creating for. So when I worked at Call of Duty, I was a UX director there. I didn't play Call of Duty at all. I like the most I played was guitar hero and then the Wii. And so I logged 140 hours so I can get a 1.0 KD in Call of Duty. But then I understood what it felt like to be a Call of Duty player and it was so much easier to design for that. So that's always like the approach is, all right, if I don't understand what I'm creating, then how can I be that person? And that's, I think that's why like, I do so many different things. So I can really like be that mindset and be and have that like correct perspective if you will. There's also a lot of research that goes into people who do user experience, right? So you have to go out and talk with people who are using your product and see how they actually use it on a daily basis. Is that something that you do now in terms of talking with people who use people map or any other product you're creating? Yeah, I mean, I'm, I'm actually also not the kind of person that likes best practices. I hate it. And so I don't do like user personas or I don't have like a very strategic thing. All I do is just like you said, I do walk throughs, I get on calls. I just talk to people and just ask them, hey, I have this idea, like is this what you're thinking and then, you know, from there we just kind of pick which feature we work on. Also, my husband and I are the only ones that are building people map. So the amount of features that you can actually do in a year is really small. And so you kind of have to be pretty focused on this is my hypothesis of what you guys would like. Let me just see if I can gather information about it and then just execute as soon as possible. And that will tell you a lot more than any kind of research will really get the end of the day. And then just like you're getting feedback and then V2 you can iterate on it and make it even better. Yeah, we don't even think about V2. It's really just like just put it out there and then it's just a constantly changing thing. Yeah, and that's like the whole reason why I wanted to start our own business because when I was you know at a bigger company there was all these, you got to have wireframes and then you got to build that and then you have to have a meeting and apps that get approved. And with Daniels since he's also a UX designer, we literally just talk things through. Sometimes I'll sketch something out most of the time I won't. And then he just puts it, he puts the workflow up and then we maybe do design tweaks later. But it's really fast. It's just, but that's great. And we just keep making as many features as we think would hit the mark. Yeah, I think something that you touched on earlier was like about creating efficiency and there's almost a touch of minimalism there in terms of design and I like to bring minimalism into every conversation I can. But it's it is about the stripping away of the things that are going to be distracting or not helpful. So if you're designing a landing page for a website, you need to be really thoughtful about the things that you add. The one thing I loved about my conversation with David Cherry who intro to us is that he says on his website they don't have an about page and they haven't had it since the beginning. And it, and it adds almost like an element of like curiosity. So like who is this person? What are they all about? Your website is like crazy. It's amazing. It's beautifully designed. It's just incredibly creative. It's got so much personality to it. But it is not like you said in any way a template or something that you could find on somebody else's stock site. And I think that's what we need today because everybody's just copying each other. It's all just different slightly different versions of itself. Yeah, and I think that also has to do, I mean are you talking about the people map website? Well, I was talking about, I didn't know about yours, but oh no, you know, I think it was your, yeah, your personal website. The ones where I just like, you know, first vlog or whatever, and it seems like it may be a little old, but yeah, it was a little old. But yeah, that I just, I guess like when I started designing just doing my own stuff, I think that it took me a while to really understand what what I wanted to be about, I guess, on in like how I wanted the website to look. So, you know, when you're asking about like, how do you design? Is there a lot of, like, a lot of thought to it? I think it's just a ton of iterations. What you're seeing is like the 30th iteration of like just different executions that I was just playing around with. And it's not really like a, I've never done like a whole thing where I really planned out the branding for something and I just kind of put it out there and then just change it because it's on Squarespace. So it's really easy. Squarespace, it's amazing. I mean, it's amazing. The tools that we have available now as creators to be able to make things. I mean, I think that the skill sets that you and your husband have are totally unique. And you can't make something like that on Squarespace in terms of pulling it to APIs and doing a lot of the tech stuff that are required. But for most people, if you're a filmmaker, you're a photographer, if you want to build a website, even if you want to do a digital product, you can very easily I mean, I built, I love creatives on Squarespace. So that's, that was, and, and I love creatives, I built because on Squarespace because Daniel, he doesn't have time to do every single digital project I want to do. And so he was like, well, I can't really work on this and I was like, that's okay. I'll figure it out. And so I figured out how to hack basically the blog on Squarespace to be ads. And so that's how I created the ad platform on I love creatives. And ever since then, I'm just like, oh my gosh, I don't have to be a full stack programmer in order to build a community or create digital products like you're saying, I could just do all of this with Squarespace. I don't even have to spend time learning JavaScript in order to get where I want to go. It's all just been on that damn platform. It's so good. Is there something that that guides you in terms of growing and audience, like we were talking about earlier, where a lot of people can get really obsessed and focused on just grow, grow, grow versus something that I've seen you mentioned online is building organic community. How do you do that versus the atypical model of just trying to grow for scale? So the first, made with map, when we first grew that we, I did a very aggressive community growth through Instagram where I was reaching out to travel photographers like 60 of them a day. Like that's how aggressive I was getting with I love creatives because it was my side project. I needed to make money in order for me to even like pay attention to it. So that was a totally different model. I just put the products that I thought people would pay for and just was like here it is. That's it. And I never started an Instagram account. We're just doing that now. But I haven't done the actual community growth in terms of me going out there and outreaching. I want to, but that just I didn't have time. So it did build on its own word of mouth by creating great content and by providing things that people want to use. So it was a little different model in that sense, but what it taught me was put a dollar amount on anything that you build so that you can keep building it. Even if it's little, it'll like force you to really make money. Was that mean like in terms of an idea of what you would want to earn from it? Yeah. Like I had ads on there and I was like I won. I don't have time to actually put the ads up. So I have to hire somebody. So I basically timed myself and was like how long does this take me to build? I knew it took me a certain amount of hours. So I was like okay if I paid somebody 20 bucks an hour, how much do these ads need to be in order to pay for that person and then that was the price? Because I was like otherwise I'm not able to do it. And then when I put the price up there, of course the first, you know, three to six months, it wasn't completely full, but at least there was money coming in. So I could see like there's some legs here. I can pay for something right now and I can see that eventually it'll pay for itself. Sometimes it takes a while. Sometimes you have to commit and say okay it's going to be a year, maybe two years. Yeah. Is there a certain time period that you'll commit to something before maybe temporarily throwing in the towel? Like one of my favorite books is the dip by Seth Goden where he talks about not just how to stick through with something which is important and there's this culture of quitters never win mentality. Yeah. But also sometimes quitting is important. And sometimes quitting is essential because maybe the market's not ready for it. Maybe it's too soon. Maybe it never would work. So how do you know how long to commit to something before realizing I don't know if this is working out? I don't know if I love this as much as I once thought I did. Well if I don't love it that's easy. That's like probably ever since I quit Activision. I was just like anything that makes me unhappy a little bit. I either have to figure out how can I change it to make myself happy about this or just cut it out. So that's like really easy. But the part where I am a minimalist is I'm very lazy but I'm efficiently lazy. Right. So like I said like with the whole being able to have a business model that actually paid for itself then now I don't have to like it's not a burden for me to build that newsletter every week because it's paying for itself. So that's why I don't have to like think is this really worth it because it's paying for itself. Like I don't I'm not spending it really much time on it and it's kind of its own ecosystem that's growing on its own. It's not growing incredibly fast but there's just so many like little opportunities that that I've gotten because of it so that I've never really needed to turn it off. So for I love creatives I definitely feel like that is something because it paid for itself I never needed to like quit it. For other projects I never really look at it long term most of the time. Like the pants thing I wasn't like all right I'm going to be a fashion designer and I'm going to do this. It was more like hey I want to do this thing let's just see you know what it's like to create pants or like the cat calendar I wasn't going to be like okay and now I'm going to get into the cat calendar business and I'm going to do this but I don't know it just was like a fun project to do and it actually has led me to potentially creating another cat calendar or an animal calendar but and I think that's the other thing too is with when you creates some things you don't have to feel this pressure of it's got to be the rest of your life or this is what's going to define you especially if you're like me and you just consistently just keep doing lots of different things nobody's going to be able to put like their finger on exactly what you are all about they're just like you just seem like this creative person that just does a lot of things and like at the end of the day yeah like that's correct that's what I am that's what I do correct me if I'm wrong but the the kind of person that would make a cat calendar or pants what was the fabric it was like velvet velvet pants the kind of person that does that doesn't seem to be the kind of person that would often be overwhelmed with their work so and my correct an assuming that and I could be totally wrong but that you generally don't get overwhelmed with your work and you kind of don't bite off more than you can chew because like I feel like those kind of projects where they're very fun and creative and also like you're not trying to get rich yeah making a cat calendar you're doing because you love it because it's fun um do you find yourself overwhelmed much at all well so all of those projects I mean if I really think about the amount of time it takes to create them what five days you know it's not really that much of a time commitment and I'm always collaborating and it's like the best way for me to learn about something new really really quickly but also to just get it done faster because I'm collaborating with someone who is they know what they're doing in a sense like the cat calendar I I didn't design it I didn't print it I actually worked with goods gang and they do and invitations wedding invitations and also something you know but um they do lots of like really awesome designs and I was like you're you're asked that is exactly what I would want for this cat calendar I just asked her about it and then it was done after like a week or two so yeah I think it's it's just like super quick collaborations that don't make it super overwhelming for me but I do get I will get overwhelmed with like when people ask me for things or they'll ask me to come to events or they'll ask me to meet them up I do a goddamn podcast say come on I love podcasts but I mean right but but I know exactly what you're saying and I get a lot of emails from people too who they want your time and a lot of people are asking for value from you yeah and it's very hard especially when you're very busy with projects that you're passionate about so how do you say no to those in which ones do you say yes too well so most of the time well when I first started uh when I quit Activision I didn't have any friends in LA which is weird because you know I've already been here for eight years and then I I was just like I need to just meet a ton of friends so at that time in my life that was a priority and I probably met a new person once a week for like two years um and that was great but now I can't do that and so I just am not as aggressive about like you know having coffee meetings or if I can I'll just get on a phone call real quickly or I'll just say hey can we go can we just talk about this over email like that might be easier for me to like talk to you and then you know in terms of like ask when people ask me for information or like advice I always try to think okay if there are enough people that are asking me about this thing that I can create a course or I can create some kind of content that would just you know I could just throw them that way and so that's why I started that um Instagram marketing course because I was just like people are asking me so much like how do I not just how to use people map but like what is Instagram marketing strategies in general um so I just threw everything that I knew on that freaking course and then just you know tell them hey this is the fastest way that you'll get everything that's on my mind about this topic um yeah so I've heard a lot of people talk about the the pre-selling of courses of selling a course before you make it yeah that's something that you do believe in what do you think about it um I okay so I kind of did that I did that with this one person and I don't know I I pretty much I feel like the only reason why I would build a course is because I know that there's there's enough people that have like that have wanted to learn about this um with general assembly actually I used to teach it general assembly that was a really good test bed to do those kinds of things and just like put up a course you know it forced me to do slides then I before and then I just like made something and tested it that way but I never really did like a pre-launch course before I feel like they definitely work that's just not my style like with the Squarespace course that I just did I really wanted it to be totally different and I was like how the other reason why was because I I don't know I don't really like how some of the online courses are they're a little cheesy for me I have the same feeling about a lot of the self-help online yeah like whether it's a podcast or a YouTube video so much corny shit out there and it's like guys you can you like light it up add some personality to it and that goes for courses yeah it's like you you're making something that could be 30 hours worth of content somebody needs to digest right it's not just education right like you have to be entertaining and interesting and funny and insightful there's a lot more that you can bring besides just info and yeah exactly and I didn't want I didn't want to teach because of that reason I didn't want to teach because every single that was like how to build an online course was not how I would ever do it for myself and so I had to really and I actually didn't even want to do the course because of that so I had to really think about how can I design this in a way that would really make me want to build it and that's when you just kind of take a step back and I just went both of the walls on it I like hired a I hired a game programmer and I hired a 3D artist and I made this Monument Valley Esk world where you can go and it was there's gamification and there's levels in it and then I hired a video editor so that she can make it hilarious we even made like a song so whenever you get really frustrated you can like it's like it's called calm down and we made water breaks and I just really wanted to make it feel different and feel like me and so and so yeah it took six months for me to build that but you're right like I don't know how I could have pre-vetted that if I didn't know exactly what I was building because honestly it wasn't until up and it wasn't until the past maybe month or two that I really was like oh yeah this is it I had to go through the process of building something completely new and there's no template for it in order to you know satisfy my my creative self but also like have something that's that I can sell too yeah and I think maybe that comes with experience the longer that you've been doing something like this the more that you have an intuition for what people might respond to and you've obviously built an audience so you know what they might be interested in hearing about from you so I think that plays a part in it because just if you were just starting out I think maybe it helps say if you're a filmmaker to make a bunch of really short videos oh yeah get feedback put it out get feedback put it out and eventually you can get to the point where you make a feature documentary you do something that's a little bit more ambitious right that said I know some people that have done the opposite where they're like I've never made a video before and now I'm going to make a future documentary and they got it on Netflix and damn I get some wrong so I say that because there's other templates out there there's other things that could work for other people but for the most part I think you just really have to focus on the craft and like just get better get better get better and then down the road when you're good enough you can maybe take a little bit more time with something because I think like it holds you back if you're saying with this specific course here let's do pre-sales and then that makes you feel pressured to finish it in a month or two where you never could have with that specific project and for how my vision for it was a lot bigger than than just a couple of months I knew that so I knew that I needed to spend a lot of time on like building what that is and I think I think the big difference between me now and me maybe a couple of years ago is I really I know I love the process I know I love the hurt and I love the grind the confusion the worry all of that shit that comes with building your own idea and like executing it I love I thrive on that and I want to just do it my way and little control freaking that sense so it it is nice to hunker down and just really build something for a while and then put it out there that being said I also don't ever do that too with like all these side projects like cat calendars stuff like that I was just like go go go go just like let's just do whatever because it's just like a creative thing that I had just some idea I got when I was smoking pot now I wanted to see what it actually is gonna look like amazing I love that I gotta start executing on more of those ideas yeah well it's fun and I'm about to mention it I always do this but I was talking about David Sherry and one of the things was just coming up with weird ideas like why not just crazy ideas love I have this like on my my phone I have a tag called hideeas and I don't know if you get high but I that's my that's like my window into my creative self it's just a really good gateway to it nice but um but like all so Daniel why has been he doesn't smoke and so I just had to like learn how can I just do this on my own so maybe like twice a week maybe once a week I'll get a little high get into my bed and then I just let it ride and I'm just like let's go crazy and I just these ideas are just like coming and going crazy the next morning sober Puno has to be like alright what's this girl talk about like a you video are you gonna write down the road you write everything down I write everything down I get that you actually really do come up with a lot of great ideas when you're high I do sometimes I feel better in the moment and that you're right it's the sober version of Puno and at least it go through and be like alright this one is actually terrible yeah this one my work this is actually really funny yeah it's because it's I think it's because we naturally overthink I think like maybe something about grown up as kids like we're just told to kind of play the safe route and not touch the stove but then as you get older I don't think you just touch the stove but you should be a little bit more courageous in coming up with ambitious and crazy ideas that are not safe exactly and and so actually when I was in Vegas and that girl boss retreat they had a tarot reader there and I'm never done my tarot cards ever I was just like ooh kind of scared about it and the first thing she's like what's your sign I was like shouldn't she know this but she's like what's your sign and I was like I'm a Gemini and she said oh Gemini is overthink they like think they like they think too much so she's like you just need to like trust the process and I was like oh girl you're speaking to me right now and it's true I think when when I do get high I let myself really dive in places that I'm like whoa that is you that's who you are like let that out so then the sober Puno needs to be like okay that is you but nobody knows what the hell you're talking about so how can I how can I like turn this into a business idea a project content that is just easily or more approachable or digestible and then like these two minds start working together in that sense so yeah it's it's how do you tell the story around it so it's you're going from your head to somebody else and especially if it's something that's crazier a little bit weird yeah how do you get people to care about what you find to be interesting I guess the analogy is my high self is like that crazy CEO that like comes in he's like I got a great idea about this how about this Puno executed it's so good and then I'm all like man this guy he thinks he has such great ideas oh my god that's so funny but then a couple of them are pretty good you're like got to give him credit that's funny so I'll tell you my my crazy idea that I have and I was brainstorming with David about it's been a running theme of the show I'm trying to get the rock on my podcast doing the rock job oh you're trying to figure out how to get the rock on here oh my god like I was in the corner it's like talking to her perfect frame for it too I got our best frame for it we don't have any other family photos hanging on the wall he's doing I don't he is okay that's enough for it since I've mentioned the rock on the podcast I've got to play to get the rock on that's podcast jingle this is it this is a jingle created by Sam Tier I did a competition so there was like 30 people created jingles for the get the rock on that's podcast jingle competition and Sam Tier was voted the winner I think he would come on I don't know do you have any crazy ambitious ideas like that that you've thought of over the time that you have or haven't decided to pursue yeah so okay so ever since the whole this the beginning of the year I was on girl boss and I did the startup desk where I just talked about like how to use Google and how to like do Photoshop and I think it was in Photoshop is like something else but I was like wow I really I like teaching I just have this hang up about teachers and so as I'd worked through the Squarespace course I was like okay I can build this in my way and and then I was like what is that really mean like big picture one big thing that I've been playing around with is how can I create like really valuable online education that can be 360 like a lot of developer online education does this right now where you know they they don't make you pay to it tuition upfront and then once you get a job then you can get tuition but there's a lot of other jobs that are out there besides tech and that could be in tech too like marketing or even like freelance designers and all those kinds of things so I'm trying to figure out like how can I build I don't want to say university but like how can I build some kind of amazing online education platform that's very me like very fun very like actionable and and like get someone to actually be able to get a job and pay back this immediately that's kind of like something big that I wanted to do another big thing that I've been playing around with is I've always wanted to create a show and I don't know what that show really is but the idea is somehow bringing education and entertainment together so I have no idea what that is I started a YouTube series that we're on episode two but it's called 1-800-Hey Puno where people call in and they ask me like advice and then I just like okay I'll show you how to do that so I don't know exactly how big it's gonna be and I need to for me personally I need to go through the process in order to really understand and visualize what that is I do feel like that's kind of like one of my cons or like not a con but that's one of my weaknesses is I don't really think big and long-term I mean as you can see like so I am trying exercise that that skill and try to figure out like what does that mean and some of that actually involves me talking to people who think big already and who have like been at big companies and one of those people was at that girl boss or she at her name's Allison and she's a president of girl boss and she also was like at refinery 29 and L and just she just thinks big and so I'm just like okay I need to like just talk to her and really like you know ask the questions that I'm not asking because I just don't naturally do that yeah people give a lot of shit to like the life coaches and stuff and while I haven't hired any I don't think that there's anything wrong with this I think there's so many people out there that get you to think things in a different way kind of like that where a lot of times we put these self limiting beliefs and doubts on ourselves yeah like all I could never do that but then it's like if you have someone in there that's just given you a healthy nudge in the right direction to be like no I think that's actually what you should do if that's really what you're passionate about and like here's maybe how you could go about doing it yeah and and you know I mean I feel like I'm not a big mentor person either because I I think at the time I never had something where I needed a mentor because I could find everything online like I was like oh yeah any any question I had it like it was available there I can learn it that way or if if there was a person that I thought would be my mentor I would just research the crap out of him and like oh I got kind of like what I needed from that so I've never needed that but now in terms of a mentor it's more of this feedback thing that I'm like craving it just I really want someone who can see my potential and then be able to help me understand how can you make that realized so yeah I don't know maybe it's a life coach maybe it's a mentor maybe it's something else but either way just put it out there now it's out there they know where to find you. Well I think that's I have the similar experience but even in doing this podcast and connecting with other creatives I find these conversations to be enlightening and self motivating for myself which is kind of like a cheat and I would really do this podcast if nobody listen because it's the best excuse in the world to just connect with other creatives and to just brainstorm and I just have to remind myself stop asking questions that just I want to know it's just to sometimes it may be too specific yeah I think sometimes it's helpful because a lot of times it's the conversations you have either before after the podcast that can be the most interesting because you're like oh no really how did you do like how did you shoot that video yeah and a lot of times I don't know we try to be a little bit too clean and clean cut on a podcast and be like yeah let's give practical advice for you guys I wanted to do the plug the plug yeah the podcast vlog because the thing I love about the vlog is that it's flexible and you don't you can be messy and people don't really need that linear story line and you can just be super random which is what I am and so I was like oh how can I do that with just audio um I don't know yet I mean that was just like okay that's what I was I didn't really I got it when you said it but it could have been either way I thought maybe like admit you were just going to be filming your podcasts in a more gritty kind of way but you're talking about you just capturing maybe your day or where you are but in that audio my friends did something kind of similar but not really that fallen in some era they've got a great youtube channel but they did and they've got a podcast as well but they did one episode where it was just them in the coffee shop and walking around Venice with wireless mics clipped themselves and answering audience questions right so you have that kind of feel and you have people like almost like hit them and traffic you have these moments that are kind of verite and that are in the moment but at the same time I don't think it's been done in that kind of way right and so here's what I'm juggling which is what is the reason why I'm wanting to do this and does the medium matter like how bad does the medium matter because like for me it's like the execution part is kind of the same in a sense like the person that I would have edited for me because I don't edit my own stuff is she can do both so it doesn't really matter but it's more like what's the best way that I can communicate the the point of whatever I'm trying to do and so for the vlog when I first started it the whole point of the vlog was just I wanted to see what it's like to be a youtube vlogger I had no agenda besides that and I did it for like 60 days straight and that was great I needed to stop it though because I was like I'm not getting anything out of this right now just like recording little crap from my day and like saying hi to certain people so I needed to like figure out okay what's another way I can do this so that I don't keep my attention and I I'm still trying to figure that out but I think once I figure out like okay the whole point of this is let's say to really dive deep into my process of how I create even just this like this whole thought process of doing it what's the best what's the best medium for it or what's the fastest medium for it so well that's interesting it's like because you do have the option of just making that a vlog like you could do the video version yeah I guess what would be the benefits for you of each because I know that you you see the value in video like where it is now like youtube is it's crazy that youtube's been around for so long and yet now it's the most the quickest growing platform it's kind of insane yeah and it's just getting bigger every day podcasting as well is growing but I think we mentioned this before the podcast the fact that podcasting isn't really discoverable right the same way that youtube is so I wonder maybe the fact that it's this unique style alone could you know bring you people that to you and that might be the thing that draws you to there right exactly you are in my head yeah that's exactly it like I like okay is this is this a thing you know just like how minimalism right like when before you approached it did you did you know that it was like minimalism was going to be your thing that's the place that's the way people are going to gravitate to you that you're creating this community of minimalist or you just like that's me I'm just this is just how I'm doing it this is this is just my process of like figuring out minimalism it was a little bit of both like when I personally found out about minimalism it was right after I moved back home with my parents right in their basement $100,000 in debt right and then I came across this guy Tom Shadyak who directed the documentary I am as well as Bruce Almighty and all these amazing comedies from the 90s with Jim Kerry yeah and it was his story about getting rid of everything he had you know when he got everything he thought he was supposed to want and I was like wow you can do that oh wow and then it just started to get me that was kind of like the moment that started to get me to think about a different alternative lifestyle and then I started to find other people who called themselves minimalists that had more of a template and Josh and Ryan from the minimalist were very helpful because they had written so much about it yeah and then it was for me in terms of at least making the documentary was seeing the movement seeing it happening but not thinking that it could be successful necessarily but just knowing that I really want to make a documentary and it's just a dream that I've always had and what better topic to do it on than something that changed my life and I know is helping other people right so yeah it's going to be a balance it's totally it's always like this is the media I want to explore because that's just it's interesting to you which is why the plug is so interesting to me because I'm like wow how do you do that like what would that sound like what would what do I need to do in order to make that entertaining enough for somebody to listen to and what are the benefits and cons to it I think that's why I just keep like not giving up on that idea and not just going to the easy route of a vlog because I've already done that I know what that means for me yeah and I mean you're right and there's a definite pro that the production of it is so much easier and it's also much more natural you're holding a camera out vlogging because it's just clipping a mic on yourself and then you just record it and then you don't have to film yourself it's I mean it sounds amazing yeah it's but you're right and that that's where your creativity happens it's because you can't just I don't think that it's just going to happen a great story is not just going to happen a lot of people think that even with vlogging that all it takes is you just turn in the camera in yourself you got to think the shit through and that's the same thing if you're going to do a podcast like that yeah all right I'm going to do an episode maybe 15 20 minutes what should it be about right exactly I but with my vlog when I first did it I didn't I didn't think about anything yeah um you're I feel like you're rare exception though too because you just have such a bright personality that I feel like I would look like an idiot if I tried that but I don't know I just do random shit I'm just like blah blah blah blah blah blah blah and it's hilarious that's true yeah yeah I had so there was something I don't know if I could just blah blah and I'm like a podcast if you were to do it consistently for a long, long time well that's the thing is I'm never really about like the way I would do it is I would say okay I'm going to try this for 30 days or something I like even people do seasons or seasons 10 episodes it's gonna be the first season I'm never I mean I actually did a creative morning's talk about commitment which is so funny because in a sense I'm not committed but my thesis was I'm committed to multiple things and so in order to do that you just kind of have to like commit for a few moments something which is not really commit but it is in a sense but yeah so like I feel like I think the difference between podcast and of of log is going to be about how can I show people more of what's going on my head in terms of like being like being a creative entrepreneur whatever this label is that is on me and that's that's kind of the the thing I want to get across is this is how I think through things this all the mistakes that I make and I feel like podcasting or just audio is such a really great way to get in my head whereas when I do have the camera up I am thinking about lots of different things like do I look good and what else is going on around here you have to hold it up too so that is like kind of the the nice the nice thing about that yeah you said that you've gotten to the point where you're okay not only okay with it but you enjoy the grind and working and failure and everything that most people are afraid of when they're starting something how did you get to that point was it there from the beginning once you left that big agency I think I've always had it but it was at Activision that was where I like made a definitive like statement to myself because so we were working on Call of Duty Elite which is like this huge platform that we were trying to create for 20 million Call of Duty players it kind of failed in in a sense like the first year and what had happened was they just fired people and I was like damn it like we we built such a great team we only had a year to execute on this and it failed because of all these other things right and I was like that's not fair like why can't we work on this longer why do you have to fire someone who was helping so much with making the product where it is right now and has the experience and all of the mistakes that we've made you know along the way like why do they have to go away and that's when I was like I love making mistakes and I love being able to deal with the consequences of my mistakes because that's the best way I'm going to create a product that's best way I'm going to create and so that's why I needed to leave because I was like you guys just punished people for taking risks or trying something new or whatever not you guys just like one or two people but but yeah that that was like the definitive moment for me that I was like I do love the process I do love making taking risks and making mistakes well yeah I mean it's it's so funny it's because like you're getting punished for failing but I think that you you have to build a culture where failing is okay because that's the only way that you're ever going to get to success yeah it's a it's a number one thing that's going to hold people back from even starting yeah and it's like the thing that they're asking for too was crazy they were like we want the Netflix of Call of Duty and I was like what does that mean so we had to like backtrack and like figure out what that means but also figure out what this huge thriving very like aggressive community wanted to and a year is not enough time to figure that out you need way longer you need so much more just time to iterate on it and yeah and so so now like with I love creatives and with people map like I've just been able to do that I've just been able to like oh that didn't really work out or and it's not like it's not a failure anymore like I don't I don't even look at it as a failure it just it was just an idea that just didn't work out yeah what's nice about it is that you're only letting yourself down yeah and like I have to I've had to play with that a little bit in my own head in terms of when I was a freelance filmmaker I would never want to let a client down and that meant backing up on two to three drives making sure I would never lose the footage making sure I delivered before I said I was going to deliver and all those things and I think while the pressure now isn't as intense because I'm working for myself and if I lose footage then I can only blame myself I should still treat myself kind of like a client where I started backing up my files for personal projects because I knew I wouldn't want to lose this total and the same thing goes for meeting deadlines and all this other stuff I think if you start to treat yourself like a client and maybe you don't have the same pressure but it's gonna you're gonna I think execute much better because otherwise I think it's kind of hard to be self motivated in the same oh yeah and I so ever since I I did quit I was like okay I don't want to represent being an entrepreneur I don't want to resent being a freelancer so what do I need to do in order to get through the grind because it's still sucks I mean I say like I love it I love it but like there's still days especially on my monthly where I'm like this sucks or when you're not making money that's even worse and so I I did this thing like every morning and now I feel like I've done it so much that I just constantly and do it without having to prompt myself I just ask myself I try to be like the best boss I would ever want and I ask myself every morning hey Puno how's it going are you feeling happy like if you're not feeling happy what is it that we can change about your routine like are you feeling overwork to what can we do about your you know like your hours it's just I just ask myself those questions and then I can like get through little jumps and I think that like management of yourself is so important when you're working on your own and I don't think a lot of people allow themselves to coach themselves or like you know like allow themselves to have conversations like that where it's like hey so it doesn't seem like you're very happy with this like what can we do about this to make this a little bit better for you people it's just automatically think okay no this is just freelancing is an entrepreneurship is grind you can only eat ramen and you have to like not get any sleep but is that really the situation if you are if that was your employee and that's how they thought would you want that from them like so how can you ask yourself or your employee like hey I want you to stay in this this is for the long term so how can we make your lifestyle better in order for you to stay on this team and that's just my approach now and I feel like it's been helpful because it gives me the opportunity just you know be human and not just be this entrepreneur monster that's like I'm beast mode I got my rock picture and like everything's cool yeah yeah I like everything's falling apart yeah that's what people want to see they want to see the realness they want to see the fact that you're struggling and when we just present this perfect versions of ourselves I don't think it makes many people feel good especially creators that are trying to make things happen and are struggling to do so right and to I love what you said just about almost like having these one-on-ones with yourself every morning because discontent can creep up on you oh it's the thing that you know you get that job promotion or you land that client project and you get this rush of adrenaline and excitement and then it just carries through for a long time but eventually down the road if you're not happy if you are grinding yourself every single day it's hard to see the fact that you're miserable that you're neglecting family that you're you know not spending time relaxing or enjoying other passions yeah so you have to that needs to be consistent this is like am I happy do I like doing that and if if this is the life I knew that this was a lifestyle change for me and if that was the case and I was in it forever I needed to make sure that I checked in because like the future is just a bunch of nails so I have to make sure that every now is going to lead up to the future that I want eventually and that means checking in every everyday because you're right like if if you don't it's going to manifest in your work and it's going to manifest in like your mood and you're going to be drunk crying like at 11 p.m. and you didn't want to do it yeah I said not again and now you're on your own. you're right yeah look at me which is another martini thing blue cheese it always helps blue cheese is that a drink is that a martini blue cheese in the olives oh I'm not fancy my fiance's all into that she's into the uh oh I don't even know like what is it called not cheese boys are one thing you don't even know what cheese boards are called dude I I like all of our Natalians like we're not like Natalians and we don't I don't know also I don't we didn't have cheese boards when I was growing that's true that's a new thing that's true you're like I'm not a toast what is this I don't know charcooterie trying to stick to my roots is that what you're talking about she coulderie she calls it she coulderie that's a coulderie she coulderie which is why it's meets yeah yeah I remember she said that once she said oh I wish this place had she coulderie and I was like who are you who talks like that when did you get rich where is she where did she go where the dollar slice pizza person I love how you live all of garden I used to eat those never ending postables oh there's I mean never it's endless everything endless fun and endless depression uh people map so I have like a lot of hard time finding podcast guests it's just it's just tough I mean I really I rely mostly well here's thing like I rely mostly on other guests to and you're focused so much on the rock too yeah I mean it's just like that's all I'm focused on and if I'm not gonna get the rock on the podcast then these other people don't matter no offense but it's the rock but it seems like that might be helpful in terms of trying to find guests that are potentially like minded yeah because I usually use Instagram period as a way to just search for people yeah but it's very difficult to find to use the actual search with an Instagram to find it so do you think that would actually be helpful yeah so okay the way that people map works is exactly how you probably use Instagram which is you go on someone's profile and you're like oh who's this person all about and then you go through their followers you go through their legs at this point though like people are following you know over 500 more people and it's hard to get through that so you literally on people map you click on this analyze button what we do is we show you people that have recently commented or that person has tagged and so it just filters that really quickly and so you can see like okay these are the people who are probably really good friends with that person or if they've tagged them it's something that they're interested in and you can just go through that rabbit hole so yeah I mean I would just start with like finding people that you're interested in and then clicking that analyze button and seeing what happens yeah and I think there's something to be said about being able to search like the follower count like how many people are following somebody yeah because it's when you're first starting out it's you you're trying to get somebody on your podcast that has 500,000 followers that's really well known in a space it's gonna be very hard so it's nice to be able to limit that you know what maybe I'm just looking for somebody that's got 5,000 to 15,000 and as much as I don't think that we should be judging people based upon the follower count it helps I think it's a helpful tool to knowing how long somebody has been in an industry if people you know respect that person yeah and if that person has a thriving community and what I mean by thriving is even if they get like 30 comments on their posts that's still a lot and it shows that that person knows how to communicate to their people and so that's what you want on the podcast you want to have a good conversation with someone and if they can do that with a couple of words and like a little image then you need some kind of filters in order to find the person yeah then you can do a little bit more research yeah yeah with this person actually would be good to sit down with totally one thing you could do and so like a lot of brands user site but a lot of influencers use people map which I thought was really interesting because I didn't I didn't think that that was our market when we first started but they use it and they'll go to like a brand that they really want to work with they'll analyze the brand and then because you can search profiles too and they'll search for the the brand name in the search and usually it comes up with people who've worked for the brand so for example like if you're wanting to talk to somebody at under armor maybe you could find the CMO or like you could also find out LinkedIn but it is kind of nice to like see who are the people who are socially connected to this account and that could be an interesting way to bring somebody on under armor to your podcast and then they could intro you. I think what's also would be good about that is potentially finding clients so freelancers now we're just pitching your product by the way but I love it but I mean honestly like just looking at it I was like this is a really helpful tool right and I think that the people are on these platforms so being able to make sense of it and decode what's happening and how to connect with the right people is truly helpful and that's actually where we fall down because people map when you first log in is just like a search bar and we don't have a database that you can like search through it's just who or you're going to what's the first person you're going to start with or what's the hashtag you're going to start with so it sucks for us because we haven't figured out how to get people to think like you do because you're just already you're like oh I could do it so for this person or if I'm like finding clients I could like look for these keywords but not everybody thinks like you and so I have to like figure out okay how can I get someone to understand that it's the tool isn't going to give you you know what you what you want immediately you have to like kind of dig a little bit and understanding who you're trying to reach and then it's just going to be it's going you're going to get it you're going to make sense it's like somebody who would log into Spotify and expect them to give you great music recommendations in every different genre you have to do a little bit of that work first and put in say I really like listening to Odyssey okay then you can find similar artists to him yeah and then from there you can start to build it exactly I get it like in that you're doing the work anyway like you're like no matter what you're going to have to do that research and put in the time to find clients or find podcasts guests it's nice to have some additional tools and it filters it because like Instagram has one million active users on a month so to like filter through all of that it's just it takes a long time and I found that it honestly like it took me about an hour to just document like if I found 60 people it took me an hour to just document like who they were on a spreadsheet or whatever and it was just so much easier for me to just add them to a list on people map versus like doing that so it's not going to find exactly who you want just by inputting it but it you like you said it's going to give you a little bit more efficiency when you're trying to find specific types of people I love it though because it's just in terms of even how you came up with the idea because it was a problem that you had and you're like maybe I just make it maybe David David does make it yeah I mean you you definitely I'm sure had a huge part in it yeah it's like he's our relationship is interesting because he's the he's the guy who can maintain an idea and build the idea and I can sometimes build it if you know if it's like I live creatives I can help build it but otherwise I think I am the idea of person and I'm the person I'm the marketing person too so we do work in that really well in that sense I know a lot of people that are idea killers so it's you bring up an idea and then it's they tell you every reason why it's probably not going to work yeah how how do you approach that whether it's you guys working together as a partnership coming up with ideas when do you give the honest feedback and criticism that needs to be there and when do you just say hey let's explore this well so that's actually still a sore point for us like because you know husband and wife team I am very sensitive to how like Daniel's tone when he starts talking to me about ideas and like I need to so this is just something we're working on continuously is how can I approach you about an idea and how can we just talk about the idea and a lot of it has been like pretty hard because he's he's a programmer he's very analytical he's he's not even thinking about my feelings he's just trying to like figure out you know what are you saying about this idea like what is this idea mean and what are all the you know I wouldn't say like problems with it but like what are all the things we have to solve in order for this to actually work and make sense and I always was like very sensitive about it like you're killing my idea so now one I need to not make that assumption that that's what he's doing I don't call him an idea killer anymore I'm just like Daniel's just you know thinking about it and then I also have to be like very I had to tell him like these were the little triggers that you do in your facial expressions in your like how your the tone of your voice that triggers me to be defensive and like sad because my ideas I feel like you hate my idea and so we've started like you know I'll be like oh that was it that was the trick right yeah it's really help I mean that's communication yeah that's like I think how any relationship is successful whether it's business or intimate it's like you have to be open when you're feeling like I'm kind of like mad that you said that like I'm not like really mad but also like I kind of bums me out that you did that yeah and I'm about I got and I need to nip it in the button now because I can't I can't just process this on my own because this is involving you I have to like talk this through with you and sometimes it's painful because I if when you talk about things before you thought things through it's embarrassing because you haven't thought things through and frustrating because you don't know how to explain it and so I need to get over that because it's so much better to like just talk to that person about it right when it happens as opposed to well you know last May when you said that that was awful like that's not helpful yeah I had the same thing with not with the idea thing and sometimes it still comes up where it is I have this idea for how I want to go with this video and then she just doesn't get it or maybe it's probably my fault I think the last time I'm thinking of it it was me not explaining it properly but regardless it wasn't like overwhelmed like yeah that's really great you should really do that it was like I don't know I don't know and it's like and then I got mad I was like I don't need that right now right now I need your support so if you can just maybe not be a dick and it's but I think it's like the balance of I do want her honest opinion yeah I think her opinion is very valuable to me she's very creative and I think she brings a lot whenever I ask her for ideas and feedback right and then so if I don't want her to be in a position where she's like should it be honest yeah I tell him that's a bad idea exactly because like I don't want to be like well I don't want you to cry yeah but but I think that's just like I think like a lot that we talked about on these shows just like it's kind of sticky there's not just ABC certain steps that you can take in a creative field or in relationships yeah it's a little bit messy but it's just about constantly working at it yeah and then just being really really honest and self-deprecating I love that because like if you can't laugh about it and you can't just be like yeah I cried and I took a puff my CBD pill in there and I'm like okay I'm fine but like if you can't laugh about it then it's just it's gonna be so painful I think that's one of the keys to like happiness and well being as as weird as it is and how little people talk about it but self-deprecation just make fun of yourself then like you can't feel if you can't feel bad if somebody else sits on you it doesn't like your word yeah I already pre-shit on my head guys it's like the M&M it's like when he disses himself in eight mile before the guy can even do it yeah I was like oh yeah he did it M&M yeah I didn't see that coming yeah we didn't do that saw coming you he also so to wrap up the podcast if you there's two things here so one thing and then the second thing the first thing do you have advice that you would give any creatives that we're looking to set out to start something new that maybe haven't done this before who are having a lot of doubts um doubts well you just gotta do it there's like nothing else that you can do besides I have to okay as an example when I first started made with math I um I like thought I needed to plan everything out before and I need to worry because worrying means I care about the project I don't worry that much anymore because it's such a waste of time it's just so exhausting mentally even if I if I worry for five minutes it takes like two days out of me so ever since then I was just like I just need to execute just something small in order to like see what I'm thinking or like can I experiment on like what that idea could potentially be so I would definitely just say don't think that worrying is helping you because it's just it's not really I think there's a difference between worrying and there's a difference between uh like thinking things out when you're thinking things out you're planning how can you execute this next to get to the next step when you're worrying you're just like I don't know should I do this I don't know I mean is that what they want I don't know but it's like if you're thinking things through then you're like all right how can't who do I need to reach in order for me to answer this question about the question that I have in my head or who what what steps do I need to take in order to you know bring it to the next level um that's one advice the the second thing is your bootstrapped I'm bootstrapped David's bootstrapped I I feel like um when people tell the world that they're gonna do this idea that they have to be full passion 100% of the time and that that's why they're doing this but the reality is you have to pay for your food and your house and your like everything and um I read this book maybe he could be your next podcast uh guest from professor G. G. and he wrote this book called you are a circle and one of the things in there was like for creatives you need to always have three jobs and you need to constantly juggle um these three jobs at one time and job number one is uh it's it's a it's a thing that pays the bills and it doesn't have to be passionate like it just needs to pay the bills and that's what it's there for job number two might pay the bills you never know and it's it's a little passionate and then the third thing is you do you get no money from it but it's full passion and if you juggle these three things and work at these three things like all the time once a week you know then one at one point job number three could come become job number two and job number two could graduate to job number one but the point is that you're always constantly working on it and when i read that it like it made me feel like okay i don't have to be full passion i don't have to be like everything i do is never gonna suck like you know like i need to bring in money and the easiest way for me to bring in money sometimes is freelancing and there's ways that i can make it better for me but it isn't like the full passion project and uh and i think that that's the reality if you're going to bootstrap is you do need to like you need to do that and it's a mindset thing and um and you can't be so hard in yourself that you have to make money you know you know so yeah I love it well thank you so much for doing the podcast if we want to send people to see your stuff you got so much stuff you know where do we send them well i do have that my Squarespace course is is this thing that i'm working on right hard right now so you can find that on ilivecreatives.com but otherwise um Instagram puno dose trace and yeah that's pretty much it if i'm puno dose trace everywhere so awesome thanks for doing the show thank you thanks for listening to the ground up show if you're getting some value from the podcast you can support the show on patreon every month i create exclusive videos exploring lifestyle design minimalism creativity and business these vlogs and AMA podcast episodes which can be found nowhere else give a rarely seen look into my work and personal life help support the show for the cost of a cup of coffee a week and get access to all this content at patreon.com slash man deevela again that's patreon.com slash man deevela thanks for listening and i'll see you next week
