# How I make my videos
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Inxp-um88aM
My Gear:  https://kit.com/mattdavella
Patreon:  https://www.patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching & for your support! If you're interested in checking out any of the gear I mentioned in this video (or other stuff I use that I didn't reference) you can check out my Kit above. All the links on there are Amazon Affiliate links.

After many requests to get a breakdown of the gear I use I thought this would be a great resource for people struggling to find useful film tools. But don't feel compelled to buy anything you don't need or won't get value from. Good luck creators! Keep making weird stuff.

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** how to make youtube videos, video editing, behind the scenes, creative, creator, creators, documentary, film, filmmaker, filmmaking, freelance, freelance life, freelancer, hustle, editing, education, teaching, matt d'avella, the ground up show, ground up, podcast, create, get started, make, matt davella, podcasting, start, 
**Date:** 2018-10-08

## Transcript
 Filmmaking is messy, it's rarely linear, never straightforward, and takes a lot of thought to get it right. So my setup and gear are constantly changing to fit my current needs or project. In this video I'm going to break down the gear I use and some of the things I've learned as a filmmaker over the past 12 years. The best camera isn't the one you have. It's the one you master. You have to take the time to learn your camera inside and out, how it performs in different environments, and create shortcuts that fit your needs. The Canon C200 is my higher-end cinema camera that I use for client work and documentaries. It's much more useful than a DSLR because I have XLR inputs, ND filters, and the 4K files are easy to work with. Minimalism was shot almost entirely on a Canon C300 Mark 1 and 1080p. The autofocus also comes in handy for YouTube videos where I'm filming myself. My vlog is shot almost entirely on a Sony A7R2. The vlog is exclusive for Patreon members, shameless plug. The camera is small, very lightweight, and has a great autofocus. All must have for a good vlogging camera. I started vlogging with the 25mm Batista lens, but it was a little bit too tight for turning the camera on myself, so I opted to invest in the more versatile 16 to 35mm GMaster zoom lens. For my podcast, the ground up show I use the same Sony A7R2 along with two Sony A7S2s. I installed a hack on them that allows me to film over the 30 minute record limit. I lost all my lens caps. So my dining room isn't at all sexy, so this is it. You can see there is not much to it. It's not much of a room. The biggest lesson here is that you have to work with your environment. You're rarely ever working under ideal circumstances, so you have to get creative to make things look good. I use my lenses and cameras to create a shallow depth of field and do my best to create an interesting frame. So I should say that there are newer models of this camera on the market right now, but the ones that I have that I bought a few years ago are working just fine. The new features on the new camera, they're not worth it for me to sell this one and replace it with a newer one. If you're buying a camera today, you might want to look into the Sony A73. However, keep in mind that you might not be able to hack the 30 minute record limit. Lenses are an investment. Now, you don't have to buy every single lens out there. You don't have to cover every focal length from 4 millimeters to 400 millimeters. But I do recommend finding a few lenses that fit your knees and investing in higher quality. Somebody once gave me the metaphor that buying a really nice camera, but a shitty lens is like putting wood in tires on a NASCAR. NASCAR car, I don't know, I'm not big in NASCAR, I think that's how you say it. I like to use prime lenses. They're great and low light, they're very sharp, and the F stop gives you a great depth of field. The Canon 24 millimeter 1.4 lens works great when I'm talking directly to the camera. For documentary style interviews, I almost always use my Canon 50 millimeter 1.2 lens. Say I'm filming a documentary, it's a running gun type situation. I will probably use my 24 to 105 or 16 to 35 millimeter Canon lenses. By the way, if you're just feverishly taking notes right now, trying to keep track of all the gear that I'm mentioning, don't worry, there is a link in the description to my kit. If you don't know what kit is, it's a collection of affiliate links. So if you make a purchase through one of those links, to gear that will add value to your shoots and your productions, then I get a tiny little percent on the back end, which helps me to keep doing what I'm doing here. With that said, I have to acknowledge that we live at a time when there's too much of an emphasis placed on the latest tech. It's easy to get hyped up and excited about gear, but just because I have something in my kit, doesn't mean you'll need it in yours. Also keep in mind that much of this was acquired over a 12 year period. I encourage you to be mindful about your gear purchases. I use a boom mic for almost every interview, unless we want to get a really wide shot and the boom mic itself would be revealed in frame. Boom mics are especially helpful when I'm filming myself by myself, all alone by myself, by myself. The reason being, wireless lab mics need to be monitored by someone at all times. There's just too much that can go wrong. You could get signal interference, the mic could fall off you or your talent without realizing it. It can scrape against your clothing. As long as you test your levels, it's really hard to screw up with a boom mic. I use the Senhizer MKH416. It's expensive at around $1,000, but it has amazing sound quality with very little post editing required. With that said, if you're on a budget for the first six years of my filmmaking career, you can use the road NTG to boom mic. It's much more affordable. It's not as sharp, it's not as crispy as the Senhizer mic, but it's still pretty damn good, and it should serve you well. Here's the key with audio. No matter what mic you're using, it doesn't matter if the placement isn't right. Unless you're vlogging or the camera is super close to your face, the difference in sound quality is drastic when reporting from the mic on top of the camera to when it's mounted separately and closer to the subject. So this is what the mic sounds like when it's super close. This is about four inches from my mouth right now. Okay, so now I've pushed back the microphone all the way to the camera. Now I would say it's about three feet away, and I'm sure at this point you can tell a noticeable decrease in the sound quality. I use this collapsible man, photo, boom, stand, pole, to accomplish this. It is amazing. It's one of my favorite film tools. The pole collapses inside of the base itself to one small compact unit. In terms of lighting, I'm actually testing out a few new options, so it's bound to change over the course of the next three months. I will keep my kit updated if the lighting does happen to change, so that's something I'll continue to update as the months and years go on, and as my gear needs change. But with that said, these are the lights that I currently use from my videos. The professional version of my light kit is the light panel Astra. It's a powerful and solid light that I bought a few years ago. The light is adjustable between daylight and tungsten. I often use it with a soft box or simply bounce it against a wall we're sealing. My DIY approach that I use for the podcast and other scenarios is a paper lantern. This is an absolute game changer for budget filmmakers. This cheap solution provides a nice even light for a stupid amount of money. Everything needed can be purchased on Amazon for less than $30. Finally, for podcasting and voiceovers, I use a sure SM7B microphone, which is connected to a cloud lifter and then plugged into an H6 audio recorder. The mic is amazing, every dosing outside noise, so I can record in pretty much any room. When I had a lower quality mic, I would literally record under the covers of my bed. Filmmaking is messy. A lot of times I'll start editing a project and then halfway through realize that I missed a key interview. I need to re-record my voiceover. I need to find new music. It's a constant battle of having these challenges and problems come up and then you have to quickly address them and answer them. It's not easy, but it's so much fun. I really love it and I wouldn't do anything else. If you guys like this video about filmmaking, there's so much more that I could talk about. Let me know your specific questions in the comments and then I'll continue to make more videos like this. That is if you guys liked it. If you want to support this ad free YouTube channel, you can do so on Patreon. What's my Patreon? I'm so glad you asked. Patreon is a place where I create videos that I don't release anywhere else. In fact, I just released a short video giving them behind the scenes look at how I shot this video. It's not a teleprompter, so I don't read straight from it, but I have all my notes there. It's available to all patrons contributing at least $1 a month. However, if you decide you can contribute more, you can get access to even better videos. Like the vlog I mentioned in this video as well as my exclusive AMA podcast where I answer questions from patrons. This is one of the ways that I'm able to keep this YouTube channel 100% advertisement free. Thanks so much for watching.
