# It Doesn't Hurt to Ask // Ground Up 075
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iuz1NIksSys
Sterling's Channel!!  https://goo.gl/eiXXyF

Sterling Grinnell is a filmmaker & photographer based in Denver, Colorado.

This video is made possible by Patreon subscribers. Get my exclusive AMA podcast & vlog at https://www.patreon.com/mattdavella.

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** behind the scenes, creative, creator, creators, documentary, film, filmmaker, filmmaking, freelance, freelance life, freelancer, hustle, create, get started, ground up, make, matt davella, matt d'avella, podcast, podcasting, start, the ground up show, sterling grinnell, motivation, inspiration, motivate, inspire, 
**Date:** 2018-08-27

## Transcript
 Alright, so this podcast is a special one. I started the show over a year ago because of the struggles that I had faced as a filmmaker. I wanted to talk with other creatives about the challenges that they faced and how they overcame them and hopefully provided advice for those who were just getting started out. So five months ago, I got a message from Sterling Grinnell. He was a kid that was just getting started out. He was a filmmaker that wanted to come on the podcast and he sent a video explaining why he thought he'd be a good fit. Now I had to turn him down. While I admired his work ethic and his vulnerability for putting himself out there, I just thought he didn't have enough experience yet to be on the show. But that did not stop him. Over the next five months, he persisted to work on his craft and one morning I woke up, made some coffee, opened up my phone to check Instagram and I saw that I was tagged over a dozen times, people telling me to go check out this kid Sterling Grinnell's video. So I checked out the video and it was a parody of my videos. Honestly, when I first saw it, the first few frames, I was like, this is one of my videos. Nobody stole one of my videos, but it came to be an absolutely savage parody of the many themes that I used throughout my own videos. I was so impressed not only with that parody, but also how much he had improved over those five months since we had last spoken. He also had used a hashtag, get Sterling on Matt's podcast, that I decided this kid deserves it. I reached out to him and invited him onto the podcast. This is that podcast. I'm very excited to introduce you guys to the funny, the talented, the persistent Sterling Grinnell. All right, let's, you want to just do the podcast, you want to just get started. Why not? And then we'll just start talking. Sounds good. I feel so weird. How do you feel? Like, really weird. Yeah, it's just like, the table is, I don't know, I don't know, everything feels weird. This is marble. It's marble. Hell yeah, it's marble. I upgraded at one point when I, I knew I made it when I upgraded from the Ikea to the marble. When you use real marble, yeah, I used to work in a granite shop with marble. Horrible. Well, why was it horrible? Because it's scary. You have like giant slabs and marble, like the size of this and then you have to use four cliffs. And then we dropped one of my friends toe, like they're like thousands of pounds. And I was like the most traumatic experience in my life. My friend Jared, he actually does a lot of the photo work with me, great talk for her. But he, we dropped it on his foot and I was like running around the warehouse trying to fight, you can't lift him. It was, I don't know, like talking about it. So horrible. Like broke his foot. It would have been really bad, but there was, the way that the granite was, it's usually flat, but it was the jagged edge. And there happened to be a bump in it right where his foot was. He just got really lucky. He should have lost his toe, his foot, and they're like that. I did not realize that this podcast was going to start out with talking about marble tables. Yes, well, hey, you can't, well, at least now people will not be able to cross a roll. Yeah, you know. They know you have a real marble table. We don't pass around your name. Yeah, I don't know. Is that true, minimalism? I don't know. Probably not. No, probably not. All right, sir. Let's, let's, we should probably at least explain how we got here and how this whole thing. Yeah, I think. That's a good point. Well, it's funny because I originally got an email from you back in April. I wonder if you remember that. Early April. You reminded me, but I did like, when you reached out to me recently again, I was like, let's get out of this really familiar. The stuff looks really familiar, so you reached out to me and I was requesting videos and audio clips, like questions for the podcast. Right. And this was early on. Yeah, many people were following, like, I think I was, the podcast was starting to grow a little bit. Yeah, it was totally small. And then you reached out and you said, you're like, a video, so very personal. Yeah. I'm going to have to show it. Yeah, let's do the thing. It sucks. I made it. I shot in 4K because I was like, I had my Sony A63, I was like, I should have been 4K because like, I have to like, impress this dude. And then like, I couldn't email, like, because the file was so big, so I compressed, compressed, and like, I'm probably four pixels, like, just me. It was so bad. Yeah, I remember you actually did give a disclaimer. You're like, by the way, I just want to let you know, I know the quality of this sucks. And I watch, I'm like, dude, this is like really good. It's just like way better quality than anybody who sent me a video before. Yeah, I'm glad. People are like filming from their bathroom. Yeah. So yeah, you basically, you pitched to come on the podcast. Yeah. And then I said, I think I was very nice. Yeah, you were very, very kind, because they were nice there. Yeah, I said, you said, like, hey, I'm looking at people with like, a little more experience. And I was like, okay, yeah, that makes sense, logical. And then I had referred you to like, oh, here's my working case. You want to end up looking at it. And you had like complimented me on this video that I had made a couple months previous. And like, I like analyzed stuff a lot. So I, I don't know, I knew the film wasn't a great film, but I had nothing else. Like, to show any one, you know? And so you were super nice, but you're like, I chose great pacing, I think you said. And all that kind of stuff. And I was like, okay, he's being really nice, even I know like, this isn't a great film. But I was glad that you weren't just like, like, blew me out. That was, it made my day actually like, it was really cool. Wow, that's really neat. I think, well, I think we as filmmakers give ourselves the hardest time. And like, we see the faults in what we're doing. But also, whenever I'm looking at another filmmakers work, I'm not judging it based upon my experience level. And like how long I've been doing it, right? Like, imagine if like, you wanted to get advice from Spielberg. Yeah, and he's like, this is garbage. Yeah, you know what I'm talking about, but you'd be like, he'd look at it from your perspective. Like, how long you've been doing it, how long you've been a filmmaker. But objectively, the video was very good. I'm glad. And since then, all the videos I've seen of your work have just improved. Yeah, hopefully hopefully continues to be good. That's the way it goes, right? Yeah, that's the idea. So I shut you down. I shut you down. Yeah, not very mean. It wasn't mean. But I was like, yeah, all right. It's cool. Yeah, I get it right here. No, yeah. And so then from there, I was, I was actually in my apartment and my brother's apartment. They're the ones that set it up and made it look like it's Pinterest in there. It's insane. And I was like messing with audio because like what I do is like, I try to learn one thing at a time. So I'm like, I knew nothing about audio. So I was like, oh, I'll try to mess around with voiceover stuff and throw some effects on there and mess with treble compression and that kind of thing. And I literally, I was messing around, like saying random stuff and I was like, do I sound like Matt Diivell or something? And I was like, I was like, why don't I make this like spoof? I wasn't even playing opposing. I thought I was just going to be quick. And then with some projects, you get into it and then you start to like really get into it and you're like adjusting things like very minor and making sure the overhead shots are good. And I was like dang, I'm going all out on this. And then I did. I made it. And then I was like, he has that hashtag for like get the rock on Matt's pocket. That was like, I'm going to flip this, like flip it back and be like, he has to have me on him like it has to work because otherwise like, yeah, I don't know. And so I did that. And then I actually, I thought you when you commented on my post, you were like, I don't remember like emojis. I was like, okay, that's the peak, like he commented, did it game over and then from there just like kept going and then you had to put stuff on your story and a bunch of people jumped over to me and like started messaging me and I was like, it's funny because now even when I see your photos come up in my Instagram thread, I'll see like liked by all my family in front. Like, yeah, I think all four of my sisters follow him. Yeah, I saw that. And like I was messaging one of your sisters, I didn't know as your sister. And the name, I had noticed the developer at the end and I was like, I messaged him. I was like, what? But it wasn't, it was mad, it was like mad, the developer. Madison. Yeah, but I thought mad was like, I thought she was spoofing your name because it sounds like mad. That's a parody. Matt, you thought it was like someone to shoot fan or something and I was like, yeah, so I tried to like, like nicely call them out. I was like, why is your last name like, the developer? And she's like, oh, I'm a sister and I was like, oh, like this did not work. That is not what I expected. Oh my god, that's so funny. Yeah, so that had like sisters like, and they do awesome artworks. Some of them, and like all I kind of stuff, that's super crazy. Like artists family. Yeah, it really is an artist family. But I remember, so you, all right, this was my experience of seeing that video. I saw the first thing I actually did see was, and I got to say like, because I don't check Instagram that much, like I used to just do it one day. I'm trying to be very mindful about how I use it. But then everyone's like, I'll like scrub through like DM DMs and just go through it. And then I'm like, I think I saw DM from you, like, so I clicked on it for whatever reason. Like, I know a lot of people are fanting me. Yeah, then I clicked on it. And then I start watching the video, and I'm like, did this kid repost one of my videos? Yes, we're together. When I first saw it, I was like, this is my video. This is one of my videos because the color grade, yeah, I was like, that sounds like my voice. Yeah, it was super weird, and I was like, I, I, I, I was like, I, this is crazy. I was cracking up. That's why. And that was because it was an Instagram. It was a shorter video that you posted, so then I hopped over to YouTube and watch the whole thing. I just love, I also love like the humor. And I think you captured like what I try to do with videos. Right, but you did it in a way that was just roasting and destroying it. I hope it wasn't like, I was like, maybe he's just going to like destroy me back and be like, this kid sucks for doing this kind of thing. Like attacking my like style. No, it was like, this could go like, very many ways. I had no idea. No, it was amazing. You definitely ripped me pretty good. Uh, I'll take it. There was, there was a lot of definitely memorable moments from the video. Like, uh, just like the raspyness of my voice, like, like, I'm trying to be quiet. So I don't like my voice. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And this is like, you took a lot of time to actually write out that script. And like, that's like the hardest part about making videos is like taking the time to step back and think about the direction that you want it to go and like, how do you can add jokes and how do you, yeah, funny, but not too funny. Right, trying too hard. Yeah. Yeah. So you did a really good job. Did I'm glad I'm glad you noticed it. Yeah. Um, so you made the video and then we just message back. This was like three weeks ago. Yeah. Which is weird. Just mean we're like, hey, like, you can come out on the podcast, like, are you available in time the next few weeks? And I was like, I'm going to be like, if this is an invite, then yes, I'll fly now. I was like, what day are you available? Because I kind of like left it vague. Right. And then you were like, uh, I can come whenever you want. Yeah. I was like, yeah. Don't tell me. Yeah. You're like, you're like, whatever. I would do anything. I was like, I'm available one day one hour if you want it. You played it really cool. Yeah. Then you started playing hard to get. Yeah. Well, it's a, yeah. It's a push poll attack. Exactly. Like, cool. Because like, I think it was like, it just came down to, I did have somebody asked me this recently. I was like, why would you have somebody on the podcast? Right. And it's like, I think it first starts with just like, respect, and like, respecting other people's work. Yeah. And like, I did respect your work very early on. It was very good. And it's just gotten better in the past few months and just even, I mean, maybe it's just that you put out stuff that you've been working on for the past, whatever. But it, um, yeah, super impressed. And as a filmmaker and a photographer, like, you, you definitely got the chops. Dude, I hope so. Yeah. Let's see where it all goes. All right. Well, we talked enough about how we got here. Because now we're here. Now we're here. And I made you the coffee. Oh, actually. I didn't mention that, too. Yeah. So you did make me a cup of coffee. That was a plan. A barista for a couple of years. Yeah. Still a barista. Still a barista. How long have you been baristaing? Um, I have been baristaing for, uh, I don't even know. Like, I see. Yeah, for three years at one, like, section. And then I took a break for like a year and a half. And then now I'm doing it again. So I guess, like, off and on, like a total of like six years. But compact, like probably three and a half. Yeah. So, like, you, you came in here. You had a real coffee process. Mm-hmm. Yeah. We'll see. So I, I do, like, between 180 degrees to 200 degrees. Like, that's my range. You're like, I'm between 1951 and 1953. Yeah. Yeah. And I'm like, wow. Yeah. That's kind of how we are in the house. Like, you probably see in the video. There's a lot of that stuff around, like, a bunch of different contraptions and weirds. And we just like wake up, we'll choose V60, or, you know, which is, um, chemics or aeropress. And we just kind of experiment with everything. And each of us has our own process and how we make it. So the one that I use was the heart of V60 kind of like a pour over. What does a pour over? Yeah. Um, but, and that's just how, like, I make my coffee in the morning, like, and to sit down and have a little extra. It's very, like, down to like the amount of grams I'm using, the ratio of, you know, water to coffee, that kind of thing. So it's, like, 30 grams of coffee and then that's ground on a certain setting and we all have our own settings and that's just how we are around the house. Yeah. I think that that's the thing is that, like, I mean, this is all preference and taste. Yeah. And it's very hard to say that there's a right and wrong way to do it. Yeah. Um, now that that's within, like, I think a certain threshold, right? Yeah. If you're just boiling water, we can say, yeah, you're probably going to screw up the coffee. Exactly. Yeah. Or if you're using just cold water. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Ice coffee, just poor cold water, right? Yeah. Yeah. No. It's, yeah. It's definitely interesting because, like, all that stuff is, there's such a stigma behind it, which I hate. So I don't even like to bring up to people that, like, I measure out 30 grams of coffee, grind it, bloom for 30 seconds and 60 grams of water. Like, I don't tell people that because that's weird. Like, why? So that's it. When would I ever come up that? Well, because, like, they come in the house and they seem like, oh, you want some coffee and then I pull out these, like, two glass things in a scale and they're like, what is going on? But, like, other people, like, the culture down where I have is very, like, oh, what are the notes on that? I mean, just drink your coffee. Like, if it's good, it's good. If it's, you know, and there's a place for that, but it could kind of weird sometimes. Yeah. I still, I still want to be able to have a curing when I go home to see my parents. Yeah. Like, I don't want to get to the point where I can't not have that cup with them. Yeah. It's just you drink it different. Like, when I go, like, places like that are have a curing. I just hide it with cream and sugar and I still like it. Yeah. It's not like I'm like this bad. Yeah. Yeah. It's just really gross. Yeah. But yeah. You can definitely like lighten it up. That's why I think most people can never transition. It's an interesting thing to think about like having, having been drinking black coffee. Right. But like, I know a lot of people have trouble going to that because they always mask it with cream and sugar and they're not actually, yeah, you grow up like that. Because they're usually just drinking shitty coffee. That's the thing. They try to like drink the curing black and they're like, how do people do this? And then it's like, well, they don't. Yeah. So they like, they make good coffee. It's not like darkly roasted like Starbucks does and made a sit on the shelf for two years before you buy it. Like it's it's like, it's totally different. So when you show people that, they're like, oh, this doesn't taste like, you know, something you found on the ground outside. Yeah. So it's like crazy. Like the whole thing though. Yeah. So you're a, you're a barista now and you're also filmmaker photographer. Tell me a little bit about how that's going, how it's been going. And kind of what are your, your hopes with that creative path? Yeah. It started off like kind of crazy. Like it started off in college. Me and this kid were kind of competitive kid in another state. And my friends had challenged me to like, you guys make, he makes a video. And you make a video from the same footage. And we'll see what happens. And it was like a joking competitive like thing that we had. But that we went through with it. And then I like made this video. And basically what I did just use a bunch of slow mo. You know, like, because people don't use to that. And so I had. I just blew them away with that. Yeah. Exactly. The 120 they have no idea what's going on. And I just like, I love doing this. And then I started getting into it. But I didn't have a camera. So I borrowed my friend Jared's. And I used his like D3300 Nikon like consumer level like camera. But I was like having fun. And then that summer I got Sony A6300. And that's when I started like really messing around. Because like that one has a lot of capabilities. Like you can shoot 4K if you want. And you can't take solid photos. So I was messing around with that. And then from there I just. I just started like consuming content. And like that I think is like the biggest thing about learning. Like consuming other people's content. And like especially starting off. You don't know what composition means. And like all those things and what elements. You know, you have to pull in to bring a shot together. So you have to look at other people's work and be like, That looks cool. I'm going to try that. And then you try and you take this element from this one and this element from this guy. And eventually it merges into your own like style. So for me it was like such a learning process. It's still massive learning process. But yeah, now I'm like learning to survive with that. You know what I mean? Like make money and pay my rent with that. Which is hard. You know, getting off the ground, especially with like videography and that kind of thing. Cinematography because, I don't know, people are very. It's one of those things that your friends will come up to you and they're like, Hey, can you make me a video really quick? Like and you're like, like you have no idea what that goes into like a video. It's not just like blue, blue, done. You know, like a photo, you can take it, you know. But stuff like that, making money with that. It's not just a technical skills thing. It's a business knowledge and, you know, getting behind all of that. So right now it's pretty much how everyone starts out shooting weddings and, you know, Kenzinitas and like all that kind of stuff just to like survive. And then every once in a while you get a project that you're like super into. And then hopefully the idea is to like continue moving that direction and doing projects being able to vet my clients and do projects only that I want to be doing. So for me right now, I love traveling. I haven't traveled a lot outside the United States anyways. And so that's something that I really want to do. So I realized with this trip that I was like, I can literally just like get up and go. Like, you know, I can just fly wherever. I don't have like ties anywhere. So I just like flew down here and now I'm saying here for a couple of days. Gonna explore around in Malibu and stuff. And it's like getting jobs though. And that's where I want to take like the business right now because I'm young. And I just want to travel like any 20 year old does. So that's kind of what I'm doing right now is just trying to get as much work traveling as I can. And sometimes that means working with a brand and not getting compensated monetarily anyways. And yeah, that's kind of what I'm doing right now. Just trying to like move to destination weddings. So I've been trying to like look for those clients, which is even harder because they're not around. You can't like meet with them. So your work has to like spread out there. So I've been working on getting published and that kind of thing. But that's the goal right now. It's just honestly travel. I just want to go places and like see places that I haven't seen before. That's great. It sounds like you really know where you want to head, which is I think for most people. The hardest thing is because they like to step back and be like, well, what kind of work do I want to do? But also the fact that you know the work that you have to do now. Like you know that you have to do that short term work where. I don't know about you, but when I did weddings early on, like I enjoyed the process. And like you get to like meet with the bride and groom and they're usually pretty cool people. Like I never had any like bright zillas or anything like that. I've like been able to work with amazing people. And especially as a filmmaker, they understand and expect that you're just kind of there. Yeah. Yeah. You know for certain shoots you may come in and ask them to do something or to, you know, maybe like. Yeah. Can you just stare out this window for a little bit? Yeah. Get that shot. But otherwise you're just kind of you're there capturing an event. You're learning about how to deal with problems as they arise. Yeah. And like what a great learning and what a great playground to be able to experiment and learn and to like learn that craft of filmmaking and storytelling. That's from my time for me. I think like the, yeah, we should talk about that. But like even the trailers that you might create in the wedding film. You can be very creative and storytelling story in two to three minutes. But then obviously the long form. Yeah. So what's your biggest problem with like the storytelling aspect? I think it's the foresight. It's the foresight in the being able to execute that foresight. Like, like, that was bound to happen. Like I had originally planned. So that's man, that's hard for me. Because sometimes I'll be like, yeah, this is what I'm going to do. And then I'll say this words and then this shot will happen. And then I like go to film it. Like, and it's not at all like I thought. And then you have to totally restructure everything. So that's hard for me. And that's the one thing that like I want to shoot documentary sometime. But it scares like crap out of me because it's such a process and long term. And then I know that it's going to happen like you have the story plan. And you have to, you know, be able to, you know, whatever build with whatever you have. Yeah. So it's like that's scary for me. And storytelling is just hard in general. Because like you can learn the B role. Like whatever transitions kind of thing that everyone's doing now with plugins. But the storytelling part and bringing those together is what's super hard. And that's something I'm finally understanding. Like in the last like three or four weeks is understanding the story telling process behind it. So that's been like such a process. What were like, what connected? Like what kind of clicked in terms of the storytelling over the past couple of weeks. That maybe wasn't clicking before. I think what I'm just going to sound weird. But it was that video that I made of like your style of filming. Because that was the first time that for somebody and I realized I can talk about what's going on without like who I'm doing. I hate doing that. I hate it. It's horrible. So that was when I finally clicked that I can tell the story from behind the lens with good audio and build it that way as opposed to having to like, I forgot to tell people when we're getting out of the car that we're getting out of the car. Because now it doesn't make sense that we're like in the car and now surfing or whatever. So that was a disconnect from me. And now those things are connecting. And now being able to say, you know, like I'm coming to LA now like what story do I want to tell coming to LA? Like is it the whole trip? You can pick out little stories throughout the whole way or have a big one and little tiny stories throughout it. I think that was the thing that's finally connecting with me. It's more than just visually pleasing video, which is if you think about photography, yes. You can tell the story, but there's only so much you can tell with one photo. As opposed to a video where you have people, there's movement, you can show direction like that kind of stuff, which could be argued that's in photography, which it is. But it's crazy like trying to build those together in the video form was hard for me. Yeah. I think that what you said is important and it's just like finding your approach to storytelling. That suits your personality. That makes the process enjoyable for you because there's definitely a way to do it. That's a grind and like it doesn't, you know, it just feels exhausting to do. And if it is feeling that way. Like sometimes that that's just part of it. You're going to be tired. If you're shooting a wedding, it's going to take a long time. You maybe at the end of it be like, oh, I don't know if I want to do this again. Yeah. But then like you feel good about it when you're looking at the footage cutting it. But then that was one of the things that I really liked about Mango Street is because they kind of had a similar approach to me as well, where it's a lot of their footage like they don't do the vlogging stuff. Yeah. And they're quiet reserved people. Right. And it's like they can make beautiful films. And they can be really, they can be really simple with their approach about how they tell the story. You can be really thoughtful about the way that they're getting their ideas across. Yeah. For me, it's like it's nice. And I think people need to see that because the biggest people are like the Casey nice dad to make here in McKinney. Yeah. And so interesting. They're in style. And they are amazing. Like incredibly talented. But you know, there's other templates out there for us. Exactly. And I think so many people don't even realize that. Like you think like, am I going to film like Casey nice dad or Peter McKinney? Like such different film styles like Peter McKinney, beautiful film style. Like Casey nice dad, expert storyteller. And both successful in their different ways. And you know, you know, you know, you know, me and my personal like style that I'm still building is to mesh those in like a different way. And it's it's still a process to learn, but it's crazy because there is so many different like avenues to like pull you how you are and how you film and your personality across the screen. And that whole thing is a learning process, but it's I just some people get stuck in a rut being someone else. And that's like something that for me, like I'm kind of scared to do, but it hasn't happened yet. So we'll see you don't want to feel like you're just copying somebody. Yeah, yeah, exactly. What's interesting, Greg, because you said in the beginning, obviously we're always copying other people's styles. That's how we have it's a blank canvas and like very few people can just pick up a camera and create something completely original. Yeah, and especially because everything's been done at this point. Yeah, so it is nice to have that inspiration early on. We all have it. And then it's like, how do we adapt the inspiration? And I think part of it is like being ourselves, right? And like whether it's like I can tell just from your videos and the stuff that you do, like you have a great sense of humor. You can like put that like human into both your website and the stuff that you're doing like on top of your website. You're like, this is where a tag like we'll go if I thought of one. Yeah, and it's like, I think it's like the subtleties like that that really that are important. Yeah, that a lot of people take that safe route. And they're like, well, I'm just going to tell the story in this way. Yeah, because what if somebody doesn't get the joke or what if they don't think it's funny? Yeah. And what if they tell me that I'm a loser for even like trying to understand. Yeah, but I think we got to lean into that stuff. Yeah, I think so too. And I think it's interesting to like, since I haven't been doing this long, you can see my progression like it's very obvious of like this sucks or this part sucks and how I'm learning from it. And even just like the last thing that I made. Again, the one of you like with the voiceovers now I'm incorporating and the next one I did, it's it's involved in there and it's not a total voiceover like clip, but it's involved. And now like, so that's a piece from you. And that I put that into my own arsenal and pieces from Peter McKinnon and I've taken in Casey nice that I've taken our same cold or people like that. And it's weird because it's not a conscious like I want this piece of you don't like see all these people and like pulling the pieces from them that you like it's just like, I don't know that's how personality has to come through because I like it. So then it comes out. It's just super weird and to see like it literal change like right in front of you. Yeah, I think the biggest thing is going to be like identifying what you want to talk about. You know, like the substance right in the content behind it. And I think the filmmaking stuff is is awesome. But it's like yeah, what angle maybe could you take within there? And maybe it's just about bringing your personality. Yeah, continuing to bring your personality into it. Yeah. Do you see yourself with the the YouTube channel that you're making? Like is that something that you want to focus on like creating YouTube videos and building up an audience? Or do you see yourself more focusing on your freelance career and where that can potentially go? If I could choose, I would love to do YouTube full time just because of the freedom that is involved with it. Like I can build it to be whatever I want and to be able to pick my clients. That kind of thing is something that I really want. And I think that's what kind of drives like us freelancers anyways. Is the like nine to five thing like scares a crap out of me. Like I would never be able to survive. And even just like working for a company as a photographer, cinematographer. I worked on one set as a production photographer and it was like, it was weird for me. Like not making the creative decisions. Like sitting back and just being like behind the scenes photos. Like it was weird. I didn't like it. And there's a place for that for sure. But if I could continue to do YouTube and that kind of thing, then yeah, I'd love to do that. It's been really fun so far and just learning that whole process. And it's a crazy learning process. And it's weird to recognize that I'm in that process right now and know like I'll make something. And like I can see what I want it to be. But I can't make it yet. And it's super weird. Like super weird thing. There's videographers and people like that on YouTube that they launch a new video. And I'm like, I won't watch it for a week because I'm like avoiding the video. Because I know when I watch it, I'm just going to like, like, why can't I do that? It's super weird. That's a hard thing to overcome. Is. And what was that? I had someone lost their bacon. I don't know. I lost my bacon. I would be able to. Um, so I think the hardest thing about it is like being able to be okay with that other people are different. What is that? What is that? That was pretending this was my house for a second. You're going to be my muscle. You're going to go out there. Yeah, you can kick their ass. Dang it. I need to turn the shirt. So the hardest thing to do is being able to. Be okay that other people are incredibly talented. And that can do things that you can't do. Like even before you came up here, I watched a little Peter McKinnon video. He just posted about, I think he had a food poisoning or something. And he's just incorporating these amazing motion graphics and news videos. And like, yeah, you know, like, just like, and you're just like, ah, ah, yeah, exactly how it is. It doesn't go away, but that that's just a little part. I think that it's it's about like inspiration and like what inspires you. And there are certainly people that you look at that have large audiences. Like quality is pretty crap. And yeah, oh, like that really inspires me because I know that I can make something better than that. There's different. And then you see the people that are really good. And you're like, they, they, you have to make that feel like inspiration. Like I'm inspired to be able to get to that level. Like I'm not there yet. And maybe I'll never make something quite like that because that doesn't match my style. Yeah, but to be inspired that like, oh, they're doing something really creative. Maybe I can like inject some of that into mine. And that's, I think, another thing that makes it hard about the visual field is because Part of the job is to make it look like there was no bad parts or for like people that are traveling or the films that I make. Like, that's not how it really is, you know? Like no one flips their hair and you see it in slow motion. Like that's not life. But you see these people and their job is to make it look like it's incredible. And so then you as a visual artist like that's how it's supposed to be. And then you run out there and be like, I don't have my car keys or like basic stuff like that. And it's like man, this is hard to like, to see that. And there's like, you said there's two types of inspiration. The one that you're like, I can do that and the one that's like, I'm going to get defeated. I can't do that. So I'm going to like push for it. It's really weird. It's super weird. I had that same thought today about the, the fact that this is not our lives. Like I mean, in a podcast like this, it is like this is like, you know, mostly on edit it. It's just, yeah. The conversation. But then when you see the short form videos, especially the travel stuff. Yeah, come on. Exactly. But then I think part of it is cool. But then part of it also makes us feel a little bit like, oh, I'm not doing anything in my life. And like, but that person, that video that you watch at three minutes, amazing trailer of them traveling around Iceland is not how they felt. Yeah, because it was travel is very slow. It's often very boring driving. Yeah, a lot of waiting. And then a lot of, okay, that's a cool thing we saw. Okay, let's go get some food and it's like, it's life. But just on the road. It's just a little bit different than what we would be like at home. Yeah. And that's also one of the hard things about like filming that stuff is because there's a balance between like enjoying that time traveling. Because you know what it's like when you're like traveling, like videoing or shooting photos and something. It's work. And you're like running around these like crazy views and like shooting photos. And then you like leave and then you forget that you didn't even like sit down and like look at the view. And that's like, I think it'll be interesting. I'm filming something while I'm out here in the few days. Just a short travel fun thing. But I was thinking about this morning when we were at point doom. Like it's an incredible location. And I'm like, people don't know that I'm like running back and forth. Like pulling on my drone like all this kind of stuff. And in the video, it just looks like I'm like standing on a ledge like this is beautiful. And there's birds, but in reality, that was like 10 seconds of it. Yeah. And I've slowed down to be even longer. Like it's insane. I've got to say like Natalie has no patience. And I just like, we should get a little bit more. Because when we're going out filming or if I'm like, yeah, we're just traveling. And I'm like, I don't do it every day. But I'm like, all right, today I'm, it's going to be a film day. I'm going to shoot a bunch of films. We're going to some cool locations. I'm going to shoot some photos. Can you help take some photos of me? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. And then she like just doesn't have the patience. Because it takes a lot of time to set up. It's all right, hold on. Let me just get one more shot. And I get what I say that at least two dozen times. That's my problem. It's like, all right, just one more. Yeah. All right, just one more. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. And then it just keeps going. You're lying. Just tell us. It's going to be 12 more. Oh, yeah. I know exactly what you're talking about. That's part of it. It takes a lot of patience. Yeah. But I think that could be cool. That's I think that could be like a potential avenue to explore. Is the downtime, the time, like the way that life really is. And I think sometimes injecting some of these moments where it's candid. Mm-hmm. And this is what I try to do even in documentaries, like early on when I was shooting Docs. It was like, I wanted everything to be clean cut and everything to be like beautiful and perfect. Like not seeing any flaws. Yeah. And then what I started to do was even hit record on an interview before the person even sat down. Yeah. And then you get them sitting down. You get them, like, just an assuring. So am I looking here or there? Yeah. All that stuff. Those moments. Yeah. Yeah. And like you see them in documentaries. But for some reason, it doesn't. You don't think about doing it. It's weird. Especially because, like, you don't, like, pit record them. Okay. Ask me, like, you don't do that. It's catching those candid moments. And it sucks sometimes because sometimes it means leaving your camera on for, like, a really long time. And then you have to scrub through this, like, 20 minute clip to catch this one, like, sure to just matter something like that. Yeah. And it's like, sometimes you don't want that process. But it's bringing those candid moments in. I think we'll really, like, make things real. And that's what, like, I try to do with, like, some of my work is not going to be like, you know, really well lit studio professional, like, hello, I'm going to suit and I, whatever, you know, bringing that, like, sense of, like, humanism, humanity. Whatever. Whatever. Yeah. I hope that's a word someone had to destroy me for that. Like, baristaing. Yeah, baristaing. We may as well just keep it a kick then. Yeah. But yeah. Bringing that, like, reality into it is hard. And some people can't because their reality is something that no one wants to be a part of, because they're an angry person or whatever. You know, I mean, like, so I think that is something special that if you have that, you need to put that out there because a lot of people can't. So, you know, it's, it's one of those US unique selling points that, if you have it, you need to be taking advantage of it. Like, those kind of things, you know, and you can't learn it. Yeah. Just the personality. And like, and also, like, yeah, finding the style that fits you, that fits your personality. Right. And like, being able to, I mean, sometimes. You just, like you said, you got to leave the record button on. And that, for me, like, that's why I got rid of my red camera. Should be a T shirt. You can't leave the keep recording. That might be creepy. I don't know. You recording too much. Yeah. Well, come to the last room. He's filming. Yeah. But, like, having a red and having those file sizes be, like, terabytes. Oh, but it's, it's like, I couldn't leave it recording. So that was like, as amazing as that camera is, as much as most people probably have camera envy and they want a red. I mean, you probably don't. Yeah. Yeah. Probably actually going to really hurt your work. Exactly. And the long run. There's like that balance. Like I said, that's the literal balance between, like, Casey and I start painting McKinnons. Like, the Casey and I start who pulls out his phone is, like, this works. And the Peter McKinnon who blogs with the 1DX Mark II. Like, that's crazy. Like, those two different sides of storytelling. And finding a juxtaposition between those is, like, it's difficult. Yeah. But I think you just got, that's why you just got to keep making it. And like, in the beginning, consume a lot of stuff. Yeah. I got lots of stuff from everybody. Learn as much as you can from tutorials and videos and other filmmakers. And then you're going to get to a point where you get good enough that you're so confident in your own skills. And you're also so busy with getting free landscape that you don't have as much time anymore to do that. Yeah. As a place you want to get to, where then, like, that's when you sort of distance yourself from everything that you're consuming. You know, you can keep, like, pulse on it and see what's going on. But now that it, like, influence as much what you're doing. Yeah. Yeah. And that's, like, I guess the end goal is to be able to be, like, I don't like that job. Like, I'm not going to do it. And then you, like, do the jobs that you want. That kind of an angle. And for me, I'm, I'm at that point, but not because, like, it's just because I don't, like, my expenses are low. It's not because, like, I have so many other jobs. But that's, like, like, I said, that's the process of me right now, like, being in the beginning, which I think is interesting because I'm probably one of the only people, if not the only one on your podcast who isn't, like, yeah, I've had my $10,000 project or that kind of thing. You know what I mean? Like, I haven't, like, totally made it yet. You know what I mean? Like, it's, it's still a process. It's still a live with my brothers and we're living downtown Colorado. And it's like, I'm still in the learning process of all that and just, like, trying to figure it out, you know? And it's, I don't know. I think that's interesting for, I don't know, because I don't have that, like, facade of, like, I can't fake that I'm successful because I'm not, you know, I mean, like, figuring it out. Well, I think that's good. And I think most people that have come on this podcast myself included, right? Uh, don't feel like they've made it. Like, you know, it's probably, it's actually never a feeling of, like, oh, wow, I made it. Yeah, because I was think the, like, award-winning Netflix documentary. That to me feels like, done. But I guess, yeah, that's the creative process. There's never really done. Well, like, you know, the feeling doesn't change, like, your day to day existence. Mm-hmm. I think as long as you're a good person and you don't have a big ego. Yeah. You know, because some people can get an ego and be like, especially in LA, like, you definitely have those people. Yeah. And yeah, maybe people give you a little bit more credibility. Dores don't open. Oh, doors open, but you have to knock on them, right? Right. You still have to, like, go after stuff and try to meet people and meet network and connections. And it certainly helps to have credentials under your belt. Mm-hmm. But it doesn't change who you are. Right. Doesn't change how you feel. It doesn't change. I mean, if anything, you just feel a little bit anxious that you're never going to be able to replicate that. Or you're never going to be able to do it again. Yeah. And you're like, oh. Yeah. And then, but you have to let that stuff go. Yeah. I never put out another documentary in Netflix again. I would still be happy fulfilled. Yeah. And that doesn't, that's not where my meaning comes from. Yeah. And then something that kind of cross my mind coming here is, like, like, is this a peak? Like, what, like, what happens after this? And there's this kind of, like, this thing that I had said in where it was like, if nothing happens, if nothing moves on, if I just keep doing what I'm doing the way that I'm doing it. And I was like, I'd be happy with that. Like, I'm happy with the life I'm living. And I'm thankful that I can wake up every day and be like, not grumpy that I have to go work and make tunnels. No offense, anyone working at McDonald's. But like, yeah, like, if that's what you're into or whatever, then, you know, that's what you're into. But for me, like, I'm doing what I love doing. And so I don't have this pressure of, like, you know, creating something to survive or whatever that kind of thing. It's just what I love doing. And it happens to be able, happens to be an avenue that I can monetize and make money from. So learning how to do that is, it's just awesome. You know, and to be at that point where, you know, and actually it helps with the creative process, like lack of pressure. Sometimes I get so excited about a job with a client that I want to do it for free just so I don't have pressure. And that's a weird thing, but like, sometimes I feel like, I'm not going to ask them to, like, jump off this rock because they're paying me. It doesn't make any sense. Like, that's a weird thought. But I have that sometimes. And so I like, I'd rather just shoot this video for free so that I can do whatever you want, whatever I want and like, vision that I have for this. And it's, yeah, it's just like, it's odd. Yeah, I'm pretty sure I felt the same thing. But I think part of that comes from like, maybe starting out with lower budget projects. And when you push into the higher budget projects, you're, you're not motivated to do the project because of money. Right. But you, if the money wasn't there, you wouldn't do it. Right. You know what I mean? So like, the $10,000 project you get. And, but like, you're not thinking about that money. It doesn't feel like when you get to that level, like, this is pressure. Like, yeah, I have this immense amount of pressure. That's so much money. Right. Because usually those people don't care. The people that can afford a $10,000 wedding or $10,000 video if it's a startup company. Right. The money is nothing to them. Right. You know what I mean? Like, for somebody who's paying $400 for a video or $1,000, that's a lot of money. Yeah. And if you screw it up, yeah, they're going to, right. And they're like going to be looking at behind the camera as your film. Like, what are you doing there with my gosh? And like, so as you push up, I think it's the hardest thing to like, continue to push up. Do you want to expect that? That's weird. What's that? You want to expect that as like, right? Yeah. It's kind of odd, but it makes sense. Yeah. It's amazing. I mean, yeah. You will. Dude, I'm trying. Like, if you just, if you keep going through your quality level is already there. Thank you. Um, that it's just a matter of time. And if like, you just keep getting work. That's crazy to hear. You 100% will. It's just no doubt about it. Um, so whether it's the photo side or the film side, like that. Sorry. I don't like emotional reason. Dude, you're, you're, you're killing it, man. You really are. It's just something like matters. Lots of me, you know? Yeah. I don't know what that's happened. Now I can't be your muscle dude. He's like crying. That's it, man. No, I love it, dude. No, but like, that's crazy. Like, and that's what I'm hoping for. It's just to keep doing like what I love doing. Yeah. And that's all like, that's comes down to like, people that support you, too. Like, whether it's, you know, for me Matt DiVelo or my brother, who I live with, who helps me, like, survive in life. And that's like, all those kind of people, my friends that do photo video stuff and I've been encouraging me, my parents, like, all that kind of stuff. It's like, man, it makes you, like, thankful for it all. But at the same time, like, it gives you drive to, like, do the stuff. It's crazy. I think that's why I just did that. No, I love it, dude. I mean, you care about it, man. Yeah, it matters. Um, and I think you're in an amazing position because you're, you're not, like, like you said, your bills, your expenses are low. That means that you don't have to say yes. That's why every project that comes in. So while I think that you should be probably saying yes to most stuff, because I got, because you, you have to actually be working. You have to be, like, developing your craft and just going, putting stuff out there consistently. And especially the paid work, because you're going to learn so much, just about how to communicate with clients, about how to, like, deliver on deadlines. Yeah. Every, there's like thousands and thousands of things you will learn in the first couple of years from all these interactions. So say yes as much as you can. Um, but you don't have to compromise on your integrity, to shoot, like, maybe something that you don't believe in or someone that doesn't align with your values. Yeah. Because the money, you're not doing it for the money. Yeah. And that's, that's one thing that I'm just thankful that I'm able to do even at such a low, like, like, with wedding clients. I can say no to you because I don't like your wedding colors. Like, I can't, if I can't feel inspired about your project, I don't want to do it because it's going to suck for both of us. You know, I'm going to go there and it's going to, you can feel as a creative, like, when you're working and when you're creating and when I'm creating, like, making stuff for YouTube, that's what I like. It's because I can do whatever I want. I'll sit down and like, this is crazy. This hit me the other day. I was editing something. I don't know what, but I was like super into it. Like, I was just like zoned in on my laptop and I was like, I haven't eaten in like so long and I was so hungry. And so I ordered food like to my house because I was like, I don't want to stop. And I put it in the countertop and I didn't even eat it. And I was like, I was like, I don't want to stop for three minutes to eat this burrito because I'm so into this, like, right now. And to be able, like, that clicked for me, like, I want to do projects like this all the time. And sometimes that means that your YouTube creator and you can do whatever you want, but sometimes it means you get a client who's like, yeah, we want to go have an allotment, like, three miles into the woods. And it's like, yes. Like, you can feel that like what I wanted to do. All these ideas just like go crazy in your head. And then you're like, this isn't inspired project. This isn't work. Yeah. I wish for everyone that they can find something in life that makes them feel that way. But I'm very thankful to have found that. Yeah, no, it's amazing that you have because that's definitely, I think, a problem for a lot of people. A struggle is, and it's a hard question for me even to answer when people ask me, like, how do you find your passions? Yeah. And it's like, well, you'll know when you find them. Yeah. But you're never going to know if you don't get out there and try stuff. That's what kills me is the people that are like, do you know they have passion? Something? Or they don't even know what they're passionate about. And they go home and play for it and I don't like, would you? I play for it night. So, like, whatever. But I'm just saying, like, they're not out there trying stuff and, like, working on, like, whether it's them or their craft or whatever. Like, I don't, I don't get that. It's not something that even makes sense to me. Yeah. But maybe that's because I have found it. And if you've never felt that, like, you know when you found it. You just know. And I think if someone's out there, like, you don't know you found something, you probably haven't found it. And I happened to find mine because I got competitive with some kid that wanted to make a video against me. And it's like, it's weird stuff. But getting out there and starting doing that. And there's so many people out there that are like, I wish I could do this. I wish I could make videos like Sam Colder and Flan Helicopters. That seatbelts and, like, whatever, that kind of stuff. But in reality, like, they don't really wish that because if they wanted to, they'd be out there, like, shooting the random stuff, like, they'd be out there, you know, simulating or just, like, running around downtown on a scooter with a camera. Like, you have to go out there and do the stupid stuff and just, like, learn from it and learn from it and grind to figure it out. And most people don't do that. And the people that see videography and cinematography and photo work as money. Those are the people that they don't make it because there's a lot of grind and learning and projects that don't pay. And if you are really into it, it doesn't matter. Like, you just want to do it. So that's something that's like, I think a lot of people miss, you know what I mean? They see it just as money. And it's so much more than that. You don't know what I mean? It's wild. It's got to come from a deeper place. Have there been any roadblocks for you or, like, biggest struggles in terms of breaking through. So how long has it been that you, you know, did that little competition with your friend and, um, a little over a year? So it's just been about a year that you've been filmmaking. Yeah. Okay, believe it. It's crazy because honestly, dude, I swear to God, if you saw my shit from one year in, you would be like, did he's going nowhere? Really? Oh my God. I don't know if I have anything online. But like, naturally. It's, um, well, because, I mean, this was pre-DSLR days. I was living with like a Sony handy cam. Like it was all analog. Um, I've got some, you know what? I could show you. Have you ever heard about produce paradise? Um, no, it sounds weird though. I made a parody rap video. Sounds like an early college. pastry. Uh, it was a rap video. Close enough. Pastries and rap. Let me see. Actually, it shows up. Okay, yeah. I'm not going to play the audio because that's just embarrassing. That's okay. And people are going to miss out that are, but look at, just look at the, look at this. This is like three years. Dude, that's my brother. This is three years in. Okay. This is an explanation there. But this is three years in of me making videos. And this is where I was at. Um, so. Okay. I got two thousand views on that video. All right. Actually, well, no, we ended up getting like 150,000 because we got student for $7 million for making that video. What? Yeah. No way. Um, we made that parody rap video. The grocery store AMP. I don't know if you know AMP. Super fresh. They actually recently went bankrupt. Oh, but they got wind of it. And then this was early days of YouTube. 2007 and 2008. And they sued us for $7 million. We were on national television. It was like. The social though was a good. It was like in hindsight, not worth it. Yeah. Um, but it, I mean, it was like an amazing experience to be a national television. And then like it was definitely like 15 minutes of fame. Right. And maybe got 150,000 views, which is like back in those days. Right. It's quite a bit. Back when it was like a million possible to hit. Yeah. Like, oh, my god. The million views was like viral. That meant the world saw it. Yeah. Um, that's crazy. And it crazy what people can find from YouTube. Yeah. I got fine from the national park service for flying my drone in the. Sandwich of Colorado. Did you get fine after shooting it? Yeah. I don't know they could do that. Well, here's the kid. This, this guy on Instagram was mad at me for I have no idea why. Um, so he turned me into them. And sent like photos of my photos, screenshots of or screen videos of my videos to the National Park Service. And they find me for flying the drone and camping outside of the designated area. What did it do? But for some reason they think I did. I don't know why. Um, so it can be anywhere between like, they'd scary. They're like, it can be from 200 to 7000 or six months in jail. But mine was like, it's $200 total with like the, the camping fee. So it's not bad. And I'm, I'm low key. I'm kind of like paid for the footage, I guess. Like now I can use it. So it's kind of nice. Yeah. But I did it in Hawaii. Yeah. Like stay park. And I'm sure they could find that. Yeah. It happened to be that the government shut down. So there was nobody there. But they did a couple patrols. And you're just like scared. It is risky. Because I'm like, I'm going to pop this up real quick. Because there's tourists everywhere. I'm going to pop it up real quick and get my shot. Yeah. I'm going to pop this up real quick. Because there's tourists everywhere. I'm going to pop it up real quick and get my shot. Yeah. I'm going to pop this up real quick. Yeah. Yeah. It's crazy. That sucks. Yeah. Well, now that you're like, you look at where you were shooting. There's nobody out there. Yeah. What's the point? It was like 5 a.m. Yeah. There was no one out there. And the thing that's crazy is like, when you think about it, the most beautiful places that we have are the places you can't fly a drone. Unless you're like Warner Brothers or something. I don't even know you got to get. Yeah. Yeah. That's pretty crazy to do. But now that you're still consumer level, and people just like pop it amount left and right. And then, you know, it would suck if there was just a ton. So I get the regulation, but there's got to be, I don't know, maybe over time it'll get better. Yeah. I like it. I think it's pretty lax. I haven't really explored it too much just because I'm like a little bit scared with the helicopters and everything. Right. But apparently, like, if you're not doing it for a professional project and like, I don't get paid from my YouTube videos. Like, I could do just shoot a bunch of drone footage in downtown LA over top traffic. Really? I don't know, maybe. You know, I'm like, I don't know. So I think so. But like, you look at it. I don't want to be the one. Yeah. I don't know what to do with this. He had a Netflix documentary. I think he's like, yeah, he knows what he's talking about. Yeah. But I think technically, you know, I like to shoot it over top of people. Right? Yeah. So then that's like the weird thing with like, if you're shooting over top of traffic. But I see, like, I see all the time that people shooting in downtown LA, everyone's top of cars or whatever. Yeah. It's a weird new world. And I think we're just trying to figure out the drone. Yeah. Yeah. I agree. And that's like, I came here and I flew mine this morning over at the place I told you how's that? Um, it's really cool footage. But I'm like, kind of wondering, like, is someone just watching my channel, like, waiting for the next one that they're like, that's technically illegal because you're going to be paranoid. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I can't believe somebody called you. Like, can you believe up through Instagram? I was like, dang, they must really have it out for me. I don't know why. How do they find you? Like, how do they find you? They find your email on it. It's a crazy thing. So I, when I came back to Colorado, I was in Florida for three years in school. And I came back to Colorado. And I, this is what I went like boots the ground to start working. So I reached out to tons of photographers, videographers in the area. And I built a group on Instagram of, like, local creatives that whose work I liked. He was one that I had invited to be a part of it. And then somehow he ended up, like, turning me in and told me about it and showed me everything that he sent them. And then, like, I was like, dude, like, what the heck? And he was like, he's like, it's okay. Don't worry. They probably won't even care. How would you do that? I was like, why are you trying to, like, console me after, like, throw me into the butt. It was weird. But I was like, oh, whatever. Someone like that, that just sucks to be in that position, honestly, that you feel like you have to do that to someone or whatever. Right. I mean, you're not going to get very far, I don't think, with that kind of mentality and that attitude. Yeah. Because we're all just trying to make it buy. And we're not, I understand if you're going to be doing something that's dangerous, but other people's lives at risk or whatever, but like, come on, shooting in a national park when nobody there. Yeah. Get over yourself. I don't know. It's crazy. I can't believe that, like, that was my first introduction to, like, creatives being like, my work is better than your work. Like, I never saw that way. I didn't know that was out there for a long time, but some people are very competitive about it. And I think, I mean, that's crazy. Yeah. I think it's mostly, most of it is usually just a quiet, competitiveness. Yeah. I mean, even from, I was like, we're talking about looking at other people's stuff, but like, you don't hate that person. And if you don't hate that person, you're amazing. Yeah. You don't hate that person. It's a battle from them to you. Like, inside your head that's like, I have to learn, not a, like, like, take them down, like, it's so weird. Yeah. You can't, that was less and early on that I learned too, was that, like, even just doing weddings and having friends that also did weddings, was that this is not competition. Yeah. There's plenty of work out there. Yeah. There's, it's not like there's a limited amount of pie there for weddings in, the field of the area. There's tons and tons of people. Yeah. There's plenty enough for everybody to get enough work. Yeah. And I, that's definitely a thing. Like, like, in a sport, yes, one team wins and one team loses, but in creative, it's just different. And I like to shoot this with my 16 million, you prefer, 7,800, like, whatever. Like, stuff like that. Like, that's why I think it's cool. There shouldn't be a competitive, you know, nature in that, because it is, it's called creative work. Like, you do what's in your head, you know? But there is also a sense of competitiveness that is really healthy. That I found early on with a friend, Jared Moore, who's one of my photographer friends. And we just pushed each other back and forth and we were in college. And huge growth from that, just because we were like, we'd go out and every time we'd shoot together, we had this thing where we'd say, like, you got the shot or I got the shot. Which was the one that was like, like, if I had thought of that, and it wasn't ever like, I'm better, you're better, but it was like a pushing, like, that's the one. That of the whole trip, this is the best shot we have. And it was like, he got it or I got it. And it was like, it was healthy because you're starting to see from another person's perspective and he had angles, he always shot and I had angles that I always shot. And so then we'd like, like, try and switch that up. And you just learn a lot from it. But yeah, it's like, there's a healthy competitiveness and then there's like the really unhealthy, like, I hate you competitiveness. It happens, you know. Yeah, that does happen. I like how it's like consolidated. That those kind of projects where you kind of push each other, but then you're also like, okay, we're going to do this video over this period of time where I think it gets you to push yourself to, like, see, okay, how can we make a film and a weekend? Yeah. How quickly can we put everything together and be able to tell a story? Yeah. Because I think when you start to do that, you start to learn maybe where you're wasting time. Where if you had two weeks to do this project, like, I've done a few that were overnight projects. I used to do a lot of work for Reebok. And I would get the footage. Like, I got paid quite a bit for it, because I wouldn't have done this otherwise. And then I would not do that now, because I think sleep is very important. But I'll get a project at 12 am. That's when I started. And I would work. The project was do at 8 am. So over the course of eight hours, I would chop together a video, three cameras, basketball event, interviews, everything. And I had to just fire through it. Just like put it like on that, I'm not scrolling through every piece of viewer that there is. Right. I'm finding good enough to be real good enough to be real good enough to be real good enough to be real good enough to be real good enough to be real good enough. That's crazy. Good enough interviews. And this is after three years, in years of doing it. And then just, honestly. Like the quality of work that I was able to put out was like, you wouldn't be able to tell the difference between a video I spent three weeks on in a video that I ended over the course of eight hours. That's crazy. So I think that that's, that's a, that's a lesson for me for sure. To be like well, maybe I, I'm a perfectionist in a lot of ways. Yeah. And maybe that actually holds me back from doing as much as I want to do and work done. And that's another thing that you had to find a balancing, because like sometimes I'll go out and shoot and just be like, like every angle, every possible angle of this location. And then I was like, dude, I used like three clips from that location. And I've shot like 40 videos from it. And even though like 10 second clips, I've used like 0.5 seconds slow down to, you know, second and a half. Like that's crazy. I used this much footage from like 30 gigs of footage. It's wild. And so if that's another thing for me that actually kind of plays in that minimalist idea of like, even with filming, like, not filming too much, but also filming that extra stuff. And that's like, oh, the balance is hard to find. It's a hard balance to find. Yeah. And I think that the definitely early on. And I mean, so even to this day, I think you get a better eye for it and you know, like, oh, this is going to be crap. Yeah. I'm going to shoot this shot. Yeah. I haven't really done. I definitely know I have enough footage to make a video. That's true. But I think early on, it is shoot as much as you can. It's like, you know, chiseling marble. It's like you want a big slab. Yeah. Yeah. But it's like, yeah, it is taking as much as you can. And then the curation process to be able to find the best clips. And I think you'll, when you shoot and edit your own stuff when you're part of the entire process. It's, yeah, it's so much easier. Yeah. Editing, that was one of the difficulties of that one project. Like, I'm looking at footage. I did not shoot. So it's like a nightmare. Yeah. I've had like one or two projects that I've had to edit other people's. And it's like, do I go through everything first? Because when you shoot it, you know what you have. And you know, like, oh, I'll leave this shot into this one or whatever whatever kind of stuff. But when you don't shoot it, I can't even imagine that because the creative process is not the edit. It's not only the edit anyways. It's like the location, the movements, the style of shoot, the lens, the settings, like all of that plays together. And that's what makes like great films in my opinion. It's like all of the culmination, the curation of everything in one little like thing. Mm-hmm. My sound effects are going to destroy you. Like, I actually love the sound effects. Like, this is like YouTube videos. Like, you are walking YouTube videos. Oh, my gosh. In the best way possible. Yeah. You know, the sound effects. I think help a lot. I don't think I was going to actually add a man. Oh, yeah. I feel like I don't even need to. I'll just be like sound effects box. I'm just like a button. You should actually do that. Like, they have, I'm going to, I'm going to do that for podcasts soon, where I just have different cues for things, whether it's like questions that people ask. Yeah. And you just press the button. There you go. I think you could, that would be cool. Yeah. It'd be cool or horrible. It'd be horrible. Probably people probably wouldn't like it. Yeah. It's worth a shot though. You never know until you try it, right? Yeah. It's learning process. Cool. Anything that you wanted to talk about on this podcast before we head into the final round. I guess just like, there's a learning process. And it's super hard not to compare yourself to other people. But I think for creatives and people that are working on it, like you should probably check and make sure this is what you love doing because it's not always like paying really well. Or you know what I mean? I don't think I think it'd be hard to do like, for money. You know what I mean? So there's a lot of people out there that, or people that messaged me even that are like, you know, like, how do you do this kind of stuff or whatever, whatever, and I want to do that. And then, but they never go out and shoot, like they never do it. And I think like that's the thing. If you're going to do it, like go out and put in the work. And sometimes that means like, just walking around downtown with your camera, and you come back with nothing. You know, that kind of thing. But I don't know. I guess it just not to be discouraged, because you know, even people like Sam Kohler, they had to sucky start. I was watching some of his videos. You know, you talked about like your old stuff. And I told you that like, somebody who's I avoid watching, because I'm going to get like, like I just want to stop making videos. One time, I went back through all of Sam Kohler, someone who I like his style. Um, who doesn't. I went back through all of his stuff. And I'm looking at like, 2012. And I was like, it's horrible. It's hilarious. You feel great. It was like, Thank God. There are people don't start like this. Yeah. That's actually, I think that's the most encouraging thing. And that's like, what gets people to start putting stuff out there and start making stuff. Because you're like, it's not about this video. As much as like, you've even, you're actually tricking yourself, because you do still think, oh my God, this video's the most important upload I've ever made. Yeah. You just put it out there, keep going. That helped me with my podcast, looking back at Joe Rogans, early stuff. He was Joe Rogan, somebody who I admire. And just a brilliant podcaster and like creator. You look at his old stuff. He was doing live streams. And they weren't even like, there was no structure or conversation. Like it was like, are we live? There's like 30 people here. And it's just like this like, jittery looking piece of crap. And it's just like, now he's over a thousand, 1100 episodes in. Yeah. Because he just stuck through it over the years. And look at where he is. One of the biggest podcasts in the world. Yeah. Um, not that we're all trying to get to that place. Right. But we're just trying, we're trying to get good. And we want to be able to make a living, doing the things that we love. Yeah. And that's really all it comes down to. It's not a matter of like, making money or, I want to jump off cliffs into water. Like it's not a matter of that. But being able to like, if that's what you love to do, then yeah, go do it. But if you like, shaving wood with your, sandpaper or whatever, to go do that. I think there's such this stigma of like, this is a cool person. Cool people do this. But it's like, I think that sucks that someone who's into like, what are math. I'm just going to pick math because that's stereotypical. If you're into math, that that's not cool. Like, I think that's horrible that someone that can be incredible that stuff can sit down and be like, like, watch someone else who can, you know, take a video of themselves jumping off a cliff. The most useless skill in the world. Like, maybe under like the world is ending and maybe you have to speed jump a cliff. Like, maybe in that case, you still aren't to do a back flip. Like, the useless people, I was thinking about the day driving around like, like seeing all this expensive cars. And I was like, these are the people that like, like some of the main ways. They don't have a skill. they just like do the dumbest crap and everyone thinks it's awesome. actors. They're not actually Thor. Like, they're acting. and it hit me today to like, there's people out there that like, crazy mathematicians. they make money and all that kind of stuff. But they're not like, that sucks when you're young. my age people like that. They're making, 12 bucks an hour as an intern somewhere. And they're looking at someone else that's like, um, standing on this majestic cliff. And it's like, there's a stigma that that's cool and this isn't. I think that is horrible, you know, because I think I mean, personally could I suck at math that matches awesome. But like, it's crazy. there is like, I mean, it's kind of like pervasive. Just, and we both do it. It's like the beautiful Instagram shot or the photos of us on. We do this stuff with some clips. Yeah. Um, but that's not everything. Yeah. I think that that can be a part of it. And like it's interesting and like you can share your skills. But I think it's like, yeah, at the end of the day, you can create a beautiful photo or a beautiful video. But like, is there other value that you can add? Is there something else you can bring to the table? Can you help somebody like get through a road block or help them get clients or whatever. What other kind of value can we add to people? Yeah. Besides just sharing beautiful photos and video. Like, that's great. That's a great starting point. Yeah. And like some people that's where they make their entire living. This is just creating beautiful things. Yeah. And that's cool. But I think that there's potential to dig a little bit deeper. Yeah. And that's something that for me as someone who's just starting out, I don't want to get to that point where I'm not ever putting effort into other people. You know what I mean? And that's something that's cool about this is because that's a direct, like, thought process of what I want to be bringing to out to people. You know, like, bringing value to other people's lives and encouraging them. And sometimes it's hard because people show you their work. And it honestly isn't good, you know? And it's like, I encourage them. You don't want to especially be the one that like shut them down when they could have been something amazing. You know what I mean? But like, that's what something that I noticed, like that video that the email that you sent me, like a couple months ago, like that meant a lot to me. And that's something that, who knows, I might have stopped had that not happened. I might have continued. But knowing that maybe one day, I can do that for someone is, is a crazy thought to know that you have the power of motivation, you know, whether it's because you're cool or because you're not or any of that kind of stuff. And people either abuse that or don't use it when they have it. And it's like, it's a crazy thing that I think people don't think about, you know what I mean? Or they have this audience. And instead, all they do is swim in a river. I don't, I don't know why these like ideas are coming to my head. Like a maddening film. So I've seen a video. I think that the key though is, don't kill somebody's dream. That's what actually I said recently was like, don't, don't kill somebody's dream, let it dive natural causes. because like, don't be the one to kill it. Let, like, if it doesn't work out, it won't. Let it take its course. And like, if they're asking for truly constructive feedback and criticism, give it to them. But don't discourage them and say this is shit. there's a lot of potential here. Like, did you love it? Did you really enjoy making it? keep making it. You know, just because it's not good now, doesn't mean you're not going to get good at it. Yeah. For sure. that's a hard thing to do in the creative, especially because you're seeing good work. And you sometimes think like, this isn't my work. I don't make good work. And it's, it's a learning process. it doesn't matter. And I think it, my boy's down to that. quick questions. Yeah. I don't know that was a quick. answers. Good. I suck at that. Quick answers will make the worst. I know. Um. cookie. I know. I would be really bad at it, too. This is just a segment that I said. No, that's getting early on. And then I got rid of it. And I brought it back. Dude, me, my friend used to have a podcast, and we had a rapid fire. Questions thing. If I had a studio. It was so bad. Do you do podcasting anymore? You're just going to start with the whole thing. He moved to San Diego. And so we loved doing it. We did it because it was fun. We had a small audience. But it was fun. But we had this rapid fire questions. And he'd be like, what do you love in life? And I just be like zucchini. Like most stupid things. Your head's like preparing and like, I don't know. It's so bad. Sometimes it's like, I think it through. Sometimes we don't always have to add value if it's just, if you just have in a good time. Yeah. It's value in a different area. Yeah, exactly. All right. What universal skill do you think is the most important for creators to learn? Zucchini. Yeah. For real, dude. He blew it. Yeah. The universal skill. I'd say to just be content with where you are, yet still have the motivation to push forward. That was a great idea. What's the simplest advice that's the most important to follow? Just start. See, now you're doing them quick. I told you, they're not. Okay. I actually like it. This is so good. So far, how do you get through doubt? How do you get through doubt? I think that comes down to having the right people supporting you. Doubt. Doubt is going to happen no matter what. And if you surround yourself with people that aren't going to push you to what they know is best for you, then those are like that's what your friends are for. To pick you up when you're in those situations. So I think picking the right friends, that's how you overcome doubt. The right people that are around you. I think that's how you do it. And two more questions. I'm looking for advice on how I should get the rock on my podcast. And I feel like if I'm going to ask anybody. All right. It's going to be sterile. It's the jingle competition. Good idea. Thank you. Yeah, I do like that. I can't believe that there's so many people that are just like, do I'm going to put in this work and do that? That's also talented. And like, like, listen into some of them, especially some of the, like, the four finalists. Like, especially with noise canceling headphones. You're like, they got background vocals. And they've got layers of these tracks. That's crazy hours and hours on them. And it's crazy to think that people like do that kind of stuff for a jam competition for a chance to, like, to a chance. Yeah, chance to be part of something that's supposed to be part of something bigger. Like, what? That's wild. Obviously. To be at that point where people submit that, to be at a point where, like, you even wouldn't come on my podcast. Yeah, it's crazy. Like last year, I started the podcast like a year and a half ago, and like nobody listened to it, nobody watched it. So it's just super humbling and really cool. Yeah. But we do need to get the rock on the podcast. Dude, I'm with you a hundred percent. Yeah. I don't know. It's such a, like, that's such a big one. I think you're, like, solid where you live. I think it's, like, set that you have, like, since, like, almost to your vibe on YouTube, like, everyone knows, like, get the rock on the podcast. Like, it's a thing. I think that's, I think that's key. I think it's going to happen. Like, I think you're already doing the right thing. It's a matter of time. But anyway, we got Sterling on Mads Podcast. Yeah. So we're halfway there. Next step, we get the rock. And to wrap up here, where should we send people? Oh, for, like, my work? For, like, your work? Um, you can go to YouTube. That'd be awesome. Because I'm, like, working on it, man. Um, YouTube would be great. It's just my name. Sterling Grinnell. And then I post most of my work on Instagram. Like, a lot of the, the photo work that I do. Um, so yeah, Instagram is just asked. Rling Grinnell. Everything's just my name. Maybe my website is showing you all that calm. Okay. So we will, I'll leave a link to the YouTube channel in the description of this audio podcast, as well as in the YouTube channel. Can you spell it? Uh, I want to make it real clear. Yeah, people to go there. Sterling, S-T-E-R-L-I-N-G. Like, the silver. And then Grinnell, which is G-R-I-N-N-E-L-L. Great. So subscribe. Watch the videos. Cool, man. It's good to make you coffee. It was great to drink the coffee. Was it actually good over you, like, I have to be kind because he's here. No, this is, like, better coffee than I can make. I'll take it. It's killer. Thanks for doing the show. Dude, thanks for having me. Alright, guys, that was Sterling Grinnell. Hope you enjoyed this podcast as much as I did. Making it. If you want to support the podcast, you can do so by heading over to patreon.com slash matt deevela. It's a new thing that I've started. I've got a secret AMA and a secret vlog. Giving you access to ideas, thoughts that I do not share anywhere else. Get a look behind the scenes at the podcast, how I make things, what equipment I use, lots and lots of great advice shared on there. So if you want to contribute to the show, if you want to keep this podcast advertisement and sponsor free, you can help. I'm looking to get 5%. Maybe 10. Now, 5 would be fine. If I could get 5% of you guys to contribute, that'd be amazing. And of course, if you do not have the money to contribute right now, if you are yourself starting something from the ground up, there's no pressure. No pressure to contribute. I want you to be successful, and I want you to be able to chase after projects and ideas and dreams that you really believe in. So I understand if you are just getting started. Thanks for listening and I'll see you next time.
