# Our life is about to change.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=iwzGsUfDHBE
Someone send help...


Hi there 👋 If you're new to my videos my name is Matt D'Avella. I'm a documentary filmmaker, entrepreneur and YouTuber. I've made a couple documentaries for Netflix. I also teach courses on everything from filmmaking to habit change. If you like to nerd out about self-development as much as I do, you can subscribe for weekly videos.

🔗 LINKS
Enroll in my habit's course:  https://slowgrowth.com/simplehabits
Enroll in my YouTube course:  https://slowgrowth.com/masteryoutube
Get my weekly newsletters:  http://slowgrowth.com/newsletter
Follow me on Instagram:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Follow me on Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella

🎬 CREDITS
Directed by Matt D'Avella
Edited by Zach, Matt, & Spencer
**Keywords:** Matt D'Avella, matt davella, self-development, creativity, health, wellness, lifestyle design, lifestyle, advice, 
**Date:** 2023-01-04

## Transcript
 Something happened. Everything's about to change. So don't have a stand-up. So I've got to say right from the beginning. I've seen your comments. I've seen the conspiracy theories. People saw a rocking chair. They saw a mysterious calendar invite, and they've automatically assumed that Natalie's pregnant. And before these theories go any further, I just need to say right here right now that bad is absolutely unequivocally true. She's pregnant. What are you doing? I bought some clothes. Well, you're going to need it. Oh my god, it's huge. It's joking. I don't need a tissue that's one of my dress. It says body hiking club. Don't even need a hike. Oh, I mean, I don't even need a hike. So I was experiencing a lot of symptoms early on, and I was just like convinced that convinced that all's pregnant. Like I was like my body just feels so different. It's behaving really differently. And that ran out and got two pregnancy tests. And six, thirty, and seventy. And super early, and I had worked that day. We looked at it like a few minutes later, and then I was like, oh my god. I was like, is that one or two lines? Is that one or two lines? And then you were like, I don't know. Is it two lines? We're just screaming at each other. And I'm like, it's, and then the more more I looked at it. I was like, it's definitely two lines. It's definitely two lines. It actually like surprised me just how immediately excited I was about it. I think I was intimidated by other women who get really excited about becoming a mom and may not identify me with that, and then making me question whether or not this is for me. Yeah, it was really nice as soon as we test a positive, I was just stoked. I think the only thing that has rocked our life more than this pregnancy was the Will Smith slap. Oh, oh my god. Dude, did not bring that up again, because I'm like, I don't have my next two hours I'm not bringing it like that. So, now it's very excited about showing everybody. How do you clean that so it's dirty? You do a fine. It's judgment, I haven't cleaned it yet, but I just got this awesome sandwich press. So we decided to be very intentional with our appliances in this new place. And we decided that we would forego a toaster, just get a stavage press because I've been really getting into tosties. I've been making like every day a veggie match cheese and tomato tosties. If I'm going to be honest, if it was up to me, I would not have a sandwich press. No. I wouldn't have to get a toaster. No, because I just don't need bread anymore. It's so much more versatile. What do you mean you need? You need something to toast bread. No, but I just don't eat bread here. I don't eat a lot of bread. Anyway, I'm stoked on this. Anyway, I'm not stoked about this at all. What is that lunch today? That's good. I thought you had bread. It's too hard bread. Yes, I did. But she didn't melt that was made by the sandwich press. Look, he's already reaping the benefits. Okay, okay. So this is going to be the baby's room. We are going to have the crib right here. Going to be a little rocking chair for mom and dad right there with a little end table. The changing station and dresser is going to be right there. That's it. A little rug. Some decor. Not a whole lot. So obviously, I've made a lot of videos on my channel about minimalism. And inevitably, whenever I make a video about it, a parent drops into the comment section and says, just wait until you have kids. All that does is just buy a matter of, like you just like challenge accepted. Like if there's anything that motivates you, it's someone telling you you can't do something. 100%. 100%. Just because of that, I'm going to make it work. But there's an uncontrollable factor in this scenario in this challenge. That's me. And I'm not a minimalist. Yes. How can you be able to not just, I'm not going to be able to control your behaviors. But also mine. You still say that you're not a minimalist. I think that your actions speak louder than that. Just see me. I'm packing the shoes and the t-shirts. No, but like, I mean, I think from for the average person that you actually don't own a lot of stuff. And so I think you are incredibly intentional with the things that you own. And already this, I think actually the big thing is that you respect me and what I want out of our relationship and our children. Are I awesome? Yeah. And so like you think just as much about the things that we're going to buy that then I do, because you know that impacts me. Yeah. I'm so awesome. You're really, really considerate. I'm kind of. Oh my god. Yeah, that's really good. It's not really cool. I was not prepared for just how quickly things changed. Firstly, holy shit. We got pregnant a lot faster than I thought we ever would. I thought this would take at least a year. Wow. Okay. This is really happening. And then you're like, well, this is going to be okay. It's going to be okay. I've got like nine to ten months to figure this out and get adjusted to this. Well, you don't. You like have like nine to ten days because the symptoms hit hard and they hit fast and your whole body changes very quickly. Even though it looks like it doesn't. You immediately feel like a different person. In fact, that was how I knew. Like I think that was we we got a pregnancy test very early. We found out in the right beginning of our third week, which means that like the sperm had only just insulated the egg. Like I think like a week or two prior. They don't call me quick draw on that for nothing. Your lifestyle has to change. Like you, you know, everything that your choice has changed. You know, the way that you prioritize things immediately changes. And it's, it's a really big ship to really changes. Everything. Like it's like, you know, and the things that you think about immediately changes. And you're overthinking the the smallest things that you take for granted. Should I be working out? Should I be doing this? Should I be doing that? Should I be sleeping right now? I want to sleep, but it's 11 a.m. I shouldn't be sleeping. Like if you over think everything and you're trying to figure out like what your body's trying to tell you because it's all these new signals and all these new signs that you don't know how to read. It's like a different language. So just it happens really fast. And I don't think I was prepared for that. And I don't think I'm even still prepared for it now. Deep down. I don't think I can do it. You know what I mean? Like I just don't like which part the birth or the. And I'm trying not to cry right now. No, but it's like you know and like I've been crying all the time. Like your moment is crazy. It's like the other day I cried out of the guy Sebastian Song. Which for any Australian who's watching knows how completely idiotic that is. But like love guy. You know song. You know, cried as song. I feel like anyone who's probably like watched Matt's channel for a while knows that like I don't like challenges. I enjoy fun. I'm like the opposite to you, right? Like you lean into uncomfort or discomfort. And it's not that I lean into comfort. I lean into fun. And there's like so much about pregnancy. And becoming a mom where the whole conversation is all about how hard it is. How messed up it is. Your body is going to be completely taken away from you. Birth is totally fucked. You know, it's going to be the most painful experience of your life. I hear people saying obviously it's beautiful. I just my mind cannot understand that right now because all I'm thinking about is the sheer pain of labor. And then you think about, you know, if you want to breastfeeding and then like just raising a child and having to be up whilst you've gone through May just major, like a major surgical procedure. But you have no moment to rest because you have to keep this baby alive. Like that to me, like obviously this is going to be the hardest thing I'm ever going to do. And that to you is exciting because you're like that's a challenge. And that to me is terrifying and I'm really it's interesting because like what I need to kind of motivate me through this process and this journey is actually like I need to focus on the positive. Because I'm at the moment spiraling in the negative because it's like all really overwhelming and. Basically sends help. I just had more of a positive note to say. But it's January 3rd and the year has started off weird. January 1st, I had a bit of break down tonight. So yeah, I don't really know where to go from here. So I feel like inevitably when people are preparing to have a baby. They try to hold on to the life that they still have. These are conversations that Nat and I are having. Like we don't want our life to change. We still want to do the same thing. We want to be the same people. We want to go out. We want to travel. We want to have fun. We feel that. Like we really want to hold on to those things. But there's no question that our life is going to change and that we will need to make sacrifices. And I think you'd have to be an idiot. And I think you'd be severely disappointed if you didn't fully prepare for what it meant to be a parent. We're not going to give up everything. But I think this is a time over the next few months for us to start to think about what we do want to hold on to. What are those things that we are committed to keeping the same? And what are the things that we're willing to let go of? And how is our life going to change when we have a baby? It's still crazy to say that. And so it really is now a moment to make way for a new chapter of growth. Wish us luck.
