# The Newsman
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=J0AMLKNncxc
http://www.groundupshow.com

Dan Harris talks about stepping into the role of the self-help antihero & what he's learned about meditation. Watch the full episode at http://www.mattdavella.com/043.

Get Dan's new book: https://goo.gl/Ho4Y3Q

Thanks for watching! Please leave a review on iTunes if you got some value out of the show: https://goo.gl/c4Pvnv
**Keywords:** ground up, the gorund up show, dan harris, the ground up show, podcast, film, filmmaking, matt davella, Matt D'Avella, 
**Date:** 2018-01-26

## Transcript
 People are kind of pushing you onto this platform and in some ways, is there any part of you that wants to go at that full time and kind of push away from the ABC news and just do your own thing? It's so interesting, you just, there were a lot of threads in that question. One of the things is this interesting tension for me, you know, I am now basically a, I mean, I don't think of my books as self-help per se or I describe my most recent book as self-help for skeptics or, you know, I call it chicken soup for the skeptic. So it's kind of like anti-self-help, you know, no silver bullets on offer completely, you know, the whole 10% happier stick is like counter programming against what I think of as traditional self-help. But I am very careful not to present myself as a guru because I'm truly not a meditation teacher. Very interesting meditation ever, written to books on the subject, I've been meditating for nine years. I go on silent meditation retreat, I have a pretty robust personal practice. But if you truly want to be, what I consider a real legit teacher, those people study for decades. They go on months and months and months and years in many cases of silent meditation retreats. Their level of inner expertise is not something that frankly I will ever be able to attain in my lifetime. And I don't want to, in any way, put myself on that level. So what I, the way I think of myself is as a gateway drug. And so I'm, the sort of, I can provide a sort of a wrapper around the practice that makes it fun, hopefully funny and fun and attractive and, and then I do a vein switch. I step out of the picture and bring in a meditation teacher, mail or female, whatever the age, which I truly, on the app, we do a lot of work to make sure we have a diverse group in every possible way of, of teachers who can speak to different audiences on different subjects. But the other part of the question you asked me was, do I want to step out of ABC and go into this full time? The answer to that is no, it's a little bit of a problem because I have these two things going on, news, which I absolutely love and I've been doing this as I was 22 and have zero desire to step away from and then this whole meditation thing. And the only answer is to work my ass off seven days a week and negotiate this in my wife and figure out how can we do that in a way that doesn't burn me out and doesn't take me away too much from my family. But I have these two amazing opportunities. You know, I just resigned at ABC and I absolutely love it there and I love my bosses. They've been, like, as I said before, super supportive and I have tons of opportunities. I mean, I anchor nightline and weekend, GMA, I get to travel around the world. I was in Russia and October doing a full half hour for nightline about what's it like in Putin's Russia. I've got all sorts of crazy adventures. I'm going to do this year with ABC. It's just so filled with opportunity for me and I'm in my bones, a journalist and we're at this time where journalism really matters, I have zero point zero percent desire to step away from any of that, but I also have this whole meditation life that I also don't want to step away from and so it's it every day for me is a challenge of figuring out how can I do everything I want to get done without driving myself crazy and without being an asshole. That's not easy challenge. By the way, you're asking about rules, a great rule which, you know, you should, it's more aspirational than anything but a great rule is don't be an asshole. You know, if you can set that as a challenge, I've actually been thinking that I want to make 10% happier kind of comfortable sweat suit gear that you can meditate in with a little long sleeve sweatshirt and right where the sleeve meets the watch. I want to have in, in very subtle maybe stitching don't be an asshole because it's a great reminder. It's a great way to go through the world of like just don't be an asshole. And I break this rule all the time but as an aspiration directionally, it really makes a lot of sense. And frankly, there's a set I have a whole chapter in my first book called The Self-Interested Case for not being a dick and there is, you know, think about, and this is the kind of self-awareness and meditation you can give you. What does it feel like when you hold the door open for somebody? If you're paying attention to your mind, in that moment it feels good. That is infinitely scalable. And what does it feel like when you're talking shit behind somebody's back? Doesn't feel good if you're paying attention. There's a little bit of dopamine, you know, rush about gossip but frankly, what does it really feel like when you're running somebody down behind their back? It doesn't feel good. And meditation which boosts yourself awareness helps you see this and it provides a powerful incentive to not be an asshole. I find that when my life is maybe getting a little bit chaotic, say if I'm working on a documentary and like you said, it can be tough to fit all these different things that you're trying to do in, when that happens when my life gets a little bit unbalanced and I'm focusing too much on a film or too much on the podcast or whatever it might be, I do send to see that creep up because like you kind of lose your patience easily, Natalie will come home and then, you know, it will be that much more likely that I might piss her off in some way, not because I'm an asshole at heart, but because I'm an asshole in that moment. My dad has a great quote, it was like one of his best friends told it to him. It's already to act like an asshole every once in a while, just don't be one. Yes. And that really, I think meditation helps, but the balancing helps as well in that rich role. I was talking to him, he was on the podcast and he was saying, I was like, so how do you do with the balance? Like you write books, you do the podcast, you do all this stuff, like training for these ultra marathons, how do you balance it on? He's like, for the most part, like on a day to day, my life may not be entirely balanced. It may not be in perfect unison and harmony at all times, but in the long run, I try to make sure, like over this, say, the span of a month, I've, you know, spent time with family and friends and I've worked on my personal projects and done all this. And I find that works because sometimes when you're working on these really big projects, they can be draining and like you guys learn going out on the road and filming and shooting all these interviews and going on tour, it can be really draining and it can be really difficult to always be in a perfect state of harmony. I like what Rich said that, so your overarching goal should be to have balance, you know, writ large, but on any given day, you may not have it. And I think that's true for people who have a lot going on, I think that's true. But as you pointed out in the new book, meditation for fidgety skeptics, you know, actually I have something of a breakdown toward the end of the book because I'm trying to, I have a start up company, I have a podcast, I have a very busy day job, I we have a very young child around the house, I want to have a happy marriage and I'm writing a book on top of it and by the way, this book from conception to completion to publication was I think 14 months, that is ridiculously fast for a book and especially in say an ambitious book. And I was dying and my wife had to take me aside and be like dude, you need to, you need to turn it down a notch and that was very useful. And so what I would say actually the one I think take away here for listeners in terms of finding balance, one major asset if you can find it is a good partner. I happen to have married very well and she pulls no punches and tells me when I'm being an idiot and is sympathetic too, but also honest and that is hugely useful because whoever you're living with, whoever your partner is, is going to know you better than anybody and is going to see things that you aren't seeing and can point them out to and if they're skillful at doing that, that's a great way to achieve balance. It's kind of like when you're meditating and I don't know what you would call it because you have the voice in your head and then what the observer of the voice, like your wife in some ways is the observer, it's a great enough of you being an asshole. So she plays the role of mindfulness. So in meditation, you just for the uninitiated, the basic steps in meditation is to sit quietly, usually in a reasonably quiet place, close your eyes, second step is to bring your full attention to the feeling of your breath coming in and going out, usually wherever it's most prominent, your nose, your chest, your belly. And the third step is the key because as soon as you try to do this your mind is going to go bonkers and the whole goal is just to notice when you become distracted and to start again and again and again and again and in that moment, many people when they see that they become distracted, they think that they've failed but actually that is a victory. That is the victory and it's a victory of real consequence because when you see how crazy you are, you're less owned by the craziness. But so as you pointed out, there's an interesting thing. So there's my thinking and then there's whatever nose that I'm thinking and this is the great mystery of consciousness. We don't know what it is that knows but one word that often gets used is mindfulness. So it's the ability to see what's happening in your head and in a given moment be it thoughts or feelings, physical sensations without getting carried away by it. So I can see a big burst of anger without drowning in it and acting on it and that is just the ability to kind of step out of the trance of anger which is by the way not special, this is no special effects here, this is your birthright, the ability to know what's going on in your head without getting carried away by it, isn't some special thing everybody has it, we are classified as a species as homo sapiens sapiens, the one who thinks and knows he or she thinks but the second sapiens is largely atrophied over time because in our culture nobody points out to us, hey dude, you can actually through the breasts of meditation step out of the traffic of your inner chaos and see it all without getting carried away by it, at least for nanoseconds at a time but that allows you to have a leg up on your own inner life.
