# Ground Up 029 - The Way of The Indie Filmmaker w/ Alex Ferrari
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JFwWMm6hO3s
http://www.groundupshow.com

Alex Ferrari is a filmmaker with more than 20 years of experience in the industry. As the founder of IndieFilmHustle.com he helps creatives figure out how to make it & thrive behind the camera. We discuss mindfulness, creating at a high level, building an audience & why the Hollywood studios are scare shitless of indie filmmakers.

More from Alex at http://www.indiefilmhustle.com
**Keywords:** indie film hustle, film, filmmaking, this is meg, minimalism, a documentary about the important things, the minimalists, matt davella, ground up, the ground up show, podcast, 
**Date:** 2017-10-18

## Transcript
 Hey everybody and welcome back to the ground-up show, my name is Matt Diivella and today I'm speaking with Alex Ferrari of indiefilmhustle.com. He's a director and filmmaker with more than 20 years of experience in the industry and he helps filmmakers and creatives make and pave their own way by making independent films. In our conversation we talk about how the film industry has changed, how Hollywood has changed over the past 15 to 25 years and how that has given power to the content creators and independent filmmakers and why the Hollywood studios are scared shitless because of that. We talk about mindfulness practices and how to stay sane when creating and executing at a very high level. This is a guy that produces two to three podcast episodes per week, two to three blog posts per week and insane amount of content and I got to say meaningful content that really help help other people. How do you execute at that level without losing your mind? How do you get seen? How do you build an audience? We discuss that. It's definitely something I'm interested in. How do you take a message that's really important to you that means a lot to you and get it in front of more than just your parents. A difficult challenge but one that we tackle in this episode and lots lots more but before we get to that conversation, if you like this podcast and you liked minimalism, a documentary about the important things, I've got something that you might like. I recently conducted interviews with the producers of minimalism to give a detailed look at how we made the movie. Those interviews with the minimalist and spire are yours for free if you leave a review for the ground up show on iTunes. Reviews help to get the word out for the show and they help us to continue to do what we're doing here. So head over to iTunes, take a screenshot of your review and send it to hello at matdeavella.com and I will send you those interviews. And now without further ado, check out this episode with Alex for Laurie. Indie film hustle. Alex for Laurie in the building. Yes, thanks for having me. Yeah, what's going on? Thanks for coming out. No problem, man. No problem. I'm really excited about this conversation. There's a lot that I want to unpack and learn from you. 20 years in the industry. I just moved out to LA in July. I've got like two months in the actual film industry. So the streets are still paved with gold for you. Yeah, it's beautiful. It's wonderful. Is it like, yeah, when I first got here, I was like, oh my god, there's post houses everywhere. They're studios everywhere. Everyone's an actor. Yeah. You go to any Starbucks or writing screenplays when you're from not here. Yeah. That's a huge deal. It's amazing. And I think it's on your site. It's a and your podcast and one of the stuff you talk about is that the industry can chew you up and spit you out. Oh, it will. It will. It doesn't. It's not if it will do that. It's how you reset how you how resilient you are to and how you deal with it. It's going to happen to everyone. It's happened to everyone. Yeah. Even the even Steven Spielberg, even Scorsese, even Cameron, all the giants, all of them have their asses handed to him at one point or another in the business. And it's just how you deal with it. And even as they get bigger, they still just their problems are just a little bit bigger than ours and a little bit more different than ours. But they all have problems. Spielberg couldn't get money for Lincoln. Frick and Steven Spielberg couldn't get Lincoln financed. And he had the hustle forever. I mean, Scorsese, he's last movie. Silence. That was his dream project for like a decade. No one would give him money for it. So they all have the hustle in their own way. Yeah. And I'm curious and we can get into that. And I'm really interested about the differences between the indie film world, especially with narrative because that's something I know nothing about. I know a little bit about the dark world. I think that's probably a totally different story. But before we get into all that, tell me a little bit about your days now. How do you feel your days? It seems like you got your hand on a lot of stuff. Right now, I'm focusing a lot of energy on indie film hustle itself. Just redesigned the site from scratch. Everything you see on indie film hustlers done by me. So the podcast, the videos, everything is either produced by me. Graphics, everything's done. I was going to say that because you do have a lot of graphics. Graphic for every episode, everything's custom, everything's built. Yeah, I'm trying to figure away out not to do that. But I just started that way because I had a lot more time when I started this thing two years ago. Like, yeah, how just make everything look perdi. And I now have been caught in that thing. Yeah. But it's part of the brand now. So I have to kind of keep up with it. And at least try to streamline it in one way, shape, or form. But but I focus a lot of energy right now on on the podcast as well as the the website, my membership site and all these and now my YouTube channel where I'm now I'm going to releasing something called the director series, which is by a wonderful filmmaker. My name is Cameron. I'm real. Beel. Beel. Beel. Be. E. Y. L. And we partnered up. He has this insane series on film directors. And he just goes and like, I mean, like, kind of like, silence of the lamb style goes deep deep deep into these guys. So what we have, um, adventure. No, I think you did venture Nolan, the Cohen brothers, P. T. Anderson. It's just small indie guys. Small guys. Kubrick. And I think that's it right now. He's working on Terrence Malica. So these are film interviews videos. No, these are like video essays to the degree. So each episode's like 30 to 40 minutes. Some of them even go to an hour and a half. And he breaks down their entire career. Wow. Like everything. So right now, we're releasing our first series, which is adventure. And they go into, like, he goes into specific commercials. And like, breaks them down and what his styles were. And this was the first time he did world building, you know, like in the express, a structure self video from Madonna. That's the first time he did world building. And then that can be, you can translate over to Alien 3 and how he built those production designs. That's, and all, so all this stuff he connects it on. It's so wonderful. I'm so honored to be releasing it through a indie film hustle. And we're going to be putting out an amazing content about, like right now, I just released today, Tony Scott, the ultimate guide. And it's everything you ever want to know about Tony Scott. Like literally the same thing, but just an article for him not in the video form. What's great about it is that you have with nearly every modern filmmaker today, you can go back and look at the first stuff they ever made. Amazing. You can look back at some of the college projects that they made during school. Absolutely. And do you think what do you do to fully understand them? Is it to just look at their works or, you know, read what others have written and studied about their works? I think for me personally, I did a little bit of this for a Kubrick. He's probably my favorite filmmaker. And I went down the rabbit hole about four or five years ago. Pretty deep. I'd always watched his movies and everything, but I really went full blown seven John Doe style when into Kubrick's world. And it's such a dense world. But what I did is I literally watched all his films, which is always a starting point. And then I read everything. I read everything. I saw everything. I went down to the Lakma when it was here. I think I wish he was there always. I would just go there as a place to work. Just to be surrounded by Kubrick's stuff. But I think just analyzing as much as you can, watching as much stuff as you can. And now with these amazing video essays out there, there's a lot of great stuff, nerd writer and lessons from a screenplay and every frame of painting and these guys, they're really good, you know? And it gives you different perspectives on the artist's work. And it just opens up a lot of doors that might have not been open in your mind about that directors, especially when you're dealing with some of these giants, you know, like Kubrick is just a riddle wrapping an enigma wrap that maybe it just keeps going and going. And it's same thing with all the ones I said, PT, Nolan, Malik, these kind of guys, they just go on forever. And the longer the career, they can imagine Scorsese, they're trying to deepen to go into deep and Scorsese and or Spielberg who have three decades and was four decades of a film that you can actually access from most of it you have access to. You know, I remember the days that you couldn't have access to stuff, it was whatever it was in the video store. And I was in a generation, I was lucky enough to have a video store. You know, the generation before me, like Spielberg, like we never saw anything, like we just waited for it to come, like, chorus our movies to come at the theater and we sit there and watch, we couldn't stop rewind it and analyze it. So I think we're very blessed today, which is interesting to see how filmmakers are using that information because there's so much of it out there, but I don't see I don't see the movies getting better. If that makes any sense, I'm not trying to be an ass about it, but like, you know, there are amazing filmmakers out there, but the bulk of the workout there is not at a level that, you know, with all this access, with all this information, with all of this material to analyze, why isn't the work getting better, why aren't there new ground, like why, you know, why aren't the new blit, new trails being blazed? Well, I guess you could break it down into a couple of different categories. Would you say the quality is getting better for most films? Oh, God, yes. I mean, the quality of the production quality? Yeah, I think people are getting a little slicker. There's, I mean, trust me, I've worked on so many movies in my career that, and I'll mostly in the indie world, that some of them, I was like, why did you pick up a camera? And then there are other ones, you're like, okay, he really milked that camera for everything. It was worth and the production looked really, really slick. I think the quality of productions, I think now, are gone to a point where it is gotten a lot better than it used to be. But the story is not, it's getting, the story telling, I think, is getting lost somewhere in the production. Everyone's always about the camera and how many k's you've got, and you know, oh, I'm going to shoot on 8k, red, dragon, whatever they're calling it now. You know, and I'm like, that's great, man, but at the end of the day, it's about the story and it's about those characters and people will forgive low production value if there's a good story. And maybe that's the big problem. Is that more and more people can do it? Oh, God, yes. I mean, it's a good thing in a bad thing. It's a good thing because we can make films now when otherwise you'd have to go through a traditional system, the bad thing is that I'm going to put more doing it. And if yours is good, it's a little bit harder to navigate through all the shit. Right, the level of entry is as much cheaper to get into. And I kind of witnessed this one final cut came into the world. I was an avid editor. And I went to, I went to get myself certified as an avid editor and paid the $800 for the certificate that I never showed anyone. And but I got certified in avid and I was an avid editor and then all of a sudden this, this will again call Final Cut showed up. And all of a sudden, everybody was an editor. So where you used to be able to make, you know, $50 or $100 an hour as an editor. Now there's 15 kids out there who call themselves an editor, but they don't, they're not real editors. They just know how to run software on their laptop. And then all of a sudden the market got diluted and then the prices started dropping and dropping. And so I saw that first happen in post because that's where the technology was the cheapest and it broke through that door. Now the cameras are the same way before you could not get anything that looked like film unless you actually shot film. Then the red came in and the red kind of really kicked the door down for everybody. And once the red showed up, that really opened the door and really set off the revolution. Then the DSLRs came afterwards. And that was like a happy accident because they had, there's no plan by, by Canon. There was it. It was just an afterthought. They were just like, yeah, that's for weddings. Or that's like, you know, for your home videos, no one. They never even thought about like filmmakers. Well, we could like do a revolution. It was it was difficult for me and for every client that I got at that period of time. This was my senior year college when the 5D Mark II came out. And I had a Canon XHHA one at the time, a great like HD cam quarter. Yeah, sure. And it shot really high quality video, but like nothing like the Canon 5D. Yeah. And then, but then to see my friends who would get it, a couple of my friends had it and I didn't have the money. I didn't have three grand to drop on a camera. And it, but it was so good. You couldn't deny how good the quality was from these tiny cameras. Comparatively to the, in the video world, yes, but were you compared to the film world? No. Yeah. And that's where I always had a problem with the Elsa Lars personally. And I also call the graded and finished probably about five or six 5D movies. Really? Yes. That's tough, dude. Do you have any 5Ds too? Oh, crushed. There's just no one knew what they were doing. The, the color space was really low. No one was shooting it properly. No one really, you know, everything was underlit. You know, I had a movie once that was shot mostly in a forest at night on a 5D. And they're like, hey, why is everything gradient? Like, well, do you want to see something? And by the way, all the stuff on the inside, we're going to add grain to it now. And now it's a creative choice. And I did that on three of the five DSLR movies that I colored. So, you know, I always had a bad taste in my mouth. Now, that mean the DSLRs have gone to a very respectable place. And if you know how to shoot them properly is good, but I'm still up. I'm still old school. I like raw. And I like a raw file. So, I love the black magic so much because they shoot raw. And I'm like, oh, God, and you can go in there and color and tweak and it saves your ass. Like, big time. You know, so if I were to shot my movie on on a DSLR, I would have been screwed. It would have never made it. But having that raw file really, really, really helps a lot. Right. Sounds like you have a really great depth of knowledge when it comes to film and filmmaking. I mean, I've been around. Yeah. I've done a few things. Yeah. When did you first start getting interested in film? When I started working at the video store, I worked at a mom and pop video store back in 80 something. And I fell in love with movies then. And I didn't know it at the time. I started shooting stuff with my grandfather's super-8 camera. Yeah. Hi. It's you me. Hi. Hi. Hi. Hi. A video camera. Doing like little things for school and like, you know, hand in instead of report, I would hand in a video. My teachers were really cool that way. And I never thought of it as a career because, you know, to forget that time, there was that wasn't a career that you would go after. Like, it wasn't in the zeitgeist like it is today. So it wasn't even, you know, there was, now they're high schools that have film programs in it. Like, you know, there was nothing like that. So for me, Hollywood was a million miles away. Like, you know, I studied Scorsese and Spielberg. And you know, I used to watch laser discs. That's the only place you can get the criterion laser disc with the only place you can get those audio commentaries, which were gold. You know, at the time you can hear Martin Schwarz, ZZ explaining what he did during raging bull. Like, that's insane. It's not such a cool phenomenon that they actually do that. The commentary. Like, why did that come about? And I don't know, I don't even know who came up with it. But whoever genius did, it helped generations of filmmakers because the laser discs with the first guys did really do it. A criterion, I think was the one that really started setting the tone. If you remember, they were expensive as hell. They were like a buck 25, which was expensive back in the day. But, you know, I saved up my little money. And I used to have a ton of them. I still have a bunch of them. And my laser disc player, which works. I plugged it in the other day. It's embarrassing. So embarrassing to watch the quality of the band. So bad. It's so horribly bad. Because then I put the blue ray of the same movie right in right afterwards. I was like, oh, wow. Oh, that's rough. You didn't know what you're missing now. No, no, at the time you were like, this is awesome. Like, the sound is so crisp. But, so I started watching everything. I could get my hands on. And when I got out of high school, I looked around and I said, what am I going to do with my life? And I looked in my room and room happened to have 3,000 VHSs that I collected over the course of the four or five years at the market at the video store. And I said, wow, guys, I'm going to go be a director. And this is literally that easy. That moment on. I was like, oh, I'm just going to go direct. And I did. And I went to film school. And everything I learned at film school was pretty much obsolete when I got out. Because I was at the turning point where film was going into digital, not only in your editing, started coming to vote. So a lot of the stuff I learned with old school stuff, which I'm grateful for because I have a nice base in it. But then I started editing at, excuse me, I got a job being taped up at a, the largest commercial production house doing, doing commercials in Miami. And I did that for, but I, I interned for four months for free till my boss quit and then I got the job. And then I was editing commercial wheels for, for these big commercial directors. So I started like, hey, I'm going to be a commercial director. But while I'm doing that, I'm going to go learn this thing next door called the Avid. Because I don't want a PA because PA sucks. So I did, I learned the editing, I did that for about nine months. And then afterwards, I just like, I'm going to quit and become freelance editor like a psychopath. At the, what, what time period is this? What? This is the 97. Yeah. freelance anything. I feel like it would be too, but I was living at home and yeah, yeah, it was like, what? And I'll just give it a shot. I'm the biggest advocate for live at home for as long as you can and get you to get you a go. Absolutely, man. So I went out and I started, um, started editing right away. Because I actually, I don't know if you guys are anyone in the audience has done this, but I created a fake wheel. Now it's not a spec wheel. I actually got, um, I'm a big proponent of fake it to make it. And I was fake in it pretty hard, but it was just a gray area in my opinion. So was it, was it lying per se, but it was a gray area. So what I did is during that time at the commercial house, we had an influx of a bunch of European directors and they brought all their footage with them. And these guys were doing like Nike style, big budget productions in Europe, but no one had ever seen that footage here. So I was like, I'm just gonna grab this footage and edit new commercials with it. So I edited these insane 30 second spots. And I just threw a Nike logo at the end of it. Yeah. Or throw in like a gay to read commercial at the end of it. And I would just, so I created like five or six spots. And then I went out with it. And of course, anyone who saw it, like, wow, yes, you will hire you. And that started the word. And then anyone ever asked me, I'm like, oh no, they're not. It's your spec spots. But if no one asked me, I just let them assume. It was their assumption. It's their assumption, not my fault. Yeah, it's not my fault. Also, it, it does show my work. It's a reflection of the, your quality of work. So you're dealing with the same raw footage at the original editor that went. Right. I was editing, it was just my style of editing. I wasn't, I didn't copy somebody else's. I didn't have the other. I just had raw footage. So I was able to create my own persona, if you will, through this real, that real was so good. I never updated. I didn't update it for three years. Like, how often do you not go without updating a real? It was that solid because I just kept getting work and working work. So I was like, this is easy. Like, why does everyone talk it about? It was also the 90s right before the bubble pop. So there was a lot of money flowing around. There was a ton of money floating around back then. This is a big music video time. There was millions of dollars. Oh, dude, I was doing music videos that were like, the sea level artists were getting like 200, 250,000 budgets. Like, you know, then occasionally you get like, I was in Miami so you get the glory as the fun. You know, you know, that's the big, you know, she's got the million plus, you know, budgets and stuff. But yeah, so I did that for a while and I, um, I started directing. And I got, I got a demo real, I spent 50 grand. And I put together a real commercial demo real, which was about, in fact, four or five spots, I think at the time, shot on 35 full productions. And I put it out, put it on my credit cards and borrowed someone from grandpa and put it out there. And that's one, that's, that's the point where the, the business just went right across the chin, because I was just expecting, or I'll just send my real out. I'll start directing and, you know, these guys are making five grand a day, 10 grand a day. This is easy. They didn't work out that way, you know, fell into debt, you know, almost went bankrupt, that at one point, there was a lot of stupidity that you do when you're young. And so it was part of the, the gambler's fallacy, where you feel like the good times are going to keep coming. Yeah. And you're not necessarily preparing for when, but that's youth. Yeah. That's just you. That's just youth. You don't, you can be told it a million times, but until you feel it, you won't, you don't know. So there's always that moment where you got to kind of prepare for the worst, because it's going to, it always comes. It always comes at one point or another in your life, something's going to happen, the world's going to change, the industry's changing, something's going to happen, you know. So, the, so anyway, so I did that for a while, but I finally got back on my feet, directed a whole bunch of stuff, directed a short film, that kind of took off for me back in 2005, sold, I think, 5,000 DVDs of it at 20 bucks a pop, you know, and I created an online film school, not actually me in that online film school, a DVD gorilla film school at the time. And that, and I sold it to filmmakers showing them how I did it with the wonderful camera that will always go down in history is one of the best indie film cameras of all time, the Panasonic the VX 100 day. Oh, that's it. It's the shit right there. Yeah, that was an amazing camera. That camera was so good. It was the first time, because I was, I was always a stickler, so I was like, I'm not shooting with the Canon XL. I'm like, that's adorable. Yeah, I'm not going to do it. Yeah, that was me. It was horrible. It just looked like crap to make. Yeah, but when I saw the DVX, I was like, it looks like film. Was this the, there was the HVX2 that came after that. That's the experience 200. Yeah, that was the 720p version of that. And that was also a good little camera. I have friends in in college, and friends that I went to school with that would, they had the adapter and attach other lenses to it. And when I said that shit, oh my gosh, I'm I shot my shot with the, the smart screen adapter. It would like flip it up to see the film upside down. Oh, yeah, do those all sorts of shit. You could do with that camera. Yeah, those cameras. But they were great. And I recently looked at Panasonic's website because they were like, it's coming back. Like, they would try to revamp it. Like, and I looked at it. I was like, oh, wow, they're bringing the DVX back because they're just trying Panasonic's trying with that camera. They're killing with the GH, the GH4s and GHVIs. But, but they're trying to do it with the video camera. And I looked at the footage. It was just like, oh, no. Yeah, not right. Not there anymore, guys. Your your moment left. Yeah. But it was, but for the time that little camera was, I mean, it was a workhorse. Yeah. It seems like you, you've always been tapped into the indie film hustle, whether it was in that name or another, you, you, you were trying to teach other people how you did it. Was this was there a reason why they came about where you were people asking a lot of questions or like, how the hell did you make this happen? How did you sell five thousand DVDs? I think what I did with indie first and foremost, when I did it with broken, which was the first time I actually did something like this. And I was, honestly, I was ahead of my time because there was nobody there. And there was nothing. I know it's hard to believe that there was no information about filmmaking out there other than commentaries and behind the scenes of, you know, 20 million dollar movies, which not gonna help me right now. But there was nothing out there going, hey, here's a DVX 100A. Here's how I shot it. I edited on Final Cut. Here's my postwork flow. You guys can do this too. And it was instinctual with me. And I just felt like I wanted to help my fellow filmmakers because I, you know, they're, they're my people. And so I was like, if I can help in one way shape or form great, let me do it. And I provided a wonderful product that they loved. And you really, in 2005, you really couldn't go anywhere online without, in the film world without seeing an ad or someone talking about it because that was me. I literally sat six to eight hours a day, just pounding it on the message boards and the, the, the blogs and everything. I just hit it so hard that even if today you type in broken Alex Ferrari on Google, there's still probably about 20 or 30 pages of shit that just still out there. And I, once, I think I did it a couple of years ago. Let me see what's up there. And I just go through the page and let's see how far back I go. My God, it's still stuff out there. Like, it's insane. It really wasn't saying what I was able to do. So the reason why I wanted to do it again, I just wanted to help filmmakers. And, and if I can help them, you know, by selling them a good product that actually can help them, it helps me and helps them. It's a fair exchange, I think. And because the, the, a lot of the lessons that I taught in that little DVD saved thousands of dollars on, you know, on a production. So but I've been hustling since I was nine, and I was, I mean, I was, I was the only kid in, in, in middle school with a pocket full of cash all the time. Really? I was that dude, man. I was the dude, I always had cash in there. I'm not from a rich family. I was, you know, we come from a middle class family. I never asked my parents for money. I just knew that that just wasn't a thing. I just, it wasn't a thing. Like, hey, can I have $20? That was, like, to this day, I can't ask anybody for cash. Like, I feel weird asking for cash. I'm like, no, I'll just go hustle my money. I'll go, I'll go and work it, you know? And I was the one that figured out back then. I'm like, you know, I'm gonna do garage sales every weekend. And I would just go around to all my family members. I'm like, what do you got? Do you want to get rid of? And I just take it and I'd set up shop in front of my dad's house. And, which was a lot of high traffic areas, so in my toys, so my jet Joe, so my old jeans, like, I sold everything. Like, there was nothing that could not, that didn't, that did not get sold. And I'd walk away every weekend with a hundred bucks. Like, you know, for six, six greater, seventh grade, that's a lot of cash back in the night. That's a lot of money. And excuse me, the 80s. Yeah. So that was like, you know, I was always rolling. I was always at always, and that's where I got my baseball cars, that's where I got my comic books, all that stuff back in the day. I think it's about taking ownership and taking responsibility for yourself. I was just having a conversation with somebody earlier this morning about that, where, you know, if say your parents take care of you, they set you out, they pay for your apartment, when you get out of college, and then maybe you don't feel motivated to get a job. If you don't take ownership and responsibility over yourself, mom and dad don't always going to be there, people aren't always going to be there to help you out. You got to do it yourself. Oh, there's no question. I plan to have that conversation with my daughters because, you know, I think this generation is really coddling. They're kids a little too much, and that's my generation coddling the kids coming up. And then, you know, the millennials and all that, kind of stuff. But I think that you're just doing your child, your kids are disservice, because life is not easy. It can be really fun, but it's a journey and it's tough, man. And this business, this, not this business, but this life is rough to survive, you know, in the United States, or in a developed country, you know, to hustle, to get a job, to work, and this is not easy, you know, it isn't. And if you don't have that work ethic or don't understand how to deal with adversity when it hits you, if you're given everything all your life, I know those people. But I know many of those people that they have just, you know, one little thing happens, something they just crack, they fall in the floor. And then they won't survive. I have much rather struggle going up, because that's where I feel like I am right now. I've been struggling for 20 odd years being the filmmaker to the point now where I'm making features. And I'm making my movies that I'm like, I feel like if something goes wrong, I'm like, I don't get to it's all good, man. Let's just keep going. Like, I don't crack anymore. You know, I already gone through all that stuff back in the day, but I wasn't like, if I had an opportunity and I did early on in my career to think, direct the big movie, I'm so glad it never happened, because if it would have happened, I don't know what, I would have priced self-employed it, you know, like if I would have gotten to direct, you know, big commercials, I was pulling a $100, $200,000 a year. I think I would apply, I just, life would have destroyed me. I wasn't prepared for it. I just wasn't prepared for that kind of fame, not fame, but money, and, you know, responsibilities, responsibility. I just couldn't do it, but so yeah, I think if you don't, in today's world, if you got mom and dad giving you everything, they're doing you a disservice. I completely agree, and I think it's a lot of times we might look down at people who were given everything in life, but, you know, like you said, you feel bad for them, because to have the struggles, to have to work for something, you're developing skills, you're learning, and you're growing, and you're becoming more resilient, trying to shit does hit the fan down there. I mean, even, you know, if you have, let's say you look, you can't be, if I'm born a Kennedy, okay, you can't blame me for being born a Kennedy, you know, I'm born to money, but, and the thing that's funny is, like, Kennedy might not be a good example, but let's say a self-made millionaire. There's a lot of them out there that, you know, they came to this country with nothing, and they built up something in there, either a multi-millionaire billionaires at this point. All the struggles that they went through, they're not allowing their kids to go through. Their kids went to the best schools, getting the best of everything, and when they come out, what do you think's going to happen? They're not going to have the same set of tools and skills that you did by hustling, going up. So, even if you have a lot of money, you can treat your children in a certain way. It's nice to know that the money is sitting there, just in case shit goes wrong, but you got to teach them the rough, you know, I love the story, I have a story from Denzel Washington, not that I know I'm about to heard the story of those genius, and he said, the kid turned 16, and he goes, I got your car for your birthday, he's like, oh, great, and he gives McKinney goes out to the front, it's like, it's the old minivan that the family had it for a while, it's all beat up and everything. He's like, is that my car dad? He goes, yeah, that's your car, you know, and he's like, but you're Denzel Washington, and he goes, motherfucker, that's right, and Denzel Washington, you better go out there and clean that car before I take it away from you, and you're not, and that's it, and it's great. But that's the the work ethic that Denzel, you know, from that story, at least, is trying to show his kids because if you're raised up as Denzel Washington's kid, you know, you got everything, you got the money, you got everything, but if you don't, if you don't teach them the proper values, you know, when money fails, which it always does, it is a certain extent, life will, will destroy them, you know, and it's tough, man, but I think you got to be, you got to teach your children to be as resilient as possible, and I actually enjoy now, I've gotten to a point in my life and in my career, where I enjoy the grind, I enjoy the journey, and that's the thing that I think so many artists, filmmakers, but people in general, they're always looking for that goal, they're always going like, I want that thing, and they freaking forget the journey, they just focus on, and they just like, oh, I hate having to walk a mile to get to that place I want to go to, but the mile is that that's the joy, because the when you get to your destination, that's a second, and you're done, now what? Now what, you know, at that point in the game, you're like, okay, so, you know, I've gotten to my goal now, that's why so many people that get an Oscar, or, you know, make a lot of money, or do something big, it's hard, you see them fall very often, because they just don't know what else to do, they don't have any other aspirations, because maybe their whole life was focused on getting an Oscar, and once they get that Oscar, there's like, oh, I don't know, I don't know, do it again, like it's like, they don't understand that it's about the journey. I think that lesson is at least for me, it was learned through experience, and sometimes that's harder to say than to do, to say, it's not about, you know, the finish line and what you accomplish and what you get, and I think I knew that, say, making minimalism and doing past projects, where I'm like, it's all about the journey, but still looking at that finish line, like, I just can't wait to be done with this, it's just going to be this, this, and this. Yeah, you know, for me, because I'm a bit older than you, I've gone through that process, and you're in that process probably right now that you're just like, yeah, yeah, I know the journey, but man, I just want to get to this finish line. As you get older, I'm not that I'm like friggin' ancient, but I'm like 26, but I look horrible for my age, by the way. For me, what it was is I was so beaten down by this business, I left the business for a little while. I always had a foot in it, but I left it for a little while to run an olive oil company. I opened up an olive oil company with my olive oil. You know, that's a whole other podcast there. Yeah. But, you know, I ran the largest olive oil store and vinegar store in Los Angeles, and in that, that three-year process was probably the most brutal time in my life, purely because of the physical brutality of the job for me. You know, being filmmakers were, you know, we like, I've worked 16 hours today, I'm like, yeah, I get that. But when you're doing five or six farmers' markets a week, you know, waking up at five, moving all, it's just, it's brutal. It's brutal. I have such a respect for all the farmers. So if you're in a farmers' market, it guys be nice. You've no idea how hard it is. But I left the business, and during that time, I kind of, it was like my walkabout. You know, it's my time to kind of find myself, and that's one about a year and a year left in that journey. I decided, hey, I'm going to start looking into this online business thing. You know, let me start looking and, uh, and I started developing, and I read everything I could about online businesses and, uh, content marketing and SEO, and the whole of the whole world. And I've always dabbled in an internet, I had a website that a business back in 1978 as well. So I understood the whole thing, but today's world, I was like, how can I actually make a business doing this? Like, how is this possible? So I learned, uh, everything I could, I'm like, okay, there's, there's a blueprint here. I can do something. And then I opened up indie film hustle right afterwards. That journey, um, this journey I've been on with indie film hustle for two years, I don't particularly have a destination with indie film hustle. So it's taught me to enjoy day by day. And that, I mean, I have goals with indie film hustle. I wanted to be this. I wanted to do that. I wanted to grow in this way. But for me, it's really about the day to day. And that's where I think I always get the deer into headlights from people when I talk to them about it because I, how do you do everything? I'm like, I just do because I enjoy it. I enjoy the grind. And it is a grind. It's not easy. But it's fun for me. Like I wake up in the morning. I'm an energetic to go and work on, um, on my, on the blog. And when you start hearing things back from people, like, you know, your podcast gives me hope. You know, that's powerful. That's like food for the soul in my opinion. And, and, and that, like, hey, because of you, I, I just made my first feature. So thank you. That's so powerful that I'm making that kind of impact on the world, with my little microphone in my room. You know, and I mean, it's, it's really, really powerful with a little website. You know, it's just a website. You know, it's a information on it. But when you connect that all, um, it really doesn't pack people. So I really enjoy that journey. So when I went down the journey to make a movie, this, I don't know how you felt about it when you before you made your first feature. But you, you think of like the feature film. It's this mountain that you have the climb. It's monstrous mountain. And I know we've done that. I was like, oh, God, it's like, I gotta have this. I gotta have that. I gotta have this person. And then I gotta do this. And, yeah, I woke up. I'm 20 years in. And I'm like, I know feature. And now there's no excuses. Like, I can make an excuse 15 years ago. Like, it's just two damn expensive. I can't do it. There's no excuse now. None. There hasn't been an excuse for probably about seven years. Yes. So I'm really, good excuse. No good excuse for at least seven years. So I, um, I woke up one morning. I'm just going to go make a movie. And I called up my friend Jill, who's an actress and a comedian. I'm like, hey, I want to make a movie. I want you to be the star of it. And I want, uh, let's make a movie about your life about what you go through as a female comedian, uh, in LA, female comedian actress in LA. And she's like, okay. And she wrote a scriptment, uh, which is a very loose, uh, very tight outline. But barely any dialogue. And, uh, she hired all her friends. We brought all her friends in, who are all like, you know, Reno 911 and Matt TV and, you know, big, uh, big actors. And they all came in for, for favors. And we all literally, from the idea, the moment the idea was had, from me to call her to the point where we had a finished product was less than five months total. And during the process was the most enjoyable creative experience of my life because I had no attachment to outcome. Uh, I didn't, if I made no money great, if I made money great, it didn't bother me. Didn't mean anything to me because of the budget we were working with. You know, if I have a $500,000 movie to whole other wall game. But for such a small, like, you know, personal independent film, I was like, hey, whatever happens happens. And with that attitude, the actors got in and they just started playing. And they, every one of them were like, wow, this was so fun. So much fun. Like, yeah, because we just didn't, we just enjoyed ourselves. And we flowed. It was a complete experiment in flowing with your chief, flowing with the, the force, whatever you want to call it. And if anything happened, though, I wasn't in the plan. I'm like, let's go. I just literally just wherever the waves took me is where we went. And as a filmmaker, you've composed of supposed to control everything. Now, for this kind of movie, it made sense. You know, for other kind of movies, other kind of stories, it doesn't. But for this one, it made sense. And that was a plan. You know, we planned to be to do this with this kind of movie. So that's why it made sense to do it. It was all organized based around our resources and based around the time and the money that we had access to. And that journey was the most, you know, like I literally, we literally premiered the LA premiere was at the man's Chinese theater, or whatever it's called, not TCL, or whatever, but the Chinese theater. And, you know, we had a red carpet, you know, like our little movies at the Chinese theater. And in all honesty, and I said it there that day, I was like, it's nice. Like it wasn't like it was like before that I would have been the thing like, oh my god, the whole world would have been revolving around that. But for me, I was like, I'm very grateful. I'm very humbled. It's a wonderful experience. But I'm good. Let's keep going. Like that it didn't, you know what I mean? It wasn't the end all be all. It was just another, another step in the journey for me. So for me, it wasn't, because there wasn't a goal to get it into a Chinese theater to have a big premiere in LA. That wasn't a main goal for us. Our main goal was just like, hey, let's make a movie and if anything else happens, it happens. And that's exactly what happened. It's just that the, the releasing of the expectation. You don't, you're not. There's no chance to have these high hopes and dreams that this is going to be this and this. And we're just enjoying that journey and enjoying each day on set. And like you said, that, that has been a radical shift for me to have for most of my career done freelance work, doing weddings, bar mitzvahs, all the stuff that isn't glamorous at all. And being boss around and pointing around, everyone's not having good projects and good clients and developing those. And yeah, client work can be great. But I think it's completely different than walking on set or starting a documentary where you look behind you. And there's nobody watching what you're doing. There's nobody looking over your shoulder at your lens to tell you, no, do this, do that. It's up to you to execute on that vision. And I think there's, there's not much like it. There really isn't. And having that freedom was addictive because now on my next projects, I'm like, well, I'm going to do this again. My goal now is next year. I'm going to try to do probably like two or three features, which is insane. And I'm going to try to do them in a row, which is even more insane. You didn't, when you finished your first feature, you weren't like, never again. No, I was just, for me was like, okay, I got to go, I got to take this the entire way. So for me, when I first finished the feature, I then I'm like, okay, we got to, I went down the, the festival circuit and, you know, got rejected and got a lot of rejections, got a few people in, we were all premieres in a quest, which was a really big, you know, dig deal for us. And it was a lot of fun. But I wanted to go down that road. And then also now experience the whole self-distribution, aspect of things. Like, how are we going to go this out there? How are we going to do this? So it took me a long time for me to go through this whole process with the movie, this is Mac, because I was just going through like, okay, how am I going to finish? Like, I got to walk this journey before I start another one. And now the journey is pretty much at the at its end. We're releasing on Hulu. We sold it to Hulu. And it's going to go up October 15th. Like, our little movie got sold to Hulu. That's insane. That's insane. Like, when we got the call, we're like, what? Get out of here. You know, we were just like throwing it out there to see if anything had happened and it did. And now, you know, Jill and I are developing a show around me, see if we can pitch that as well, because it's like, hey, we did it with a feature where I can't we do it with a show. We don't need a lot of money to do it. Let's, let's go out there and do this. This was changed too, though. It's not only can you make it, but you can get it in front of a huge audience. Yeah. So we're so I wanted to go down that road. And I wanted to see what happened. So now that I've done that, I'm like, okay. And I, and during this whole time, by the way, I finished post on a huge show for Hulu. And then I directed a series for legendary pictures. That was an eight episode run. We shot 96 pages in four days. It was insane. I've never heard it. I did a whole podcast on it. It was like, this is how you do it, guys. Yeah. And I laid out that the techniques that I used to shoot 96 pages in four days. It was insanity. Never 12, no more than 12 hours. 12 hours days. That's incredible. It was ridiculous. It was stupid. It was the most stupid thing we ever heard. We're like, if we're like, we've come back for you and do this, not happen to guys. We're not doing this again. And then each episode had like 140 visual effects that we did in a week, each week. Wow. So, you know, it was, it was pretty intense. So I did all that. So I was busy doing those things. And then finally, when I got off of those, I'm like, you know what, I got to focus some energy back on a new film hustle. So that's why I started doing that. I'm like, I'm going to take out the rest of this year to do that. I'm doing a bunch of other projects as well. And after the new year, we'll see when I'll launch the next projects. Because I've already been kind of slowly building the arsenal. I'm, I don't know about you, but as a filmmaker, I'm like, I got an idea for a movie. So I got to buy these lenses. And I got to get these cameras. Oh, yeah. And I got, but I'm slowly just kind of like, and I need this, this thing in place. And I need that. So I, I'm one of those guys that like, I quietly look like I'm doing nothing, but I'm just kind of putting everything together. So when I pull the trigger, it just goes. Yeah. So, you know, I'm shooting the next, one of my features next year on on the pocket camera. The whole feature is going to be shown on the pocket camera, the black magic pocket camera. We're shooting with Russian glass. And I got a whole set of Russian. I got my buddy, Conrad, who helped me out with the podcast early on. He's like big into, like, buying lenses from all over. I have a problem. And I've actually, I'm clean now for three months. No, but no lenses. Okay. May two and a half months. No lenses? Because they're so cheap. Oh my god. Yeah. So like, I have, you know, we're talking about $100 to $100 at the $200. $200 is like, ooh, God, I'm getting a little crazy. Most of them 50 bucks, 70 bucks. And you put them on. And you're just like, it looks awesome. Yeah. So, and I got the set of Russian glass that is just like a bun. And it's not like a set. Like I've created this set. And lens geeks out there. You guys will get a kick out of this. I actually got a conoptic 5.7 mil. You know what a conoptic doesn't have. All right. So, did you ever see Clockwork Orange? Yeah. Or the shining. So, Kubrick, you see use a conoptic 9.8. That's the 35 millimeter version. It is basically the widest lens you can buy without fish eye. Get out of here. Yes. So, I got the 5.7, which is a 16 millimeter version of it and put it on the pocket. And oh my God. That's dope. Dude, it's insane. It's in mint. I mean, I bought it on eBay mint. Like it came off the factory floor. The front of the lens is flat. What? It's flat. It's like straight flat. Yeah. So, when we're getting to lens geeking, sorry. But so, I'm shooting a bunch of stuff with that. And I know what I want to do with it. So, I'm starting to play with it. So, all these things are going in my head. That's just the way I work as a creative. I just have all these ideas and I start putting puzzle pieces in place. And then when the puzzle pieces are in place, I'm like, okay, now I'm going to do it. And then I go. And that's simple. I like the aspect of adding some constraints to your work, too, where when I went to shoot minimalism and doing a topic on minimalism, I was like, okay, I want to be really thoughtful and intentional. That's the idea behind the film into what gear I bring. So, I'm going to shoot everything in this entire film on a 24 millimeter and a 50 millimeter. And that's it. The only lens is I'm going to use. And then, you know, and I did that for the majority of the tour. And then eventually, like, I got to some other shoots where I was like, all right, you know, maybe I'll bring something else. I think the constraints help a little bit. But then you realize, at that point, why I might need a 200 millimeter lens, because I don't want to be like, if I'm filming people shopping, I don't want to be running up in their face to get the shot. Right. So, there's the balance there, but I think it's important to be really intentional. And yeah, absolutely. Are you as crazy neurotic as I am before a shoot in terms of figuring out and laying out gear and understanding exactly what you need and exactly what you're going to bring into a shoot? Um, yes, to a certain extent, I'm not neurotic about it, but I do check it all. And I pat, you know, like, on Meg, I was the DP on it as well. So, I was bringing in all the, all the gear and, you know, setting it all up my rig, the night before to make sure everything I had was in my box. You know, because I'm like, the thing I didn't want to happen is get out there. I'm like, I don't have that one bolt. Yeah. And I can't do everything I need to do today. And I like it just couldn't do it. Since I didn't have an assistant, I had to be a little bit more anal about it. But but overall, I'm not that crazy. Just, actually, with Meg, I learned that I need to be a little less minimal. I definitely got, I brought too much stuff. The rig was too bulky and too big, even though it was a small black magic, uh, cinema camera. Um, it was just too big of a hog. You can't just move around as quickly. Well, I couldn't move. And it was a hog that was big and it could move quickly because I had it set up, but it was brutal on my, my body. Um, and just, this, everything was just too big. So, this, that's why I was like, I'm doing the pocket camera decks. Like, I'm going to go smaller. And, uh, and I have, I own a, um, I mean, uh, or so many, which is in 4.6 games there. They're red, you know, they're red or they're Alexa. So, it's a big camera. Um, and it shoots beautiful images, but I was like, no, not this one. And next one, I will, but not this one. You got to know what you're shooting and why you're shooting it. Right tool for the right project. And that's a thing a lot of people don't understand either. Like, when I, when I, when I tell people I'm going to shoot something on a black magic pocket, they're like, but it's 1080p. I'm like, and yeah, like, I don't, like, yeah, like, like, where am I going to be putting this? Where is this going to be seen by people? I'm going to feeders. Even if it goes to feeders, I can bump it up to a 2k, which is all I need for a DCP, which is what we did on Meg. I saw it projected. I was like, just looks amazing. Yeah. You know, and if I have to bump it up, I'll bump it up. The only difference I see is that you can tell mostly with like motion graphics when motion graphics when they get scaled up, they tend to look a little bit grainy, not, not exactly. But if you're going to bump up, you can redo the motion graphics if you need to. So yeah. But yeah, that's, but for the most part, video is, you could scale up fine. I saw our film and theater as it was 1080p. Look fine. It was great. It's great. Yeah, people just get caught up with this cable shit so much. It's like all the k's and the this, the how many pixels and like do just tell a story, man. It only gives a shit about the camera. Also, because when you look at the progression of our work and we were talking about early podcasts, you'd done, I look at early work that I'd done, you know, you grow so much so quickly if you're doing consistent work. If you're putting out short film after short film, it doesn't matter what you shot on that early version on because it was more about making a bunch of projects that were okay, that were pretty good. Maybe you killed it on one of them, but it's more learning and bringing that skill to that next project. Like I was with, with Meg, you know, when I'm sure you felt this way, most filmmakers do is like my first film has to come out the gate like flicking like a freaking race horse man. We got a boom. It's explosion. You know, we got to have reservoir. We've got to have a mariachi. We got to have, you know, something that just blows everyone out the water. And that, that dialogue in my head kept me from doing anything for so many years where I finally said, I don't care anymore. I'm just going to make a movie. And Meg is my first feature film. And is it the most I can do as a filmmaker? No, because it was an experiment as an artist of what I wanted to do with that project at that time. I've actually known more for actions and more elaborate world building and other things I've done that with my shorts and commercials. But I just decided I'm not just not going to wait around anymore. And it's been the best experience, like I said in my life, to do it. And I didn't care that it's like it's going to, you know, you start getting it to your ego, whereas like in your filmography, what's the first, like no one gives a fuck to get out of your own head, do you? Yeah. You know, and I literally just finished today that Tony Scott article where I literally went through his entire, um, his entire career. And I was, you know, formatting and getting it ready for the, for the blog. And I just started looking at the man's history and his projects. And when you just look at it from a distance for a minute, it was so humbling to see like he started in the 60s. His first movie is nothing to be. It's not like a great thing. His first feature was the hunger. The hunger is really a good movie. If you ever seen the hunger with David Bowie about vampires. And he looked at it and like it's a really good movie. But it's not like, it didn't blow everybody out of the water when he came out. Like no one really like, you know, what made Tony Scott was basically top done. Top done was a thing that got, and you know what I got top done from a commercially did that shot a plane. He actually just shot a plane landing like an F-16 and Burakheimer said, oh, he knows how to shoot blades. Let's give him top gun. Wow. You know, my mind you had, sure, it got a lot of commercials under his belt. And he was, you know, a commercial director, but they said, that was the crunchier. You know, so it wasn't his first feature that got him. He was where he was a commercially did. So it's so fascinating. You know, and same thing from Ridley Scott's first movie, the dualist, you know, the man made Blade Runner an alien. You know, those are the movies that he'll be remembered for. But his first movie was the dualist, which was a good movie. But he's got to get going. Get started and then got to get out of your own way as, as my biggest piece of advice for people. In any, in any world, in anything you're doing, don't get caught up in all that. Like how people are going to look at me or how people are going to receive me and like just do it. Because if you do it, you're doing more than 99.9% of the people out there talking about it. Yeah. And that's such a big thing. I think you want to make something as great as you possibly can, but don't let perfection stop you from getting started. So worst, it's a worst, it's an illness. Perfectionism is an illness in the creative field. Because we all want everything to look perfect. We want everything sound perfect. Like you were talking to me like you at your podcast. I don't. And I'm like, I just, I just tell about my guess. And like, we're just going to roll. Yeah. And unless you literally want me something cut out or something really, you know, goes wrong technically. I'm just going to let this go. And it has not hurt my situation at all. So then, you know, that extra three four hours of editing. Yeah, that could be doing something else. Yeah, that's a dream for me. I think what I want to get to is actually doing this life. Yes. And, but I want to keep the video up. But like, at some point, I think you're right. Perfection is an illusion. Like it doesn't exist. Yes. It doesn't exist. You know, I mean, you can spend days and days. I'm the guy that just goes, it pixel, it pixel, it pixel on everything. Yeah. Because I'm a post guy. So I've been editing for all my life before my current professional life and I've been a colorist. So I'm really into that kind of like, did they kind of perfection thing? But it stops you. It slows you down in a lot of ways. So you just kind of go. You know, a lot of people, I use this for makers an example, Robert Rodriguez, who, you know, one of my heroes growing up. And a lot of people, you know, bag on them a lot and his work and this and that. But the man has directed 20 features has built an entire empire for himself. He runs a network. He owns and runs a network right now. Doing whatever he wants, whenever he wants, isn't that kind of the dream as a creative to do whatever you want, whenever you want, have the resources to do it? I don't think he gives a crap. No. And he just does it. And you know, if I would be asked a question, should you do that movie? I'm like, I probably wouldn't have done that. Yeah, probably wouldn't have done that. But he doesn't give a shit. Yeah. And that attitude is so wonderful because he just doesn't care. And that lack of care. Not many of that his work is horrible or anything like that. But he just does it. Woody Allen has made a movie a year for 30 years. There is no filmmaker does as done that. He just makes it every year. There's a Woody Allen movie that comes out all the time. And some are good. Some are masterpieces. Some are bad. But that's art. You know, Picasso wasn't perfect every time. And either was, you know, any of the Michelangelo, Davinci, and none of them, they all just did some are better, some are worse. But every time you do one, you move forward. You move forward as opposed to thinking about it or talking about it or creating other bullshit to stop yourself. There's enough obstacles in this business without you throwing more in front of yourself. What were some of the early mistakes? I don't wonder if there's maybe one or two mistakes that you made early on. You don't have a long enough podcast for that. Say like early on when you're just getting started, you're directing your first feature. Are there mistakes that you made that stand out to you? That you would share with up and coming from. The mistake of Meg, like any mistakes I made on Meg or earlier on, I'm like, that or even even earlier on when you first started directing. Like, definitely when I think you're getting started out, there are potential pitfalls that people can fall into. Kind of like what we're saying where you're just seeking perfection. I think the biggest mistake that filmmakers make is, I'm not sure it's a mistake, but the thing that is the biggest dragon you've got to slay is ego. Ego's a huge, huge, huge problem for everybody in every aspect of life. But in the film industry, even more so, especially directors and filmmakers, because especially when you're young, when you're young, when you're 20s, you know, I know a lot of, I know a lot of 20 years older, a lot more advanced than I was when I was 20, there's just some more information out there and all that kind of stuff. But 20 years are still 20 years old. You know, I've yet to meet one that, and I'm sure there are, don't get me wrong, but I have met some very accomplished ones and I'm not back in on 20 years, trust me. But but they just don't have the life experience yet and no amount of intelligence will give you that. So, you need that experience and the world beating you up, because the ego will take you down the paths that you should not go down. And this is a great analogy for for the ego. You've gone, you've had a wonderful meal, you've made this delicious meal and you're stuffed, you know, those, you went to in and out. You had a double double. You know, you got mistakes were made, mistakes were made, but you're stuffed, then someone goes, hey, let's go get some cheesecake. And you're like, uh, and this is where the inner dialogue happens. He's like, nah, it's going to get the cheesecake. You just work out a little bit more than we'll be fine, because the ego wants that. So you go and eat it, and that night you get home. You're taking your clothes off and you're looking the mirror and that same voice goes, you fat piece of shit. Why did you eat that piece of cheesecake? What the fuck? Dude, you just told me to go eat it. I'm like, I don't know what you're talking about. You're a fat fuck now. Look at you. That voice controlling that voice, ignoring it and becoming its boss and it's a struggle on a daily basis. It's a struggle on a daily basis. Every day is a new war. Every day is a new battle that you've got to win with that voice inside of you, that ego. And I think that's where so much, so much horror in the world happens because of that. But generally, if we talk about the film industry, so many mistakes are made, so many careers are derailed and destroyed and lives are destroyed because of this, because of this ego. And I've been very close to it. I've seen it in other filmmakers, you know, having that perspective of working in post-production and probably finishing about 50 features in my day, seeing up close and personal those battles and the egos and the delusions of grandeur, another thing people got to work. I'm worried about. I mean, I think that's the most, the most important thing that you can do, we can do is to help people to not go down that path because it seems like that's our human nature. Only more experienced, more skilled people who have gone down this road and have actually tried to and believe me, I'm no, I'm no guru by any stretch. I'm still dealing with stuff on a daily basis myself. But you kind of learn how to let go of some things and you start learning how to maneuver that situation and handle the ego. But the ego pops it to head, man. And the thing is that the ego never sleeps. It's always there. That voice is in your head is always there, no matter what. So you can, you can maybe have a three-month run. Four-month run, you're good, you're good with the moment. There's a sense of weakness, just a little bit. That's when it pounds. So imagine having a dude that's, you know, a 250-pound MMA fighter that sits next to you, every day, all day waiting for you just to fall asleep or to turn the other way, to clock you upside the head. That's what you're dealing with on a daily basis. And you'll always have to have your guard up against it. But that moment, which happens, you're like, you know, I'm type of, there it is, and you just got smack at that. You're like, son of a bitch. And then that can, and then it's one punch is not that big of a deal, but if you just let it keep going, that's where the problem is. So you start going down the wrong path. Do you have any mindfulness practices? Things that bring you back on course? Because I think we all do this. Most of us do this, especially those who are trying to be more mindful, where you have a good run. You're doing good. I'm eating healthy, and I'm kind of eating that boy. Yes. Yes. And then you go traveling for a week, and then you come back, and then you're just off of it for three months. Yeah. Because you got your railed a second. Yeah. You have to become so strong in the head, the, in the mind, the mind has to have a strength and of ability to overcome that. And that's the struggle that you have to deal with. Do what do I do? I just at this point in the game, I just scare the hell out of myself. I'm like, you know, do this? This is what gonna happen to you. You know, if you don't keep doing this, this is what's gonna happen to you. And if you keep eating, that's why you're gonna die. You're gonna go diabetic. You're gonna go this or that. You know, and as you get older, these things start creeping in more and more and more. Like when you're 20 to fuck, you get to eat that too. I was living. You can do anything. That's living on Taco Bell three o'clock in the morning when I was 25. Dude, that was like, like, that was college food. You know, I mean, so I was like, shit, whatever. I'm instructable. Woohoo! And, you know, it's a British knife had a great thing. When you're young, you challenge your body. When you get older, your body challenges you. And that's, it's so true. No matter who you are, it we all go through it. No matter how good you take care of yourself. At a certain point, the body, you know, and you could do a lot of things to help yourself along the way. You know, and there's a lot of things you could do to hurt yourself along the way. But as far as mindful practice is, I just care that live and hell out of myself because I know Buddha would want. As the Buddha would want, you know, I, I literally just care the hell on myself because I've been, I have the, I have the wonderful wealth of experience in my life and in my journey that I can pull from. So I'm like, you remember that time when you fucked up, that's going to happen to you again. And I can pull from that when you're younger, you don't have those things. So you have to come up with other things. So I've made so many mistakes. I've stumbled so many times that I can constantly pull from a well of crap that I have in my past. Then go, that's what's going to happen if you don't just keep going down this road. So stop it. And, and also a lot of it, honestly, my meditation is indie film hustle if that sounds, that makes any sense because there's so much time on it that, you know, creating all this content is a meditation because you just sit there. You're one with the content. You know, you just sit there and you create and you create and you create and it keeps the, it keeps things flowing. I think it's also, you're creating meaningful content. You're creating something that is connecting with other people that you're learning from. You're writing or creating a podcast. I think it's, these are ways for us to better understand ourselves, because before I started writing, before I started doing this podcast, a lot of the thoughts just stay in your head. And if you want to make changes to your life, if it's say you're, you want to pick up a workout routine or a better eating habits, the best thing you can do is just start to write down what you're doing right now, what you can do in the future and what you want out of yourself. No, absolutely. Absolutely. Without, yeah, without question. I do want to, I want to talk about the traditional film industry. Sure versus the indie film industry and why the indie film exists. So yeah, I'm new to Hollywood. So walk me through it. What's been happening all these years? So, um, as far as, well, like, this is a big question to say. These were talking about decades of stuff here. So what do you want to, uh, we can talk about the current film industry, because obviously a lot is changing, but I'm curious about how it's structured, who are the gatekeepers of the traditional film industry. And I imagine that's, you might put it at a certain threshold or certain studios that develop films that would be called the industry. So, for me, the big change happened in basically 89, uh, when Steven Saudeberg's sexized and video tape won Sundance. That was the first time that I can remember other than, um, like, an easy rider and things like that, but there wasn't an industry. That was more of a fluke. There wasn't an industry behind that. And, uh, when I say easy rider, Dennis Hopper's movie, he, uh, he made a movie outside the studio system for, like, $175,000, a bunch of bunch about a bunch of hippies running around, you know, doing stuff. And, uh, and the studios were, you know, they were making Star Wars. Like, they did, they had no idea what the hell. That, and I don't think they made Star Wars, you know, excuse me. They were still figuring things, seven years really bad for the studios, because they just didn't understand how to connect with the younger audience. So, that's like, what do we do? What do we do? Like, well, these guys are in film school. Let's open the doors to them. And they gave the, the, the, the keys to the, the inmates. And the inmates started running the asylum. And that's what happened with Scorsese, he's built for a couple of these kind of guys. Uh, they were given free range. That, that moment in time is going now. Uh, but for that moment, that's how they did it. And then when the 90s came into play, that's where independent film as we know it today kind of started, in my opinion, where films like Mariachi clerks, she's got to have it slacker. All these movies were being done by independent voices outside of the studio system. And they weren't making a lot of money. You know, there's not like they made, you know, a ton of money. Mariachi made like a million and a half, two million bucks. You know, clerks probably pulled in a mill or something like that, mill or two. These guys weren't making bad, mad money yet, but that was started, the, the starting of the industry. And for a while, there was a lot of, a lot of money in the indie world, money being put in, money putting in, till the crash of 99, then again, again, the crash of 2008, where things really radically changed. After the crash of 2008, the technology started getting so cheap, then not anybody can go make a movie. And then the, um, the Blair witch project came into play in the 90s, uh, which was, uh, very instrumental in this whole thing, paranormal activity. Also came in, later, um, the saw movies, which were studio, but still very little budget. Um, these movies all started coming in. People started saying, hey, wait a minute, I could go do this. So the gate keepers in the traditional world is this. Right now, there's a handful of studios. There's probably five, five big studios and you can, you can argue the lines get to a mini studio. There's a couple of these little mini studios out there. But, uh, these guys are about, they're all businesses. Now, they're not run by filmmakers anymore. They're run by conglomerates. They're, they're monster things before the studios were run by actual filmmakers by people who were, and that's all their business was, you know, universal zone, I don't know if they're owned by a card anymore. They're owned by NBC. I don't know who owns more anymore. But, you know, they're, they're run by, you know, Coca-Cola, or, you know, a soft drink company, or liquor company, you know, or a news organization, whatever, they're not filmmakers. So what they do is they go, okay, well, um, we have all this new competition out there with streaming and everything else. What are we going to do? Well, we have to create spectacle. So now before they used to make 30 or 40 movies a year, now they make five, but those five cost them $150 to $200 million, plus about $100 million in P&A money. So, promotions and advertising money. So they're rolling the dice on less product, but the bigger product it is. So that's why, all we see coming out of Hollywood is generally reboots established properties, because those are risk of, they're being very risk of, they don't want to take any risks. So when a movie like Deadpool shows up, and they literally were forced to make Deadpool, like literally were forced, and they gave them $30 million, which in the studio system is nothing. Yeah. And with that $30 million that movie literally beat every superhero movie, not only of that year, but I think other than the Marvel stuff, it would even beat most of the Marvel stuff, not the big stuff, but like a lot of the, it beat every X-Men movie ever, which is insane. Yeah. It beat so many, you know, you know, fantastic force. All this kind of stuff, and people were like, what the hell happened? I'm like, oh, wow, an original idea of people really want to go to a original movie. It was originally marketed. It was good. You can see that there was no studio involvement, like they just kind of like, oh, let's let them do what they want to do. And because of that, look what happened. But generally speaking, you know, we got that, that doesn't change much. It changes a little bit a little bit. Well, look at it. It changed a, a thing of bunch of stuff for us now, because now it's a new property, but it's low budget. How cost me $35 million to make? It cost $35 million to make. And it's made gazillions of dollars. It's not what you are. It's a great movie too. So the thing is that studios are, I'm hoping, and I think there's always going to be the tempo. They always have to have the, the spectacle. You know, I'm going to go see the Star Wars movie coming out. I'm going to go see Blade Runner. You know, I'm going to go see these big, these big tent pole movies because they're fun. But at the end of the day, what YouTube has shown us and what streaming has shown us is that an hour and a half of your time can be taken up by something across five bucks or 500 million dollars. At the end of the day, it's the same thing. And that's what scares the shit out of the studio system. Because a guy like URI, shooting this little podcast, could maybe get 5 million, which would be amazing. But get 5 million viewers to watch it. That's more, that's more, that's more than most television shows. And it cost $20 to make. Yeah. You know what I mean? That's the, that's the difference. Yeah, you're, you're completely right. Time is time. A absorbent, a consuming content is the, if I consume a $300 million piece of content or $3 piece of content, it's still an hour and a half of my time. The advertisers who want to get their eye, my eye balls on them, it's the same thing. That's why YouTube, these YouTubers have so much power now. Because they realize they're like, oh, well, if I'm going to watch videos, I can produce them for so little. The whole world is changed right now in a way that everyone's still trying to figure out. Because it's changing faster than anyone's figuring it out. So the thing is to try to be a little bit ahead of the curve. Just a little bit ahead of the curve. But when Netflix showed up, that opened the door. Now I'm a zone through their hat in the ring. Now who's there? Now apples throwing their hat in the ring. You know, AT&T has their own channel. Everyone's got their own channels now. So now we're, I think there's 450 scripted shows going on right now. That's insane. A year. That's insanity. But look at all the opportunities are enough for filmmakers. This has got to be a huge moment for content creators. It is. And it's not going to get any less. Like it's not like we're going to create less content in the future. It's only going to be more content. But we are going to get to a point. I think that look when I was growing up, the cartoons I had were what they were. Transformers were transformers. G had Joe's, which he had Joe's, and that was pretty much it. You waited for Saturday morning, and that was the end of it. My daughters have instantaneous access to millions of hours of entertainment that they would be interested in. Millions of hours. So what's going to happen to their kids? They're going to have billions of hours of content. Because the next 30 years, how much content is going to be created. How many shows are going to be created? And some of it will go out of favor because of being, oh, that's all the technology. And when I'll watch that, a lot of it will keep going. So I'm going to be there. It's all going to be in the cloud. Everything is going to be accessible. Right. With like a $10 subscription and much of it can be available for nothing. So that obviously is a huge predicament for the students and creators. Like, well, how do you? But imagine, but the content creators is one thing. But imagine the studios who, like, their entire business is running on these big movies that people aren't going, this summer was the worst summer, and I think a decade. Because the studios made no money. Like, they it was a horrific summer for the studio system. Really bad. And you know, there's only so many more, I mean, I'm going to see every Star Wars movie they make because I'm a Star Wars fan. But uh, but there's only so much of that, you know, people will get tired of it. People will get tired of original stuff. People will get tired of comic book movies. I think what Spielberg said is true, that the superhero movie will go the way of the Western. It will happen one day, one day. Because there's only so many times we can watch Spider-Man. There's only so many times we can watch the Avengers reboot. We can only watch so many times, it will eventually wait. I don't think it's happening right now. Probably won't happen for another 20, 30 years, but eventually it'll go away. I think there's I don't know. I don't think that that that that that train's going to go forever. I'm super happy because when I was growing up, we had Superman in the 70s. We had Batman and uh, I think Blade showed up in the 90s and then then the X-Men and then that's when it started happening. But we waited years between superhero movies. Now there's one every week, you know, $200 million one, you know. Yeah, I'm like, I do love understanding the history. And it seems like you have a pretty good grasp on it. But looking at what happened to Western and seeing what's happening right now with the big superhero movies. The Western, that was all there was for a period of time. Like, TV, there was like 510 Westerns on movies. There was all these Western and all that content still available though at the Western Sea. All that was there. So the writing is on the wall. That's a genre that opened up and I think we're getting to a point. I think Logan is probably one of the best superhero genre movies ever. And what did it do? It basically took a Western and remade it, you know, which was so, and they blatantly said it and like, it worked more disachame. You know, and there's great. And it was one of the best movies I've seen this year without question. And but it's getting to a point where you have to evolve the platform. Like, there's only so much more time so you can see superhero come out and like save the day or beat because you know where it's going. You know where it's going. There's always a couple twists sometimes here. And then like, look, I'm looking forward to the Avengers. Like, I can't wait to see the new Avengers with everybody in it. It's going to be good. But after that's done, what's next? Right. You can't just add another star, add another superhero. You will, you will go down eventually. You will go down eventually. You know, I don't, like I said, I don't think it's going to happen for another 20 years. How many more Star Wars movies are we going to see? You know, I think I personally, what I would do if I was a Star Wars universe, because what are they doing right now? They're doing a, they're doing a Han Solo movie. They're going to do an Obi-Wan Kenobi movie. They're thinking about doing a BoboFat movie. I'm like, all they're doing is just rehashing the old shit. They're scared to go down a new path, which they did in their main, the main trilogy, which is great. But they're not taking risk outside yet. And that's fine. They're still early on in their universe building. As they are, you know, after Lucas, post Lucas. But I want to go to the old Republic. Like I want to go when the Force started. Can you imagine that movie? Like no characters we know. It's all about when the Force began. Like when the Jedi's were showing up for the first time. Like can you imagine a set of six movies? That could, that could cut easily cover six movies. Just that journey of like, and you can connect them to Skywalker if you want somewhere out of care. But you can connect, you know, go back 4,000 years. And that's the kind of story I would like to say. Because as brand new, it's fresh. It's something, it still hits them nostalgia, but it's completely fresh. But it's risky. And I don't think it's that big of a risk personally. How many hours of sleep do you get a day? Because I feel like you can assume a lot of content. And you're creating just a ton of stuff. And I've done an amazing, meaningful work. How much do you sleep in 8? I personally, currently, I sleep probably about five or six hours in 9. Recently, I mean, I'll go to bed at 9.30. 10's like, oh, girl, what's going on? And I've been waking up anywhere between three and five every day. Three? Yeah, I woke up three yesterday. Do you say, do you say an alarm or do you just wake up? No, I just wake up. And if I wake up, I'm like, it's a world dumb. I got a good work. Because I can't go back to sleep. Like, because the mind will start kicking. I'm like, oh, I got this, this post to do. And that's posted. And I got to work on this. I worked that. So that's where I am right now currently in my journey. And what's the routine in the morning? I wake up. I go, you know, I do my stuff. And then I go into my office. And I just start working. And I wish I was a little bit more organized. But I just go, like, whatever's on the plate. Let's go to work. And I just go, do, do, do, do. Check my stats. Check what's going in. Do, do, do, do, do, do. And let's, and let's just keep going. And that's my current mode, right? Now, because I'm in the mode of really building up any film hustle to a bigger place. So where I can produce more for me. And I can produce more for my audience. To next year, we'll be a little bit different when I start working on my, my films. Things will start probably slowing down a little bit. And, or I'll, I'll front end a bunch of stuff. That'll last me the three months that I might be off shooting. So I couldn't constantly keep going. Like, I put a tremendous amount of pressure on myself. Like, I, I have, I do a couple masterminds. I do, and if, if your audience doesn't know what masterminds you get together with, like, mind people who are in your business or industry, or sometimes not even. And you talk about your problems. You talk about what you do and you share advice, you share techniques, things like that to help you. And, you know, my, the guys that are in my mastermind, they, they all run websites and they all do similar stuff that we do. That, that, that, that I do have podcasts and things like that. And I tell them, like, yeah, I'm, I'm slack in this week. I'm, I'm just, you know, I don't like like three, three heart, four articles out this week. And they're like, too, you fucking insane. Yeah. Like, I only two podcasts this week. I really want to do three like you crazy. Dude, like, we do one every two weeks. I'm like, but that's fine. That's you. I'm, I'm just the way I am. I just want to keep going. Because the thing is with me is I know every little piece of content I put out, every podcast episode that goes out is another soldier to go out and get the word out. So now that soldier goes off into the universe and goes finds people to bring them back, to listen to the podcast to consume more content to help more people. And that's, that's what drives me, because every new article, because I see it, I see what happens. Some soldiers don't do well. Some so come back. Some, some soldiers just don't come back. But other ones do. And, and the majority of them do. And one way shape or form, even if they bring one or two people back, that's one or two people that had not been exposed to my message when I'm trying to do and trying to help people out there. So, uh, and filmmakers out there specifically. But that's what kind of drives me. So I do that. Like yesterday, I worked, woke up at three, worked until 630, took care of my kids, and I worked until six. So I probably pulled in like a 12, 13 hour day yesterday. I don't even think twice. And then I still, and I still watch TV at night. I rest. I have, you know, spent time with my family, eat dinner, take care of them, and go to bed. And so, for me, I always remember the days when I didn't have a family. When I was just alone. I used to do a lot more. Yeah. Yeah. Like 20 articles a week. You know, I did a lot more stuff. So I look at myself and like, damn, I'm slacking. Yeah. You know, but once you start building the systems in, and you start figuring things out after doing this for two years now. And, and with the, like, I told you with the podcast, like, it doesn't take me a long time to produce a podcast anymore. You told me how long it takes you to do one and go bless you. Yeah. That's why I only do one a week. Yeah. I do two a week. Sometimes three depending on what I'm doing. But the content solid, and it's not just me. I'm not throwing out garbage. I'm not, I'm not Buzzfeed. Not the Buzzfeed's bad, but they throw everything out because they're business. That's what they do. They just, they're bringing everything out. So I try to create as much great content as possible. But that is my, my morning routine. And I do want to, after, I think in October sometime, I'm going to finally start going back to the gym. And probably start trying to get more back into meditation, which is something I do. Yeah. It's doing, but I'm in such a hyper-focused mode. It's just so difficult. I want to, I want to see if that's possible. I haven't quite figured it out yet when I was editing, minimalism, and working hard core on that. And even now my schedule is so freed up that I can go to the gym. But during that time when I was just crazy work mode, it's like, I only have a certain amount of bandwidth. And my mind can one be focused on a certain amount of tasks at once. I would love to get to the point where I could go to the gym, be healthy, and meditate every day, do all these things, eat healthy, and then still execute and create amazing work. And maybe that's a possibility. But right now, it's time. Well, I'll tell you one thing that happened to me during Meg, how was it about 25 pounds heavier than I am now? And I, I just, and I was still doing a lot of stuff, like fascinating how much I was doing back then. But I decided that I had to change my diet, I had to change the way I looked at food in my life. So I decided to change it. And when I did, I lost the way my whole world changed, because now with my mind became super focused, and now I can produce more. I'm like, oh, this is what I need. So it's not an option for me not to eat healthy. I have to. I have no choice. Because if I don't eat healthy, I can't produce. If I can't produce, I can't put food on the table from my family. And I can't, at the level that I want to be at. Not at the level that other people want me to be at. But the level that I want to be at, which is at a very high level, I have to, I have to, I have to feed this engine and make this engine work as, as good as humanly possible, which is, by taking good care of, by eating it. And now the next levels are going to be getting back into the gym, and also starting to do even 10 minute meditations. Just something to start trying to focus even more. And I know I'll get much more benefit out of that as well. What's the best thing you've done? Or I guess the most impactful thing you've done to grow your audience. podcast. podcast. Yeah, podcast. How did you get people to come to the podcast to start listening? Um, I just make good shit. Just make good shit. I know it's hard like, and someone asked when Tarantino, like, how do you break into the business? Like, make reservoir dogs. That's a bad ass movie. Everyone just pissed off. Like, that's fucking genius. He's right. Make a good ass movie. You're going to get in the business. Yeah. Um, yeah, I created it. No, because there's a lot of good stuff out there that doesn't get any eyes. I've always been able to get people to look at stuff I'm doing. It's just, it's, it's, it's something and bread in me. Like, I just got it inside of me that I know how to make noise and I know how to get people to come. And then I also know how to position things to get people to come. So a perfect example is have a good friend of mine named Scott McMan who runs film trooper.com as a podcast as well. He wrote a book called, um, surviving the Hollywood implosion. Um, when he's talking about like, when Hollywood will implode and like Spielberg says the whole business is going to implode on itself. And I believe there is a sense of truth to that, but he wrote a whole book about it. So I had him on the show and he has a podcast. It's, you know, he doesn't get as many downloads as I do. And he's been doing a much longer than I have. And he's a, he's the nicest. I love, he's like one of, I love him. He's a, he's amazing. But he always was fascinated with like, how do you do everything you do? So I'm like, all right, let's, let's get you on the show. So I got him on the show and I put him on the, and this was early on, this is, I don't know, episodes in the 70s or something like that, 60 70s. And um, I positioned it in a way that I'm like, hey, learn how to survive the Hollywood implosion. What's got me, man? And that was a name of the podcast. And he went bonkers because everybody was like, what's, what's, what's Hollywood, what's going on? And when I showed it to him, I go, here are the numbers. And he's like, mother fucker. That's my, that's my title. Why have I never used it? I'm like, because your mind doesn't think that way. Yeah. You have to think in a way of of getting people in ties to, to read yourself, to listen to your stuff and then know where to go and put it. The, the trouble I have is not going too far down the Buzzfeed route. The, where it's too catchy, too, uh, click, baby, click, baby, exactly. There's a, there's a balance. Sure. There's a balance. But how do you meet that balance? Because I could see, oh, yeah, you can get to what, what hurts people. I mean, you have to create, say, a title or the name of a course that's really going to pull people in, but that also doesn't deceive them as to what they're getting. Correct. So that's the, that's the balance that I try to use where I try to have that click, baby, approach sometimes, but not as spammy, but there's something good behind it. Sure. And so that's the difference. It's marketing. You know, to get someone to click on something, but you got to have the goods when you get there, because if you don't, they go to your site. And this is just, this is something that a lot of people don't get. But I just want to get traffic. Like, no, dude, you don't want to get traffic. You need to get qualified people who really are interested in what you're saying. So if you can get them to click, you can bring them into your ecosystem, and then they could start reading all the stuff. But if you make them, look, dude, that was how I'm going to YouTube. YouTube originally, you put a thumbnail of a hot chick. And people were clicking, and then before you would rank based on clicks. And YouTube got, you know, keen to that a little bit in, because people were just gaming the system, either, we're getting, you know, because if you put a hot chick on something, someone's going to click, all these dudes are going to click on it. But it doesn't have anything that we're about to use. But yeah, so that's, but if you're able to get them to click, not deceivingly, they're, I'd never deceive anybody with my marketing tactics, if you will, I try never to, because it just hurts you at the end. At the end of the day, if you promise something and don't deliver on it, they're not going to trust you. And then I'm going to want to come back and consume anything that you're trying to create. And that might be the service to them and a disservice to yourself. So why do that? So there is that balance of getting them to click, getting them excited, but also having the goods at the end. And that's where a lot of these, these Buzzfeed kind of style sites lose themselves, you know, the no film schools of the world. And these kind of places that are all like, gear and this and that and look at this and look at this hot thing. And a lot of times there's not a lot of substance behind it. And it's just about getting traffic. So Google ads will run more. I think you get growth. It's all about getting money and I don't do that. You know, my stuff is much more organic. I could have grown much faster of doing other things. But I didn't. I decided to go down this path, which is a longer path. But I doing it. Now I have this, you know, I have almost over 500 pieces of content on the site in two years. So that's an insane amount of work. You know, and it's, and I haven't always been pumping it out at five a week or seven a week or 10 a week, whatever I do now. So, you know, I was used to do one a week or two a week or something like that. So having that much content, now I have this very, very solid foundation. But that takes time. And that's the one other thing I can say to anyone listening to the biggest piece of advice, you have to understand that anything you do will take time. There is no overnight successes. You can't have a one-year plan. You have to have a 10-year plan. And that's just the way it is. And if you don't like it, I'm sorry. It's just the way the world works. I don't want. I wish I could have just, I wish right now after I leave here, I can go down to the studio and start my $200 million epic. That's not happening. That's not the way the world works right now for me. But you can get to that point, but it will take time to build that world for yourself. And the more you build the world, the more you have to fall back on. If that makes any sense. So if you're cheating and you're cutting the lines and all this kind of stuff, trying to get, I try doing it for years, trying to hack the system at a certain point when you look back, you've got nothing to fall back on because all you've been doing is dodging and weaving. But when you have this base, this foundation that you've built up, I really have a new sense of fearlessness because of any film hustle. Because I'm like, oh, if that doesn't work, I'll just go about having any film hustle. That's my base now. That's my, that's my safety net. As weird as that sound, my podcast, my blog, my YouTube channel, those are my, those are my safety nets. So as a filmmaker, I'm fearless now. I'll just go out and do something. I don't give a shit. If it doesn't have a great look, man, I didn't make this why I didn't work. Here's a podcast on it. Here's a course on how I didn't make it. Why is it work? That's great mentality. That's just the way I look at things now. And it's opened the door for me in such a huge way. I can't even explain to you doing indie film hustle. I get connected with people who would have never in a million years. I would have never been able to get to in a million years. I think it sounds like one of the most important things you've done is to start with integrity and start with. Amazing, right? Right. So if you lose your integrity, it is really hard to get back. Come back. And you know what? It's tough. Look, you know, it's not been perfect the entire journey on underneath film hustle. You know, there's sometimes you're like, oh, just to this. Oh, just to that. And you get addicted to numbers and you want to do this, this and this, I get it. But I finally settled in a place where I'm like, this is how I'm going to do this. And this is how it's going to happen. Right, because just like there's the rat race of the 95 world, there's a rat race to the clicks and the view and the downloads killing our new system. Yeah. It's all about the clicks. It's all about getting people excited and getting them to click. And that's all it's about. But the substance has gone. So when you actually connect with someone and you don't have to have a huge audience, you know, you could have a thousand people who really love what you're doing. And you can make a very good living doing that. Yeah, I think the thousand fan world. Yeah, exactly. And just don't be greedy. Just be happy and continue with what you have. You know what, and this is another thing that people get so caught up with is like, I really don't care about being a millionaire. I don't care about, you know, making millions of billions of dollars. It doesn't interest me. What interest me is having enough money where I'm comfortable. I've provided for my family. And I have, you know, a bunch of savings that will protect us if something goes wrong. And a couple of jet skis. Yeah, just because I've never been on one of those years. You haven't experienced that. I mean, for me, it's like, you know, a lifestyle's whole. But that's just me. Yeah. I just, that's the thing. Yeah. That's the thing. But yeah, you know, but I don't, I gave up on that. And not that I don't, I wouldn't like that. And it's great. But it's not important to me. It's more important to just be financially stable. Have enough for my family. And if I'm able to do all of that and do my art and create and be an artist, that's the dream. That's the dream. The dream is not to live in the Hollywood Hills with, you know, four portions, you know, servants. And, you know, live in a mansion that has 15 rooms that you'll never get to. What's the plan of all that? Who am I talking to? You wrote, made a movie about minimalism for God's Ex. But, but, but that's not the goal for me. And I think that, that mind-chain, that mind-shift that I did years ago kind of just opened that door for me. So now opportunities are coming and now things are coming into my life that I would never had when I was just holding on to that. Like, I never look at anything I do now with, I need the money. I need, like, now the money comes, just let me enjoy the opportunity if the opportunity shows up. You know, I'm not dumb either. I mean, I'm going to negotiate a deal. I'm going to negotiate a deal. You know, financially. So, like, you know, I can get paid for my time as a director, but it's not the driving force, where a lot of creatives are driving force is money. So, when you get out of that space, and it's not easy, it's not easy when you have no, you know, you can't pay rent, you can do this, but you, you know, it's possible. That should be the target. Because when you're starting out, like you said, sometimes you just got to take the job, sometimes you just need to make the money, you're a project for the money that I did. I did that, but I'm on a different stage of my career. Yeah, I know this is your stage of my life. When I first got here 10 years ago, I worked nonstop, because I was doing everything that showed up at my door, everything. The good, the bad, the ugly. It was all in because I was just hustling, making money, got to go, got to go, got to go, got to go. Now I'm at a point in my career where I don't have to do that anymore, and that takes time to be in that place. But I've done it. I've done it a lot, you know, and you have to do it when you're starting out. You have to work for free when you start out to get in the door and start doing this and start doing that. All of that, but I'm just at a different place in my career at this point, because if you're in 30 years or not 30 years, but if you're in 20 years, and you're still doing that kind of hustle, you've got to figure some stuff out, man. You've got to start, like, okay, what am I doing wrong here? Because I shouldn't have to be working this hard. You know, what is in the mindset? And the other thing with a lot of people is that they're afraid of what will happen if they don't do it. Like, so what do you afraid of? And this is when a stoic philosophy comes into play. What are you afraid of happening to you? Like, okay, so if I don't take this job, I'm not going to have this money. Well, what, what, what, what do you live? Well, I live in this amazing place. I'm like, well, do you need to live in this amazing place? Again, I'm preaching to like, I haven't been with them. But do you need that place? What is perfect for my audience? Like, what do you, what do you really need? And what's the goal? So that mentality is what I took into Meg, and to make it in the movie. I'm like, what do I need? I need a camera. I need sound. I need that. I took it straight down to the minimal things that you need to make a movie. And that's what we did. There was no, you know, my, my actors was my slate girl and the craft service table. You know, I was camera. I was DP. I was the gaff. I had the guy holding the boom because he wasn't a sound guy because I literally just showed him how to use the recorder before he got there. I've done that. And it worked, you know, and it, because I did enough research to figure it. I taught myself. But you have to figure out what is the minimal things? Like, I'm like, I'm a hungry. Like, what's, what's the worst food that you can buy when you're broke? Like, do it to yourself. And that will teach you not to be afraid of something. So if you're afraid of like, man, if I only eat rice and beans for a month, what's going to happen to you? Give it, give it a try for two weeks. You'll live. Yeah. Put some salt pepper on there. You got yourself a stew. You know, you're good. Yeah. Will you survive? I'm not saying you're thriving in that world. Yeah. But will you live? Yeah. You will. Don't be afraid of those things. Don't be afraid of of things that you've built up in your own head. Do you need five rooms in your house? No, maybe you could just get an apartment. And now you're overheads, Laura. So now you have more freedom to do other things. This other, all this baggage you've been putting on top of here is, is doing. You know, I've gone through it myself. And to the point where now I'm like trying to downsize and we were talking about earlier for the shows, like it's hard to downsize with, and you have kids. Yeah. It's always a little bit more difficult. It's a little bit more difficult. You know, I got a twin girls. So it's a little bit, a little bit more challenging. But my wife and I have been trying to slowly pair things down, pair things down. What do we really need? And it's not easy. It's not easy. You know, we don't make it all the time. We're not perfect either. But it's at least that mentality. And so I'm not afraid of like what will happen, which was the fear of making a feature. Like what happens if it goes out there and no one likes it. I think care. You know, and I look at Ridley Scott. I'm sure you know Ridley is right. Ridley, for people in the audience who don't know Ridley Scott is, he directed Aliens, he directed Blade Runner and a million other movies that are amazing. Ridley, and I think a lot of these guys who are at that level, they just don't care. They heal. I never read reviews. I just keep going. And he's been doing it all his career because he's made some movie that I didn't like, dude, Ridley, what the hell happened. You know, you know, in my opinion, and in a lot of people's opinions, but he doesn't care. He's like, I'm just going to keep going. I want to do that movie. You know, like it. That's all right. I got the next one comment. Let's go. And that's an artist. That's someone who really understands their art, then understands themselves. And they're true to themselves. And that's what you people listen. They should do. It's like, just don't care about the world so much. You know, if you're making a movie for money, which we all have to make money, try to make something that makes sense. If it doesn't work, figure out what didn't work, and go do it, do something different. But if you're going to take risk, do it on a low budget. You know, if someone gave me a half a million dollars to make Meg, would not have been so chilled. Yeah, I would have said no. I'm not going to go make a movie for half a million dollars with Meg that doesn't make any financial sense. You know, why am I going to go, you know, gold plate my Prius and try to sell it for $400,000. Probably not going to be sold. That's the business that we're in, such a weird business, too. You create a product. You even know what you can sell the product for. Where are the only business in the world that creates products? We have no suggested manufacturer retail price. Yeah. We don't. You have no idea what you're going to get back from it. It's the craziest business. You know, you get these pair of glasses. I make these glasses for five cents. I sell it for ten. There's our profit with films. You can kind of, oh, I've put this star in her, this genre and I know where to sell. But it's like a crapshoot a lot of. Most of the times it's a crapshoot. What do you say? We get to quick questions and go find out up this episode. Absolutely, bro. All right. So what's the simplest advice that's the most important to follow? Patience. Patience. Patience. Patience. Patience. The biggest thing I've ever had to deal with is understanding patience. You're always in a hurry to get to where you're going or what you're trying to achieve. But again, if you enjoy that ride, life is so much easier, man. It just becomes so, so much easier. Just talking about Ridley Scott and criticism. If you do look at your critics and what people say about the work you do, how do you deal with it? Well, when I, the first example of first exposed to that criticism was when I did broke in my first short film, which was everywhere online. And we had nothing but good reviews for the first like 60 reviews. And then afterwards, I got Roger Ebert to give me a review. I met him at a Toronto Film Festival. That's a whole other story. But he walked our little short film and gave us, he was subplaz, and he was such a wonderful man. And he gave us a good review. Afterwards, the haters came out like full blown. Like, this isn't all that. This is crap. And then at the time, I was a young kid. I was 30. And I would literally go after every one of them. Like, I would go back, you don't want to fuck you. And I would like literally try to, and I did that. I was exhausting. The exhausting. So at a certain point, look, nobody wants to hear that someone doesn't like your work. We're artists. We want everyone to love our work. But at the end of the day, especially when you're at the levels of a really Scott or any of that. But even at our level of indie films, it's got to keep going, man. You can't, you know, I've had bad reviews on Mac. You know, with like, hi, man. Keep going. You know, listen to it. If there's difference between constructive criticism and just straight up haters. And there's a lot of haters out there. I did a whole episode on haters. Like, what to do when people hate on you. Sometimes it can be funny. Because sometimes they make no fucking sense at all. No. And then, and then it's so easy to get them wild up. And I try don't do that anymore. But I'd be like, you know, oh, how are you doing in your mom's basement? You know, things like that. But I decide don't do that anymore. It's fun. Yeah. But it doesn't, it doesn't create anything positive. It's a little distracting, too. Yeah, it just doesn't create anything positive in your life. And I just like, you know, what if that's your opinion, it's all it is. It's your opinion. You cannot make everyone happy. So just, just kind of block it out. You're going, if it's the first time you're going through it, it's going to be painful. Don't read them. Just try to just keep moving forward as much as you can. And on a side note, real quick, if you only focus your energy on one project and then live with that project for three years, you're going to drive yourself mad. Keep working. Keep making new stuff. Don't just sit around waiting. Oh, God, I gotta keep going with this project. No, don't just give it a lot of time and move on. Where do you go when you're feeling doubt? The movie theater. I go to the movie theater. It's my church. You know, I'll go to I'll go watch and move on myself. I don't do it. I often, but that's where I generally go. Like if I'm in fun and real despair or on a place where I'm just not at home for me, it's where I've always you go by yourself. Yeah, you don't go by myself. Yeah, that's a me. I've done it a few times. Yeah, because I don't do it often where I go to the movies period, but just going by yourself to the movies is like you said, yeah, it is a nice meditative experience. You don't have to worry about what if your partner likes it. No, you kids like it. I'm there and I'm just me and the artist who put that on the screen for me. And that's it. And I usually bring my popcorn because it's ridiculous at the theaters. Oh, it's crazy. It tastes so good. What one skill should everyone learn? Persistence. You have to persist. Don't resist persist. And you got to keep going no matter what happens. And I'll quote the the great Rocky Balboa who says, it's not about how hard you get hit. It's about how hard you get hit and keep moving forward. And it's absolutely true. It's like one of the best speeches I've ever seen on film. That one, like it's like a 90 second speech to a son or two minutes speech to a son. You're just like, amazing. Yeah, that totally watched it on an airplane and cry. No, it's like a me. That movie's great Rocky Balboa. Yeah, that was a good movie. It's had no business being a good movie. Yeah, it had no business being a good movie. It was like, oh my god, slide dude. What the hell? Yeah, it's amazing. But yeah, but just but just creating that just being persistent. And and if you don't have that skill, you won't make it in this business or any business. Honestly, or in life, if you if you just fold the second something happens to you or you fold when adversity hits you, you're done. You just then you won't move. And then you're just going to sit there lumping along angry writing hate mail. That's great. All right, a wrap things up. Two questions. Yeah. First, name one thing people should read, watch or listen to before they go to bed tonight. The alchemist by Pablo Guello. It's one of those amazing books that it's about following the dreams. And it's one of those books that changed my life. And also also just changed the world in a lot of ways. A good book can do that in a way that good cinema or good art or anything can do. And how should people connect with you online? Pretty much everywhere, as you can imagine, but indiefilmhustle.com, Twitter is at any filmhustle, Facebook is at any filmhustle. Instagram is at I filmhustle. There's mean Instagram had an issue. A disagreement, so it's I filmhustle. And then my personal directing side is at atzatalletsforart.com. Awesome. And thanks for taking the time today. Hey, brother, thank you, man. It had a great time. All right. Thanks for listening to The Ground Up Show. If you like this podcast, there's something you can do right now to help. Head on over to iTunes and leave a quick review. I print out every single one and I put them up on my mood board above my bed. Okay, that's not true. But I still notice and appreciate everyone. For more on The Ground Up Show, including behind the scenes videos, check out groundupshow.com. Thanks for listening.
