# Simple Ways to Declutter Your Phone
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JibWFxwOqAs
Get exclusive content:  http://patreon.com/mattdavella
My essential gear... https://kit.com/mattdavella

The Kit link above is a collection of affiliate links. I've only recommended products that I use & fully endorse.

I break down the steps I've taken to be more intentional with my phone use. From hiding distracting (but essential) apps to deleting email periodically and even putting a black & white filter on my phone, I've tried about everything possible to stop myself from compulsively using my phone.

Special thanks to my voice over actors!
Joe Nation: http://twitter.com/joenationtv
Joshua Fields Millburn: http://twitter.com/jfm
Ryan Nicodemus: http://twitter.com/ryannicodemus

New videos every week! New podcast every Wednesday!

More from me:  http://mattdavella.com
Instagram:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella/
Subscribe:  https://goo.gl/nzS5ri
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella/
**Keywords:** digital clutter, digital, phone, iphone, clutter, email, compulsive, twitch, addiction, phone addition, intentional, minimalism, simple living, mindfulness, 
**Date:** 2018-03-02

## Transcript
 Hi, my name is Matt Dihevella. I directed the documentary Minimalism and I'd like to show you a few ways that I organize my phone So I am intentional with how I use it So first Apple has this clever feature called raised to wake whenever it senses that you lift up your phone It will turn the screen on automatically. I turn that off. If it's glowing or shiny I'm likely to get distracted by it Okay, so let's look inside my phone. I keep my most useful apps on The home page here fresh books is for business and uploading receipts overcast is my podcast app This app on the dock here is called to do it's how I organize important tasks for my business and personal life This is just a grocery list for later So I rarely keep email my phone whenever I need remote access for work all at it But then once I'm finished up, I'll delete it The second page are for apps that I use occasionally. These are apps for film and travel This is an alarm clock created by Dwayne the Rock Johnson and it's the greatest thing ever made Let me show you what I'm talking about here. I'll play one of the alarms B-B-B-B-B-B-B-B-I can do this all morning Besides text and calls, I don't allow notification like these from any apps that was my friend Joe Looks like we had one too many Corona's last night and let's see here the third page is where I hide apps That I'm really trying to avoid Instagram and Google Chrome tended to distract me a lot So I nest them under a folder called don't touch. I try to follow that advice though I fail often when I really need to focus I will put a black and white filter on my phone It's surprisingly effective at reducing the time. I spend on it So you can see the difference here Instagram and other apps just aren't as enticing I've created a quick shortcut for my phone three clicks to toggle the black and white filter on and off Chrome is my go to web browser when I need to use the internet Yeah, let me just do Yeah So yeah, I deleted Facebook and Twitter from my phone because I found myself Constantly using them constantly distracted by them if I think of something that I want to share on those platforms I will write it down to my notes to post later. The last thing I did was delete my widgets and Siri suggested apps. They are normally found right here and right here But I found that the leading them has a Oh, hey, look, it's my good friend Joe Korn. Hey, Joe. Can I call you? Looks like that was the wrong number. Yeah, so those are a few ways that I keep my phone use intentional I guess, but I'm trying to say is it's really all about setting priorities And keeping things simple keep things simple Okay Thanks for watching Subscribe to this channel for new videos every week Do you want to see behind the scenes content from this video as well as others that I make on the channel? Well, then head over to my Instagram. It's at Matt Diavella Do you have some spare time on your hands? Maybe you just got locked up. Maybe you're in jail. Well, if you are I've got a really great podcast for you It's called the ground up show. I interview reporters Comedians rappers and entrepreneurs about their journeys and how they got things started go to groundupshow.com for the podcast No, what to be honest? I feel like it'd be really weird if I didn't show you guys how I did all this on my phone So let's just hop into the settings real quick to turn off raise to wake click settings Display and brightness And then uncheck raise to wake To set your phone to black and white click on settings General Accessibility display accommodations color filters and it should be checked by default But you want to just make sure gray scale is clicked I don't use it all the time because I don't know that's just kind of weird and depressing to have a black and white phone But for those moments when I really want to make sure that I'm focused and I'm not getting distracted with with some of these apps I will turn this on It's a clear series suggested apps from your search go to settings Siri and search And uncheck suggestions in search so I personally clear these away because as you saw earlier I hide the apps that I really shouldn't be on the ones that are distracting me deep into my phone But these apps will become suggested as I use them more and they will peer on that top bar and it's such a quick shortcut to just swipe down click So to resist that temptation because my brain would Default to going to click those things without even me having any control over it I now just make sure they're not there to begin with To clear your widgets to the left swipe to the bottom Hit edit and then you can delete whichever of these widgets that you'd like and you can you can also keep this podcast app here to have a quick short cut to the ground up shell That's just one suggestion, but I mean, you know you I'm sure you know what's best for your phone, but you should probably download it
