# The most overlooked way to be more productive
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JU4leSqbvDA
For a limited time get 2 months of Skillshare Premium for free by going to https://skl.sh/mattdavella7. Huge thanks to Skillshare for sponsoring this video and for matching $10,000 for a great cause!

In this video I talk about one of the most overlooked ways to increase productivity. It's not a task manager, calendar app or one of the many creative tricks that help you stay focused. It's about finding balance in a world that often discourages rest. I talk about three ways to set boundaries in your life and one of my new favorite activities: The Deep Break.

🙊 Things I mention in this video:
Support Black Lives: https://https://blacklivesmatter.com/
Support Aboriginal Lives: https://justice.org.au/

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** productivity, productive, rest, long term productivity, burn out, work life balance, taking breaks, how to be more productive, how to be productive, how to be more productive and motivated, how to become productive again, be more productive, how to be more effective, 
**Date:** 2020-06-23

## Transcript
 When it comes to productivity, we spend so much time focused on the work. It's about managing tasks, striking through two-do lists, organizing our calendars, sending emails, and shipping projects. Once we dial in our work habits and catch some momentum, all we want to do is ride that wave as long as we possibly can. So we work longer hours, cram as much as we can into our days, and continue to drive towards our goals. The problem with that approach is that if left unchecked, we will continue to work well beyond the point of what's good for us. We become oblivious to the damage that we're doing to our mental health and our own well being, and eventually to our long-term productivity. If we truly want to be productive for years on end and not just for short blips at a time, it requires finding balance. Quite simply, you have the self-awareness to slow down, or you eventually completely burn out. Think about it in terms of a video game. We're all characters. Each of us with our own strengths and weaknesses, our own unique skills, traits, and idiosyncrasies. As you go through your day, you use up your energy on tasks like studying, checking email, and taking up the garbage. Some of these tasks are more draining than ours. There are certain ways that you can boost your energy during the day, but as the sun begins to set, and you work past eight, nine, or ten hours, your energy levels eventually tap out. At that point, there's no amount of coffee that will keep you going. The only thing that will restore your energy is rest. That's simple enough, but when you stretch out this process for days, and then for weeks, when you pack each day with as much as you possibly can, focusing on increasing your productivity, above all else. When you ignore proper rest, then you will fail to replenish your entire energy reserves. Just like a battery that loses its full charge, over time you will only reach say 80, 90% of your potential energy. And the more you grind yourself down, the lower that threshold becomes. Now, I don't think that there's anything wrong with pushing yourself really, really hard. I know that I often do that with my own work. There's this advice that I got from my friend and director Cole Walliser, he said, sometimes you have to push yourself across the line to find out where it is. And I find that to be so true. But if you continue to push yourself across the line time and time again, over and over again, then you're an idiot. And don't feel bad because I certainly put myself in that category. I've made that mistake so many times until I realized that I needed to start taking rest just as seriously in my productivity as anything else. As my friends at Wandering Aimfully summed it up, a day jam packed with tasks can be just as productive as a day of rest. When it comes to incorporating rest into your life, I found that you need to be really proactive and thoughtful about how you do it. And when you think about it, there are really only three ways that we can accomplish this. Create boundaries for your days, for your weeks, and for your months. When it comes to your daily boundaries, you might set restrictions on what time you begin and work each day. Yes, you could continue to work till midnight, night, after night, but that will eventually catch up with you. When you accept that there's only so much you can do in a day, and you understand that real progress takes time, you can begin to bring balance into your days. For weekly boundaries, it's really important to respect the weekend. It's so easy to tell yourself, I'm just going to do a little bit of writing on Saturday. I'm just going to check a few emails on Sunday night. But eventually, that will turn into a seven-day work week. There's no quicker way to burn out and no quicker way to ruin your passion, than by not giving yourself the proper time to recharge each week. And finally, you can set monthly boundaries. Look at how you can create boundaries and incorporate extended rest on a monthly or by monthly basis. This is one of the most overlooked because it's not naturally baked into our typical routines. Most of us work nine to five during the day and have weekends off. Not many of us take the time to truly take a step back from our lives and reset. Count Newport's 2016 book, Deep Work, made the compelling case that the most valuable skill in our economy is how deep, undistracted work will allow you to gain focus and get more done. To piggyback along with the title of Cow's book, I think there's something else that many of us miss, especially those of us deeply entrenched in the productivity world. And that's something that I started calling a deep break. So similar to Cow Newport's deep work, instead of doing that work, you're getting away in escaping for at least four days to a remote location to detach from everything, from work, from your life, from your problems, and your troubles. This is at the kind of break that includes jumping off boats, form wheeling through the woods, nonstop travel plans, and chasing waterfalls. Ever Pete, don't go chasing waterfalls. Now this year, more than any other year in the past, I've realized just how important these deep breaks are because for one, at the beginning of the year, we just couldn't take any breaks because travel was restricted, we had to stay at home, and also because with that, with staying at home all the time, with trying to distract myself, from everything that's been going on, I just poured myself into my work, and I worked harder than ever before. And without that deep break, again, you're either going to have that self-awareness to slow down, or you're going to face burnout. And so once the restrictions started to light up, I knew that Nat and I needed to take a break, and that's exactly what we did. And whenever we go on these breaks, we have some rules that we set for ourselves to make sure that we truly do detach. The first rule is get away from your home, office, and city. I've lived between Philadelphia, New York City, and Los Angeles for the better part of the past 12 years. I love living in cities, but I also often feel deprived of nature. So getting out of the city and away from the nonstop business within it helps to calm my nervous system. The second rule is to limit your screen time. Apart from podcasts and my Kindle, I do not use any other screens while I'm away. When it comes to the content, I don't like to listen or read about current events. With my most recent trip, I stuck to reading nonfiction books and listening to history podcasts. And the third rule, keep your work at home. Your ego tricks you into the importance of your work, and it makes you feel like you're going to miss out on something. Like you need to continue to work or eventually you'll fall back into those old patterns of being lazy, procrastinating, and not doing anything, which is truly terrifying for somebody who used to struggle so much with getting to work. With these trips, your job is to shut it down and do absolutely nothing. So having just got back from one of these trips just a couple of days ago, I can confirm that it is truly so helpful to get away from everything. And for so many reasons, I found that it allows me to get perspective. It allows me to step back from, you know, you've got these blinders on when you're working sometimes and you're so focused on these small, mundane tasks. Just that date, like for me, it's like the daily editing, the daily writing. It's the emails. It's all these things that we feel like we have to do. When you step back, you get perspective. You realize what's actually truly important. And what are the really big things that you need to be focusing on, the things that are working, the things that are not working. Really, I found myself coming back to work this week with so much more clarity and focus. And I definitely wouldn't have had that. I feel so much more recharge. I feel like my battery to go back to that video game metaphor. I feel like my battery is fully charged up. And I'm just as excited, more excited about my work than I have been in months. In truth, none of us are perfect. And I certainly break many of these rules, whether it's my daily, weekly, or monthly boundaries that I set for myself. But when you continue to stay in tune with yourself, when you have that self-awareness, when you know when to hit the breaks, you'll be able to increase your productivity more than you realize. And also, in my experience, you'll enjoy your work and hell of a lot more. So while it's true that we've all got our own strengths and weaknesses, it's also true that we can build upon our skills and learn new ones. That's where my sponsor for this week comes in, Skillshare. You're only as good as the skills that you invest your time and energy into mastering, and Skillshare has loads of classes to get you up to speed. In fact, my friend and the author of Essentialism Greg McHughin just released a class called Simple Productivity. How do we accomplish more with less? One of the things that makes uncommitting haunt for people is the sunk cost bias. Get this class and tons of others on productivity, creativity, and more. For a limited time, use the link in the description to sign up for a two-month free trial of a Skillshare premium membership. After that, it's really affordable with an annual subscription of less than $10 a month. So last week, Nat and I committed to matching up to $10,000 worth of your donations to black and indigenous charities, and you came through in an absolutely huge way raising over $17,193, which is absolutely insane. But wait, cut the music. Because when you add your $17,193, plus our $10,000 match, that brings us to a total of $27,193. Which is amazing, but cut the music because I've got one more add-on. I reached out to my sponsor for this week's video, Skillshare, and I asked them if they would also be willing to match the $10,000. And they said, drum roll, please. Yes. So now we have a total of $37,193 raised for two amazing charities. It really means so much to me. Thank you everybody who contributed. Thank you Skillshare for matching and having our back. And thank you to everybody who contributed in other ways besides money. It really means the world to me. I also want to take this moment to give a special shout out to some of the most generous contributions that came in. There were over 283 hundred contributions in total, and a few of them were just super, super generous. I had Zlay in Georgia who donated $1200, $10,000, $10,000, $1100, Lauren Wagstaff came in at $800 between the two charities. Should be shot $500, Mike Demozo $500, and Kalina Loman also contributed $500. This is just crazy the amount of money that you guys put up for a really great cause. Again, it really means so much to me. Whether you donated $25 or $2,500, it really just goes a long way. And it also just makes me really proud to be a part of this community here on YouTube. So thank you.
