# Ground Up 062 - The Process w/ Colin & Samir
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jzfrYaJslYU
Colin & Samir Make Awesome Videos:  http://youtube.com/colinandsamir
The Ground Up Show:  http://groundupshow.com

Colin & Samir are filmmakers & content creators that have a YouTube channel called Colin & Samir. On this episode we talk about how to deal with pressure, maintaining ownership & productivity vs business. Enjoy!

New videos every week! New podcast every Wednesday!

Subscribe:  https://goo.gl/nzS5ri
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com
Instagram:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella/
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella/

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** 
**Date:** 2018-05-30

## Transcript
 You have to stay calm through the moments when you need to solve problems because it's the only way you're going to find a solution The only thing we could guarantee was that there would be some sort of conflict That was the only thing we could guarantee with every production with with every there's the only thing we could guarantee So then when you start to realize that that's for sure going to happen You can relax a little bit because you're not surprised by it and we can actually grow from that Welcome back to the ground up show. Thank you guys so much for being here This podcast is a good one. It's really good. That was Colin and some mere Colin and some mere are YouTubers slash entrepreneurs slash online creators Incredibly creative individuals that are producing really high value content really thoughtful content I first found out about them about three months ago when one of you guys One of the listeners to the show said hey, you got to check these guys out You should have them on the podcast. They happened to be in L.A. So we linked up it turns out that they had been They had seen some of the content I made as well. So it was really cool to just catch up and to have this mutual conversation about content creation What it takes to create at a high level what it takes to create consistent content We talk about dealing with pressure how to stay calm when you're dealing with these Spontaneous mistakes and errors that pop up while we we produce videos We also talk about bootstrapping things early on to maintain ownership So why it's really important to not take outside funding or Why you should be very thoughtful about the partnerships that you enter into and We also talk about the difference between being productive and being busy. It's a long podcast This one is over two hours long. This is the first Two plus hour podcast before we get to the show If you guys want to support the show support the podcast to keep things going You can do a couple things to help primarily head over to iTunes and leave a quick review That helps promote the visibility of the show It makes sure that more people can see it it ranks higher on the iTunes chart So all those reviews have been helpful. Thank you to everybody who's done it so far and the other one would be just to share your favorite episode with Family or friend or Stranger. I don't know. I don't know. I kept going there But yeah, share it with us stranger just message random people online. Don't spam people don't do that. That's a terrible idea But yeah, so anyway, let's just get to the podcast. I hope you guys enjoy this one. This is Colin and Samir You're listening to the ground up show a podcast that inspires creatives to make meaningful content and pursue their passion My name is Matthew Vella and I'm a filmmaker best known for the Netflix documentary minimalism And I'm sitting down with creators to talk about their process the lessons they've learned and how to make an impact How do you guys feel in good feel good? Real life caffeinated Caffeinated you guys just chat this is the first time anybody's chug to cup a coffee before Really excited to take a down like a shot. That's like when you like You bring a friend out that doesn't drink a lot of like say whiskey. You're like, all right This is a $200 bottle of whiskey, and then we just Let's so how was the coffee was it up to you guys have high standards Very high standards. Yeah, they get higher and higher the more we go on. Yeah, I mean, we were talking about in the car If the coffee was bad, we were just gonna walk out The ball right on the cost. It's a good plan. I think that would I actually have thought about that Like what happens if a guest walks out because I've had at least one podcast where the conversation When I don't I don't want to say off the rails, but let's just say we weren't seeing eye to eye on a lot of things And it got kind of tense. I think I was being very polite throughout the conversation and then 40 minutes in I was like, you know what I got. I don't I think I'm just gonna tell him that I just completely disagree or Sort of push back and be devil's advocate and then it really stopped the podcast pretty quickly like wow Each answer started to be like one word answer from him and I'm like So I was like wondering I was like well, what if that happens like if that happens it within 10 minutes of a conversation and then they just storm out Maybe I should just like continue the podcast without them and just yeah, but it also make it would make for a good video to Oh my god. Yeah, that would actually be good. And then it would just be like 45 minutes of me just seeing I was actually thinking about that today because I was thinking like there we you know We both feel like we know each other because we watch each other's videos But like we don't actually know each other so yeah coming into like a podcast like this. It's kind of an interesting Concept that we just don't know each other, but we're gonna create together today and like have this conversation that we're betting on Right, right? Well, well, I feel like you can get a pretty good feel and a vibe from somebody Especially I think in the kind of format of content that we create a first of all video Right, it's so personal and then like the vlogging style is just very like kind of intimate and raw and like you show a lot of Moments that aren't necessarily polished and the same thing with like a long form podcast where you can't fake it for an hour every week You know eventually you're gonna have to you're gonna have to default to yourself or it's just gonna be really for us and uncomfortable You got you guys do a lot of like well, you know what I this always happens. This always happens The conversation just starts running and I will have given you guys a proper intro before the podcast But why don't you guys give me your own brief introductions Cool, my name is Samir. I am born and raised here in Los Angeles Been creating content with Colin for about six years now Started a company in 2012 called the lacrosse network which was a online sports media destination for the sport of lacrosse Met Colin through that project We had some success with that built that over a couple of years And now we're based in downtown LA and we make videos together every day Yeah, I feel like Samir covered a good part of my story there, but yeah, I mean, I'm not born and raised in California I'm born in New Jersey and I went to school in Colorado picked up a camera after college Started filming and editing teaching myself and it was during that time that Samir saw one of my videos reached out to me and I ended up working with him I think it would be fun to you know what we'll tell you story and kind of go more into detail about how you guys started to build this thing But I want to talk a little bit about like YouTube and because you guys have been creating on YouTube for a while We all grew up when YouTube was just being created probably like I don't even know like around high school time Yeah, so how do you see YouTube today like how is it evolved and where do you think it's going? Man, I mean Where YouTube was when we first started creating content just to tell a brief story So I went to school in northern California at UC Santa Cruz and I studied film there and All I wanted to do is move back to LA go into Hollywood and be in the movie business That's all I wanted to do and there was a guy that I met in northern California Who worked at YouTube and he was telling me all about what YouTube was doing and how it was like more premium content and Telling me that I should take videos to YouTube and the only thing I could think about was like man YouTube is for cat videos that is nothing to do with the type of filmmaking I want to make and Over time my eyes got really opened through him showing me what was happening on YouTube and just realizing that people were using it as like a Like an actual distribution platform I ended up coming back here and working in Hollywood for a bit as an editor and I was sitting in this room in this dark room and we were editing this movie and Every day I was like man when is this thing going to be done when is this going to come out? And I asked the head editor and he was like, you know, maybe like nine 18 months And I was like that is too long that is crazy and it made me think a lot more about YouTube and think man I feel like I could have an idea in the morning shooting in the afternoon and put it out And so it's it's kind of a long way of saying like that was my pathway to realizing that YouTube was a viable option for content And that the way the world is evolving is is so much more for speed and so much more for feedback Like putting something out getting feedback and refining it So I would say today what YouTube is is this amazing platform where you can actually create bring ideas to life and bring an audience along Through that process and evolve over time You know one of the most amazing things I think to do is to find a YouTube channel and then press the button to go to the oldest video Yeah The first video and like that's not a thing that really existed before in content or in filmmaking was you know You don't you don't go see a Scorsese movie and then be able to say wait. What was his first movie? Right and so you get to be a part of the process the creation process. So I think You know where it's going is probably a little bit deeper in that direction of You know being able to be a part of the content creation process be a part of your favorite brands Connected with people on a much deeper level and break down a wall that you still exist I think that's such like an intrinsic part of social media in general and what makes it different than Hollywood is that You do get to change over time as an artist but also as a consumer of that content You're there like some you're said to see the artist evolve like you see always see people who are like I was there from before 5k subs and yeah, this whole idea of like public reiteration Right, it's just part of the platform like as an audience member as a fan You know that the person you're watching is going to change and you're there for that Yeah, and I think that's one of the most valuable things like you said was that you can go back and look at people when they first started And that was so encouraging for me before I started the podcast because I was like all right Well, let me look at like Joe Rogan like when he first started out and like if you look at some of his early stuff It's like super humbling. It's just him on like a live cast smoking weed and talking With his buddies and like the first maybe 20 30 episodes are like that where there's it's not super cohesive And there's not much structure around it But then to be able to see somebody evolve over time. I think that's probably You know if you're able to see the old score sazy films or Spielberg or whatever Like if you saw their college films you probably like oh, this is pretty shit like there's potential there There's something there's a place where it could go But I think it's super encouraging it just makes it so much more accessible and relatable Which I think is like the you know, it's what creates the connection and it's what makes any story good is through like the Relatability of the character. Can I see myself in this and I think when you open up that wall on YouTube and you create a lot And you bring people in the process then you know, you're you're creating that connection with the audience And that's really special. Yeah, and you said the one thing you were saying like speed so important I think like the only other thing that's important is quality and it's that the balance between those two of speed and quality It's like how quick can you put it out and how good is it going to be because there's probably a time when you're putting that stuff too quick When you're not thinking about it enough But then there could be something you know that other other side of the dilemma where you're spending three months to put out a video Yeah, I think though the idea of quality for us changed over time like Growing on YouTube specifically you understand that quality has everything to do with how valuable that content is To the audience not necessarily like the production value or the quality of the camera Like we in the early days of our first YouTube channel one of our highest Viewership videos was shot with an iPhone and I think that put a lot of things into perspective for us about what quality meant on YouTube Especially because we sunk money into cameras, right? And we we had thought when we were like mapping out. Okay. How does this how does YouTube work? This is in 2012. Okay. We need we need it's gonna cost us X amount to make a video So we're betting on the fact that ad sense will you know bring in a couple thousand bucks for video And then you start to realize we had a meeting with a guy actually at YouTube and I was explaining this to him And he was like, wait wait wait wait It should cost you zero dollars to make a video like you there should be no production budget here like just Create with what you have and it will build over time and that was like really eye opening for me It was like oh wow. Yeah, okay Throw like the budgets out the window right now when we're building on YouTube It's like what do we have in front of us and how can we create and tell a story that connects to an audience With what we have Do you think people are getting to call it up with the the quality game because it's you know If you look at any of our comments sections a lot of it's like what camera to use how are you editing like A lot of stuff related to the visual what's what did how did you color grade it, right? I think it depends if your audience finds that valuable that it is important and there are a lot of Audience there's a lot of people on YouTube now who do find that valuable and I think it's great It's making the content better across the board in my opinion on YouTube. It's getting so premium I mean look at your content right like I think your content is like It's for me it feels like the intersection between speed and quality because you're getting out a lot of content in a week But it's like it's it's such a Premium look in aesthetic it's all really well branded, but more importantly is it's like it's so Bingeable because of the aesthetic because it's like consistent across the board and so I think like as Creators are thinking about getting into this and being like okay I want to become a creator the first step is to create with what you have it's not reliant on the gear right It's not like oh man Matt uses a seven so I need I need to buy on a seven It's like okay first can I can I can I tell a story that connects with people and then Can I build on that and as you make it a more like viable thing? It's like okay, I'm gonna become a professional creator Then you start investing in the gear and start investing in that direction. Yeah, absolutely and that was I mean if you look at either of our channels The the first videos are actually pretty good like the quality of them are are pretty high But that's because people haven't seen the five to ten years previously when we got our first cameras And we really started making like you didn't actually see the first video we ever made Yeah, I mean the first video we ever made is on the lacrosse network. It still exists and it's just with a Macbook and Samir I think points to me to speak and I just kind of like smile give like a thumbs up I'm just so awkward and confused as to like how to carry myself on camera And it's amazing that like that still exists and is on the internet So we made a video called life through our lenses to kind of show the the progress and the and the process of this whole creation Right and like for me my first camera was this VHS camera that was just laying around my house. It was like my parents camera And I use that and then as time went on and we had more, you know cameras and whatnot We were using different things and we made this video to show that like Truly our first video we ever made was shot on a Macbook and we probably spent a year Shooting content on a Macbook We had other cameras, but it was just that's the way we thought it made sense to talk to our audience was put up a Macbook and just speak directly to that lens I think what's interesting about you guys is that Samir you went to school for filmmaking calling you did not go to school for a filmmaking Like so let's take a step back and and kind of how we got there how you guys ended up meeting Where do you guys want to start the story where should we begin? So it all started here in Santa Monica 1989 Not doing that Like a little like voice over music So yeah, I guess I mean we could start the story probably in in film school I mean I went to High school here in LA and one thing that calling it I connect on a lot is like the industry, right? He's he's from New Jersey so when I grew up in LA all of my friends all their parents were in the entertainment industry I was surrounded by it. That's like that's the thing that I Just knew that was like the thing I wanted to do it was like I'm from LA. I want to be in the entertainment industry wildly different than New Jersey Wow, yeah, I know yeah, we we know that New Jersey come up Of course What's what's what's the New Jersey equivalent? I mean it's like I think where I'm from it's like There were a lot of people went to finance and worked in New York City yeah, or pharmaceutical I know a lot of pharmaceuticals a lot of big pharmaceutical companies in Jersey So that's like a really big difference between us which is interesting and probably why I decided You know, I studied film in high school and I wanted to go to college and study film That's like just from a young age. That was the industry. That's what I wanted to get into So when I went to college that the common thing about us even though we had different upbringings was that we both grew up playing lacrosse And so we had this like Cominality in in the sport we played and the community we were a part of so I went to film school at UC Santa careers And I also played lacrosse and I was just like a part of this community and also making films and really interested in Creativity and I was I was coaching lacrosse as well in college and something that was really interesting is I thought there was such a big difference between the sport that I And that the community I was a part of and and all their sports and it was like it was not very widely recognized it was not You know a big sport not a lot of people played it was like just Something that didn't really exist in the media or just you know in In sports like it just wasn't very recognized so I thought you know what's the biggest difference as I was studying film It was like for me it was the media It was like there's not much content around this sport and that's not allowing the sport to grow It's not allowing people like me who grew up in LA playing the sport to connect to a broader community And I think if people could connect to the the greater community at large of people who are playing the sport Then they would feel more connected and probably share the sport more in the sport could grow and You know, I just thought it was a it was something that could happen in a way that I could use my You know passion for filmmaking and the passion for the community and and pair them together So after college came back here worked worked in Hollywood and then you know Has time went on and I was I was more guy damn it. All right I think it's the funny it's because you were trying not to let it happen I'm gonna put it over there It's all good so you know long story shorts there was a moment where it was like all I think I could I could I could create something quicker and and more meaningful and something that I'm really passionate about Rather than you know work on on this movie here in the studio so I decided to start something on YouTube called the lacrosse network and I had a friend here in LA who I brought the idea to and I was like I think I think I think we should work on this He did not play lacrosse which was I think really Crucial and beneficial for us and we essentially put a six foot folding table down in my bedroom of my parents house And I was like this is our office now and We had laptops and we went out and we bought one camera. We put all the money towards one camera Which was like a Sony XF105 and we had one camera and we were like all right We are now in that work and Essentially we started creating content like whatever we could create here in LA so it was like High school game we were going to shoot highlights of high school games and all kinds of different like random things And we got into live streaming and around that time is when we saw something online Which was a a trailer for a web series called club ball and it was about the Colorado lacrosse team Which was a club team and the trailer was like this incredible story telling with this guy like doing his voice over and like Bringing us through this personal journey of like this team and it felt like an MTV show was branded really well The music was good and and that show was was made by Colin that was the trailer that ever sounds made by Guy was me Do you like that suspense? Yeah, that was really good. It was good suspense. Where's this guy? Brought it all together. There we go Enter Colin. Enter me. Yeah. Okay, so I'm at University of Colorado. I play lacrosse there. I'm an Economics and Italian major and after I graduate I think the best thing I did was give myself the time in the space To figure out what I didn't want to do so I wasn't that interested in economics Italian I loved but I wasn't going back to Italy any time soon probably wasn't proficient enough to speak As like a teacher or something like that so I got a job after I graduated in Boulder at a hotel 40 hours a week just at the front desk reading people checking them in and it was during this time that I understood that no matter what I did I wanted to do something On my own I wanted to be an entrepreneur but I also knew that I would need to acquire some skills to do a lot of the Things myself so that meant like putting up the website taking the photography Taking the photography or doing video and things of that sort So the first two purchases I made after I graduated were a Canon 60D off-cries list and a cracked version of the Adobe Creative Suite And so I just wanted to learn how to make videos and how to do Photoshop and be creative And the first story that I knew I had the most access to was the Colorado LaCrosse team because I had played there I knew I had a lot of trust in the coach and I knew he was a really good character So after work I just started filming and editing and Following the Colorado LaCrosse team and I was really inspired at the time by what was happening in like action sports Which was scheduled serialized like really well branded web series and I think primarily they were all in Vimeo at the time But they were super personality based and A lot of times it was like one person telling their story and I took a lot of inspiration from that and Decided to start this web series called club ball which in the trailer. I you know Introduce myself and tell you why I'm the right person to be telling you this story Sort of set up the context and say like now get ready to follow along Week by week and after I put out the trailer I got an email I think the next day from Samir. Oh wow. Yeah, so you could you just happen to be watching the same kind of videos online Just looking at lacrosse videos and then yeah, I mean for me like when you're launching something Anything my my strategy was like all right I know this audience because I am this audience so Where does this audience hang out online and wherever the audience was hanging out at that Stage the early stages of starting this company. I was living and breathing in those communities in those areas So online blogs You know different creators that I was finding and again this is before Instagram before Video was really uploaded to Facebook. Yeah, what year was this this was 2012 Yeah, 2012 so so so I just I think I found it through a blog and these were like really small blogs Probably blogs with a couple hundred readers, but those were the super fans Right anyone who was creating content for those blogs. They were super fans So building relationships with those blogs and just living in those like online communities was so important to really Understand what the appetite was for this audience what kind of content was valuable to them And then for us like when I saw that piece of content that was shared by all the blogs It was like okay, this is a really valuable piece of content I can understand it too because I'm an audience member and it's really unique in difference I need to carry it on my network and I considered myself a writer before I was an editor or like a creator In the video space so I actually wrote for a lot of these blogs and when I was Getting ready to release the series I reached out to all of them and made sure that they would be willing to Distribute the first episode So I knew that when this came out there would be some viewership at least within the community right Do you guys happen to know John Christmas? Yeah, yeah very well. Oh, you do. Yeah I made a video with I don't know if you saw it because it's around the same exact time 2012 I made a video with his on-core brand. It was probably distributed on the other side I was probably on the other side. Yeah, I was gonna say I think that because I got remember I used to never get any traffic to my website or give me a page at that time But there was some lacrosse company that was pushing a bunch of traffic my way and I'm pretty sure that you guys shared it It's brought so we worked with John so we became basically a distributor We were creating original content, but we also worked with everyone in the community to distribute it We had we had a close-knit relationship with with YouTube through a personal relationship that I had Who was really feeding us like best practices and really really helping us along in this process of audience development And so for us like we were creating original content columns show became one of the the Biggest shows on our network and at a time where we were doing Two to five thousand views of video that show was doing 20 to 50 thousand wow and it was like Really eye-opening that you know what was you know, we were doing live professional live lacrosse games on our network too We were doing highlights we were doing all kinds of things, but it was like wait this documentary series about a Club lacrosse team in Colorado is the thing that's performing the most why It was character driven and it was incredibly relatable It was just about a group of guys who loved playing the sport and so it was like okay You know what type of content are we gonna create moving forward? It's gonna be more stuff like that. Yeah, and I think that's one of those things where you know we were talking about early on where You keep making content this might have been even before the podcast, but you're making content and then nobody's watching it Nobody's listening to it and like you have to I think a lot of it comes down to your gut You're like well in my gut like am I creating something that's worth watching or Can I switch up can I figure out a better way to tell this story and then in this kind of way you're able to actually just see that That this particular kind of video was really connecting with me in granted. It was over time right like it It wasn't a media, but it was over time that that show we ended up doing another season with Colin And like really hyping it as our like premiere show But I think to what you were just saying like The important thing was that we were creating a lot and and at that time we were at a You know, we were in a really early stage where we had a community that was really safe Like as long as we were creating good good content that was under the umbrella of like this is lacrosse and We like this sport and and you guys like this sport and we're gonna tell stories within it the community was really supportive And the thing was it allowed us like if you go back and watch those early videos They're really cringy right for us to watch now. They're like crazy cringy and we're like what is this? But it's just like playing sports Like if if you want to play In the NFL You're gonna practice a lot as a kid and When you're a kid you're not ready to play in the NFL But over time over the next 10 20 years you become faster Bigger stronger and prepared to actually go into you know a more premiere situation a more like You know intense situation so Five years of creating content together made us prepared for the opportunities that we were gonna get Yeah, you could argue that our most cringe where the videos are most valuable because how do we not made those who wouldn't have made any others? Right when yeah, that's a that's a good point even if they did only got 10 views at the time You had to make that video to get to the next one. Yeah Colin what made you Did you go straight from college to working with the lacrosse network? Did you move to LA at that point? So I spent one year in Boulder, Colorado working at the hotel filming Traveling with the lacrosse team and then it was I guess seven months later similar And I talked about me moving out to California for what was going to be like a three month internship And originally I had friends in San Diego. I had no plans to ever move to Los Angeles And so I tried to work out a deal with Samira where I would live in San Diego by the beach and just you know from time to time Work on whatever was needed for the lacrosse network and Eventually we decided that that was not gonna work and if I was gonna do this I had to be in Los Angeles And was there money in it at this time like you have sponsors and like it was how you yeah, there was no sponsors The way it's a very Roundabout way that we were financing the network my family's in the clothing business and we essentially Helped launch a clothing line that was Financing what we were doing. I did see I saw that in one of the videos that it was at the Japan one No, no, it's a container now. It's well. Yes, it's in that. We wrap it. Yeah, yeah, yeah, so basically the concept was okay Here's here's three guys that are good with creative and you know my dad is he's incredibly creative guy and and The type of guy who he sat me down and he was like don't I don't want you to raise money I don't I don't want you to have anyone else to say in your creativity So you need money and what we're gonna do is I'm gonna You know you're gonna help me launch a clothing line and we're gonna put some of the profit from that clothing line into your Business and you guys are gonna help with the branding. You're gonna help with the graphic design You're gonna help with the Instagram with the you know as that came about So we basically became a creative arm for this women's fashion line At the same time making Sports gods yeah, I'm trying to explain to someone what you do at that time Okay, so half the day. I work on women's bathroom. I run the Instagram and then in second half the day I'm making a cross videos wow But it means props that you're dad for having that kind of like force like to know that you know that I mean that's It's more obvious today than ever that you need control of your content and you have to be very cautious about Letting other people have any kind of ownership over it. Yeah, I think I think you know He's an entrepreneur as well and I think he knows from experience that it takes a lot of time to evolve and and having pressure When you're trying to evolve is is really challenging like pressure to monetize or pressure to Get into situations that you might not you know be ready for and having the situation where you can just Create freely and find yourself through creative is what's gonna make the strongest brand and the strongest Connection and so I'm so appreciative of that opportunity I mean we we worked really hard in those years because you know, there's you know We're making a video and then I'm packing boxes to you know Send a shipment to urban outfitters and then I'm back to making videos So we're I mean we were doing all kinds of different things just to just to just to do it and I don't think we ever really thought about it too much It was just like whatever we need to do to keep creating videos Yeah, we're gonna do it gave us the freedom to create and honestly to fail again and again and again and again Like we had the luxury of having the time in the space to just fail for two plus years until we figured out what Word. Yeah, so there wasn't a lot of money. You know, it's not like we were super like no there wasn't a lot of money But you know, it was enough to create content. That's yeah, I had the same exact experience Through college and living at home. So like I just started filmmaking Oh man, like I've told this store in the podcast before I'm not gonna get deep into it I don't know if you guys heard but like I was sued my sophomore year of college for $7 million For making a parody rap video and grocery store Yeah, you know AMP You know, yeah, of course. Yeah, if you used to work at AMP in the produce department and me and my brother made a video called produce paradise And then it like customer actually it was an employee complaint and then I went all the way up to corporate And then they ended up firing us suing us and then we were done on national television We had limos pick us up to like you know speak on CNN and Fox News and we were on those shows where There was like four lawyers and two lawyers would be talking like saying how we're brilliant and we're being like You know disparaged and then the other two were like these kids are idiots like they should they deserve to be sued And then I'm like I'm right here on the phone. They're like this is really hurtful So that was crazy, but like I was I started filmmaking in that time when I was gonna say the stakes are low But I guess the family the stakes were like the stakes are like the stakes are really high Never been high We ended up getting out of the lawsuit. It took a year, but we ended up getting out of it But that was when I just started making videos and actually like seeing that I could make an impact making videos But college you know, I think I started very early. It gave me that opportunity while I'm living off of student loans I don't recommend that It gave me the option to just focus on the videos not have a part-time job not be busted my ass like and wasting my time working at a grocery store Or I'm just making videos and I'm getting my first clients for like a hundred dollars Even through all that it wasn't enough. I ended up living with my parents two years after graduating college Which I think is an amazing piece of advice for anybody who's in debt But sometimes you just need that time where if So many people get forced and rushed into the nine to five the corporate world or a job that they won't be satisfied with because They need to make money and I think also if you really think about it and you're like man my goal Is to create videos all I want to do is make videos Then everything else around it you just do whatever it takes, right? So like I I lived with my parents for four years after college because I was like this is what it takes for me to make videos I don't have you know resources to do anything else, but I didn't even think about it I was just like this is a comfortable situation. I get to wake up. I get to make videos That's what I want to do and I wanted to build this brand and that was it I didn't even think about going out you know with my friends or that my friends were living in In apartments with their other friends. I gave it was just like this is what exactly what I want to do and This is what it takes to do it. They were two or three years We didn't do anything else nothing Nothing but make videos for the lacrosse network like you didn't do like you went out like you went at the dinner It's that you didn't you were I'm not sure if I went to dinner. It's birthday. Wow. I will never forget this on Collins birthday We were working on a show probably the most aggressive piece of Content we had ever made which was we we went behind the scenes with team USA lacrosse we had this huge opportunity to you know tell a story About something that everyone wanted to hear a story about the the US men's national team and essentially do like a hard knocks 24 7-style documentary series, right and Colin went on the road. He shot with with another Camera off for a couple what a week yeah a week or so he came back and we I'm always really aggressive with with distribution and like with What we can do so I said we'll release four episodes in four days within a week of coming back with in a week of coming back So we had to cut four episodes In seven days How long are these pieces every ten minutes each ten minutes? Yeah, yeah, and We basically like in the middle of this editing time was Collins birthday And you know, I don't know that we had celebrated a birthday and yeah a couple of years like more have I like made many friends And now like at that time just a weird time, but we were working I mean we were working We would meet as early as possible and stay as late as possible We got these edit bays in in YouTube space Which is here in LA and and polivist and so we were editing like the whole time and basically like One day we were just like you know what we should go out to dinner for your birthday I think right yeah, and I was like that's probably like a smart thing to do for like mental health I should have like some sort of like birthday Yeah, and I was gonna celebrate We gathered like a random group of people I could like whatever we could Like on Mediterranean flight right next to YouTube right next to the edit base And we like meet us there We met there and then we went straight from dinner back to editing Wow, and it was just like we did it because we felt like it was something we needed to do like just to like Be a part of society again, but like you know, I think even at that time all I wanted to do was be and be in the edit bay Yeah, it was so fun like yeah, it was a time when like not that many people were watching But it felt like everyone was watching like everything was riding on like what we were about to put out in the next three four days Right, and then like a niche community like look across there was nothing else to look forward to like that was the only story If you came up with a good story and you announced it was coming out in a certain day like you were the marquee I don't for everyone to watch so it did feel like everyone was about to tune in. Wow. Yeah for a small community Like look across Where there's not much out there for people right you know You feel like there's a there's a purpose there, right? You're like driven to make it for this audience Yeah, especially being a member of the audience too. It's like you want to make it as good as possible That I think that like a lot of times, you know anybody even people who talk about like productivity and And healthy habits and creating a life that's balanced There's always going to be times when you're working towards a deadline You're riding a book or making a documentary where you got to put in some extra hours like you're working 10 to 12 hours a day Because you have to set a deadline and the closer you get to that deadline the more and more you're like oh shit I need to you know, especially if you care about your craft and like there's obviously a balance between being a perfectionist and not But I feel like if you really care about what you're putting out there you're gonna you know Just juice everything you can out of those final moments you can work on a project. Yeah Do you guys still hustle like crazy today or has it like slow down a bit since those early days? It's definitely slowed down a bit, but not that much like Definitely not that much We think the main difference now is we try and take more time for like eating healthy working out and just doing certain things I think I better understand the difference between being productive and being busy and I think when I was younger the Feeling of being busy felt really good that if I was always doing something then Like I felt like I was progressing not realizing that I wasn't always being productive and that sometimes Overworking myself was not the most productive thing I could do because then I wasn't prepared for one opportunity would hit and So realizing now that okay now I've been through some some of this grind. I've been through a lot of this You know for me it's important to work out in the morning and Before I used to think oh man like working out I could be I could be editing I could be doing something else But realizing that now okay if I work out in the morning I'm gonna be a better editor. I'm gonna be better at in my meetings. I'm gonna be better You know working on an idea then I would be otherwise. So so spending the time even like You know we when I lived on the west side we would go surfing in the morning and like that's being productive as well Because it's setting you up to be Better at your craft later in the day and just Later in life so like recognizing the difference between being productive and being busy I think is really important and when you're in like a team structure or a corporate environment The illusion of busy is what everyone's striving for I think So like you know getting away from that and when you make your own schedule it's like You start to realize okay what how do I use this time? Do I need to be doing something in every minute every hour or you know Can I do things that set me up for success that are really unconventional in like a traditional work environment? Yeah, I think it's really easy to use busy as a crutch to dot Do things for yourself and sort of like take care of yourself like I think in the first two to three years that You know after moving to Los Angeles I Definitely leaned on being busy as to why like I didn't work out or I didn't go and trying to create like Better social situations for myself So I think you kind of have to like understand that work life balance and sort of Take a step back and understand like how can I be more efficient with my work? Be very direct with it and still be able to take care of myself because that's very important to my work and just to your mental health Yeah, that's so important. Yeah, sometimes I use the excuse. I'm busy, but just to get out of things Like I don't want to be that. I'm sorry. I'm busy, but I never really feel busy. I never really feel like Sometimes I can feel overwhelmed sometimes. I'm like, oh shit. I got way too much travel plan this month Like and especially now where we're in this route of like we need to make content every week We need to keep the YouTube channel going right I don't want to go a week without releasing a video It can get a little bit overwhelming But I feel like yeah if you're busy then you're likely aren't prioritizing certain things in your life You should never be too busy to go to the gym or eat healthy totally I feel like how do you guys make sure that that? Do you plan out your meals? Do you plan out like your workout routine before the week start? It's like how do you because you know, especially when we're in the edit and we're working on videos You can get so consumed with it that you'll like look up and realize that you've only had a peanut butter sandwich and coffee the entire day I think smears probably bet much better at it than I am. I sort of like run myself dry and then realize like I need to wake up and run tomorrow or else like like I just need to expel that energy So I think I kind of like empty the tank until I realize I need to be eating out there I need to be working out more whereas I think similar you're a lot more scheduled with it Yeah, I'm I'm really into schedules like I'm really into a gym does really into writing things down And something that I've learned recently which is funny because I heard it on your podcast Maybe two episodes ago. I think it was break the twitch But it was about you over estimate what you can do in one day and you underestimate what you can do in one year I think some I don't know who's quote that is. Yeah, it's I think it's actually Tony Robbins at least That's what I've heard it been attributed to and for listeners it's probably happened eight episodes I've got a little bit of a backlog So so basically like not over estimating what you can do in one day and so calling it I mean yesterday even we sat and we take a look at the week And we say okay, you know, we here are the big goals of the week Here's the things we want to get done and then okay, what is the week look like? And where do those fit in and what's the realistic amount of time that those things take because I think what I learned over the past couple of years is that We we totally totally underestimate the amount of time it takes To edit a video or to come up with an idea and respecting the amount of time it takes for you to get into a creative flow Is really important and you know just just really recognizing man I I'm gonna to edit this video. I'm gonna require myself to go get a coffee and sit and Just experience life for a little bit before I edit for 10 hours And and really recognizing what I try and do now is I put a week schedule out and I put amounts of time that these goals will take What's the realistic amount of hours that these that I need to allocate to actually do this really well Because I think we've experienced a lot of times where we're like I think we can make three videos tomorrow And then we try and do it and they're all like kind of mediocre and then we're not You know really happy with them and we haven't really respected the process in the amount of time it takes and so that that Boyle's down to everything in life where Okay, I want to work out this workout classes an hour, but it's gonna take me half an hour to get there It's gonna take me 10 minutes to you know get myself ready to get back in the car And we've over so like really being Strategic and understanding the amount of time that everything takes and and Allowing yourself to not rush through things is so important and that I think makes you feel a lot more And allows you to be much more productive than just busy and rushed and stressed and confused Is this a process that both you guys use then in terms of like how do you structure your days Calling it seems like you're a little bit more free spirit Yeah, I'm much more loose with it. Yeah, you know, because like that's crazy like just the planning out of like Okay, this video is gonna take four hours to edit and like all that like I certainly don't do that How does your process work totally different for me? I mean we're also just not totally different schedules like similarly a morning person and I am not like I feel like I shouldn't even be allowed to drive a car in the morning Like I'm just like not in a good state. I can't do it And I find that I'm most creative. I do my best work between the hours of the 11 p.m. and like two in the morning Wow really yeah, I mean I don't do that every night. I try and get like a good sleep if I can But I think sometimes my best work or when I'm most productive is like through the middle of the night So that's like not sustainable on a weekly basis But for me it just shows that I honestly like I'm all over the place with like when I can be my most creative and get the most work done Hmm, it's that's something that you're okay with because for me like I would bump yeah If like I could only I mean it's hard because like I'm in a relationship so like I don't think Natalie would allow it Like if I just came home like every night and just woke her up at like 3 a.m Is that something that you you are okay with like working that late into the night I think when I'm up I'm like I shouldn't be up even though like I feel good about the work I'm creating I do try and like focus and get most of it done during the day Yeah, so then I can't schedule but I know that about myself that like sometimes I can't sleep And it's 12 30 and I'm like writing in my iPhone notes and I just have to keep going and I can't fall asleep because I'm just like in a flow at like one in the morning. Yeah, do you meditate at all? I don't yeah that might help I know that I mean, and I don't I'm giving advice that I don't know I'm glad I like I look to a lot of your stuff for advice. Yeah, yeah, I think I mean Meditation is a practice this is kind of like where you were saying where sometimes we've you just run the tank until it's dry And that's what I do when it comes to meditation and certainly I think it would help to be a little bit more productive And just meditate every day and build a practice but whenever I feel like I'm overwhelmed or I'm thinking too much And I can't get to bed because I have all these ideas just you know going non-stop and I'm like just shut up That's when I always start to meditate a little bit more which just helps to calm me down There's an amazing just in terms of sleep a podcast that I just listened to with Joe Rogan I think it's like two or three up. Did you listen to that one someone just sent it to me? Yeah, no, it's it's really good. Is this a sleep scientist and he really breaks down all the reasons Why it's important and the things that you can do and the steps you can take to make sure you have good sleep It's funny because my little sister just She just asked me like hey, I'm I'm gonna come visit LA like the meet my three younger sisters They were gonna come visit LA and they wanted to know if I could pick them up the airport at 1 a.m And I just listened to this podcast about sleep and it was just bad timing for her because I was like No, I don't think I could do that I don't yeah because like I keep you can't interrupt your sleep. You're supposed to be going into bed and waking up at the same time Super important well that I mean that I think that brings up also the when you become a freelancer You don't have you know a structure that that's like traditional quote unquote You have to learn how to say no because all of a sudden these opportunities start coming up Whether it's like hey, can you come film this you know here's here's a little project for you to do or Hey, let's get coffee. Hey, let's you know and it's like these aren't necessarily like bad things to do or You know, but you have to evaluate now. Okay. What are my goals and what do I say yes to what what Progress is my goals and what do I have to say no to and how do I even say no to certain things? And that's something that I've had to learn over the past two years as we've you know gone off on on our own and become independent as How to say no it's it's not easy especially when something feels like a really good opportunity and you have to evaluate You know if you say yes or no to a good opportunity if you're waiting for a great opportunity If it doesn't progress You know your your whole goal forward It's a really fascinating thing to learn. It's interesting as a freelancer that like in the beginning You're taking a lot of bets on opportunities that you hope will put you in a place to then make money off them Right like a lot of people as a freelancer do things at very low rates or they do them for free because they hope that This will then put me in a good space or in front of people where I will then get hired and make money off of it So it's interesting you have to like really look at all these different options And if you are at that place where you're doing things for free or for little rates and really think what's the best thing? I could spend my time on right now Yeah, I think that's super important is like you you need to ask The questions about like well where do I want to take this from the very beginning and that's going to change all the time But like for me I've only it's only been a couple of times, but people may be asking me to do a Speaking engagement or to be on somebody else's podcast or do something like that and a lot of times the answer has to be no Especially with this like any speaking or talking type engagements. It doesn't happen often, but I'm like That's an easy no because I'm like I'm not working on that right now Like I'm I know I want to work on building my podcast and my YouTube audience and that's pretty much like the two main pillars that I'm focused on And since I have that focus, it's a lot easier to say no to certain things with coffee meet-up anything Small like that still hard. It's always challenging to say no to people But do it if you said yes to everybody or you know you reply to every single comment and gave an in-depth response You wouldn't have time to make the content that you want to make or need to do Yeah, that was a conversation we were having this morning about how much you need to create versus how much we consume And that if we you want to sign up for a life as a creator You have to create way more than you consume and you have to start taking your consumption even scrolling Instagram Even checking Twitter like you've to take that consumption Down so much and you have to create way more spend all of your available hours creating What's your guys current Ratio like how much do you consume versus create at this point? I consume a lot. Yeah, I'm trying to limit it. Yeah, I love consuming Like I just love it. Yeah, and I see a lot of value in consuming content like I love just observing the media landscape Understanding what people are doing so I think what I could cut out is Instagram I don't find that I get much return on scrolling Instagram But certain YouTube channels Netflix. I really enjoy I find that for me it becomes a form of procrastination totally where when I listen to a podcast Especially a two three-hour podcast I'm like I find myself just sitting down finishing the episode after say I like go to the gym and I go Like you know I do a little jog and I'm listening to that podcast and if I've got 45 minutes left when I get home I'll just sit down and finish it when I'm like like it's very easy for that to drip into the areas where I should be designating for creation right and that I think for me again I'm still learning and and refining You know it'll be an ever evolving process, but figuring out like could I block out Time for you know dedicated time like okay from from this time to this time in the evening I'm gonna watch whatever I want whether that's Netflix or YouTube But just even even having a loose schedule in your mind that when I'm creating I'm creating I'm not gonna take a break from editing to scroll Instagram or you know scroll Twitter I'm gonna create and if I need a break I'm gonna walk outside and do things that enhance my own personal creativity whether that's writing or listening to music or You know if you if you haven't checked it out check out count new ports deep work. I've mentioned it on the podcast a lot But that one got me to really think about prioritizing my time and how we structure our time and how the deep work when we're like in that State of flow on a project like that's when shit gets done and Yeah, so I've started to do that more and I noticed I actually just downloaded this app called moment for my phone And it just tracks how much you use your phone how many pickups you have when you phone oh my god And like I haven't been very good with it so like there's been one day where I was really like I needed to get this video done because like I you know I was running behind and I had the expectation I was gonna release a video that week so I was like all right Absolutely no phone. I ended up only picked using my phone 11 minutes during the day Which is crazy low like the average that I have had over the past two weeks has been like an hour and a half Which I don't know does that sound like a lot or is that feels feels a lot? I'm scared to know I wouldn't want to know the average on moment the average moment user who has the phone. It's four hours Yeah, I'm not surprised yeah and like my pickups was like 45 pickups Day like I'm like wow, but I mean sometimes I'm like shit like I probably check email eight times of an hour You know what I mean just popping in and being like oh did somebody give me something to do because I'm just you know Distracting myself yeah, but I have found when I do that when I bring that practicing like I'm a total hypocrite But like once I do bring it in It's I am so much more productive and also I feel more clear if you're like my thoughts aren't like scattered in a bunch of different directions I think a really good tactic is to Draft a to-do list first thing in the morning even if you already know what you're gonna do Draft it to-do list before you check your email So you know a lot of people especially for me when you know when I was younger first thing I would do in the morning It's check my email and then my email would define my to-do list But if you wake up in the morning and you say okay these are the goals I have for today This is what I'm gonna do today and then you know part of that to-do list is check email and you allocate some time to Checking your email and responding then it doesn't control your whole day and it's so easy for like like you said to give Give me something to do give me a create my to-do list for me and you let your email inbox do that for you and that's like For me, it's like so challenging to create within that structure Right, and I think I would actually amend that too and say If it works better for you do with the night before I found that for me like if I if I'm set the day before Then it also makes it easier for me to wake up early You know because like if you're gonna if you're setting your art I want to look at the five or I want to make it six tomorrow If I'm not waking up with something to do I'm sleeping in totally like the night before totally day's what I'm gonna do like if my workout clothes are like set out I will work out But if not I won't do anything yeah, dude, what is wrong with humans? I don't know like we we like we know what we want like in our waking hours. We know like Okay, I want to eat healthy. I want to go to the gym tomorrow and like I remember that especially when I was younger Being like like especially at night feeling inspire like this damn Kill it. I'm gonna do so much And then you wake up and then you're like it's a different person. Yeah, yeah, it's true That's so frustrating. I actually wanted to go back to when we were talking about how different are Just mentalities are structure of our our days are it's it's such an important thing when you're a part of a team To be able to empathize with the other members of your team and call on an iron like a creative partnership So we are you know, we're in this together and we have totally different styles of work And it makes me realize that when you're in a company or a team environment when you're making a movie with a bunch of people Getting to know the other person and how they work at their best is so important and then understanding how You work together and how those things collaborate because I can't expect that Collins gonna operate the exact same way as me and he he can't expect that I'm gonna operate the same way as him I'm not I can't expect that it's 630 or 7 a.m. I'm gonna call him and be like all right man like Let's do this like let's let's start working on this because I know he requires a different Process to get into a creative one same for me not to say well, you know, yeah, but I'm saying So I brought yeah, and he's not calling me at you know 11 30 and and brainstorming ideas with me At night even though he might drive in crazy right exactly so like we just have different Different processes and and that's a really important thing when you're in like you know People are creative in different ways. I think when I was when we were a part of a company Putting a bunch of creatives in a conference room at at 11 a.m. all together at the same time and say coming up come up in the idea It can work but a lot of people require different things to be their most creative and to do their best work And it's really important to understand that empathize with it and truly like respect everyone else's Process I think that it's the communication is the biggest thing there and like that's what I've noticed in Relationships whether it's personal intimate friends family or work When there's a breakdown in communication when you're not very clear about You know roles or say like if I don't clearly articulate a deadline for a video Then that's gonna really hurt that relationship with that client and I've had that happen before Like it and I like luckily haven't had that many experiences with my freelance clients Because like I learned very early on that oh shit like I was under the expectation that if I edit this in three days They would be blown away when in reality their expectation was that this video is gonna be edited the next day And I'm well we can blame them we can say well that's crazy. Why would you ever expect that? But you have to take responsibility and you have to be like all right Let's talk about this. Let's figure out how this relationship was gonna work right if you don't do that That's when shit goes wrong When you guys look back at The lacrosse days and the lacrosse network is there advice that you would give yourselves at that point in time when you're Just starting to to build a little bit of a month momentum. You're just getting started out like what mistakes did you make and what advice would you give you right yourself For me actually it was a lot about communication There was a lot like the biggest lessons I learned for the lacrosse network of course I learned a lot about content creation connecting with an audience I mean on one side I learned that communicating with an audience is super powerful and developing a relationship Is really powerful but on the I think on like the team side as As a group of guys striving towards a goal. I think I was really I really shy away from from communication and and confrontation and asking hard questions and You know dropping things that weren't working even if there were someone else's idea like that that for me I was I was really terrified of all that and Learning over time that Being honest and and communicative and and working through things together collaborating with other people like how that all works That's that's the takeaway that I have and you know when I think I've learned so much of From that whole experience was just Everyone has different ideas creativity is so Different from anything else. We're not We're not making a t-shirt and selling it. We're coming up with ideas that all come out of our own minds And then we're working on them with everything we have from inside of us and so like When things are working or aren't working it's kind of hard to Cut someone else's creativity or or try and shift it or try and work together on that So I think I I just learned so much about how to work in a creative team and I'm really passionate about You know talking to other people about creative teams and and about creative partnerships and you know Even now that we're in a completely different kind of creative team now with just calling and I and how it's evolved and we're still learning about How that all works. But I would say those are my biggest takeaways Was like communicate as much as possible Understand everyone else on the team and and make sure that they understand where you're coming from and when you're crafting an idea together It's such a it's such a delicate thing to do. Hmm. I think for me the biggest learnings were just you know Number one be patient because creating content especially for the internet is gonna take a really long time And your body of work is gonna be defined by what you do over three four or five years and You know you build strong connections through that amount of time And then The second thing I would say is just stay calm as your problem solving I think one of the things I learned specifically from smear and then Julian who's the other co-founder You know, we were doing a lot of live streams in the early days and that's kind of a tense thing to be monitoring a live stream and doing the productions for those And I would really like had a tough time monitoring live streams are just working on a live production but I really learned from Smear and Julian that you have to stay calm Through the moments when you need to solve problems because it's the only way you're gonna find a solution and I was very quick to like get anxious and look around and like not really know what to do And I just learned that and that really helped me out as I was going on production trips a lot of times by myself That you know things And evidentably are gonna go wrong on a production trip every single time every shoot every shoot But you just have to stay calm and understand that that's part of the process or else you will never find a solution So I learned that quick working with these guys and that was a huge Value for me totally. I think that's so actually it's such a good point that something we learned was that it was just the only thing we could guarantee Was that there would be some sort of conflict That was the only thing we could guarantee with every production with with every there's the only thing we could guarantee So then when you start to realize that that's for sure gonna happen You can relax a little bit because you're not surprised by it Even in a relationship when you think like okay the only thing that's guaranteed Between us like even in our partnership is that there's gonna be times where we butt head Okay, so when it happens we're not surprised and we have some sort of plan and process and we can relax into the resolution of that and we can actually grow from that And that's like a really Interesting, there's a really liberating feeling for me and then you would see people on the road that you work with They're freaking out and you're like oh, you know He or she doesn't really understand that this is part of the deal that like we're here to work through these issues And that's just the way it's gonna be right. I know I remember Doing client shoots and then if something would go wrong You're trying to hide it from the client because the client doesn't understand that like course Yeah, okay, there's a there's a wireless interference with the microphone and now we're like I did not plan for a backup mic what do we do we're like 20 minutes in this interview? I like cut it and you know, I mean there's these things that happen with every shoot and then certain things The more you do it like if you do that kind of shoot over and over and over again You have redundancies you're like all right. I'm gonna bring a backup boom mic for every shoot that way if this happens again I'm safe same thing with relationships like if you find yourself butting heads on the same thing over and over again You have to try to figure out a way to approach that better or avoid it entirely One other lesson to learn from the years with lacrosse network. It's really hard to make money off YouTube AdSense. Yeah, is it? That I mean at least at that time in 2012 like you know I think it was a blessing that we went into it super naive You know, I mean we had heard all these stories about people making big businesses on YouTube So when we were first crafting our our business model quote and quote We were just like you know Man, we're gonna make these videos and we're just gonna make millions of dollars off YouTube just pays you when you make videos Or you do you start to really learn like the business of of being a online creator and I think that was a huge Lesson over the over the years and still learning it but just like what's the reality of What are you doing when you're becoming an online creator? How are you creating a business out of it? That's so important that that was like so important to learn and and struggled through a lot of it and I had You know, I lived at my parents house, so I had my dad every night asking me like How are you guys making money? How does this all work and I had to really think about how it worked? We did we did all kinds of things we sold hats. We sold t-shirts. We sold stickers to other companies extremely difficult to explain to people Yeah, I mean what we were doing it was so Challenging all of a sudden to like really have to be faced with this thing at 22 years old of like Wait, we have three people on this team. How much money does should everybody be making? How much money does it cost to run this thing? Oh my god. How are we gonna do this? I would say one more takeaway too is that you know, I wouldn't be as concerned with how many people are watching But instead who's watching because You know our company ended up getting acquired by a bigger sports media company in New York But up to that point we felt really strongly about what we were doing But we were not certain that it was going to have some sort of future like it has today Right, but because of the certain people who were watching our videos it did have a future Right, like if you and I've said this before, but if you have a One-part say 10 people 100 people that go to your website every week And you are a personal trainer If that turns into one client or two clients a month That's all you need to start to build a business and to make some money Especially if you're say higher and Personal trainer where you're charging a lot for each Workout session, so it's yeah, it's very much about the quality of your audience and even if You know everybody wants to have great numbers and and you know, maybe that helps with a little bit with cloud But at the end of the day if you have a bunch of email subscribers You have to pay for you know mail champ has certain tiers where if you have 10,000 email subscribers You're paying a whole lot more money. So if they don't like the stuff that you're sending them You're wasting a lot of money and time. Yeah on them. Yeah, I also think on that note about audience So this past week I took my girlfriend to go see Justin Timberlake at the forum Yeah, I was like you know what this this is gonna be this is a sold-out show at the forum, right? I'm sitting there and I'm looking around. I'm like this is an overwhelming amount of people I was just thinking about like man, what would it be like to perform for this amount of people and then I got on my phone And I was like how many people fit in the forum 17,000 people How many times have I made a video that has been seen by 17,000 people? I was like I have I guess I have performed in front of this many people before and To sync back into it like we get caught up. I think in the numbers a lot of like, oh man this video only has 2000 views And you start to really think about it man two thousand people just watched a piece of art that I made That's pretty crazy I think it was a creator Justin or Shito who who tweeted a photo of a room with 20 people in it and it was it looked packed He's like this is what 20 people looks like and it puts things in perspective when you're creating that like We get caught up in these in these numbers But even like if you put a hundred people in a room and you showed them your movie it would be pretty powerful It would be an awesome experience to share that with that many people and so Starting to realize like man, that's you know even if you're creating for for 20 or or a hundred people It shouldn't be discouraging it actually could be really encouraging and and push you to continue creating and over time that that could grow But it's powerful to create for a hundred people So yeah, and I think I think about this a lot that we just get way to Called up in the numbers and I think everybody must have this experience Where you upload an Instagram photo and you have the certain number that you usually get Well, you know, I remember a time when it was like 50 likes and if I got 20 of a damn and that was the stuff What happened on that one is the algorithm or whatever And then you get to a point where you're getting a hundred and then that just becomes the new normal and then a thousand whatever it is and as you grow And it's like I might crazy that I was satisfied with 50 at one point But now it takes a thousand for me to be satisfied, which is just it you have to really put things in perspective And just appreciate every time you grow or every time you put something out and not expect that this is gonna You know reach this amount. I'll never forget exactly where I was the first time I saw one of our videos on the lacrosse network hit 300 views I was I was freaking out. I really thought about it I was like 300 people watch this video That's crazy. I actually at that point made a deck to try and pitch sponsors That 300 people were watching our videos are early marketing material. It's hilarious We're like 300 dedicated fans are watching our content and we were so proud of it But again, I think it was so such a blessing to be naive about it Yeah, and just to be like this is so new and this is crazy You guys talked a little bit about making money and kind of monetizing and now you you do the YouTube was the AdSense the monetization on your YouTube videos What other ways do you see you guys making money? Well like how are you making money now? Are you still doing it some freelance work on the side are you working on the clothing line and then What do you see for the future of monetization on your channel? So it's fascinating because in 2012 there was really only one way that I thought you made money on YouTube, which was AdSense Over time start to realize that there's you know I think having our company be acquired by a bigger company is what opened our eyes Because now there was a sales department and there was expectations on us too to make money doing what we were doing There's a lot of pressure and an expectation to say okay you need to turn this into a profitable Division of the company and so then we start to learn okay, so Branded content so you make videos and and you partner with a brand and and they pay money to get their message across to a Dedicated group of people that fits their audience and something that we Learned and we knew this we we believed in this that our audience was more passionate than other audiences They were more engaged than other audiences They were more valuable to advertisers than other audiences and We just we truly believe that and then finally when we had a sales team to support us We were able to tell that story and get brands on board and then we started doing branded content and branded content became The primary source of revenue for us and that was like this new Really exciting thing because for us also when we had brands involved We had a higher budget and we could make better content that we thought was like what the community deserved was this kind of content Because we were operating that is zero dollar content budget. It's when a brand we got involved we had more budget And then we started doing more brand partnerships and started bringing more brands into the space and now You know branded content is is the primary way that That little cross network makes money and actually the primary way that that we make money But there's there's so many other avenues today to make money on YouTube The thing that you have to realize is that what you're doing when you're growing an online brand is your You're building an audience and You're essentially building Influence right and so you're creating something where you can give a message to an audience and they trust you Because you've developed a relationship with them And so if you're gonna bring a brand on and communicate their message to that audience that's valuable If you're gonna sell a product to that audience or you're gonna create like you know merchandise that Connects with that audience that's valuable If there is now today there's you know kit affiliate links there is gear recommendations where you can get you know paid off of that There's so many different avenues, but at the end of the day at the core of it You're you're building an audience and communicating a message to them and there's tons of different ways to monetize that today Yeah, and I think Influence or is sometimes a misnomer who's it and I've I've seen this too Which is people that I know if you just you watch the interactions with certain people It's just because you have a large following doesn't mean that you're an influence or it doesn't mean you're an audience trust you or appreciate to Or once actually would would listen to your advice when you say hey guys go get these headphones Because I use them and they add a lot of value to my life like that's a huge thing and that's where the trust and authenticity All these things It's really at the core. It's just being a good person totally. You know, I mean just be a good person be nice and and Really have the best intentions for your audience and really try to help them and if you're not I think in a lot of ways that comes across And even if yeah, even if you're like being a shitty person and you're doing really well in your successful Like I don't even care that's not for me. Yeah, you know, I mean I'd rather not walk all over people in order to get to the top I think our mindset too was that like the lacrosse audience was an underserved audience, right? Like there wasn't enough media in the space and we believed that there needed to be more Quality content to therefore like grow the messaging of the sport and that the audience deserved that So if we were gonna have a brand come in to the space We really wanted them to help us make the content better so that it was more shareable and that the community would feel proud of What they were watching and the community that they were a part of so we try and do the same thing today with our personal brand When we talk to brands is understand like how can we make a custom piece of content that our audience would actually be Really excited about the fact that like we got the opportunity to make it and that the brand helped us make it You know, so even like just not necessarily just like reads and things like that But how can we do something very like unique and specific that was exciting for us to do and hopefully exciting for our audience to watch and we said no and still say no to a lot of opportunities and primarily because We feel like we build trust with our audience and and we are just Making content that we think is cool and so if our brand's gonna come in and help us make more content that we think is cool or provide value to our audience That's when we feel like it's a good brand partnership Now that's not you know, that's not super business-minded But it's the way that we just it's what we enjoy about making content is yeah having a connection with our audience I think it actually is like in the long run. You're playing the long yeah It's easy to just sell out real quick and like, you know, promote skittles on your podcast by the way go get your skittles But like if you're actually having the best intentions then it would make more sense to only do one advertisement on this episode For sure. It's five and it actually that that whole process over time actually opened us up to work with brands in a really unique way Which was hey we want to get involved and you guys give us an idea you know whatever whatever you think is best We'll work with that and that was pretty powerful. I mean I think it was probably working with Nike it was the first time that we really Pitch them ideas that we were like these are our ideas and they were like yeah, those all sound good and we were like You sure Yeah, you want it to change and they're like we're like no, we trust you guys because you guys have built the audience Yeah, you guys have built the connection and that was like I mean so empowering to be like oh We know it's best not not you I think also something about us like we're fans of branded content because of the space that we grew up in like having been on YouTube for six years and watching like Casey and I stats four part piece on Mercedes You know that was something that we talk about we were like excited about so when we got the opportunity to do branded content Three four years ago. We couldn't wait to sort of take the extra funds there and do something really interesting A really unique So I think that's something also that's a little bit different like we actually have a lot of pride in Branded content and like what it can be Mm-hmm like you can actually be clever and creative with it and you can actually make it your own Yeah, we actually so in growing a YouTube channel, you know like as you start growing and I'm sure You know this might not like it's just our growing people reach out with opportunities, right? Okay, hey, can you talk about this product taking you to this and actually something that we we say Our response and what we have in our mind is that we'd like to grow Bigger and have the opportunity to do custom content with these brands because we think that coming up with like a custom idea for branded content That's what drives us. That's what's super interesting is if we can partner with a brand and come up with an idea that's not You know, hey Like you said like this podcast is brought to you by Skittles or hey this damn Skittles is Yeah, by the way Get your Skittles But you know not not just saying it like that, but really like can we create an experience and A piece of content that connects with people on a on a deeper level because they're involved But then you also get a higher CPM like sure the rate in which you would charge an advertiser like a lot of Most podcasts get like a 15 CPM which is like every thousand people that download a podcast You get 12 or 15 dollars But then the higher n ones the ones like the Tim Ferrisses and Joe Rogan's Boogie anywhere from 50 to 100 because their audience sells shit out like when Tim Ferriss mentioned something on his podcast the next day That brand is just like under supply. Yeah, I'm pretty sure I cleared cleared out my whole foods of their like mushroom Alexer after I listen to Fresher of alexer. Yeah, that's like jaga. Yeah, I'm like drinking all kinds of mushrooms now because of them Yeah, they're great. They're great. Yeah, I've been doing the new tropics from Rogan, I don't know if you heard of those or that. It's called alpha brain. Oh, yeah, I've seen it in whole foods pretty cool. Yeah, I mean I took it before I took it before every podcast. Oh, that's yeah, you kind of firing we should have dropped a child Yeah, normally I'm just like my eyes are half awake right podcast I just started I would I would recommend it. I think it's it works quite well. It's a noticeable difference. Basically it's like your How quickly you can recall words and how sharp your memory is and whether it's like a 10 or 15 20% increase It's certainly So yeah, it's like a mushroom. It's like yeah, some kind of mushroom derivative one thing about making money on on YouTube is Like in in businesses today. It's like the best thing you could do is start putting out a product and and getting feedback and Like however easy it is right like an in tech for like apps You release a beta version to a small group of users and you get feedback and then you keep refining it And then finally once it's ready you launch it and then you you know build the direction of monetizing it So I think on a YouTube channel. It's kind of the same thing like you get to put out something that has a really low barrier And start building over time like again our first videos were made with a MacBook It was just it was the camera we had to make videos and over time it became Something that making our videos was actually a viable business like making videos together was a viable business now we're on camera and create videos for Brands that you know, then that's that's our business, but it all started with like a really low barrier Which was like open a MacBook record and straight from the whatever the app was photo booth or something and there was an Share to YouTube that's how we made our videos. It was just like Okay, there's no editing. There's no if I think it was so awkward that most of those videos have like a five-second delay of us staring at the camera Yeah, and then being like oh Great and we weren't cutting them like we were editors, but we weren't cutting them it was just what's the lowest barrier to start getting this product out and Testing the market and there was you know there it built over time. There was an appetite for that kind of content with the lacrosse network Do you still work with them now? Yeah, so we were still on camera and we consult for the company But there's a team of five guys in New York and they operate the network They're you know a great team they work out of the whistle sports office in New York which is the company that acquired our company and Yeah, it's still still process. They have great brand partners. They they create content. They're learning You know the same way that that we were learning when we first started creating content and yeah, it's it's amazing to me That there is a team of people that work on this idea. I mean One of my dreams when when we first started it was I used to tell my brother this that I had two goals one was work with Nike and two was I wanted to be able to can like watch the lacrosse network as a fan Like be able to step away from it and just watch the channel as a fan of the sport Because it was something I was wanted to exist. I just wanted it to exist and so today, you know We still interact with with the company but watching content that we weren't a part of that that comes out now And other people's creativity coming out and has distribution and there's fans who interact with it. That's like that's the coolest thing for me Yeah, I mean, there's actually a guy who went to Colorado played lacrosse there Four years younger than us who posted on Facebook last year Can't believe I just got a job with lacrosse network and tagged it Wow And I was like that's about as cool as it gets because that wasn't a thing Right like to be able to say that and do that and now he you know moved from Colorado to New York City and lives there and works there and travels the country filming and editing It's just incredible to me. It's one of the coolest thing. It's so cool something that you guys built Let's talk a little bit about vlogging I feel like so I've I don't shit on vlogging at all, but Feels like you're about to Same thing where the same evening dump on No, but no, but I would I have been saying is like A lot of people encourage people to kind of create and release all the time every day and what I've been saying is slow down a little bit Try to be a little bit more thoughtful. I think it depends where you are in the creative process If you're just getting started out probably makes more sense to create more and just keep releasing But as you kind of get into it and you become better at the craft. I feel like we need to take a step back And be thoughtful because like you know that every day vlog It's not gonna work for everybody and people's lives aren't that interesting You know, it's it's hard to keep that and make that sustainable to where people might start that and eventually give up So I feel like you guys have found a really great balance and when I watch your vlogs And in your videos in general, it just feels pretty effortless, you know in the best way like it feels like You could watch them all day and it doesn't and nothing feels forced about it so I want to talk a little bit about vlogging You guys are just going for like what is your process about creating these videos and creating the vlogs that you do these days and do you calm vlogs or Some of them. Yeah, some of them are vlogs. Yeah, when I look at our channel I think we have all types of content. There's like video essays short mini documentaries and then there's vlogs So yeah, I think we have like mix of types of content hmm, so how do you approach just the video creation idea generation for your channel Generally idea comes from both of us talking or come from one or the other And then Samir comes in a lot with like the execution of like which day we're going to be filming this video what supplies? We need how we're going to get there who I need to call playing more of like the producer director role We go out. I we both filmed but I do the majority of the filming and then I come back take the footage at it And I'm more of like the writer editor in this group so I'll take the video to like 75 80 percent and then we'll kind of like get back together and and take a look at what we have Hmm, there's two tie out not to but there's a few different types of videos that we create right now When it's like truly and like an experience like a vlog where we're going to go through something and bring you along There's a lot less planning prior it's like we're going to bring cameras and We have a sense because we've been doing it for a while of like which shots we need how do we need to tell the story? Are there like gonna be missing dots and we're both editors? So we both as we're filming or editing and we both know each other's editing style And we you know we know what we like so like when we're recording we know like again This is a transition moment. I'm gonna do a whip pan or like this is a you know moment where I need to say this to get us to the next part of the story In real time so we film in that way when we're vlogging and it's like an experience that we're bringing along I think that the concept there is like bring a camera and let life unfold in front of you That's that's one way about it the other type of content is like okay We write a concept beforehand and we have a general outline for it and we know which points we want to hit We know the direction of the video. Okay. Let's Let's go now we have this on our phone or somewhere, you know close by and we know the general direction But we're still it's a lot of improv. It's just like so much of our content We feel like is is based off of our Report and and the way that we Communicate with the audience and so we we want to leave room First on spontaneity. We want to leave room for authenticity Because we feel like that's what what we want to come through as much as possible in the contents We create like an outline and there's big spaces, right where it's like great We we know we want to go from here to here to here So let's start and let's see what happens Yeah, we want to end up here my favorite things to watch really the mix between the two so like I really enjoy when we go out and we vlog And then we take the footage and we think how can we add voice over to this how can we get extra b roll or Source footage and make this into Documentary video essay style piece, but we also went out and experienced something in real life So you have these like moments that you couldn't Recreate right we're like they happened for the first time because we were vlogging and we had the camera on But then we contextualize them within like a documentary video essay format. Yeah, I love that style and I think it's It's it's never like a lot of times we see something it seems obvious in hindsight Like oh, of course, that's the way they ended up telling that story But at the lot of times creation and storytelling is very messy and it's a lot of trial and error Like there was a video. I was just working on where I was trying to deliver it on camera and then go to Voice over and it's just something about it wasn't working. I'm like my delivery wasn't right And I was like, you know what maybe I'll just scrap the the you know me on camera in the beginning and I'll just do the entire thing straight voice over And there's a lot there's like a thousand of those different decisions that you make on every video that you didn't know You were gonna make before you started that So it has ever been a video that's there a video style that's resonated best with your audience like do they are more drawn towards the vlogs? The more thought out scripted videos what's been the draw there? I mean our biggest videos are more thought out scripted videos But they also target communities on YouTube that have you know larger audiences We were actually just looking at our analytics last night and just talking through them and You know we right now are in a process with this channel where we're trying to find our voice We're coming from a brand that stood for a community and and a sport and now we're calling in some air We're two guys and we have to define ourselves and we've made a ton of different types of content So The important thing for us now is like we look at what really performs and and what does the best and then we have to find the intersection of like what we're really passionate about creating as well And find where those two things meet and so like the stuff that performs really well for us is like the scripted stuff like and I say scripted in the sense that like we just Rote some voiceover or wrote out some some points and we were like we kind of knew what the video was gonna be beforehand Yeah, and we like targeted a community on YouTube to try and like latch that video on to so We made a video about Will Smith and talked about the reasons why we think he's on YouTube And that was right at the onset of Will Smith starting a YouTube channel and starting to vlog So every time Will Smith put out a video our video was the only other like ancillary content that would be surfaced Mm-hmm, and one thing that we've realized through like looking at our data of what drives a video to get to that Like for us right now to get to that like 100,000 or 200,000 viewership level is retention time So if people are watching more of the video It's gonna surface more in people's feet right if they're watching 70 or 80% of the video then it's gonna get pushed more by YouTube So that's a really important piece for us when we're sitting back and looking at a video is You know, is there a reason to stay all the way till the end? Is there you know, is it engaging throughout the entire piece of content? Are we telling the right story are we keeping you? You know on the edge of your seat throughout the piece of content because what's really important is is retention time If we make a four-minute video we want you to watch four minutes of it if we make a 10-minute video and we're gonna push the Push the time you know much higher up 10 15 minutes then we need to make sure that we're Creating a system that or creating a piece of content and writing it in a way that keeps you Throughout that entire thing right because a title or thumbnail will get somebody to click a video Yeah, but YouTube's not gonna push it and promote it if people are Clicking a way do you know you need and which is just when it comes down to it just make good content You know click bait can only go so far and do so well especially in the very beginning when everybody else is doing it And Buzzfeed might be able to get away with doing all these clickbait titles because they have a huge audience and they probably make their Content compelling enough to pull people through but it's just it's just the best motivation Just to make great content and focus on that and don't don't even think about algorithms or how the thumbnail is gonna be perceived by a viewer Yeah, and even if you look at Buzzfeed like their content has had to change and get a lot better If you look at shows like worth it or like try guys. They're all concepts that like we'll keep you to the end Even though they're good titles and thumbnails. Yeah, I want to correct myself I did say do not focus on the thumbnails and titles at all. I don't think that's true I think it's a balance right. I think like sure just don't spend an exorbitant amount of your time on those things Whether it's you know 10 or 1% of your time Well, I think a good system though is to think about prior to making a video like what's the title? What's the thumbnail because it is if you're making content for YouTube It's such a part of the game, but then you have to really think does my content reflect that and then yeah another step is does my content from you know Second one to the end of the video Keep you like if you what's the what's the process of a viewer coming to this video? Okay? They saw the title. They saw the thumbnail. They clicked on it. What happens in the first five seconds? Does it reflect the title and thumbnail and create some sort of tension or conflict or drama to make them Stay till the end or some reason or some utility and then you know through the end. Okay. I want to stay all the way through the end I think I think your content does a great job of that. Thank you man. You guys too. Yeah, I think but I think like I click on one of your videos And it's titled something and there's the you know, they're branded in different ways So I can understand if it's something from ground up show or something from you know I thought that you have around minimalism or you know something that like utility I'm gonna get out of it and I click on it and within the first five seconds I'm getting Exactly what I thought I was getting and it's like digestible enough for me to finish the entire video and then actually want to share it Because I think I just got what I asked for right? Yeah, so that's just like best practices as a content creator to think about the title and thumbnail Yeah, right because like you know you are very straightforward with like title thumbnail and you click on it First five seconds you it is what you clicked on and then you watch to the end If you weren't doing that it would be doing a disservice to your content and to the people who are watching so I think it is good to think about it Yeah, yeah, somebody asked me because I talked a lot about making meaningful content which is just a way Saying be thoughtful about what you're creating and that's really all it takes I mean it also then act with good intentions, but like if I I put a lot of extra thought and I like what like you guys do Put a lot of thought well, what should I title this is that click baiti does that feel like it's manipulative like is somebody actually Getting the value that I say that they're gonna get out of this video And you can get away with a lot, but I try not to and I'm like all right Just really need to be mindful that this People know what they're getting out of it and that they actually are gonna get some kind of value and like Value can be it could just be funny it could just be a sketch or it could be so I try to include both of them in a lot of the videos that I make which is like I'll just make stupid dumb jokes and then all I always want to back it up like I think the one video I did was Living with a non minimalist which was me and my girlfriend just like how we live together She's not a minimalist at all and I am and it just started out with this idea of doing a sketch of me Opening up being like hey guys, so I want to tell you a little bit about how we live together There's a minimalist it all starts with timing So I wait until Natalie falls asleep and then like I put headphones over her ears and just brainwash her with all these Minimalism ideas and I was like, oh, that'd be a funny little sketch to make But then I was like I can't just leave it as a sketch. I need to actually Deliver some kind of value so then after that it would transition into like us talking about our relationship And like the things that we get out of it Because you want your audience not to just like I'm not trying to create popcorn I want to create something that people actually feel fulfilled and sure learn something by the end of it What advice would you give to people who want to start vlogging specifically and not exactly like a practical How to guy like by this camera by this might do this do that, but like what's like the overall ethos that they should be following? I would say I have a plan before you go into it because if you don't You'll just be looking at life and getting stressed about what you're filming and what you're not filming and what's happening and what's not happening Right, but if you really have an intention and a plan for what's gonna happen the next day and you understand What the value would be to an audience member? Then it's really easy for you to go throughout your day or it's a lot easier to go throughout your day and Make sure you're you're hitting the points of your plan I think on that definitely on that side for sure have have some sort of plan in understanding But additionally like if you if you say to yourself man, I want to be a vlogger. I want to put myself on camera It's something you have to do every day You don't have to put it out every day, but you have to do it every day So that might be like okay, I want to talk to my cell phone and you know put up an Instagram story and Say something to an audience I got to do that every day and then I can graduate to talking to a camera and then I can watch the footage every night of how I talk to a camera I told the story how I did this vlog and then I can finally when I'm comfortable I can put it up and get some feedback and then I can do it all over again Because it's the same way of being an athlete or going to the gym like it's reps It's just doing it a lot a lot of people comments on our videos or send us a question like hey, I'm so uncomfortable on camera I don't think I could ever become a vlogger. How do I how do I do this and it's like well Yeah, I was super uncomfortable too when I first started and I'm still sometimes uncomfortable, but I do it all the time And when you do something over and over and over again you get better at it It's like a pretty Simple equation, so I think like that's we have so many tools to tell stories to a camera now You have one in your pocket at all times and Just practicing that and understanding that it doesn't have to come out and you can watch it and refine it before you're ready Someone asked us what last week did a collaboration with an artist from Instagram and he said like what do people Under estimate about your about you guys or about your creative process and for me It's like I think people underestimate how much content doesn't come out There's a lot of our content that has stayed on hard drives or just hasn't come out or has changed or we've recorded a video and caught it together and looked at it and been like Want to like that or do it again and then we do it again or we don't put it out and we change the idea and we do something different and like So much of the process is just doing it over and over and over and over again Yeah, the more you get to know your audience the easier that vlogging will become right because if you're staring into a camera There's no like personality to that camera. You don't know like who that person is on the other end But the more you actually put out content and you read the comments and you see how people are reacting to the things that you're saying The more you'll know how to speak to that camera because that camera will build a personality around it What stops people from creating from making the first video or their first taking their first photo I think too much of a broad concept of of what it means to be creative So what I mean by that is when we have was in film school Every assignment we had had restrictions around it, right? It was like I remember one assignment specifically was like a five-minute long take and so we had to create a film That was a five-minute long take or it was like all right you have to make something with no sound or you have to make something with In black and white, so when you have restrictions it becomes a lot easier to create So if no one's gonna give you restrictions you have to create guidelines yourself and say okay I'm gonna I'm gonna create something and it's gonna be about food and then you're like all right So now I need to figure out how I'm gonna shoot this thing around food But it's I think the biggest thing about like the biggest barrier to entry and creativity is just not having a prompt or an idea or like a You know restrictions or guidelines around what you want to create when you're just free to create anything like everybody Everybody talks about like you need to make consistent content and and I do agree that that's important But for you guys and how how you're creating specifically what's too much? What's too little when you when you're thinking about your YouTube channel? I think for us we we kind of spam between two different thoughts on that it's either We're gonna go daily and make sure that our audience knows we're there every day and if we're not Then we need to have a schedule and make sure we're communicating exactly when they can expect our content even if that's once a week Currently we're not going daily and we're not communicating our schedule So that's something that we work on is is you know making sure that moving forward We can communicate exactly when you can watch you mentioned Matt that like communication in any partnership or relationship is really important And what you understand when you create an online brand or start creating content online is that you're in a relationship with the audience And so you have to communicate to them when you're gonna release content and so that could be like every for every Monday at 5 p.m. this comes out or you can expect my podcast every Tuesday But you have to communicate to them what they can expect from you otherwise there's no trust There's no you know communication you can't build a healthy relationship with the audience Yeah, and I think it's it's important to start that from the very beginning even when there is no audience because Sometimes when if you're just starting out it is consistency feels Not as important in that sense because you're like well like nobody is expecting or waiting to hear from me every Wednesday From from my podcast, but there's other benefits of that as well as like the one is Like you said you keep working on something you keep getting better at it So if you force yourself to be consistent, you're gonna get better at that which you create But then eventually when you do build that audience they'll grow to expect your content weekly You also put a restriction around it and restrictions really encourage creativity I get something out every Wednesday Okay, now I all of a sudden have a prompt. I have to create a podcast by Wednesday It's a mini deadline. It's a deadline every week. Yeah, and that's I think is the hardest thing for a freelance creative or someone who's trying to grow a brand It's like I could create anything and it could come out whenever and that's super hard to do Yeah, I would say even if you have a small audience as well pay a lot of attention to that audience like whatever audience you do have Use them to to understand how you would operate if you had a huge audience Right, so you want to like really cater your content to that small community because they will be your advocates and Tell their friends, right and they're a great sample for you to start building and testing and understanding how would I Act if I had a million subscribers and rather than focusing on Audience growth focus on giving your current audience the best experience like you can possibly give them Because they they will carry you right they will carry your message they will Push people to your platform if they get really passionate about you and And they're like that relationship between you and the few people who are watching your content in the beginning It's the most important. Don't look at you know audience growth. It will happen over time If you're really building a deeper relationship with your current audience Yeah, that's one thing that frustrates me about certain agencies What will all they focus on is getting new clients Versus taking care of the clients they have or if I even look at something as subtle as when I go to login to say dropbox or some Another online software app is it easier for the user that's always coming there every data login or are they Designing it so then it's the person that they're trying to acquire and for most of most people They're just trying to acquire a new user So it's not like the sign in button is on the top right and it's super tiny versus like big like new members sign up here And I always think like they're not designing this experience for people that use it every day Which is super bizarre. I mean and just because people get swallowed up in that corporate structure of like Got to make more money got to grow every quarter. You know, we have a poor the director is that needs to see results and that's I think one of the downsides of You know Growing into a big organization or like scaling too quickly. Yeah. Are there any business tools that you guys use like if you are that tools or Certain strategies I guess like that have helped you guys the most with what you're creating Whether it's an app that schedules your social media posts or something a feature on a plugin on YouTube or a Feature on YouTube that really helps you guys other things that come out We are like wow our life would be would would be way more difficult if we didn't have these I think we make our life more difficult But not using those tools. Yeah, I think we could totally use a lot of tools to support us so I don't yeah, I don't know that we You know use any of those. I think like we'll use male-chimp, which is great But we could be using a lot more Well, one thing you guys definitely use that you may not even think about is like the end of your videos You'll put up like the subscribe button to actually click. Yeah, do you think that makes? I actually don't do that. Do you think that makes a big difference in terms of conversions? Actually don't tell us that you don't think it does. I don't think it's good to have it there It's like good practice, but I actually don't think I think you need to actually like say to your audience Like please go subscribe and do this Hopefully you've built that trust of them so that they'll do it. Yeah, I think your call to action is is the thing And it's like it's a button that represents that action, but just reiterating the call to action of like hey subscribe to the channel I've been more than simplifying that front where I used to do three calls to actions Where it's just like different like oh somebody you might like this for behind the scenes Or you might like this if you like podcasts or whatever Where now I'm like maybe I should just focus on one and then I'll probably have You know a better conversion on just that one push what about in your personal lives? I just downloaded this app called freedom Which is like a social media app that essentially It's funny that you have to download an app to make you more free Right, but it's kind of what you said about like moment. It's it's this app that Essentially shuts down your social media for hours and you can set a timer so you're like all right from After the next three hours don't let me open Twitter Facebook Instagram anything like that Oh, wow. Yeah, I don't I don't have that app, but I probably will be down there. Yeah, me too It's it's really interesting. Yeah, and what so I've just locks you out of these apps. You can't click on it Yeah, and then click on it and it just doesn't even open yeah, I had a friend amazing Entrepreneur who's just gone on to launch and and sell bunch of businesses But one thing he did I was sitting with him at a coffee shop and he showed me If you typed Facebook.com into his browser It redirected to a Google Doc of his life goals What and I thought that was amazing because he was like anytime I'm possibly gonna get distracted Redirects me to show me how lofty my life goals are and that going on Facebook's not gonna help me do that that is so good I love that yeah, I love that and that is something I believe in just like remembering Your dreams and and what you're trying to achieve because I think you know calling and I we talk about a life that we imagine And the dreams we have and I've had these dreams since I was a little kid and like I want to achieve Certain goals when it comes to creating content and making films and They're all possible if I'm willing to Put in the time and the effort into it and there's so many distractions around you and it's so challenging to block them out and sometimes You need help to do that. Yeah, you have to create systems for yourself to Actually block those out and remind you what you're trying to do Especially when it feels like years have gone by and you have made minimal progress towards those goals And I think you're catching us at a time when we're creating or we're consuming a lot more than we're creating We're launching on new platforms and you know, we we're really active on Twitter now But I find that now I have another social media app that I'm consuming tons of content on that I'm not sure it's really benefiting and helping me reach our goals Right, so we're in this time when we're trying to figure out how to limit some of our consumption I think that's keys that they're writing down of what you actually want and putting on paper putting it in a Google doc Whatever it is For me it was I wrote out a bucket list and I just wrote on it Make a documentary about something I really care about and that was six months before we started making minimalism before the idea even came up And it you know, I don't I don't I don't necessarily believe in the secret But like I think that there is something about putting your intentions down and like for me then that just became a real thing And then I was like and that for a lot of all those ones and I didn't do Most of them some of them were just like random shit I was like I'm trying to think of a way to fill up a list and then but that one just stuck out to me I was like I got it like I got to make that happen and then I'm actually doing it again now If you see over your shoulder here, I've got a photo of the rock You guys are worried about this following this yeah, yeah, yeah, so It's a my big Crazy impossible goal. I think everybody needs to have just goals that people think are insane would never work In a million years because that that one in a million shot if it does pay off just how fucking cool Totally yeah, and most people aren't like I haven't seen anybody I was trying to get the rock on their podcast so I think I'm the only person that is really going to this Lank to try to get him on I had one huge win One crazy win which was he tweeted it back at me. I don't know if you saw that one Yeah, that was like that was a crazy day. Yeah, I was like Yeah, like it's weird because like you know in my head I'm like, oh, I'm gonna play cool I'll be totally cool like if you know, I get connect to the rock. Hey, what's up man? Like yeah, and then I'm like when I saw him tweet at me. I was like I was like fan-girling Yeah, and then I calm down Yeah, I was like just keep your shit together man. This is embarrassing But that's like part of the fun and like I was so naive in the very beginning and I was like well, I hope it Quickly and comes on my podcast right away Because I'm like I want this to be a journey and now it really is it's been a year in progress Haven't talked about on the podcast and all the while in a little while so I'm curious if you guys have any advice for me You guys have done a couple similar things where it's like meat yes theory in 24 hours Do kind of these crazy big ideas What advice would you give me for for landing the rock on the podcast? Oh man we had just I mean Okay, so meeting Casey nice that for for us like for me Watching Casey since you know before started the YouTube channel in 2011 again like watching the way he did branded content That's everything I wanted to do right and it's like just like so much of of watching how he operated His life and his YouTube channel. I was like this is this is why I want to go on YouTube This is what I want to do and we finally had an opportunity in in Jersey in the garden state. Yeah, beautiful place To spend what 20 seconds with him. Yep. That's all that video. Yeah, it's amazing and we basically like Just like verbally verbally exploded Everything we could say about ourselves in 25 seconds. He did not speak For the 20 seconds until the tail end We spoke for all of it and just talked about ourselves Didn't say anything else and 20 seconds from the time that he finished his speech to the time you walked out the door Spoke the whole time and then at the end you just said congrats on all your success like that's great guys And we're like what did we just do yeah like we Here's a guy that you know we look up to and that he you know really inspired a lot of our goals and our our mission and we got to meet him and we just talked about ourselves and I think my advice to you would be like you know Really start to think about like what what do you want to get out of this interaction because I think for me Selfishly it was like validation I wanted to like tell him all the things I had done and the successes We had had and just have him look at me and be like wow you're the you're the next big thing You're amazing but when he left and he said something like that like wow congrats on your success Both of us were like we felt so empty it was like that wasn't That's not what we were looking for just like hey, thanks like we've been really inspired by your content and the things that you've been doing like it's really helped us And so really understanding like personally what do you what do you want out of that interaction with the rock Because at the end of the day, it's just it's a guy right it's a guy who Has done a lot of really Inspiring things and something about him is connecting with you on some level But interacting with him like when you interact with him what is it? What is that you want out of that interaction And I don't think I was clear on that when when we met KC at all that was the realest advice that I've got That question yet, but I think that actually gets to the heart and of the only way this would ever be a success If you focus on the why like why do I truly want to sit down with the rock and there's a reason and there has been from the beginning And it's You know the more you do it the more you get into it. You're just like what are these crazy ideas and like that's part of it like To come up with these far-fetched ideas make every phone call you can to get a hold of him But never losing sight on the why like why do I want the rock on my podcast? Yeah, and I think for us like when as time went on like we wanted to meet the guys from yesterday Primarily because we were just like wow these guys are amazing at telling stories They're like really good content creators and they live right here in Venice and they live really close to us So we feel like we should be connected with them and we did it the only way we knew how which was like Make a video about it and they really you know they were they're awesome guys. They they were Really you know energized by by the concept and you know invited us over to their place to close out our video We met them and I think we we really understood what it was like to meet someone that you You were inspired by After meeting Casey and going through a couple other Similar things like that and Today we're like super close with them. We make videos with them. We get coffee and lunch and learn things from them and like we have an authentic relationship with those guys and it's awesome and they're creatives in our You know hometown guys like you you're you're a guy that we really inspired by and we we look up to when it comes to Content creation and and branding and like being able to sit down and have a conversation that's just like Normal and and grow into a real relationship you start to like learn a lot about that about you know If you feel like you're playing at at a at a at a certain level and there's people and in I guess it we're doing similar things like there's there's ways to authentically connect and not like Trying to get something out of them or you know have them take you to the next level. I don't know Yes, that's that's what I would say is that we really learned how to authentically connect with people that we wanted to connect with Yeah, and I get more excited about these kind of connections people that are at a similar place to me Yeah, then I do about like landing the big interviews and getting the people that are super well Stablish and have millions of followers or subscribers are have been doing it for 10 years because I'm like there's more opportunity for Just friendship collaboration to be able to connect and build a relationship from there and then also like I see this a lot with with comedy like stand-up comics Like a lot of people would want to be friends with those that are super established but like when you get into it You're working and and hanging out with people every day who are at the same tier as you like everybody's struggling and then when somebody makes it or has a big hit They bring their friends and the people that worked with them along the way and I think that's because that's what everything is Right, it's all about the relationships that you build along the way if you're just doing it yourself It wouldn't be as fun and that's all stems back to like asking why I think you talked about it and unstuck about journaling You know, I always knew that it was important to write things down But I didn't fully understand what I was doing And now I I write in a notebook all the time and most of it is to like sort out my thoughts about why I'm even doing what I'm doing with my time Like why why do I wake up in the morning and and create videos for a living or you know to try and make that my career Why am I trying to make this my career and really? You know unraveling that and being like, okay I do this because I enjoy bringing an idea to life I enjoy connecting with others and so when you call and says this all time and I'll let him talk about it more But like just finding the thing that you want to do whether you made money doing it or not and then trying to make that your career Understanding why you're doing all this makes for more authentic relationships when you meet other people doing the same thing Yeah, I think the only way you find success and making videos is through longevity and the only way There's longevity and what you're doing is if you enjoy it So I always try and ask myself as I'm going through these processes. Is this something I've been enjoying and hand in hand with that is Am I connecting with people in real life because For me like that's what I'm trying to do. I'm trying to create a community around myself In real life through content creation. I think it's one of the best ways to do it the fact that we're even here talking right now We live in the same city. We've been able to meet yes theory We've had tons of creators come through our office and our studio and it's totally enriched our lives over the past two months to have that be a part of our lives Man, you would never expect where you could go with something and we're so early into this thing too Like I started Taking this seriously and just doing a original content maybe a year a year and a half ago is when I had the inkling of an idea to start it and like I'm like Just you just blow yourself away with your like holy shit like I thought in the beginning like that I was at the end of my story You're right or like I You know because in in every way you are but like you really you're you're just getting started out This is you know, it could go anywhere and oh yeah people try to put together a plan like where I'm gonna be in five years Where do you see yourself like dude? I can't even see what see where I'm gonna be a year from now let alone five years Yeah, I have the same answer to that question tons of people say like what's the five-year plan? What are you trying to do in five years and my answer is always I just want to do more of what I like doing and less of what I don't And if I'm doing that in five years then I'm pretty happy That's great. That's a great point to move to quick questions whoa rapid fire questions Oh my god questions with Matt sponsored by Skittles Taste the ring though Like back it up Yeah, that sounds really good maybe someone from Skittles is listening I had band-aid hit me up That was a big win. That is a band-aid band-aid You can't argue against band-aid Like I'm like band-aid band-aid Yeah, like band-aid's a huge brand. Yeah, it was massive They're creating these like things like band-dates for your fingers so you don't touch the screen I don't know exactly. I don't think it's gonna catch on. I think it's just a read Yeah, yeah, that was amazing. That was amazing. That was amazing. That was amazing. Yeah, that was amazing. Yeah, that was amazing. Yeah, that was amazing. Yeah, it really felt like he's telling us the story in the moment Yeah, but he actually does it on every podcast. Oh wow No, I mean, I've been just saying blank it now to everything at this point Just because I'm not ready to bring that in but I eventually will You know, I've heard you know, I think that you need to wait until a certain period in your growth whether it's on the podcast or the YouTube channel where you have the time for it and it also makes sense like I'm like, I'm not doing this to just Straight by like, you know what I mean? I don't want to just scrape by for the next five to 10 years and just barely pay my bills Like I want to flourish and be able to hire other people and really execute on crazy big ideas and to do that You need some capital and some money to make it happen. So for me, I'm like, oh, maybe I'll just wait a year or so or at least Enough time that I'm like ready to Get a decent return on yeah, but like that this product is also super clean, right? Like there's not many brands that are involved in it. There's none really your content super clean from the video perspective So you could potentially have a distributed elsewhere in different formats later on what do you mean like if you look at like the Off-camera show, right, which is a YouTube channel podcast. It was bought by Netflix Right, there's no exclusive window with YouTube content like it's not exclusive to the platform and if it's clean Some of like Netflix could buy it in a different packaging Totally possible. I mean you could take this show you're filming it, too, right? So this show could be you could add like maybe little hosted sections or voiceover in between each interview and it could be like an eight episode series about like almost like abstract That's an idea. Yeah, we got an idea there we go right it down. There you go Cool, thanks for that. I love this is the thing I love about this podcast. I just get free advice every week It's super well invoice you it's not We saw it happen with skittles and yeah I quick questions you don't dance them quick, but you just answer him however you want I need really need to catch raise This is the opportunity for like a jingle yeah, right? All right now we're at the point in the podcast We're we're to quick rabbit fire with Matt DJ dude All right, so what book has had the biggest impact on your guys lives Man in recently shoe dog What shoe dog Okay, yeah, story of Nike Story of the night yeah filming I'm helping from the ground. Is this a relatively new two years two years? Yeah amazing. Yeah, I mean like you want to get inspired about a life story like shoe dog is the book I recommend to everyone yeah, yeah, I would say also I know you read Seth Gauden or you have yeah, but the book that really pushed me to launch First company was called unleashing the idea virus It was just a really powerful book for me and it was super Accessible it was really short and like just the way he wrote it and the way he talked about how ideas could spread mixed with what was happening online in the opportunity to just release an idea to bunch of people that for me was like it just pushed me to do it. Yeah, I think every creative needs to pick up like at least three Seth Gauden books for sure Because he just has so much along each part of the journey and like because obviously, you know We give the best advice we can give in our circumstances But people are faced or having different challenges at any moment in their career where a book like the dip We tell you more about when to give up and when to keep going and it makes you also realize You know you have this excitement before a project and you only think it's like unique to you and you're passionate And you're drive and it's like before every project everybody gets super excited and it's like can you stick through it when the times are not going so well Yeah, he's just been on top of the game for a long time. He also has a great Mailer Is that his every day. Oh, really super short. Is it his blog post basically? Yeah, but it's like it's so short and tech space Which makes it like viral and nature because you want to forward it to someone like I forward so many to call on even though he subscribes to I get the mailer Yeah, I see it every day and I still forward it to him because I just have to like emphasize See these points. It's like two or three sentences So he understands like all stuff that you're like I kind of already knew that But it's really good to hear it again. I think he really understands like What it takes to get someone's time and how important how how like you actually if you're asking to be in someone's email in box Are you asking them to watch a video or you're asking them to look at an Instagram post? You are Pulling them in for a certain amount of time that they otherwise would be somewhere else And you have to provide a lot of value in a short amount of time Seth go to this podcast is brought to you What one skill have you guys leveraged in a way that you think others haven't me specifically? I would say a Designing like graphic design in a very short amount of time Well, yeah, your guys design shit is on point just in terms of pressure on that and the animation stuff, too It's really good. That's all that's all calling and I think just together as like a team We understand the value of of branding something like giving it a name Like this is called the ground up show and it's like much easier to communicate to someone like hey You should check out his show. It's called the ground up show and then you go to it has a graphic. It's like You're building IP with it So I think a lot for me a lot of that came from like understanding the clothing business and being like okay Either we're creating clothes for other people and under their brand which is kind of like a service business Or we're gonna build some sort of intellectual property that we own that can then You know sell down the line or be super valuable that it's like something we own So when we create shows like Colin has this crazy skill set of being able to design super fast and and Brand things in a way where they feel like they're You know premium and they're they're show and they're wrapped in this packaging and people can talk about them because they have a name and a brand and a logo And that makes it easier for us to like build It's also like that element is such a great way to tell stories and you guys use it a lot in your videos Where if you'll just say and then we said yes, and then it's just like just beautiful type phase with like a nice Simple background But like you said it's got a premium feel to it and like When you're a filmmaker a creative entrepreneur whatever it is like you need to have a bunch of different skills to be able to get by and the more of these that you have The I think easier it's gonna be to be able to tell your story and look professional and look premium So nice job on the design When you guys happiest I'm happiest when I have people around me that I enjoy being around it and people that I enjoy creating new things with Whether that's like experiences or content. I'm gonna give you two answers one one I think I'm happiest when an idea Finally comes to life So like if we have an idea for a video and then the second we press publish that's like the coolest for me because it's something that did not exist And it just came from our like minds and then all of a sudden it exists So that's like for me that drives me every day. I want to do that for the rest of my life like come up with ideas and then have them come to life And I think second happiest is probably when I'm with someone Who I enjoy having conversation with and I'm having a coffee and having conversations So I told my girlfriend this morning when I was leaving She was like yeah, I have a great day and I was like this is probably one of my favorite types of days Like I'm gonna go drive over to the sky's house who's gonna make a cup of coffee and we're gonna talk about ideas So that's like the two times when I'm at my happy. That's a good look into our days as well That a lot of times we'll get together and get a coffee in just like hour hour and a half Just talk and some of it's about the business that we're doing and some of it's not yeah I think you need some of that just unstructured time where I do this a lot with my sister Where we'll just you know be on the phone for like an hour or two hours We both started out freelancing around the same time and just kind of bouncing ideas off of each other And it's like you know that other person's story You know where they're at and they're career and it's just like it's so helpful to be able to To bounce certain ideas around and figure out the direction you want ahead because I feel that we're always shaping it in the moment We're always figuring out what should we be doing next? Yeah, there's so much uncertainty there A couple more questions here. What is the simplest advice? That's the most important to follow Probably just be empathetic I would say like I spent a lot of my life not fully Investing time trying to understand someone else and expecting people to understand me And I think the simplest advice would be like Really try and understand someone else because it will make your communication a lot easier I'll make you also understand How much you have control over in the world and how much you don't have control over And that makes life a lot simpler. I guess when you really can Focus on understanding other people and not trying to change things and change people I would say hand in hand to trying to understand yourself better like taking a step back. I think that's something that Working with Samira and some other like people that we've worked at out here is really taught me that like you should take a step back and look at yourself and Understand why you do certain things and like just really take the time for yourself to learn and become a better person Great and Second of last question what one thing should people read watch or listen to before they go to bed What's the what's the thing that's going to inspire them to Change if you got to go for it. This is a old piece that we watched in 2012 called press pause play. Oh It's good one and it's really what inspired us to realize how powerful the world was that we were entering into The fact that you could be a musician and sit in your bedroom and Become a professional musician or be a video creator and sit in your bedroom become a professional video creator and for me That was like the most unbelievable thing to watch was like Evalidated for what we were doing for for a time where we had zero validation external validation He was a Vimeo documentary that came out that was like This hour long piece about Random people around the world who had made careers out of being creative on the internet and it was Early it was 2012 it was the first time I was like, okay, I can do it to Wow press pause play. Yeah, I'm sure if you just search press pause play. It's like available on Vimeo Yeah, it's still on yeah, it's really old, but it's a check out Yeah, and we that's we we hit over two hours. I think that's the first time I did two hour podcast Yeah, it's been two hours. Yeah, two hours and five minutes. Oh my goodness record Breaking podcast. Yeah record breaking podcast. I'm pretty sure that's the first time so Congratulations, I wish I had a prize or something. I actually emailed you though before they're saying like we tend to be long Winnie Yeah, yeah, we we try and avoid that, but it just happens. No, I like it. I mean, that's the format actually I try to keep most of them shorter it just depends on how how Overwhelmed or busy I am with other stuff. I'm doing where I'm like, oh, I need to dedicate more time over here So I probably shouldn't do it to our podcast. It's gonna take twice as long to edit this thing and export it and everything else But it was very glad to go the distance with you guys here today If you could where should people find you online? Where's the place to go best place? Would be YouTube.com slash colon and some air You can check us out. I mean colon and some areas are handle across the board Twitter We have one on Instagram as well. We can find us separately on Instagram as well If you go to our YouTube channel you find it all call in and some air.com If you're into that too. Awesome. Thanks for doing the show guys. Thanks for having us Hope you guys like the podcast. This one was over two hours long. I'm not gonna bore you with a very long outro Just want to say thank you so much for listening and thank you for watching your support means the world to me and I'll see you next week
