# The Secret to Superhuman Performance
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kj1hLFSORTQ
Go to http://dashlane.com/matt to get a 30 day free trial of Dashlane to try it yourself. If you like it, use the coupon code "matt" at checkout for 10% off. Thanks to Dashlane for sponsoring this video!

🙊 Here are the goods I mention in this video:
(Some are affiliate links. All are my genuine recommendations): 
The Future Is Faster Than You Think by Steven Kotler: https://amzn.to/2UQpDaH

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** peak performance, flow, the flow state, human optimization, learning, grow, self-help, self-discovery, self-development, Matt D'Avella, Steven Kotler, mental performance, human performance, how to improve performance, flow state, 
**Date:** 2020-01-21

## Transcript
 For most of the 20th century, the idea about peak performance was what we now call the 10 percent brain myth. It's the idea that we're only using a small portion of our brain, say 10 percent, at any one time. So, peak performance must be the full brain on overdrive, right? And it turns out we had it absolutely back where flow requires all this extra energy for focus. So, where does it come from? The brain shuts off non-critical structures and says, ah, you don't need this right now. The turn it off and give you that extra energy for attention. So in flow, we're not actually using more of the brain, we're using less of the brain. What does it really take to reach your full potential? To use your limited resources of time, energy, and attention to do what you thought was previously impossible. Now, while this topic is typically relegated to science fiction dramas, the truth is actually much simpler than you might imagine. According to author and journalist Stephen Kotler, it begins with one word, flow. It's technically defined as an optimal state of consciousness, where we feel our best to a performer best, and more cloquently, right? It's any of those moments of raft, attention, total absorption. It's so focused on what you're doing, and everything else just vanishes. For Stephen, the journey into uncovering the powerful effects of flow on human performance started out of all places back in the 90s when he became fascinated with the rise of action sports. On the inside was so puzzling, it was, first of all, it was the obvious, like, more impossible feats got done in a 7 to 8, 9, 10 year period than ever before, and it was being done in action sport. And this was, you know, in scenes, the rules that have been in place since the beginning of sports, like, don't do this or you'll die, or be in bro kind of like daily basis. And you're like, what the hell is going on? If a B was, the action sport athletes, if you go back to the 1990s, this is a punk rock, rowdy, a reverent bunch of people without a lot of effort. And a lot of money, a lot of vacation, most of them can cracky childhoods, and yet here they are right on a semi-regular basis, redefining one's what's possible. So that was, like, amazingly fascinating. And this race is a pretty basic question that the heck is going on. And what did he notice about these rebellious few who were putting their lives and limb on the line every day? Moments of wrapped attention and absorption into the present moment. Flow. This might not be that surprising to you. It's common knowledge that those who compete in daring and risky sports don't have a whole lot of time to think about what they're doing. They're instincts come in, they lock into the zone, and they just do what they need to do. It's how you hit a 95 mile per hour, fastball, catch up 100 foot wave, and climb a mountain without any But what's even found is that the flow state is a much more common human experience than you might think, and it could potentially change everything about your work and life. In fact, the flow state has been observed for much of modern history, from philosophers to psychologists, from Friedrich Nietzsche to Abraham Maslow. The peak experiences came from many, many things, many triggers. Once I tried to generalize them as anything that moves, anything that comes close to perfection. The research into this phenomenon grew over the course of the 20th century until the 1970s when Mihai cheaks at Mihai, first coined the term. So many of the people described this as a spontaneous flow that I called this type of experience, and it's even took his research from action sports into every other field imaginable. He found something interesting. What enabled these athletes to enter a state of peak performance, shattering records, and doing the seemingly impossible, was also true of pretty much everybody performing at a high level in almost every creative discipline, from filmmakers, to engineers, designers, and architects. Whenever you see an increase in performance, you almost always see an increased time in flow. And the research into the topic is pretty staggering. Beconsy to the 10 years study, they found that motivation, productivity can go up 500 percent in flow, 500 percent. Creativity, and this is worked on at the Flow Research Collective. Some was done at the University of Sydney, some was done at Harvard. We see creativity, spike 400 to 700 percent. Learning, depending on whose numbers you're going by, the Department of Defense did some work. They found learning spikes 230 percent in flow. Other studies were done where they were taking novice marksman and training them up to the expert level in 50 percent less time in flow. Cooperation collaboration, go through the roof, empathy, and ecological awareness, which is your ability to perceive the natural world, go through the roof. And I think most importantly, and we know this really clearly is one of those clearest findings in psychology in the history of psychology is the people with the most flow in their lives are the people who score off the charts consistently for overall well-being life satisfaction, meaning and happiness. So if forget peak performance, you want life satisfaction, meaning happiness, well-being just simple like I want to enjoy my life, this is the best pathway. And now here's the most important part to remember. While Flow tends to happen naturally when we're performing certain tasks, it is also highly trainable. Meaning there are systematic ways in which we can enter a flow state to get all those benefits Steven just mentioned. How do you drive focus in the present moment? One of the big ways you do it is you release dopamine, right? Dopamine is a lot of different things in the brain. One of the things that does this is a focusing drug. And there are five different flow triggers that are all dopamine triggers. So risk produces dopamine. Whenever we take a risk, we get dopamine, dopamine is how the brain fires us up for taking that risk. Whenever we encounter novelty, we get dopamine complexity, preuses dopamine, unpredictability, preuses dopamine, and so does pattern recognition, which is the linking of ideas together. These triggers are what make it possible to quickly and effectively enter a state of flow, which makes it no wonder why those action sport athletes were able to get there. Through each of these gravity defined tricks, you're seeing multiple neurological strings being pulled from complexity to unpredictability and risk. And it's totally individual, right? Shy woman just has to walk across the bar and introduce herself to, you know, the guy, she's interested in to pull this trigger, right? Lared Hamilton, he's got a surf 100 foot wave, so it's very, very, very individual. So before you go out and buy a surfboard, understand that these triggers can be applied in the most simple ways in your daily life. Even the very act of changing your environment could be enough. Now that these are really simple one, right? I spent a lot of time reading textbooks these days, which is not the most exciting thing to do. I always go someplace new because I want the novelty because it's going to produce dopamine, which is going to tighten focus and, you know, hopefully drive me into flow while I'm reading but one way or another when you get more dopamine and your system learning rates go up as a general role. So going and doing my homework basically, the hard stuff I've got to do to do my job, just in different coffee shops that I would not normally go to, that just that little bit of novelty is enough. One key takeaway that I got from my time would Steven comes down to my own writing process. So a large part of what I do requires writing and one of the most difficult things to face as a writer is a blank page. The solution, instead of starting each morning by expecting my brain to be ready to tackle this difficult task, I instead begin by editing something I've already written. Edit it. Oh, this isn't the right word here. This would be a better word. That's pattern recognition. So it's packed with flow triggers and there's less pressure. I'm not facing a blank page. I'm facing the page I wrote yesterday. Never time I started to notice pattern from getting a little bit dopamine a little bit of dopamine. And so by the time I get to the blank page, right, when I have to actually start creating out of nothing, well, I'm already close to there. Through this one simple change, I've already started to see some impressive results. How you might implement these tactics into your own life might be completely different. So you're going to need to experiment, investigate, try this out for yourself and see what really works for you. But before you close out of this video, I suggest you scan over those five flow triggers again and brainstorm some ways in which they might apply best to your life. Navilty, complexity, unpredictability, pattern recognition. What are some ways that you could use them to creatively prime your brain to enter a state of flow? It's funny. People don't love them. Like, oh, novelty is telling me to go to a different coffee shop or the challenge skills. Like, they're not sexy at all. They're just basic biology. They're really, pretty simple. And they're really minimal. And most people don't like them. For that reason, they want something fancy. They want the substance. They want the technology. They want the complicated because, but it doesn't actually have to be that way. And I like, like, I like these psychological triggers cause they're so minimal. And as you go off and figure out how to hack your mind to become superhuman, I encourage you to protect your online information to prevent your accounts from getting literally hacked. That's why I'm excited to bring on a new sponsor to this channel Dashlane. Now, there was a time when I was absolutely careless with my passwords, like when I used the password password. But now with Dashlane, I can store all my unique passwords, payments, and personal information, and finally be confident that they're all protected. And so Dashlane on all your devices. After you log in, your user names and passwords will all fill. Keep your notes and documents secure. And even get monitoring and breach alerts. Go to dashlane.com slash mat to get a 30-day free trial of Dashlane to try it out for yourself and see what you think. If you like it, use the coupon code mat at checkout for 10% off. If you don't currently have a system to protect all of your passwords, as well as your personal data like credit cards, I highly recommend you try Dashlane out. Thanks so much for watching, and I'll see you guys next time.
