# Ground Up 008 - Making Conscious Content w/ Elliott Ashby
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ktPpZn4_fSw
http://www.groundupshow.com

Elliott Ashby is a photographer, filmmaker and media personality, though he never intended to be behind the camera. When no one would give him a mic, he decided to create his own. Subscribe to The Ground Up Show:  http://www.groundupshow.com

Follow Elliott on Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/elliott_ashby

More from me:
Website:  https://www.mattdavella.com
Twitter: https://www.twitter.com/mattdavella
Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/mattdavella
Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/matthewdavella
**Keywords:** the ground up show, ground up, podcast, elliott ashby, matt davella, mattdavella, Matt D'Avella, filmmaker, filmmaking, photography, photographer, self-development, learn, learning, video, behind the scenes, 
**Date:** 2017-04-05

## Transcript
 When you put a lot of work into something, and then people aren't paying any attention to it. You know, it can be a little disappointing, but that's why you really have to make content for yourself. My guest this week is Elliott Ashbeat. He's a photographer, filmmaker, and media personality, though he never intended to pick up a camera. You know what, no one's going to give me a microphone, so I have to make my own microphone. I've got to make my own stage. Camera is open up a lot of doors. We talk about everything from travel to dealing with doubt and finding your audience. For me, that's like the key to doing it. I don't have to change it up, I don't have to be more like this guy or more like this show. I just have to be Elliott. We might also do some rapping for this episode as over. You're splitting bars. I'll spit a bar. And I'll spit a bar. I'll spit a bar. I'll spit a bar. I got one bar memorized. This is the ground up show. The common thread for this whole show is unconventional paths. People who are following, are very unconventional. Your path is pretty crazy. Yeah. And I want to go down that road. But for now, like tell me a little bit about what you've been doing and some of your recent work. Yeah. I've recently, I think that I'm most excited about. The thing that I want to tell everyone about is my web series. To start a web series, it's called I. Elliott. Because essentially, I'm taking people into my life story so they can see like what my life looks like. Behind the scenes, like, you know, people don't know the work that we do. Some of the places we go, you know, I could be on stage with shotgun or I could be in a room, making jokes with my Tyson. And this is all because I have a camera. Like cameras open up a lot of doors. They, you know, they become a key to open up a lot of doors for me. And so a lot of people seem to be curious about my life. And then before living in New York and doing all this camera stuff, I didn't do as much camera work. I was mostly on the microphone. So I was a radio DJ in South Korea for about three years. Also did some voice acting. Lesson one. Listen to the following conversation. Like. So I did voice acting. I did some commercial modeling. Also hosted some events out there. And so my life has been wearing a lot of different hats. And so here in New York, I mostly do event photography. So I'm like the dancing photographer. I'm the guy who's like taking pictures, but also really getting it in. You're like in the moment. Yeah, yeah, because a lot of times I like a lot of times I have to be in cognizant. So I want to be in the scene. I don't want everyone to see to see me or know that I'm there. And so a lot of times if I'm just there, vibing with the crowd. And also if a good song comes on, I'm sorry. I had to dance. Yeah, I feel the same way. I've done a lot of weddings. I don't have you ever done a wedding before. Yeah, yeah. I'm like, I'm the worst photographer. Because I'm dancing with the bride. And they start giving you drinks. Then it's like a whole other story. It's like, all right, I'm going to actually just be hanging out. Yeah, it's a ride. I'm just going to get weird. But yeah, that's so interesting about how if you have a camera. You can really get anywhere. And that would be so fun to just take a camera to random events and see if you could just get through the door. You probably could. Yeah, because there have been so many times and so many events that I've shot where nobody asked questions. I've got answers. The body guards. They just go through. When did you decide to start, like, as a recent making videos and putting yourself on camera. And, you know, doing the behind the scenes look, the eye of Elliot. Yeah, I guess from me, it was like, I started from wanting to be in front of the camera. There's a lot of photographers. They don't want any photos taken of them. I'm like, no, you can take pictures of me all day. Like, you'll have to stop me because I still keep posing. Yeah. Like, I'm all about it. And I know my angles. Yeah. Like, I know exactly what's going on. So, for me, I've always loved being in front of the camera. I love the microphone. So, you said, hey, you want to come talk? I was like, hey, I can talk for two hours. Yeah. I can talk for three. This is, hey, let me know. But, you know, I decided that basically when I was in Korea, I was doing a lot of talent work. When I came to New York, I was like, oh, I'll do a little bit of video and I'll do some talent work. But, you know, that was in the case. Everywhere I was, no one was handing me a microphone. Everyone wanted me to do camera work. So, it was like, can you be the photographer? Can you shoot video for me? And so, I was like, you know what? No one's going to give me a microphone. So, I have to make my own microphone. I've got to make my own stage. Otherwise, I'm just going to be, hey, camera guy. Can you get those lights over there? All right. Yeah. It's like, literally camera guy. Like, not even, not even my name. Yeah. Just, hey, you camera guy. Yep. And I was like, you know what? I have to actually get back to doing the work and I'm passionate about. So, I think when I first moved here, I've been here for three years in New York. But when I first moved here, I wanted to start this web series. And I had this concept of like this roundtable web series. I knew the conversations we're going to have. And I was really interested in moderating the conversation. Because I just loved dialogue. And I love bringing different types of people together. And the chaos of it. And so, I had all these ideas. And I invited a bunch of people over my house. And then, like, none of the camera people showed up. And I didn't know a lot of people at the time. So, I ended up filming it myself and it was this weird. And I was like, you know what? But it's still... I do. Oh, great. I do. But the conversation was rich. I was like, this works. And it was called Breaking Bread. And it's like, we eat, we talk, and then we have this conversation. And so, I was like, you know what? I don't really have the ability to make this happen right now. And so, I kept saying, next year, I'm going to do it. And then next year, I'm going to do it. And I was like, you know what, Elliot? It's a little bit harder to do this series because it requires the work and the help of other people. But what do you have right now? What's in your hand right now? It's like, you have an interesting apartment. Thanks to my roommate, who's also a filmmaker, Vincent Barty. He's got this interesting background of stuff that's in our apartment. And so, I was like, you know what? This is an interesting backdrop. I've got a camera. I edit. I can... I have natural light coming into the room. And I've got a couch. So, why don't I just go on my couch and talk? I can start there. Like, if that works and I know I have enough traction, and then I can graduate to the next level and start working on something bigger. But I realize you have to start where you are. A lot of times, like, I'm just like, you know, I want to, you know, I was trying to do a show like Oprah. And I'm like, okay, Elliot, calm down. Yeah. You're not Oprah right now. You're not Oprah ready, though. Just slow down. Pull it back. Yeah. So I was like, start with you talking on your couch. If you can get people watching you talking on your couch about your life, And then you have something. I had the same exact experience myself to be honest. When I first got into video, it was very much about... I wanted to be on camera. And I wanted to do sketch comedy. And I told you I did a little bit of a dabble with stand-up comedy in college. But I, and it's funny because I did a couple of parody rap videos back in the... This is the song. I want to say this is the dawn. What? Wait, wait, wait. You're like, I recognize you. Who did some parody rap videos? Yeah. I feel like we need to do some parody like rap. Yeah. So free stuff. Just remember that. We need to... Okay. Bring this into play. Yeah. So this was at the dawn of YouTube. Okay. This was back when parody rap videos. Like this was like a new thing. Back in the day. Yeah. I mean, before this, it was weird out. And that was the only parody rap videos. Yeah. And then there was a transition of where YouTubers started making them crazy. So this is 2006, 2007. And I made a parody rap video at the grocery store I worked at. It was... Have you heard of Superfresh or ANC? Yeah, man. There's a lot here. There's a lot here. I love it already. I've seen it. So yeah, it's called produce parody. And I haven't talked about it yet. This was like your home. I'm watching this. Oh man. It's so embarrassing dude. I'll tell you the original video had to get taken down. It was quite inappropriate. And my brother and I, he was in the video. My dad is the produce manager at the grocery store. He didn't. But the manager of the store fired us over the video that we posted. He could have used that to get some extra customers. Yeah. So here's the crazy part. Then I'm not going to get into the whole story because it's a long story. But then a week later, we got a call from a reporter from the 100nd Democrat. And he said he was going through some files and paperwork at the courthouse. And he found out the AP is sue in us for $7 million. This is the global chain. One of the biggest grocery stores in the country. And then he put a $7 million. $7 million. Just two broke college kids. And then he puts us on the front page of the paper. And then the next day, we got 15, 20 reporters calling us. We were on like CNN American morning and like all this time television. It was a really cool experience. Very stressful as well. But I'm not going to get into the whole story. But we eventually settled and everything worked out. And it was a very, for me, a very important learning lesson. They can't stop your shine. They can't stop. They can't stop. You got to keep going. But it was that was I wanted to be on camera. And then it just didn't work out. And like I just found if I want to make content. And I started to get paid to make videos as well. I'm like, I need to focus on this first. I need to get some money. So then I can actually pay rent and pay my college debt. That's a good idea. So I focused on that first. And then now this is finally where I'm like, maybe I can come back and start doing this. Yeah. It kind of goes in cycles. Like sometimes you just don't have like when I got to New York, I had to pay bills. And so I didn't have the ability to be like, hey, let's do a YouTube channel. Right. You know, I was doing that a little bit. And I was like, wait, I don't have time for this. I need to actually. And then I started editing videos. I'm nothing about editing. I was like, let me download this premiere business and figure out how this works. And with photography, I was like, what does this be like? And what's a, what's manual shooting? What is this business? Yeah. And so I had to figure all that stuff out. And so now I'm at a place where I have a little bit more time to explore. Some of the content that I want to make. But the parody rap video so funny to me because I had a parody rap video while I was in Korea. I was kind of joking around with the song by soldier boy. What is it? Superman? Crank that? Yeah. And so like when I got to Korea, it was insane for me. Because when I first got to the first thing that I noticed was at night time when everyone's party, you're coming back home from the party and there were drunk guys passed out on the street, just sleeping. And so I was like, this is crazy. And it wasn't one. It was like multiple. And it wasn't like they were homeless. They had business suits on. It's like this is the weirdest thing ever. And so I realized that it was a thing because in Korea, drinking is part of their party culture. And it's a very stressful culture where people are working more hours than anyone else recorded. So they need some type of release. They need something that allows them to de-stressed. And so alcohol was that thing for a lot of these people. And so you'd see a lot of businessmen laid out on the streets, passed out, and no one really bothered them. And I just thought that was so funny. And so they're number one drink. If it's Mexico, it'll be Tequila. But in South Korea, it's soju. So I made a song called Soju Boy. That's too good. So we made a song called Soju Boy. And like at first it had like, I don't know, 5,000 views, 10,000 views. And then one day I looked at the video. And it was like 50,000 views. I was like, I'm sorry. It was 10,000 yesterday. How is it 50,000? And someone's like, hey, your video is on the front page of Naver, which is like the biggest outlet in the country, a really popular website. So after that, I started getting a lot of like calls and responses. But then the company I work for was like, yo, saw your video. It's cool. But there is a reference to like our teachers in it. And there are a lot of people that work for the company in the video. So the name of the, the name of the company was Chengdam Institute. And so I put the Chengdam. What a bunch of A's. I thought it was different because it was Chengdam. Yeah. Chengdam dancers are crew or something. And so some kind of way they made the connection. They said somebody from a government called them and asked like, if I worked there. So me and you man, we'd be getting troubles. I know. These parody rap videos. The thing, the difference between the two of us, I've seen some of your videos. I haven't seen that one. Like you can actually wrap it up. If like, if you look back at this video from 2006, I think that I'm better now. I don't like, we're going to have to test it out before this, before this episode is over. You're spinning bars. I'll spit a bar. And I'll spit a bar. And I'll spit a bar. He's a bar. I got one bar memorized. He's got one bar. Yeah. Then my girlfriend here is every day. I'm just like randomly throw it out there. But dude, it's so bad to look back at that video. Like everything is like, I'm like, what was I doing? No, but that's what makes it good. Like it's good. It's like a bad joke. A bad joke is a good joke if it's done one. I don't think it worked out that way. I've got to see it. Yeah. So wait. So was it a parody or was it serious? Oh, man. It was parody. No. It was like lines like don't come up to me acting all rude, because I won't be afraid to pee in your food. That's great news. Yeah. So that's why. Wait. What was another good one? I don't do this for the girls I'm taking without produce. A BLT is just bacon. See? Tell me that's not next. Come on. I got to say that was my brother that wrote that. No, that was genius. You know, back in high school. I really wish that YouTube came in a different time. Because there's this guy named Michael McClellan. This really pale skinny Mormon kid. And he was just the funniest thing ever. So I kind of took him under my wing. So in high school, I was like, Dr. Dre. And he was like my Eminem. So I used to write lyrics for him. And then he would go around school, wrapping these lyrics to people. Like with the most bravada that he could. Yeah. And then at the end of it, after he wrapped you, be like, I'm your mom, dude. And people will be so confused. And he's your mom. You can't say anything. Like, you're not going to say anything. Just be respectful to your mom. Yeah. It was confusing. I'm going to see if I can take it some of those bars. So you can cut this however you want to cut this. Yeah. But I think the wrap that he used a lot was. My name is Mike MC. And you best be respected me. Because I'm time tight. Telling these five chickens and pigeons to get they mine. Right? Watch your back for future reference. Just to let you know, Mormon girls are my preference. These girls be asked to me to prom. Why? Well, so it just goes on and on. You said, let me see. Let me see if I can remember this. And then you just have no more wrap. My memory. Like I remember. I remember things I wrote when I was 13 years old. Wow man. Yeah. I remember like the first wrap. Pome. They don't have a rhyme scheme. Things that are hard to for for me to remember. Things that don't have a rhyme scheme. But rhymes are just constantly in my head. Yeah. Like I'm kind of wrapping to myself all the time. I don't really do much with it. But it's just the way that my brain likes to exercise. Yeah. So if I hear a word, I'm just like, okay. I like that cadence or how this balance is off. It is a mindset. And that's like what I do remember from those years is like that was our escape working in a produce department. It's the most boring job you could possibly have. So me my brother would just randomly write free styles back and forth. Let's go for on that, each other. And it's just a way to pass the time. But you do get into that mindset where you're constantly thinking. There's actually an an amp somebody told me that because we used to send videos back and forth. Where I would like wrap and then like I'll send it to my brother and like you would send me You would send me wraps back and there's actually an app now that does that. What's the call? It's called wrap chats, I think. Oh, I gotta get it. Yeah, yeah, you gotta get it. Because my friends online, they'll post like wrap challenges. The guys I knew in Korea, my homie chat or Jake or pinnacle. They'll post these wraps and then they'll say wrap challenge. And so then someone else has to respond. Yeah. And so I got into the zone. And it's funny like I was say writing and that way writing wraps and versus it kind of saved me in New York. Because in New York, I felt like a peon. Like in Korea, I felt like I was doing my thing. I had like a radio show. I had my events and everything was going really well. And I came to New York and it was like, hey, go get me coffee. Hey, work on this spreadsheet. Like spreadsheet. Like I was literally just like this. I felt like a lowly PA. And I felt like everything I did in Korea really didn't matter. They're like, oh, that's cool. But can you go and run get this? And so wrap was the way that I still reminded myself of like who I was. So a lot of it is like declarative purpose statements that reminded me like, who I was and where I was at on my journey. Like it was really helpful. Like even if no one else heard those wraps or those songs, it really was just for me. Just like as a mantra to remind myself of like, you really dash pee. Right. You can do it. You really that in that voice. Yeah. That's the voice that you have in your head. Yeah. It's creepy voice. I'm like, why is it so low? Yeah. In a way, it's like it's kind of grounding. And I think everybody needs to have something like that if they want to stay sane. Like whether it's meditation or like for some of my friends is playing video games. It just like reminds you that it's not all about making it or success. Sure. Like going down this one path. And it's fun, too, because there's really not a lot of ego with it. Like I'm showing you're writing. There's not a lot of pressure for you to write the next line, right? It's like I'm doing this for fun. Whether it's good or bad, it really doesn't matter. Yeah. So we have to say major in college. Ah, mask communications. That's right. Yeah. It's funny because I feel like mask communications. When did you graduate college? Well, that's a good question. I want to say oh, eight. Oh, eight. Yeah. So at that time, yeah, 2010. Okay. So at that time, mask communications, I feel like was a different thing. And I feel like they they prepared you for the world of mask communications in a different way than they would. Now. Sure. And I don't even know how they're doing it now. But at the time, it's all about like television and radio and none of the main mediums. And the internet was like an afterthought. Well, sure. What was your experience in college? And are you happy you went down the mask communications route? Yeah. Originally went to Arizona State University because I realized they had this broadcast journalism program. They had the Walter Cronkite. They had the Walter Cronkite school of broadcast journalism. And I was like, oh, just do it as a legend. I want to be a legend. I'm going to that school. So I went and I spent so much time working and kind of put myself through school and to support myself that I really didn't do internships. Because like it didn't make sense to me. I was like, so wait, you want me to work and not make money so that people know I can do stuff. It's like that doesn't make a lot of sense to me. And so I actually completed everything in the course work to go into the broadcast journalism program, except for the internships. So I never got into my program. So I was like, bang, like I would only need this amount of classes to graduate. But I can't get into my program. So I was like, what do I do? So I decided to go into mask communications and sociology. Since I had taken a lot of mask communications courses and a lot of sociology courses, those were kind of the base classes that you had to take. So like if I take a few more of these and a few more of these, I can describe my piece of paper and be out. And so I did have some cool classes though. I had a podcast in class at one point. That's pretty innovative for that time. Yeah, and we called it eye popping podcasts and I interviewed a few folks. And that was cool. I had another video class where we were going out and interviewed women about dating on the campus of ASU. Yeah, that's all the matters at that age. It really was. And Arizona State University, some of the most beautiful women. I have heard there's seen my body went to Arizona State. Yeah, I would see a beautiful woman. I'd be like, I should really pursue this. And then I'd see another one the next day. I should really pursue that. And then I just ended up not pursuing any. Were you naturally good with women? No, no. I didn't date. This makes me weird. I didn't date in high school and I didn't date in college. Yeah, neither did I. My first relationship was when I was in Korea. My very first like real relationship was in Korea. Wow. So yeah. And it's funny. Korea has a big link between my college experience as well. Because I felt like I didn't really get that party experience in college. And I also didn't feel like I had enough to go into the working world. So I was like, I need something else. I need something else. And so Korea became another college experience. And everyone was living like they were in college anyway. Like, you forget how old you are, what you're doing. You're just in a different country. So I was shark diving and I'm staying out to five in the morning. And I'm like, the whole thing was just insane. That's crazy. It's like, I'm in another country. So I guess whatever. Was that hard to go to South Korea? Did you have this? For me, I would be worried about the fear of missing out missed opportunity of staying in states. Yeah, exactly. I feel like that would be my biggest fear about doing something like that. Did you have face any of those? No. No. I mean, originally I didn't plan on moving there. I was looking at Spain. But my home here was helping me look at Spain. Jonathan Mendes. Appreciate your breath. He told me he had a connection. But he said, I might have to be a legal for a few months. Like a legal. I'm from Arizona. And when I hear the word illegal, it has a completely different connotation. So I was like, I don't think I want to go to another country and be illegal. That doesn't sound like a good idea. And so my other friend, Tim, who's very persuasive, he hit me up. And he was like, yo, you should really move to Korea. And I was like, yeah, I'm not going to do that. I don't even know where it's at on the map. I don't know anything about it. So I know you like it because you're like half Korean or whatever. That's cool. You know, it would be cool to see you. But I'm good. I'm good. And he was like, no, no, send me your resume and I'm like, dude, I'm cool. He's like, just send me your resume. So I sent him my resume and he started sending me back job offers. So I was like, just graduate it. I don't have a job. He says it's cool over there. His videos look fun. So I'm like, okay. I go to Korea. Yo, that's crazy. I'm not doing anything. I was like there's nothing else. Tim. He's the reason I moved to South Korea because it was very random for me. Yeah. And most of my friends, they went there. They applied through companies or institutes or whatever recruiters. Like I already had a job. I had a job in a place to live before I even stepped on the plane. Yeah. Like that was already established from being from the US. That is not a very common story. Not many people do that. They make a way for say like a semester overseas in Europe, you know, London. But not many people would go to South Korea and do it for an extended period of time. To actually not do that would be the missing out on this amazing experience. Because you don't know how you're going to grow. You don't know what you're going to encounter. And I was like, you know what? Like what else am I doing? It's just a year. And so a year turned into five years. Wow. Because I realized it is a long time. It's a big portion of my life and a lot of my friends and a lot of things in my life today are still based around this idea that I lived in Korea for five years. So I didn't expect to be there that long. But I realized I was like, hey, some of the media things I wanted to do. I can do here in South Korea. So first it was voice acting. Then I got into like some commercial work. And then I slowly got into radio. I was like a, I was a radio reporter for a while. So I would go to on the streets of Seoul and just talk to people. Ask them random questions. Like do you think your smartphone is making you smarter or dumber? And then we just have a dialogue. And I would send in these clips. Kind of like a podcast. But I would send in these clips to the radio station to play. And then once a week I would go in and I would talk with the host. Erica at the time. And then through that kind of became part time radio hosting like a weekend show. It's funny because what happened was the person who was doing the late night show left. So the person that was doing the weekend show went to that late night spot. So that gave us an opening to go to the weekend show. And then the person who they moved to the late time show. They're like, this doesn't work for him. Let's move him back to weekends. And they gave us the late night spot. So like it was just gradually us moving up. And it was funny because it's not, it's not, it's not a, it's not a very common trajectory. You know, a lot of people have been working there and trying to move up that ladder. And it didn't happen that quickly for them. And I remember this guy at one of our company to enter. He was like, man, I just want to be like a full time, you know, I want to be a full time host like you guys, you know, like, what do I need to do? And this guy at the time, Steve Hadley, he was like, just do your job. That's it. Just do your job. I was like, wow. When you thought about it a lot of times, it's just really applying yourself to that thing that you're passionate about. And then the right door is opening for you at the right time. Yeah, exactly. You really have to work hard. And you have to get good at what you do because even if that opportunity would come about and you suck. Yeah. Nobody's going to give it to you. You've got to be ready for it. And then if you get the opportunity, that's there's a certain amount of luck that's attached to that. Like I look at back at any big opportunity, any big project I've ever worked on. It's just a matter of circumstance. And like me just happening happening to meet the right person at the right time. Yeah. But I think that if you're not, if you aren't getting lucky. If you're not getting those opportunities, then you got to change something up. Mix it up. Yeah. Like go out and network and meet new people and broaden your social circle. I think that there's a lot that you can do to kind of open up the doors for luck. Yeah. Korea. So you spend five years there. You don't regret this experience at all. It's pretty amazing. Yeah. I got to be a hand model. Oh, for real. Yeah. Two times. I got to be a hand model. People were like, hey, I was watching a movie. And before the movie, I saw a side of your face in your hand. And I was like, yeah, I'm over here. I'm saying, hey, me a thousand dollars to put my hand in that video. So yeah, you see. Yeah. I mean, I had nice black hands. I mean, just check them out. Those are beautiful hands. Thank you. I just did a video on a documentary on product design. And which was all about devices. And I need a lot of hand models. So if I end up doing some more work. Hey, man. Hand model. I might have to hear you up. Yeah, I'm handy. It's a good gig. It's funny. There's the jokes. I feel like a bad one. I'm sorry. And so then you decided to bring your hands to New York. Yeah, I came out here. And I was working out a company working at this media company. And I was doing a lot of PA work. And they gave me some opportunities to be on camera. And I did some funny sketches. One of them was a guy who was using all these group on coupons on his date. And he thought it was cool. He's like, you know, I got it. Okay, girl. I got it. Yeah. You know how real get this group on. So we did a couple of funny sketches. And that was fun. And then people started reaching out to me to do event photography. The company reached out to me. And I did some freelance work for the company I work for. And I looked at the paycheck. And I was like, this is a lot better than my paycheck. I'm getting every day. And this is just for a couple hours. I was like, I should do more event photography work. And so I remember a friend of mine reached out. She's like, I really love for you to come and be an event photographer for this event. I said, well, I don't really do photography like that. I have a camera. But I just like, I take pictures. But I'm not really like a photographer. I started recommending other photographers for her. And she's like, no, I want you to come and shoot it. And so that was the first gig that I got paid for that I shot. And then eventually I just built up my confidence to like, I should just like read and figure out how to shoot stuff because before I like I would take pictures in Korea. Like I would have my own events. And there was no photographer. So in between like hosting and being on the mic, I would then go and take photos and video of the people. So I could make a recap video or photos. And I thought that was normal. Because I was like, well, I don't have anyone else to do this. So I need to make sure that there's some type of footage, some type of memory. What we are here creating. So there's a certain element of faking it in the beginning. There always has to be. Was there a, maybe a job or a project that you've done since coming to New York, or even in Korea where you felt like you were in over your head where you're like, I don't know if I can, if I can execute on this. Probably my first gig that I had. And I still don't think I'm like, I'm not a bad editor, but it takes me time. I think a lot of times I'm trying to still put my life in context. So putting a bunch of video and footage in context and making it tell one seamless story. I like, I don't even know the through line for my life. So trying to do that with content. How do I put all these elements together? Like I overthink things. I also don't post on Instagram a lot because I'm like, is this important? Is it not important? Should I post a picture of the beautiful girl? What does it say about my life and my story? Yes. And then I don't even post. That's just the photo. And then the caption. Then the caption. Yeah. Yeah. Because I'm like the caption itself. A couple of times I've sent someone a photo and say, Hey, write a caption and I'll credit you for it. It's just easier for me because. That's genius. I'm like, yeah, because otherwise it's me posting some deep platitude with some picture of like a wall. Like, you know, life is like life is like a wall. You can create your own service. I'm like, wait. What? Yeah. It's so fake deep. You know, I mean, I don't want to do that. I don't want to just post pictures that. And then for me, I struggle because, you know, I don't want to like, I want to be seen as a photographer, but I also don't. Because I'm like, but I'm so much more. Right. So I don't want to just show pictures of, you know, just a lot of post a picture. So that thought process is the same process I go into when I'm editing. As I have to weave all these things together. And so the first project I was working on was for this thing called the Weena Awards. And so it was a bunch of like celebrities, a bunch of women that are working in entertainment. And it was this video that I had to put together. And I didn't realize, but they had won it like a twenty-four hour turnaround for this video. And I just got into premiere. And I'm looking at all the pieces and I'm like, I don't know where these clips should go. Like where the interview should go, where the footage should go, what's natural. You don't also don't have a process yet. I don't have a process where it's the fuck do you start. Yeah, I didn't have a process. So I'm just looking at all the footage. And then they're sending me emails every day. The client is upset. I don't know. Oh, no. I didn't realize that the turnaround time was so quick. Yeah, that's bad. And then to make it worse, I think I didn't get paid for that gig. So my first, one of my first freelance gigs. And I don't think I got paid for like six months. Wow. Yeah. It was something crazy where every single time, it was like, well, this company didn't get paid because this company didn't get paid by this person, so we can't pay you. Yeah. And I was like, oh, no, I've had that too. What does that have to do with me now? That's a problem. When you have middlemen in between you and the money. Yeah. It's like never a good thing. That was early learning lesson for me. Have you ever went in with the bat? You know, into the office. Yeah, MTV still owes me $400 though. Let's say that. I did that. I got companies that owe me like amounts of money, but I'm just like, it's fine. Yeah. Honestly, I'm not going to harp over 400 bucks. It's just not worth it. Yeah. To stress about that. And to like email them and to go after them. It's just not worth the energy. Yeah. Your piece of mine is worth more than anything else. Exactly. And then I'll say, all right, well, I'm not going to ever work with you again. You pay me for that project and give me a 50% deposit for the next project. Now are you a deposit guy? It depends what the client is. And if it's a very big project. You know what I mean? If you're talking 10's, 20's, thousands of dollars, then like you need a deposit because it's a big project. Give to pay people first. You have to pay your crew first. I remember the last time I had like a $10,000 gig. That was like never. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I got to start hanging out with you. Well, it's funny dude. I got a $10,000 project shortly after college. And it was the first time I'd ever gotten that much money. Like a five figure project. And I remember distinctly thinking, I never have to work again. This is it. Like I'm done, man. I made it. I made it. Yeah. Because I'm buying coming birthday day. Dude, because like before that, it was like $300 or $400 videos. Yeah. And I'm thinking, this is like, how many like dozens of these videos and how much time that equals. So for me, that was a turning point to say, hey, I need to keep like pushing it and pushing like rates. People hit me up all the time for like low budget stuff. And I had to decide whether or not it's something I just feel passionate about and want to do or something. Some person don't want to help out. Yeah. But a lot of times when it's a low budget project, you also know that it's going to be like beer money and wine taste. So they're going to ask for, oh, yeah. Everything. Oh, 100%. Everything like quick delivery and all the bells and all the whistles. And they're going to be over your shoulder while you're shooting. Yeah, yeah. So I was like, oh, so I'm not making any money. And I have no creative control. And you're emailing me and calling me every day. Yeah. Awesome. And then once clients start paying and you work with their companies and they pay a little bit money. They don't care. Especially the good ones at least. They're just like, you're the expert. This is what you do. Sure. They trust their trust your eye. They trust how you want to do something. Like when people are hiring me for event photography, I can do whatever weird thing I want to do because I realize this is my aesthetic. Yeah. And they know I'm going to give them enough of like the commercial stuff and enough of the art stuff. Because I can't just do work that's purely commercial. I have to do something that has a little bit of flare and flavor and maybe has some portraits or has like, I really like shadows. So I really like, you know, bouncing light and kind of having a different look to some of the the photos that I take. And so like, I have to be able to live and express myself. I have to be able to dance at the event. Yeah. Do you tell people that before the events that like I'm going to get in there? I should give people a writer. Listen, this is what I need in order to create. I'm an artist and he read Skittles and I need to. No green Skittles or I'm out the door. Yeah. But, you know, for me, I think people just kind of generally get that. But, you know, because I've been on shoes before where they're like, don't talk to the talent, you know, they're little and I'm like, listen, I'm going to be talking as much as I want to talk. Yeah. Or just include or drink there. I will be drinking it. Yeah. Okay. And if music comes on, I'm going to be dancing. That's great that you can still do that because I probably would be. I think why I've to have a split personality, partly where I'm loud. And then the other part where I'm like shy and reserved. And I feel like if somebody told me to be quiet, I'd be like, yeah, I'll be quiet. Well, I'll be quiet. Well, I want to answer that truthfully because there's part of my personality that very much can fit into any small space. So when I first started shooting at the radio station, like I was barely talking. Because I wanted to talk so much. And I was like, I don't want to be the guy who they're like, this guy won't shut up. So I would literally just sit behind the camera. And when someone did talk to me, I was like, huh? What? Because I was so used to just being the fly on the wall that being, you know, that someone asking me a question and actually wanting me to be a part of the conversation was a little bit, you know, weird for me. But that's tough though, too. Did you feel like people aren't really getting to feel for who you really are? Yeah. I mean, because I'm like, yo, like, if you want to get my personality, because sometimes people will be like, um, you dance? I didn't know you dance. And I'm like, well, then you don't know me. Dancing is like, that's such a big part of me. Like dancing, rapping, just kind of being like wild and free. But then there's this other part of my personality that is very analytical. Yeah. Somewhat serious. Some a blend of all of those things. So, but in certain moments, I need to be fully in it. Yep. And that's what's so great about being at a party because I can be still dancing, still vibing with people or shooting a performance, and then still creating. So if I'm like, I don't know if you feel this way, but whenever I'm shooting like a music performance, I feel like I'm a part of the band. So I don't want to do anything that breaks the flow of what they're doing. I only want to kind of like be a natural element to that, whether it's photo or video. So if I feel like the flash is going to kill it, then I'm like, okay, then we're not doing flash. So I feel like me going to get this angle may not work. Then I'm not going to do that because it feels very kind of spiritual. And I want to kind of stay in that same vibe and the same energy of what they're creating. Like, I feel like I'm literally a part of it. So it's like sensitive. Like, I've been at parties before where there's a pool full of people. I'm talking about spiritual matters. And I'm saying, I've been at parties where there's a pool full of people. And they're all topless. And some like, sometimes I'll take the picture. And other times I'm like, I don't feel like this isn't right to take this picture. Or it's a guy on a grill and they're having a moment. And I'm like, sometimes it feels right to take the picture. Other times I'm like, no, this doesn't. This feels like I am intruding on their moment. So with photography, I'm very like careful to make sure I'm not like exploiting people or just taking advantage of a situation or being the creepy photographer, see a girl and she's got a nice booty or something like that. Like, I'm just walking up and taking a picture of it. Because that's just, that's not even art anymore. That's just, this is creepy. And I think what that is really is awareness. And I think that's in order to get better at anything. You need a certain element of awareness to to understand where you're lacking and where you can get better. And I even see that. So say, when I was doing weddings, is like you said, should I take this photo because the flash might disrupt the event. But then you have, I'm sure you've been to a wedding where there's like a videographer and he's just got the big light on the camera. He's got a nice and everybody's face. And then now everybody's kind of leaving the dance floor. Because I just don't feel comfortable out here right now. Which changes the whole vibe. When you're somewhere and there's a big LED light shining in someone's face. But I mean, now with the DSLR cameras, the Sony A7 SD, you don't need, if you have a nice lens, you don't even need the light. And if you have a zoom, you know, if you have a zoom lens, you can still be a decent distance. Yeah. Because I've seen weddings before. I don't know how people like directly behind, you know, the bride or the groom and they're kind of in everything. It depends on how you want to do it. Sometimes it feels more like docu style where it's like, okay, to see the camera people, like it's not a deal. Because the focus is still the people, but it just depends on what they're doing. Yeah. Like if it was me and the background doing the mili rock, then that might, may not be the best thing for the video. Yeah. Exactly. So you make a YouTube channel pretty, pretty dope. Tell me about some of the kind of topics and what you've been making on that. Like I guess I'm just curious as to why you make this stuff and why you can do it. Yeah. Which is stuff out there because it's like, it's sometimes hard to get motivated to create this kind of content. I'm really excited about the web series. I have Elliott because I get a chance to share a portion of my life with people and kind of give them my perspective and some of my interesting angles or perspectives. And the first video I made, I was just really excited with the feedback I got. I made this video about Donald Trump or 45, or Agent Orange or 35, whatever you want to call them. But I was like, this is a moment in time and I would like to put this in context. So that episode did really well from you on Facebook on YouTube. I think it got maybe 50 views. No, it's probably a couple of times. I mean, you can't share YouTube videos on Facebook. Yeah. The algorithms are whatever. So different. So for me, my base is Facebook. Yeah. And then I promote on Instagram and I put a link to YouTube. But this here's another distinction. This is your personal Facebook account. It's my personal Facebook account. You look at this one because if you do that. I'm going to make a business one. So this is the plan. So from what I've heard is you're supposed to make a business account. And then you're supposed to share it from your personal. So you still get the same levels of interaction to your business page. Yeah. And then you can connect the analytics to Instagram so that you can track both. So you can track the analytics on Instagram. You can also track the analytics on Facebook. So you know when it's the best time to post when your people are online. Because I don't know that stuff. Yeah. I'm literally just putting these videos out. And I'm trying to make my deadline. Like, I had an artificial deadline of every week. But I need to have a set time. Like, this day, this time, so my audience, you know, can really get what they're looking for. Because there are people that are like, hey, this video is a highlight of my week. And I'm like, really? Yeah. I'm like, that's, or I go to a party to shoot photography. And people are talking to me about my video series. I'm like, that's really dope. That it's creating this, it's own little energy. But that, that Trump video got like 10,000 views. Like, in a matter of like a week or something. And so a friend of mine was like, hey, are you paying for a sponsored content? And I was like, no, I just put it up. I was like 150 people shared it. And I'm assuming these are the people that I know. But I've seen people that I know in the streets and talk to them. Like, oh, you have what? videos? I didn't know. Yeah. I just assumed those 10,000 people were all like people that I knew. Yeah. And I was like, if I was actually pushing this, because I literally put that video up like once, maybe twice. That's as many times as I shared it on Facebook. And you know, like 10,000 views off of that. So I was like, if I actually was intentional about actually promoting this and pushing this, you know, the channel could do really well. But that was the first. I don't know though. And this is, I'm pretty new at this as well. But I think there's certainly an element that you have to just kind of put the content out there. And like, I mean, we all know people that will tag you in the post. Yeah. I really wanted to watch this. And like, there's obviously a wrong way to do it. I don't know a way in which I could promote my content better than creating good content. Right? No. I think that's starting the end of the day. It's that. And you can't be too focused on numbers either. You know, because then you're like, oh, people don't like this or they don't like this. I'm like, no, sometimes they just didn't see it. Yeah. So it's a matter of just being disciplined and making content. You like, did you like it? Do you feel good about it? And if so, you go from there. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But for like audience building, I think that's a whole other conversation. But just for creating content that you like, you start there. So I was like, the first video I was like, oh, Donald Trump is a mumble rapper. And, you know, his, his campaign was his mixed tape. And his, his presidency is his album. What was album sound like? And I was like, oh, a lot of people liked his, his, his mixed tape because it was controversial. And they feel like he was saying everything that he wanted to say. He held no punches. You know, he might have been degrading to women. But so is like this other music and stuff that we like. So, you know, like he had all these elements of things that people like about rap music. You know, whether they thought he was speaking truth to power or going against the grain or, you know, being industry-specful. They're like, yeah, this guy's raw for his audience. I was like, yeah, he's rap. I mean, hip pop may be a little bit deeper, but, you know, he's rap in his sense. And I was like, oh, that's interesting. So I was like, yeah, Donald Trump's a mumble rapper. So I was like, listen, I'm not going to say anything that anyone doesn't already know. I'm just going to frame it differently. So that we can sit down and look at it and talk about it together. So, you know, I put out that first episode and it did really well. And it became something I was like, oh, I need to do this all the time. Yeah. People show me love in these streets. So I was like, I need to do more of this. So I started with that one. I had just, I had a couple of clips. Like, I had a clip of Mike Tyson interviewing me. And I was like, I love this video. I've got a, I've got Mike Tyson just interviewing me for a minute. I've got to do something with that. So you're behind the camera at Hot 97. I'm behind the camera and Mike Tyson just in the middle of an interview. Starts talking to me for like a couple of minutes. And they try to get him back on track and they try to ask him more questions. And he's like, still talking to me. And he's like giving me compliments and asking me questions. And he's asking me about Korea. And I was like, I've got to use this. And then I had another opportunity where I was interviewing Spike Lee. And I asked Spike Lee a question. I asked him if he had to compare his career in film to a basketball team. What team would it be and why? And he was like, yo, that's one of the best questions anyone has ever asked me. And I was like, I'm using this from my web series. So I have these moments. And they're not all celebrity based because I think that's kind of played out. If I feel like my significance in life is because I'm around people that are famous. That's kind of, that's kind of played out. But I think I do have these interesting moments. Some of them involve celebrities. Some of them just involve people in my life. And so I just try to take from these moments. These 15 second, 20 second, 30 second clips or a photo. And then tell the story of that photo. Because so much of what we do, you know, even with film making a start from something small. But then building a larger picture around that. Like one of the best documentaries that I saw last year was the 30 for 30 on OJ. And they literally took the OJ trial. And they expanded to talk about American society. And race and politics and everything. I was like, I never thought about OJ on the scale of what they did in the video. But they just expanded it. There's a story there. There's always a story. And so me, I have so many moments or stories. And I'm like, I would like to share these stories. And eventually I like that platform to open up. So I can bring more people in. So now I'm having more guests on my web series. Because eventually, you know, I always wanted to be around table discussion. I wanted to be not even around table discussion. I wanted to be like a full on show. When I was younger, I always had the idea. I was always looking at Bill Marr. I was always looking at living color. And I always wanted to be able to create some type of content like that. Where I was able to bring in entertainers and guests. And, you know, I've always had this idea at the back of my head. And so everything I've done from going to school to living in Korea, living in New York, I've always been like, yo, I want to make this show. So this is like a baby version of what I plan to do. But I'm excited. Like, must be the same way you feel about this podcast. And I release an episode. It's one of the highlights of my week. Just putting it out there. Yeah. It's funny. It's equally exciting and terrifying. This is how I live my life. It's just like I'm always like really excited. And also like pissing my pants at the same time. Like that's how I felt when we first released minimalism to film festivals. What was that like? Yeah, it was not. This is the first time I'd ever been to a theater where people would pay for tickets to see one of something that I made to go through that, to be able to see when it got laughs, to see when people didn't like it, to have people come up to make it. Give me hugs afterwards to say that they were really affected by the movie. Like that was just an amazing experience. And it's like you have to kind of go through that anxiousness and the anxiety to have a win at the end. And like I still have that with putting up a podcast episode. Like there's that excitement. And then there's always like somebody who'll give it like a down vote and you're like, Who are you? Who are you? Who are you? For me, the funny thing is like the amount of work that you put into something and then seeing if the response matches because I've had episodes where I put in a lot of work and I was like, Yo, this is my best episode and then nobody watches it. Yeah. Like, nobody from me like on Facebook because like if a thousand people watch it, which is weird, if like a thousand people watch it, I'm like, Oh, that's nothing. Yeah. Because because of the first one kind of really threw me off. I was like, oh, 10,000. So like now. Our expectations change. Yeah, my expectations change. Isn't that crazy how it changes though, too, even with Instagram? I remember when I first signed up for Instagram if I got 30 likes of it. It's a good day. Yeah. And then it's like, now if I don't get 100, I'm like, Oh, man, it was a bad post. Yeah, but I knew I knew it. Yeah, it's bad, man. And it's like, I wish I didn't think like that. But yeah, but don't do things for response. And that's kind of the sad part. Like I don't know if it's a good thing. Or bad thing. Or just human nature. But we do things. Do you remember Mad TV? Yeah. Do you remember the guy Stewart? Stewart? Yeah. But I think essentially that's what we're doing. We're like, hey, look, look what I can do. Look what I did. Or when we're kids, we're like, mom, look, look at what I made. Yeah. And so a lot of times we're waiting for that same reaction and response. And so when you put a lot of work into something, and then people aren't paying any attention to it. You know, it can be a little disappointing, but that's why you really have to make content for yourself. Yeah. And make content for yourself that you feel good about. Or for the audience of people that you know want to see it. So when I make music, for example, or when I'm writing, I'm writing for myself. And for the people that like it. Because for some reason, there are people that like listen to stuff I've made musically. And they're like, yo, you're dope. You're like, one of my favorites. I'm like, really? Like how? Do you not listen to other people? Like, because for me, it's not even about like being good or bad. It's about me being real and expressing what's on my heart. But, you know, for everything, everything has its own audience. Everything has its own audience. So for me, that's like the key to doing it is not thinking I have to reach everybody. There's an audience of people that like my message the way it is. And I have to change it up. I don't have to be more like this guy or more like this show. I just have to be Elliott. Yeah. And so my focus is like, how can I be 100% Elliott in this episode? If that means rapping or dancing or singing or making fun of myself, then that makes my show distinctively me. What I will notice is that as people sign up, you get like kind of that big burst when it's first shared and put out there. And then over the content over the next week or two, like you'll have some downs and some ups. And you'll see that some people are leaving. And that's a good thing. Yes. Because the people that signed up for you didn't realize the kind of shit that you made. And then I'm like, okay, well, they probably, I mean, obviously like, I overanalyze it and I'm like, they don't like what I'm doing. I just change what I'm doing. I just change what I'm doing. And then you have to kind of reassess and like, all right, come on. Just keep making it. Do this stuff that you like that you're the most like excited about because if you're making it for the audience. And then the audience doesn't like it. Now you don't like it. And they didn't like it. Yeah. At least at the end of the day, be able to feel like yo, I like this. Yeah. So I have things I made. I was like, I don't even care if anybody likes it. I like it. I feel it resonates with me. And there's somebody else maybe an old person on some other part of the world that likes it. That's my favorite. Like my dad says my dad, you know, he's a little bit older. He's over 70, but he's like, yeah, my favorite things on television is Iceland and your web series. No way. So I'm like, I'm not on television, dad, but yeah. But thanks. But for him, like that's his favorite thing. So for me, I'm like, one of my dad's favorite things to watch is my web series. Like that's an honor to me or that my mom likes my stuff. My mom will write like, oh, that's dope. I'm like, why is my mom? Yeah. Why does my mom speak to me? My mom text me and she'll be like, I just did a new intro. And she's like, oh, you, you, you should at the end of your intro have you sipping coffee. Because it's all about like grinding up. Like, that's a good idea, mom. Like do that. Yeah. But it's like what you're doing and your family and your friends. Like, we have to make content because we really want to make it. Like, for me, I'm not making any money off of this. I use a lot of content from other places. Like photos and video and music. And so I may not be able to monetize what I'm currently doing. Which is fine. Like, I make it because I legitimately love doing this. Like, I get a high, like, just even having the idea. I have like four video ideas in my head right now. And I get excited with each and every single one of them. Like, just like, oh, yeah, I could do this and I could do this. That's what happens when you're in that mindset of creation of making stuff. It doesn't ever stop. It's a high. You know, it's like, it's like this drug. It gives me this energy and this light that I didn't have because for some reason I didn't want to tell people about like photography or photos. So people would be like, yeah, this Ellie, he does dope photos. And I'm like, yeah, I take pictures. Like, it's cool for me. I get it. But it's like, yeah, I take pictures. Like, and I think some of them were like cool or compelling. But it's like me speaking my voice and being able to share my thoughts. That's the stuff that makes me the most excited. I could show you a video I edited or something I shot. But it's not sometimes my voice isn't exactly in it. Yeah. And I don't always know how to put my voice. Like, you did a good job with the film. I feel like I can hear even talking to you now and seeing the film. There's a cohesion. There's some connection between the two. Like, it feels, it makes sense. Even the look of this, as I was watching the film and then also looking at past podcasts that you done, there's even something there. You have a look of feel and aesthetic and a voice. Yeah. I think you do, you start to put yourself into it. And this is, we were talking about stand-up comedy earlier. That's the goal of every stand-up comedian. They want to feel like they can go on stage and be themselves. I think that's what everybody wants just in life in general. If you can just go to work and be yourself and do your job and have a good time, then you'll be successful. That's it. I was at this party, this Christmas party. And one of the guys I work with, he was like, you know what I love about you. He's like, you just don't care. I think he said you give no fucks. But he was like, so that would be real. But he was like, yeah, you're just yourself. Like, you don't care what anyone thinks. And it's probably because I was probably dancing on top of the chandelier. But, you know, regardless, you can't make stuff. And you can't put things on the internet and give a fuck about what people say simultaneously. Sure. It's impossible. Because you'll just be overwhelmed with doubt that you'll never make anything. You'll never, you know, click publish. Yeah. Let's do, I've got a couple like rapid fire to start. Sure. Let's do it. To wrap things up here. It's like, I say it's rapid fire. And the wrapping fire is going to happen too. I thought you were going to forget it. No, no, no. I'm paying attention. I stay woke. So it's not rapid fires. And like you have to answer as quick as possible. But it's just like a list of questions that I've been asking everybody on on each of these. Blue episodes. Red. That's really good. Number two. Let's say somebody's stuck. What advice would you give them right now? In order to kind of put themselves on the right path? I think a lot of times you have to focus on what you're passionate about and not focus on the problem. Because as you start doing things that you're passionate about and pouring yourself into that, like solutions will present themselves. Sometimes we're so focused on the problem and people don't realize when you're just thinking about your problem. That's like, that's meditation. But it's negative meditation. Like you think on something again and again until it produces a feeling in your body. I think about I got a money. I got a money. And it literally begins to manifest. Now I feel depressed. Now my body's not feeling good. Now I'm like, so you have to be very careful of what you choose to meditate on. If you're constantly thinking about this problem, it's not going to help you find any solution. Sometimes it's better to go off and do something else. Put your heart into it or go help somebody. And then you'll have some perspective on this situation. It's just a matter of like finding the answer or the key. But you don't find it sometimes by staring at the problem. That just makes you feel even more defeated. Right. And even more like, oh, I can never overcome, you know. That's how I felt when I was looking at my debt. I graduated college with $97,000 in student loan debt. Damn. And you look at it and you're like, well, I'm just never going to be able to pay this off. And but if you're looking at the big problem, like you said, and I just keep rehashing it and thinking about how like gut wrenching this is to have this weighing over me for what 34 years of the term of the loan. That's not solving or fixing anything. But if I start to make little payments here and there where I can have these little wins, that to me, it feels good. I have this little bit of progress that I can move towards. What one tool have you leveraged in a way that others haven't? Oh, that's good. Um. I think probably just being social. If there's anything, I think something is different between me and a lot of people that work in film or video, like I am just social. And I just really enjoy being myself and sometimes people see that and they want to connect with me. And then I end up building relationships and opportunities open up for me. Um, not even because of my work just because people are like, hey, I like that you're being yourself and you seem not to care which means I just have more trust. Uh, you know, I just I trust you or I like you. I think people work with people they like. Yeah. Not even people that are good. Like this guy can be better than me technically. Well, people are like, I like, I like you. There's something about you that I like. Yeah. And it's like you don't have to necessarily be funny or charismatic or any of these things. But you can just be somebody that gets a you get along with them or you're responsive. Or there's so many other things besides talent and skill that you're willing to challenge them. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, you know, why do you make the content that you make? What is the what's the force behind that? Well, when when I look at some of your work, I think you're kind of trying to help people find their way. And I think that's probably the same for me. Like, I just want to show things that I'm learning and lessons in my life. And hopefully people can take something out of that. Like, I come from a Christian background. And so a lot of times like, you know, I grew up with people just sharing their testimony. Just talking about their life and it's amazing how someone just talking about their life and their troubles. And how they find found answers or solutions can really help somebody else out. So a lot of times, I'm just trying to talk about my life and it happens to really be just for me. And people seem to get something out of it. So I was like, oh, I'm going to keep doing this. So I might even talk about being broke or other challenges that I've had and how I was able to kind of figure my way through that. Or tell a bunch of self-deprecating stories, but people seem to connect with that for some reason. So like, for me, it's like, it's just for me, but I'm realizing that things about my life really speak to other people. It's almost like, I feel like this episode or I feel like this thing you did was just for me. I'm like, no, it's really, really about me. Like, you don't really understand, but if it applies to you, that's great. Yeah, and I think that's probably an important lesson is that there are enough people in this world that there's people that are people just like us. That want the same things that we want. So if we can produce something that we would like, then I think other people will could enjoy it as well. Yeah, I'm being open to the fact that some people might hate it or they don't like it. And that's completely fine. People are going to hate it. And like the more weird you get and the more yourself you are, you're going to ostracize more people. And they're going to be like, oh, this guy's weird. I don't want to, I don't like him. I don't want to follow him. And that's great. Yeah, and I get it. Yeah, totally. I don't like most of you there. Yeah, I hate my stuff man. It's so bad. It's like tortured artists. Where do you find that you have the most room for improvement right now? Obviously we're always growing and building upon past successes and failures. You know, I've never really been able to grow a beard. It's been a tremendous challenge for me. You shave though. I do. That's your first problem. Is that you shave? Yeah, that's, I think organization is always something for me. And I think in terms of like, not just, I guess with the web series, it's about like promoting. You know, we talked earlier about how it's great to have someone else that self promote you. And I've got great friends like IO and Andre that will go and tell people, hey, Ellie, it's really great at this or he's the most amazing this. And sometimes it's harder for me to kind of share what I'm doing with people. But I have friends that will. So part of it is this learning to promote and tell people more about the stuff that I'm doing and not and do it shamelessly. Yeah. The other part of it is this actually getting more tools like what you have here, like figuring out when is the best time for me that release content. And how do I connect with this audience of people? And how do I create a workflow? I think workflow is so key because that enables you to have regular content and to really reach people because people like some sense of consistency. And so I think that's the next thing that I really want to work on is kind of creating a better workflow being more consistent and being able to make sure that people that want to see my content are seeing it. I kind of wish that I had started doing this with more runway like I'll shoot 10 episodes in a minute and then I have a little bit of time. That's what I was told to do. My friend Sean Derick has this show called The Hard Part. It's pretty awesome. You've got to check it out. But he told me like, listen, do your first season and then then start releasing. But the way that I work, I get so overwhelmed with that idea that I just, it would stress me out. So I was like, I have to go week to week. It's better to do that. But I thought I could stockpile though. But it would be great because, you know, like if he records, if you record a season, then if something topical comes up, you can respond to that topical thing. You know, and you still have more episodes later to put out. And so for me, I've been trying to get ahead. I thought this last week I was going to get ahead, but other stuff happened. So I'm trying to get one or two ahead. So then I have time to build out an episode that takes a little bit longer. But they're all dancing around in my head. And so every time I'm able to get one of these episodes out, I just feel like this tremendous amount of relief. Like, okay, that's done. And then I don't care about the video. And that's probably one of my problems is like, I'll put a video out, but I don't really do much to push it. And then I just start making another video. So I like, I just expect there to be something in the universe that magically pushes my content for me. So I can just keep creating. Because it's all I care about as a creation process. And I just want to make another one. Well, I think one of the good things though is that once you get one or two that take off, like you did with number 45. And if you, or if you get people that promote your stuff, then people are going to start coming to your content. And they're going to be looking back at old work. Yeah, that's the goal. I never think like, this one only got 25 views. This is a bummer. Like, it was a waste of time. Because down the road, somebody might be able to find value in that. And as you build your audience, I think really the die hard fans are going to want to look back at somebody. Yeah, they're going to want to binge watch. So you got to create that for them. So you got to have play list of stuff. So it has that little auto play function. So it goes from one to the next. So on a Saturday morning when someone's cooking or cleaning or doing something else, they have that podcast to listen to or to check out or something to watch. So what I've noticed is doing the series. Is that like a series of videos is probably the best way to get subscribers. Because you could do one off videos. But it doesn't necessarily give people reason to subscribe. The show is going to be more with this specific video. I think that that's something that's big. And I wonder though, as say we develop these audiences and build them up more, would there be a time where you just kind of Netflix binge it? Where you're like, here's 10 episodes of a new series. I made and then just release it all at the same time. I wonder if that would be a strategy. If you have a big audience? I think there'd have to be a tie-in. Like, at least for a, you know, a Netflix episode. If it's like, how's the cards or something? You want to see what happens with Frank Underwood? You want to see what he's going to do next time or what Claire's going to do. And so I think with those, it's a little bit different. You know, I think the episodes are so different that that what is the, you know, like I said, what is the through line? What is it then from episode to episode? Because like I said, I've done episodes about 45 and I've done episodes about shape butter. So what is the, right? That might not be right. What is the connection? Because one is smooth and one is not. And so, you know, it's smooth criminal. It's almost like a book when you're reading a non-fiction book versus a fiction book. A fiction book, I always find myself like, I need to read the next chapter. Non-fiction, I can put it down. I'm like, I'll read principal number 36 tomorrow. Because I don't think there's no cliffhanger. There's no like, oh, I need to read this next thing to find out what happens. But if you're enjoying it so much, I definitely see people binge watching it so much. Yeah, that's a good point. I didn't watch the shape butter, ready? Oh, but what's going on with it? Is this just like lotion? I don't usually know. Uh-oh. What did you just say? Is it a shape butter lotion? I walk out of the center. I walk. Is that it? Break it down for me. What did you say about it? So shape butter is amazing. But I didn't start using it until late in life. And if you have some emotional music, you can drop it in right here. Yeah. And if you just do a close-up, just a pan. Yeah. My face. Shape butter for me. My middle name is Ashby. And so my middle name is what I use online. Really Ashby kind of has a certain feel. And they're both my real names, people. Um, but I didn't use it growing up because growing up, I would use lotion and the lotion would dry out over time. And, um, because of the color of my skin, I would become Ashby. And, you know, I didn't want to... Just go hard to talk about it. I didn't want to be Elliot Ashby. You know, I just thought that wouldn't be a good look. So, you know, it wasn't until later in life when I discovered, um, shape butter that I was really able to, um, really reclaim my middle name. It was a process, you know. Um, but I know seriously. I can't do that for very long. Yeah. I was really emotional. Yeah. It's funny because I listen. I don't use shape butter, but... What do you use? I... You want to see it? Yeah. Let me go get it. I want to see this. You got a big tub of it. Yeah. Use me an economical. Yeah. This break is brought to you by Lotion. By Whole Foods. Look at that. Because you go through a lot. Lotion by Whole Foods. Yeah. Check it out. Maximum moisture. Yeah. So, this is good and it's for dry skin, you know. And it actually has shape butter in it. Oh, get out of town. Come on, son. Well, I didn't even know I would... If it's good, that means, you know, I have to put it on. I think I was actually going to say that. Yeah. Yeah. Where do you do it those pieces? I don't know. I just like... I usually just like put them on the wall. It's put them on the wall. I'm disgusting. Let them hang out. This is nice, though. This is cool. You put it on your lips. I do. They feel dry. Yeah. But, oh, man. My hands feel amazing. Pretty good. So, but shape butter. The reason I made an episode about it is because a friend of mine was in town. And his family manufacturers are produces the shape butter products. And they even have like this lip balm. That's amazing. And so, he's a comedian. I was like, I don't know what we can talk about. But that's the only thing I could think of. And I really do love shape butter. I think it is awesome. I think it's amazing. And when we started looking up online as we're doing the episode. Because we didn't write anything out. I was just amazed at how many different things it did. It's like I had no idea if I could eat it. I was like, this is incredible. So, you know, for me, a lot of the episodes are pretty random. But I like the fact that they're random. Like I like the fact that, you know, you don't know what you're... You don't know what to expect. You know, otherwise, you would just tune out. Because it's like, oh, yeah, Ellie, it's going to come on and talk about its positivity. Yeah. You don't know that. I might come on being negative one time. Yeah. One last question. Okay. So, name them. Don't get to get to these bars, son. No, we'll get to. What we'll do is, what we'll do is... I'm going to close out the show. Yeah. And then we can always come back after the credits. Oh, sign it. It's going down. This is the first time that you've had rap. Yeah. I've heard of rap. I'm nervous, man. No, that was a smooth handshake. It was. It was. It felt a little weird. It was like two sensual. Yeah. But yeah, no, no, we'll have to do... Yeah. Damn it. You know what? I wish I had prepared. But I guess that's not freestyle. But it's like nice to be able to have like, a couple of bars. Yeah. For me, I'm not. You're ready. You're ready. No, but so I am ready. Not gonna lie. But I don't really freestyle as much anymore. Because I have these things that I've written. I like them. So like, you know, when I have an opportunity, I kind of want to spit those things, versus the stuff on the top of my head. Can I do that, absolutely? But even on my radio show in South Korea, a lot of people were too afraid to come on and freestyle. And I used to think, oh, that's stupid. That's corny. This is what they do. They should always be ready. But then I thought about it. And I was like, listen, if you're on the radio for the first time, or this audience of people was the first time they see you, and you're spitting off the top of the dome, you don't know what weird thing might come out of you. You're gonna say some weird shit. I freestyle with Nick Cannon one time, and I literally cut it out of the video, because I literally made up a word in the middle of it. I just, because I was searching for another word, and I was like, solution. Like, I just, I just said something, because I was like, I don't know. There are some people that are very good at that. Yeah. I think Snoop Dogg might have said it. But he was like, when he became better as a rap artist, it was when he stopped freestyle and started writing. Yeah. And you have to be able to write and to articulate your thoughts. And there are some amazing people out there that can just freestyle. Yeah. And like, it's, to me if they can just put together full sentences that rhyme, like, I'm like, this person's brilliant, but they like to be able to weave stories together. Because I can't really weave stories in. I could do the thing where I like, I'm just picking objects across the room. I can do a little bit of that, but like when people can actually tell like a story, that they just made in that moment, that is a gift, and we should respect that. But we shouldn't expect every single person to do it. That's what they want. Because when I can freestyle better than people that do this for living, then I'm like, come on, bro. Yeah. They get a step on it. That is like something that, yeah, you have these expectations for people. Yeah. And like, I think that's probably difficult for those who go on radio shows. It's like, what the fuck? Are they supposed to have a freestyle ready every time they go on a radio show? Like, I mean, shows that they do. And then, because that's great content. That's what people want to see. The childish game being knows. Spitting like free styles on Hot 97. Then that's going to be views for them. But then childish is like, I can't, they probably talk about that beforehand, right? Like listen, I can't do a freestyle. Well, I mean, they'll ask. They'll ask. And then maybe they might cut our certain section out. But a lot of times people have something that they've already kind of written. Yeah. So maybe they haven't rid it. Maybe they didn't write it to that beat. But they have something like, you know, and then maybe in the middle they'll freestyle. Like I've seen people go in and out. And you'll see that later, because then you'll see it's a verse off their new album. Yeah. Like you'll see that later. It's an old song. And they're kind of weaving in and out of that. And then they're doing live things in the moment. And so everyone's ability is different. But a lot of times, you know, it's. Lowered expectations. Man TV. Other reference. Nice. Okay. We didn't get, this is the last question here. The last question. The final question. The final question. The one and all. Okay. The one and all. At three times. At three times. So a name one thing that people need to watch, listen to or read before they go to bed tonight. Oh, that is a dope question. Yeah. Kind of get people to take action. Okay. One thing you need to, so is it, is it one of each? No. I mean, unless you have a couple, we can certainly riff. But like, if they can't finish it tonight, I mean, if it's a book, say, something to get started on for sure. Okay. Um, if it's music. I would say. I like listening to Goldlink a lot right now. Artists out of the DMV are out of DC, really. And his music just, it makes me think. And it also makes me dance. And right now, I'm in a insane dancing mode. So I would say, listen to Goldlink. Um, in terms of reading, I'd probably say, Lovey she has this book called, I'm judging you, which is in New York Times, best seller. And, um, it's going to be turned into a whole series. I think genre rhymes is going to be connecting and making some dope stuff happen there. So I would say check that out. You've got a sense of wit and humor. Um, that is very original and unique. So check that out if you're reading. Uh, what was the other thing? It was like you need to read. Listen. Listen. One thing you should listen to. A podcast. A podcast that will help you. I think the ground up is a great one. Um, but also just getting into a podcast, just something that you can listen to as you're cooking as you're cleaning something that will encourage you and inspire you. We can never have enough encouragement in life. There's always negativity coming at you from left and right. So anything positive, you need that on a daily basis. So if there's someone talking to you, telling you about their life story and, uh, speaking positivity, you need that in your life. I subscribe to positivity. Well said. It's my final word. All right. So how do people connect with you online? We're talking about the latest? No. Okay. Tinder? Yeah. Yeah. My Tinder is. Do people have Tinder actresses? I don't think so. No. I don't think it could become a thing. Yeah. Maybe we just had an idea. Um, how do people connect with me online? I would say my Instagram is a good way. So you can follow me at Elliot. That's two L's and two T's. Underscore Ashby. ASHBY. So you can check me out there. Yeah. Facebook and Instagram. Everything's pretty much Elliot Ashby. So you can connect with me. Hopefully you check out my web series called. I am Elliot. All right. I will put that in the show notes. Elliot. Thanks so much for coming on show. Thank you. Thanks for tuning in. You can subscribe to the ground up show on iTunes, YouTube, or wherever else that you listen to the podcast. Since we're just going to start it out here, it would be really helpful if you guys could give us a review on iTunes. I would help to get the word out for the show. This episode was produced by Conrad Golovak as well as myself. And now for the first ever. Ground up post show. All right, Chase. No picture true. Give me something I could listen to. Give me something. I know we'll make more. Is it this is the post show. The ground up. Ground up post show. Make me. Do you want it to be? Is that good real? You know, there are times in life when we have asked ourselves. Are we building from a ground up? Are we just up on the ground? I was living up in Phoenix. I was teaching kids Jesus and I moved to Korea to become an English teacher. I had a job in radio. So I switched up the visa. High class by class. It was so nice to meet you. It was on the radio like seven nights a week. On my homie telling the jokes. To week I hardly speak. Made it to year two. And almost a year three. Then I saw the move up to NYC. But damn what I do that damn. I'm trying to move back then. Where was my crew at them? I'm going broke fast. Working at this company with this broke ass. Waiting on my savings like man. It won't last. I was barely getting paid. I was waiting on the race. But I love my co-workers. I ain't even throwing a shit. I was searching. I was working for a better right of day. I was searching. I was lurking. But that day never came. That day never came. So I had to make a change. I do this for the money. I ain't playing no games. So I switched up the flow. And then I started freelancing. Growing back my head got me feeling like Samsung. Hey. It got me feeling like feeling like feeling like Samsung. Hey. It got me feeling like feeling like feeling like Feeling like a champion. Hey. Yeah. All right. That was fun. That was fun. Yeah. We could use that. Yeah. That was cool.
