# Ground Up 019 - The Bullet Journal w/ Ryder Carroll
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=kU5PdQVyw6E
Ryder Carroll is the creator of Bullet Journal & the Tedx talk How to Lead an Intentional Life. Bullet Journal helps thousands of people organize their work & personal lives every day.

Follow Ryder on Twitter:  https://twitter.com/rydercarroll
Bullet Journal:  https://bulletjournal.com
**Keywords:** ground up, film, filmmaking, ryder carroll, bullet journal, behind the scenes, the ground up show, matt d'avella, matt davella, 
**Date:** 2017-07-28

## Transcript
 We tend to present an image of creativity as this place of chaos and confusion. Paper scattered atop a desk, post its place everywhere from your bathroom mirror to on top of your milk jug, or if you live in Brooklyn on your coconut milk. It's assumed that to be creative you must be unorganized, overwhelmed and frantic, but that simply isn't true. Some of the most successful people I know have developed a system to keep their creative projects completely organized. If you're starting something big be at a film, a new book, or a client project, you have a massive amount of information to catalog. And I'm sorry to say, but your brain alone isn't up to the challenge. The tornado of papers and a desktop cluttered with 200 icons will only serve to distract you. You must stay organized. It's the only way to do your best work. This is episode 19 of The Ground Up Show. I guess today is Ryder Carroll, a digital product designer and creator of The Bullet Journal. He's been featured by The New York Times, Fast Company, and Lifehacker, and he's got an amazing TEDx talk called How to Lead and Intentional Life Ryder. Thanks for coming on the show. Thanks for having me. I'm excited to have you here. I got to look at some of the stuff that you do, including the Bullet Journal. It's pretty damn cool. Do you want to briefly explain what it is? Sure. I'd like to define Bullet Journal as a mindfulness practice. That's disguised as a productivity system. It uses basically just a paper notebook to help you keep your mind clear and keep you aware of the things that you need to do and more importantly keep you aware of why you're doing those things. It's a daily routine. It's really flexible and it's really designed to become whatever you need it to be. Have you always been fan of analog and actually writing and journaling? It seems like there's almost a resurgence of that today with the most skin notebook and Bullet Journal and all these products. Well originally I didn't really think about it that way. Just when I grew up a lot of the digital tools were a lot more rudimentary so there was no option. So writing was the main form and then as I got more and more into the digital space it always seemed like a refuge to me and for me it's not like digital versus analog. It's always about what is the right tool for the job and that's really what I focus on and I found that when I use my notebook it's a really excellent way to just completely turn off the flood of data that we're exposed to constantly and a very effective way. I mean the digital space is wonderful because it exposes you to everything all the time but there's no real way to process that at least for me and that's what the notebooks for. It's like all of a sudden you're offline. Do you make time every day for it? Is it during meetings or it's at specific times where you're journaling versus on the computer? Do you take detoxes? All of the above. Yeah. So the way I like destruction my day is I'll Bullet Journal first thing in the morning just to be clear the very basic level Bullet Journal is about speed. So I'll wake up in the morning is kind of put everything that's in my head on paper really quickly. It's not really long form. And then I will review in the morning the things that I have written the day before and things that I have just written just kind of to get ready for the day. And then throughout the day my Bullet Journal like be on my desk or at a meeting or something and it'll just allow me to quickly capture what's on my mind so it doesn't, doesn't preoccupy me. The idea is not really to be editing the information at that point. You're just capturing it so you're constantly offloading. And then at the end of the day I will review or reflect as we call it through all the information that I've caught throughout the day and process it. So during the day it's just capture and then at the end of the day and in the morning it's kind of processing that information and making sure that these things that you've written down that value to your life. It is a really about organization is that one of the most important things you think or is it, I guess the intentionality is a combination of organizing and it's both of them. It's being able to organize the what but also to clarify the why. And just to be clear, so Bullet Journal is actually a practice that can be used in any notebook. I just was fortunate enough to partner with a company to design like an ideal notebook for Bullet Journal. So you don't need it. Yeah, but it's definitely nice to have. Sure. Yeah, I feel like whenever I'm journaling now, it's just chaos and it's like sporadic thoughts and also I have a problem with and I don't know if this is a problem but mixing personal journaling with work journaling and sometimes I'll go to a meeting and I'll open up my journal and it's like, well I was really intimate and personal thing. I don't want that to be on a table in front of my clients. Do you separate the two of those? Do you journal in that way as well? Like the personal journaling? And then it took me a long time to figure out a way to combine both. Some people will have two different Bullet Journals, one for home and one for work and that's fine. Again, a big part of this is figuring out what works for you but that has to be the result of actually trying things out. It's a very iterative process. Personally, I just like having one thing. I'm a big minimalist, so I don't want to be dragging around many different kinds of books. So for me, it was trying to figure out ways to very quickly collect related data. And so we have this thing called collections in the Bullet Journal allow me to do that. So the Bullet Journal allows you to capture things very quickly but also to organize them and sort them so you can find them again later, which was the big problem with my journals. I had all kinds of journals and notebooks and all these things and for me the challenge, the design challenge for me was how do I integrate all these things into one system and a lot of it is just based on the concept that you already know about. So we have this thing called the index. So you will create collections where you, for example, if you're an client meeting on page 47, that's where all your notes related to that client will be. So your client will never see any of your other notes and you will always be able to find it because you know your index will tell you that collection is on page 47. Right, it's kind of you had to think ahead and think about, this is actually really interesting because so I've done two documentaries. One minimalism, the second was design disruptors. So and I feel like you are the person and I did see when creating design disruptors that was the second project, how they they overlap, how design and product design specifically and creating a user journey and experience and you're talking about iteration and kind of delving down to what's essential. There's so much that overlap there and I feel like those two worlds are, I guess you had to have those two worlds to be able to create something like the bullet journal. Yeah, I mean for me a lot of this came from the fact that when I was really young I had really bad learning disabilities and the way that I found that I could cope with them, especially when there was no internet and very few resources available is that I designed my way out of things. You know, I actually figured out a system or figured out something that worked for me and that's what kind of fascinated me about design, figuring out how design can actually have a really practical application. I want to kind of go back and figure out how you got to this point, live an in Bushwick, working on bullet journal and being a digital product designer, your freelance digital product designer is that right? No, until recently I, that was what I did full time. That was my occupation I worked for agencies for the last 15 years and now I focus on bullet journal. Wow, that's amazing man, congrats. Thank you. So I, I'm, I'm really interested in, in both of those stories and I want to talk about, for me being a freelance filmmaker, it sustained me, I loved it. The work was amazing and it was fulfilling and challenging and then you get to a point where you want to continue to challenge yourself and grow and for me it's, it's creating this podcast and doing featured documentaries and creating original projects. So I, it sounds like you went on a similar journey there. So I definitely want to cover both of them because I think for people who are just starting out to be able to create a sustainable freelance business is a great way to, I mean, first of all, you're going to love it in the beginning. If, if you're, if you do it right and then I, you will hopefully be able to, I guess what I'm trying to do is help people to be able to create a sustainable business and then figure out at that point what they really want to do with their life and, and how to, um, challenge and grow in their own way. So, but let's go back to, I get, where does your story start? Uh, we don't have to go all the way back to diapers unless you think it's important. Um, uh, where does your, where do you think your story starts when you start to get into this entrepreneurial drive and, and, and design and all that? I guess I've always liked having projects. Like even when I was a college, I was constantly working on things that like weren't part of the curriculum. Um, the curriculum was always quite limited. And I was, was working out other things or working on projects that were loosely related related related to what the teacher was teaching, but then they'd kind of be excited because it could like, took something that they had put out to the class and completely reinterpreted it. So that worked effort for, for, for some time. So I don't know. I guess I've always just followed the things that really interest me. Um, and that can be both a blessing and a curse because a lot of times in life you just have to deal with things that you're not interested in, especially in school. Like you have to sit through these classes and, those matter if you like them or not, you have to show up and you have to do that. And, um, once I graduated, there was less of that. I mean, absolutely had jobs that I hated and I couldn't deal with, but they intern inspired me to then learn more about things that did. So when I first moved New York, I had a horrible production job working in a publishing company. I mean, it was really, soul crushing in many ways. It was, it was, it was a lot of character assassination and basically, I felt that I had no abilities and I had no agency anymore, but it forced me to take a step back and be like, what do you, what do you want to do right now? Because originally what I want to do is direct music videos. Like, that was really, that was a big thing. But by the time I graduated college, that was didn't really exist anymore, that wasn't really a, it was, the world was changing, and if you weren't personally a DSLR filmmaker and do it, you do everything yourself because the budgets have become so small, it's very hard to get into that world. And even now, there's like, no money in it and it's just not very exciting world to be in. No, no, no at all, but what I was getting into in the time is like, 2003, 2004 was online narratives, right? So websites were becoming significantly more artistic and interesting and kind of probing the edge of what interactive narratives could be like and that was really interesting to me. It's like these really weird stories online. You know, people just made themselves and you click on this. I mean, they were very rudimentary, but still all of a sudden I was like, wow, this is kind of interesting stuff. So I started learning more and more about the web while I was at this job and then I started taking night classes, learning how to code and design online and that's kind of where I fell in love with building digital tools. I mean, at the time it was just basic websites and then over time I got a little bit exhausted and worn out on doing websites because they weren't as interactive as I liked, so I started designing products. And a lot of times that skill set allowed me to work for really interesting companies and but I would be working on their thing and that's okay and that's great and it allowed me to learn a lot. A lot of times when you're uncomfortable, even at work, that's a great learning opportunity. But I would take those things and then also apply them things that I was interested in. So I'd build these weird interactive micrecites for like authors or whatnot and I'd do like a lot of the photography myself so it allowed me to integrate a lot of different skill sets and constantly just keep testing myself to see what would resonate with me. So it was like iterative interest, a search for my interests. I guess you would say because things change, you know, like I don't want to make music videos anymore that doesn't interest me at all, but there are other things that I want to do. And yeah, so I guess it was always just having trusted my curiosity and really trying to cultivate it as much as possible because I don't know. I feel like the older I get, like that becomes more and more narrow. Like the things I'd become interested in. Like when I was younger, like a lot of things were interesting and now I've done a lot of those things and I realize that not everything needs to be your passion. Some things can just be a hobby or some things could be something you just enjoy at a distance passively, but there are other things where all of a sudden I want to know more and that's always what's driven me. Like this this I resonate with this where it work in this go. You brought up a really good point and it was like you had come to a moment after being at that first job where it just wasn't working out. It wasn't making you happy and there was a build up to this point where you finally asked yourself the question. It's like what do I actually want? And I think most people don't ever ask that question. That's something that I learned going around interviewing 30, 40 people about minimalism and in these people who have started practicing it. Most of them went on this journey although you don't have to be in a shitty job to have this realization. Although I think it helps to help you wake up more than anything. But you have to ask the questions and most people just don't ask. Most people just continue along on their lives. Not actually figuring out what they want and then I think there was there's been an evolution for me is first asking what I want but then it made this may sound cheesy but I kept asking that and then I kept getting what I wanted and then I still wasn't like well okay this is not I don't know maybe I set the target in a different than the wrong place maybe I wasn't going for the right things but then if I refraze the question and I asked what do I want to give or how can I help? Like if I freeze it in that way it takes a little bit of the stress away from me. It makes me feel like I'm not just all out for personal gain and personal gratification and it's great to have your own personal goals but if you're if you're not taking in say a community or or trying to build something beyond that it can be kind of shallow I think. At least that was my own journey. So so you asked this question what then what did you do at that point? Like was it did you just quit your job right there or did you patch a plan to figure out how to transition? I want to take a step back and first of all I think what you just said is incredibly important because a lot of people will put a lot of pressure on themselves to really define what is meaningful to them and that can the can work sometimes but I feel like you you came to a realization much sooner than I did but like what can I do to help is a very critical way of operating to I mean both are valid but I feel like the second one does take a little bit of pressure off you and also increases the likelihood of you doing something that's impactful you know that's kind of where I ended up that that's where my trajectory lead we can get in the second but yeah so essentially what I did is I started doing freelance work that's what I did and then I took on enough freelance work until I could finally support myself I could eat by that first job wasn't exactly a windfall to begin with so it was kind of easy to use like if you're making hundreds of thousands of dollars you know I'm to worry about it but this was like an entry level position it was the entry level of the entry level it's like that job that like you learn three or four weeks into it like everybody quits in six months right so like after fourteen months of it you know I was ready to go out and yeah by then I had built up a couple connections and it was definitely scrapping by but at least like when money is really rare like generally speaking you start thinking about like you know it's double insult I hate my job and I'm not making enough money you know at least with when I was focusing on freelance work I was making less money like it was fine it was okay like yeah it wasn't great and sure I wanted you know business to pick up and everything but like I woke up every day being like this is a fight worth fighting you know and I was very very fortunate to be able to scrap up enough work and when I didn't you know I cater waiter to where I'd augment it like it's like you just do what you have to do but it allowed me to do both that that's a mentality and a shift that that certainly occurs in a moment but everyone's in while you backslide or you have your doubts along the way where you're like shit wait a minute I don't know if I can do this like or I've gotten many job offers over the past like ten years for people who are who clients who who really like what I do and they want to hire me full time and they can provide benefits they can provide a lot that I personally or to a level that I probably couldn't do myself right now but I've never I've never looked at an offer and I'm glad I never did I remember like I almost got a job at the verge like they wanted to offer me they said you know we want to hire you full time I was thinking the meeting was going to be just about freelance and I was like damn man that would be really good right now but like I just can't I can't don't even show me the number don't show me like the benefit package because I know and it was good thing that I wasn't at a backsliding moment where I was having doubts how do you continue to um to over that period of time you freelance for you said eight years or so over that period of time I imagine obviously eventually things start getting better and you start working with big clients and making good money but before that happens how do you you face that doubt well I mean for me um when I when I talk about freelancing like I became a contractor as well so sometimes I'd work at a place for like six months you know or and about it went on for years and that's great because on the one hand it offers you security, flexibility um but on the other hand it also reminds you of why you don't want to be there or why you do want to be there I think um in general it's just important to keep checking in with yourself because I think that the idea of always progressing or the need to move forward can be damaging right I think that it's more important to just be aware of where you are because I think a lot of times we just spend so much time with our heads down racing towards this finish line blindly just to get there and like realize there was no race at all like it was no race you know like you're you're you're setting goals for the point of setting goals and I don't think setting goals is bad by any stretch but I feel like setting goals for the sake of setting goals is also not helpful right you have to kind of know where do you want to go and why do you want to go and how are you going to get there kind of take these goals apart and then move towards them so like even when you're backsliding like if you feel like you're actually accomplishing things and you can be satisfied with where you're going if you like that will give you a lot of confidence and a lot of it can be really empowering you know I mean generally backsliding means like at least if your freelancer doesn't work coming in or the word that is coming in is stuff that you have to take you know working for clients we really rather not or I mean I was fortunate enough never have to have like a morally questionable client you know like that happens all the time though you know yeah I don't think I have either I'm trying to think but you know you know it's funny is that I would say once I've got into minimalism and simple living and telling that story and now I'm a director of minimalism and it's like can I still do corporate work with Reebok and like clothing brands and then you start a question like well shit like I don't know how that would look but at the same time I'm like I don't I don't think I think there's certainly a balance there and I don't for me it's that's not morally wrong to buy Reebok sneakers I think that there obviously is a problem with people with compulsory consumption and people buying things that they don't need just because they want that dope mean hit of buying a new thing but I'm not like anti-consumption like we should all run around wearing loincloss all day but that that is a I think another important question to ask is like this is actually lying with my values and my beliefs but it's funny you remind me of of a I think Jim Carrey said it is like everyone knows money won't buy happiness but they want to figure it out for themselves and even though we know these things to be true and a lot of people know it's like yeah it's not the destination it is about the journey it's a lot of times people have to learn for themselves unfortunately and it is these the learned experiences of rushing towards a finish line hopefully it doesn't take you to 65 to realize that but rushing towards a finish line sometimes is the the best way to learn that it actually wasn't about it and the next time you can actually enjoy the journey a little bit more because you're you're constantly working on projects and and things that have a beginning middle and end yeah I mean for me I would argue that the the whole finish line concept is flawed the the more commonly accepted idea of like this big purpose right I I feel that our lives are constantly shifting we're constantly learning new things we're evolving every single day so how can we possibly imagine that the thing that we thought was important five years ago still matters now and if you're still working towards that chances are you're probably going to be disappointed when you get there because you're not the same person who had that goal you're not the same person who wanted those things I don't want the same things like one of when I was 15 like there's no similarity there I'm sure I still enjoy some of the same things yeah but generally speaking I feel like it's more important just to kind of be aware of what you're currently doing and making sure that it aligns with what matters to you now as best as possible like I do want to say like sometimes you need you need work and you just need to do what you have to do to get by and there's unless you're incredibly fortunate there's very few people I know who haven't had to do that but at the same time even when you're in that situation you can find your opportunity you know like did I want a cater waiter like on a day was like 110 out of where a penguins suit on a roof deck yeah absolutely not there's not one interesting thing about that yeah but it allowed me to say enough money to buy computer and you know and like there you go it's like all of a sudden you don't need to be trapped by an unbearable situation you just need to kind of figure out how it can move you away or what your opportunities are in that situation yeah and I think the to make sure you don't get stuck because I working in a grocery store through high school and college made me want to get out and not I'm like I don't ever want to do this this is not fulfilling for me like half when you have a job or your entire day your day dreaming about doing something else anything but what that job is it's a good indicator that you you're probably you shouldn't continue down that path I think that that that transition is certainly a difficult one what advice would you give to people who are say working a job that they don't like and maybe they haven't found their path yet maybe they say maybe they're in photography and they want to focus on that I guess what advice should we give people that are trying to make that transition well my advice would be start by sitting down and writing down things that you like or things that you love just anything just free form let it let it all out on paper and then you know if you've hobbies that's an easy place to begin you know I would say if you're stuck sometimes you will be stuck and you'll just be there because there are no other jobs or is nothing else so what can you do for yourself or what can you do for your community or what can you do outside of that because sometimes you know as I said people may not have the ability to change jobs for whatever reason you know supporting a family or you know a sick family member and they just need that income and that's where they are for now but at the same time what are they doing for themselves so like life doesn't just become the agony of that experience you know like what can that miserable job afford you you know like or the time that you have away from that place it's it's just cultivating awareness of things that aren't bad you know like there's a lot of talk about gratitude and my own or practicing gratitude and I would say that like my biggest realization is that it constantly makes me focus or it makes me search for things that I like because when things get really bad sometimes it's nearly impossible to see positive things it's it's hard to see good things but if you train yourself it's like any other muscle like it's a skill you start finding things that interest you or that you like and for people who are stuck somewhere I'd start by trying to name those things and then once you have a name then that's a foundation that you can set to start getting involved with those things is it working with your community is it photography okay so I have very little time okay but you don't have so little time in a week that you can't spend an hour like setting up a shoot or you know is there somebody that you love that you want to spend more time with once you go take some portraits of them you know maybe it's it's you can figure out away to spend more time with friends you know like I feel like if you have sources of joy in your life of any kind or at least that you're actively pursuing something that you believe that it will influence the rest of your situation as well you know maybe your job sucks but like your hobby keeps you content doesn't mean you need to make you happy and that's a whole different conversation and happiness is a little bit over a little bit of a distraction but at least you feel like your days are worthwhile you know and some way you need to find something there I feel like when people get stuck that's the first thing to go it's like I'm just wasting my time and like that idea becomes like pervasive yeah like everything's a waste everything's a waste because so much my day is gone and that's an easy trap to fall into I have myself as a freelancer you know it's like I have like one gig that's not great and it's hardly paying the thing but like there's nothing else coming in what do I do it's like well start finding things you know it's up to you like that's the one thing you can do that's the one thing in life you have control over is how you react to your situation and so like I advise people to start training how to react you said the writing is important to write down your kind of what you what you want what your goals are and at least the direction that you want ahead I mean anything that comes to like set your intention like sit down and say okay I'm stuck I'm miserable I'm like whatever it's okay so write down the things that you're not miserable about what are things that interest you what not necessarily make you happy but that's okay too and the reason that I like doing that personally is I feel that we live in an age we're constantly overwhelmed even if you're bored you're overwhelmed you know especially when you're bored it's like Instagram Facebook just constant constant influx of information and data and all these things and a lot of times I kind of like it it anesthetizes you you know you just don't have to think anymore and I think that your mind is just so cluttered with thoughts some that have been processed most of which have not and personally I found when I write things down I can see my thoughts for the first time they're not gone you know like our minds are filled with so many thoughts that are moving you know thoughts aren't stagnant they're racing and for some of us racing thoughts is a real problem but I feel like all of us are guilty of that at some time and how do you stop how do you capture a thought name it put it on paper it's very simple like all of a sudden you see it becomes real it becomes real it's out of your head and now you can work with yeah that's why I like paper that's that's well I actually did that with minimalism was I wrote six months but five or six months before that project started before Josh emailed me and said hey I've got an idea for a project I want to make a feature like documentary I wrote down a bucket list and it was you kind of cliche but it was one of the top things was make a documentary about something I care about and it's like you have to put it down and I don't I honestly don't believe in the law attraction or anything like that I do think that what you focus on becomes will become a reality if you continue to focus on it and that for me writing that down who knows if it would have happened if I didn't writing down I think I would argue equally important is reading and I don't think people read enough because in my early days and I would catalog and I would write down what I read and to kind of keep a running list and it was a hundred two hundred books over that couple years where I was just getting started out and I read like every entrepreneurial book, every setcode and book, every Malcolm Gladwell book I don't think people read enough now and I think that that will help to guide your thoughts and help to guide what you yourself write down because there is inspiration and guidance and you need people that have been through it before and in my way like in a lot of ways books were my mentor and I had a couple mentors over the years some were good some were ended up actually being bad in hindsight but you read say a good personal finance book and then it's the best guidance you can have because there's a lot of myths and there's a lot of garbage that's floating out there and a lot of bad ideas and you have to find the right people the right books and the right mentors to be able to push you in the right direction yeah I couldn't agree more I think reading is incredibly important the reason that I like the list just to get back that also is because it's again it's a foundation and like acting on those things will expose you to new elements so for example with any pursuit or any hobby you start to learn and you learn by reading by watching videos by whatever method works for you you know information is only as valuable as your ability to kind of understand it right so yeah I think that books are incredibly important and again with the writing things down one thing that I like about your story a lot is not only did you have this idea but by writing something out you actually kind of define it you know it's not just like a word here it's like the first time you actually define a thought like what is it exactly that you want and that that exercise can help a lot and once you kind of know what that is right now you know then then it's time to begin you know and how you begin is such an exhilarating process and for me the first thing I do start to learn like I try to learn as much as I possibly can but I have to know what I'm going to learn about because I also am guilty of sometimes being interested in a couple things and it's like the classic YouTube thing we start like learning about something interesting the next thing you know you're learning how to build like mud tiles for like some like a way to second no it's like you know that interest is being watered down so it's interesting like it's important for me to have my intention like what do you want to learn about and why are you reading this book and why are you watching this video or why are you doing these things and is this actually helping you move forward it's not necessarily about understanding it just yet but like the the the the mud tiles of nothing to do with understanding like a way to you know color grade some video like zero percent it's just like a cool video that that's or a book yeah I think I think that like that like so YouTube and watching YouTube videos or scrolling through your Instagram the distractions that we get caught up in I don't think it's anything that's new I think when when I was in high school it was just watching TV and then even before that people was by radio or newspapers people find a way to distract themselves to pacify themselves because doing the work or at least getting started with the work it just seems overwhelming it seems like you don't know where to start you think you're too dumb or you're not actually going to or you're afraid that you're not going to that what you're going to make is going to be shit you're afraid that people there's just so much that's pushing you away from it but really once you get started with it once you start to clear away these distractions you know within like 45 minutes to an hour and do a project that I'm working on those things kind of fall away and then you just get lost in the work and then you're just doing the work and that's really what I enjoy is when I'm in the middle of the work and you know I I do go on to say if I'm starting I just I'm working on a project right now I know IBM was a client that you had in the past I'm doing um it's actually about their design program it's a 20 minute 25 minute film about IBM's design transformation a company that has over 100 year history and in the the 1950s they were kind of the design leaders in the corporate design world and they had some of the most amazing designers that were leading the program and then it kind of fell by the wayside and they had you know the last few decades not focusing on design at all and so working on this project there's some challenges there it's it's like kind of a corporate film and it's like you you you you have to make it interesting engaging and there's a lot of challenges that go with that and making any project that's over 10 minutes long can be a challenge but if I'm looking at that project I'm like thinking the beginning um a little bit overwhelmed right before it starts I'm like all right how like how the hell am I going to tell the story how am I going to put this together but then once you start working you're like all right this is fun this is cool you're doing interviews you're learning about the story and there's some excitement to it and then after I shoot all that footage then it I kind of come back to like we'll shit all right what am I going to do with this stuff how do I put it all together and then after that you start to work again and that starts to fall away and kind of comes and goes and I think that's just what challenges are and that's what any big project entails is facing these challenges and overcoming the challenges but you just have to keep digging no matter what no matter how hard it gets in the middle of it you have to keep going with client projects it's easier because you're getting paid and you're like if I don't deliver on this then I'm going to be in trouble but if it's a personal project it kind of comes either from within or what I found is having partners on a project that tends to push me and drive me to actually finish what I started I'm not sure how that that whole die tribe started but but I think but where it ended was yeah finding partners is that something that you found to be pretty viable I would say that that's absolutely critical let me two things two things I want to talk about here one is I feel like you don't need to finish every project like I feel you mentioned reading a lot and you know for me what I spent a lot of time doing is learning right now in general as as I build this community of mine like I want to make sure that the information that I believe in is is vetted and that I'm getting a broad spectrum of different information on our read a lot of books where like halfway through like I don't this is this is a distraction this book it actually all this unlike this information is not valuable or it's going down a path that isn't isn't right and the same thing is true for projects and it's a super hard to define balance because you know I bullet journal is not my first start up and I think it's my third of my fourth and I don't even know if I would define it as a start up it kind of became its own thing but I have seen things through to the bitter end for no reason you know and the sense of gratification that you get at the end of that is not equal to the effort you put into it and I feel that that's kind of what we talked about earlier about this finish line things why are you doing this exactly like do you believe in this project and with one of them I spent two years on I didn't like I loved the work I loved building it but the product itself didn't have meaning to me like I like building the company like like building the software that ran it but like the end product like I didn't want to run that you know this is I I'm sure you've read the dip Seth code and yeah very that's if you guys are in this position or want to understand why quitting is actually a good thing that's a really good primer very short book on the it's basically that that excitement that you have you're kind of going up this hill everything is great everything is fun you're building this brand you get to work on fun interesting problems and then inevitably every project reaches a point where you kind of fall into this dip where it it feels like you're stuck you're trapped in this hole you don't know why you're doing it all this doubt comes rushing in some projects should stop right there and but some and maybe it's a small percentage should you should keep pushing through those tough times and actually get to the outcome yeah and then to your point before like I feel like one of those like differentiating factors that can make things more clear is like what value will this project add to others like what will I can it help other people because a lot of times like when you don't want to do it anymore the best way to get motivated is remembering that it's not about you you know and and I've found that to help me move forward in some of the most difficult projects that I've had you know it's like I can't do this anymore they just can't show up anymore and it's like well it doesn't matter what you want you know in this case like do you believe in what it's going to do for other people and if the answer is yes that's really helpful it's not always that clear and obviously there's no absolutes here but that's helped me in the past and so that that's definitely I feel that it's a hard line to define at a point you stop but I feel like it's a very important to be honest with yourself like what's a bad day and what's a bad idea what was that trajectory for you from what do I want to what can I give one thing that I found was interesting when I was younger I volunteered a lot for you know different organizations and I always had like this profound sense of satisfaction honestly you know even if what I was doing wasn't necessarily something I like doing at the end of the day it wasn't about me and I like that and I but I never really found all that many opportunities to continue doing that and one thing that was really interesting about working with digital products is that you can affect people at scale you know it's like some dude sitting alone in his apartment in Brooklyn can create this thing that can help untold amounts of people as opposed to showing up in volunteering in a shelter which is in no way less but I I like the fact that I could put the same amount of time into something and it could affect much more people so I started volunteering for some non-for-profits in the digital space building apps and different things like wow this is kind of interesting this is taking my day job and applying you know these powers for good and so I kind of kept on looking for opportunities and volunteering when I had the time to do these things or you know with the agencies that I work for sometimes they would have programs that would teach people things or you know just do things for the benefit of mankind or when you're super lucky you have a project that is actually entirely dedicated to doing something valuable or um and then I've always kind of been curious about how can I do more of that and then I wrapped up one project that was very very long project one that was very exhausting both emotionally and creatively and just felt that I had very little say in this thing and I put a lot of work into it there's like a teen those two small I'm sure you've run into that where you're like all right I guess I'll do everything you know yeah and that's fine when it's yours when it's somebody else it's it's you really have to believe in it and if you don't your batteries get tapped pretty quick so I did this for a while and I was grateful for the for the opportunity but I left this the job wrapped up like I'd finished my time it was a contract and I didn't want to renew the contract and then my next contract was fortunate enough at the time to have gained enough clientele so I had the next thing lined up and it was like two or three weeks away and I just came home I was traveling for this job and I was like I need to build something I believe and I want to share something that could help just somebody somewhere something so I kind of wanted to you like I learned how to code basically and you know I'm not a great developer and I was like okay I'm going to build a website I'm going to build a website that's going to teach people something like what am I going to teach them like what can I provide for people that will add value of some kind and I'm definitely not the best designer in the world I'm certainly not the best developer in the world and a lot of this was inspired by the amazing amounts of information that people give away online for free these people who are the most talented people in the world or thought leaders they just share this information and I I was always so grateful for that so I felt like this was my opportunity kind of like why don't you do something like that you know stop taking they give something back somehow but then the challenge is like what what is unique to me that I can share and that took a while that took a while to think about and then I remembered like a couple years previously a friend of mine was planning her wedding I worked with her and she was struggling with the organization of this stuff like as you had mentioned at the beginnings like paper covered her desk at work and every time there's a phone call you know the hand is like rummaging through this pile of paper notebooks color swatches like all over the place and I walked by I'm like do you want me to show you how to use like the how I use my notebook and I don't know why I said it like I'd never assume that other people would be interested in this it's the way I organized my mind and you don't necessarily want to share how you organize your mind with other people or expose your mind to other people that's that's even more the vulnerability to it yeah it's very vulnerable and and like with my history of you know like learning disability like you are otherwise very quickly like you know you're the dumb kitten class you're the one the back so opening up about how my mind works was definitely something I felt very uncomfortable about but she had gotten me that job and I've always been looking for an opportunity to kind of see if I could provide some value and I was like taking out for dinners fine but like what do I what kind of do that actually has impact you know I was like maybe this it kind of just came out of nowhere so I sat down with her and so of course in an hour I kind of just explained her how I use my notebook and this is like way before bullet journal was a thing right so I had no vocabulary for it there was it was very hard for me to define how I did this and how the different parts related to each other and all these things and I finally finished and I looked up and she was sitting there with like her mouth hanging over and like oh no she thinks I'm completely nuts you know and she sat there for a second of staring at me and the first thing she said is you have to share this with people and at the time I was like oh you know that's nice of you to say you know that kind of thing you just you never accept the compliments from your friends when you should but I was sitting there and all of a sudden I remember that I'm like yeah well maybe I should and I'd shared pieces of the bullet journal with people along the way and they always responded really well and one thing I noticed is like as I started thinking about it's like I have never worked somewhere where I've not seen a notebook and I live on the digital native sort of I live in a digital native space and I occupy that space for very long times but like developer is a designer is project managers like you go into any like digital shop of any kind agency and people just have notebooks and I was like well maybe I could share how I use my notebook like I know that there's one person in the world that finds it valuable and maybe I could share that with other people and so that's what I did I took the time between these two contracts to create what I would like to call a personal sprint so one thing we talked about it's like how do you move forward I like to time box projects personal projects because I think it's very important to complete things it's likeologically I think it's really important to complete things especially if you're in the digital space because nothing's ever done really you know like for websites like there's always an update there's always a fix there's always something and that can be really detrimental to your sense of momentum like if there's no sense of momentum you just constantly feel like you're stagnant so anyway at two weeks I'm going to take this notebook thing that I do and I'm going to formalize it I'm going to come up with language and vocabulary and try to make it as easy to explain and like reduce it to the absolute minimum you know like I've been developing this thing for decades and I mean there's a lot of things that didn't work so I'm like I get what are the things that are most effective what are I use all the time whatever I've been using for you know years now and like here are these things so I started to name them and you know actually starting to build like a product out of paper and methodologies so it was really interesting I was taking all these concepts and a lot of the language that I had gained from my time as a designer as a digital product developer and poured it into an analog space so it's kind of like full circle because like the digital took it from the analog and anyway so a lot of these concepts and I integrated it into bullet journal.com and then I shot a tutorial video to teach people how to do it because I'm also very well aware of user patterns online and you know a lot people don't read so you know myself included if there's something that I just want to quickly scan like I need I need bait of some kind you know with the bait resonates then I'll read and so I created this video just to give people a super basic overview and I realized I could teach the system the skeleton of the system in four minutes and that was a really great challenge for me so I went from this thing like oh just make a teaser to all of a sudden like wow I can actually reduce this to something that small and I put it online and that was like you know I watched the first hundred people show up to the website and it's like goal accomplished maybe one of those people will not have to deal with some of the pain and frustration I had to go through and it was kind of the cliff notes for my mind so that's kind of how I saw it and yeah kind of became a thing from there yeah all right so let's talk about that then how does it go from one friend viewing it to a hundred people viewing it to now how many people use the bullet journal and and that's hard to get just say I would say that so a year later and we can get into this I created a new video just an updated video and better I got better of doing it and I added some stuff to it but that video has over 5 million views on YouTube. Damn that's how long did it take for that video to take off the second video not that long at all the first video which also has the considerable amount of views um fairly quickly uh it was I mean the whole thing is very surreal and start off by saying that so everything it comes after that is it's still kind of all of fog you know this is this is happening very quickly and very intensely and I'm doing my best to keep up so yeah I mean the first thing I did is I sent out the video to a bunch of personal development blogs and like life hacker and life hack.org and anybody who who's website I had gone to to kind of learn you know it's like you taught me here maybe this will help your community and then one picked it up and then another one picked it up and then you know it started gaining steam from there it's just the way you see viral things happening and I'm just sitting like like holy shit that's gonna be so exciting it is but it's strange because the reaction is both like wow and you're like oh yeah now it's out there yeah it's like now a hundred thousand people are looking at the way you think yeah I know the feeling yeah you know all the sudden becomes a thing and as the scaling creases you're just like you go from excitement to uh trepidation I guess you know like I I don't know I've always been a kind of like behind the curtain sort of person and then people start to learn about you as well and I realize I was like oh no it's about it's about this thing it's about the bullet journal it's not about me and then all of a sudden people are asking you things and I didn't expect that you know so it's it's interestingly where do you end in the bullet journal begins and especially one for me the bullet journal is very much about the user it's not about me you know right so it's it's been just interesting to see how that evolves and it evolved very quickly so yeah I first thing is to try to find people who you think will find value in this content that you're creating you know and I was lucky enough that the people saw a value in it and then they shared it and then those people shared it and that kind of just kept on exploding I guess is that yeah yeah I think a lot of people look at stuff like that and and would see like oh it it happened overnight but it's like this is years and years of hard work and figuring out what's working and what's not and it's not like you were you just set out from the begin every like the story because it's not like you said out in the beginning you're like I want to make a successful product because that's what a lot of people do I think and like I understand the lore of that I understand why somebody might want to create a product that goes viral the next flappy bird and then they can make millions of dollars and then retire and be happy forever but that's not how how this story started and I don't think that's how most meaningful projects start because I don't think that creates a longevity to to continue even when you are in that dip and times are tough so where do you go from now in terms of the bullet journal and how do you see this evolving from here how long ago was it that you started getting picked up and took off well I launched it in 2013 yeah I took off in 2013 and I've been fortunate enough that every year it's gained more more steam and popularity and it's kind of a hit a critical mass now and especially when I started doing a lot more work on like social channels you know at first I didn't I didn't have a Facebook page I didn't even have an email registration again it was like a personal sprint build this website come up with the language and it was very limited and scope and it allowed me to just get it out you know like I never imagined like if I had known how many people are going to see it I don't know if I would have done it yeah really I mean it was just like daunting you know yeah it would have been yeah much more challenging to approach that and it probably wouldn't have been as good as of an outcome I totally agree because I would have probably belabored every single detail like I have to get it better I have to get better sound I have to get better this and and and a little bit of a different topic but you become you become the victim of perfection and I think perfectionism is like a hugely damaging concept one that I fall victim to all the time like what I love about software development software design is the idea of agile right you know just like you make things you just make things and then you improve them and you improve them over time because you can so I took a lot of that into heart when I did this just like get it out you have two weeks do it and I did and it was great it was done you know like I launched them like great I'm finished moving on to the next thing but what happened after that was when I realized that it could really impact people's lives you know for me I had lost all distance from this thing you know like I've been using it for years and years and for me this is just the way I thought at this time this is just the way I operated and then I forget who said this but I love the quote is like be sure to teach others as soon as you learn something because soon you'll forget what it was like not knowing you know so it was I and this was a perfect example of this I have no idea what it's not like to bullet journal and when I realized that it could impact people's lives like then I really became interested in this it first is like maybe this will help some people and then when it did things changed it was a hypothesis and then that hypothesis was proven over and over and over again and for people whose lives were fundamentally different from my own like I created this foundation that mapped onto people who had needs that I didn't and it helped them and like how can I not continue to invest in that you know like that that's the opportunity like that was what I was looking for how can I create value for other people and meaningful way and here it was and it was completely unexpected so after I launched the first version I sat back as I'm like I'm kind of did what I wanted to do and like I don't know what the next step is and so I sat back and like literally for a year or just thought about that and in that time I saw all these communities kind of spring up different kinds of communities too more focused communities ones that either had no experience in or wasn't involved with talking about how they use this foundation and math their own lives onto it and they start developing different methods inside the bullet journal because it's modular you know you can take out pieces and you can put in pieces which is one of the reasons why I think it's become so effective because it becomes whatever you need to be and what it needed to be for these people was fascinating and incredibly helpful and interesting and well thought out and it's just so much ingenuity in this community but it was getting lost because it's like some pockets somewhere on some social network and so what I my idea was like okay why don't we just start focusing on the community and that's the next thing I want to do like how do I how do I become a curator of these ideas to inspire others because like that community is small and though they benefit from it so many more could so if they're willing to share then that's something that I want to facilitate so a year later I launched a kickstarter to frankly just engage interest if people wanted to have a new website because I taught you know like the website bullet journal there come the first one taught you everything you needed to know to get started technically much more about the productivity system rather than the mindfulness stuff I wasn't I wasn't ready to talk about that so I launched the kickstarter to see if people were going to invest in this idea because if they didn't care then I'm not going to spend my time doing it you know like they they're there there is already a very helpful resource that's available for free do they want to pay for something you know it's like you have it for free do you want to do what more of this and that's important you know I don't want to spend my time with something people won't find value and so I launched this kickstarter and just kind of a side note in the kickstarter I also took that as an opportunity to create a backer reward and that backer reward was the custom designed bullet journal notebook so again you know you can use any notebook you want but I love the notebook I was using and I reached out to the guys who made the notebook I'm like hey do you want to do a limited edition of this notebook that's specifically designed for bullet journaling it just has a whole bunch of little details that allow the system to be faster and I said sure that'd be great so I launched the kickstarter and I met my goal and like eight hours I don't think like that again it's like it's kind of flip my two pay you know I was like okay I can give it 30 days you know and all of a sudden bam they're like yes the answers and we're counting yes and then the next thing that happened was like people start getting very grumpy about the fact that the notebook sold out they're like why why is it a limited edition like I want that how many of them were there 999 wow so they sold out very shortly after that and then I went back to this company that I worked with life to him and I was like hey I you know I think there's a real need for this product you know I totally underestimated how much value people would find in this notebook because you know you can use any notebook you want I loved using it you know but again I didn't want to assume that other people found it interesting so that kickstarter a allowed me to build the new site which has a lot of new content but mostly community driven content people who've developed really interesting ideas or very interesting thoughts or also people that are not entirely in the community people that are in adjacent communities just to kind of expand you know your perception again it's all about learning and I want to share what I found to be helpful and that's I want to share what other people found to be helpful and on top of that it also allowed me to start the business of bullet journal with the notebook so that's kind of where the company of bullet journaling came together you know came from this idea to actually becoming more of a company it's amazing to be able to find something like we were talking about earlier where you both truly enjoy and are passionate about the work and it also helps in benefits people's lives I don't think there's anything better than that so you have a text all called how to lead an intentional life when did your path in terms of intentional living start when did you start to because there's certainly been since 2008 2009 is when a lot of the blogs started to come up Zen Habits the minimalist and lots of people writing about minimalism in civil living what was your path like in terms of leading an intentional life a long one I would say I mean so my learning disability was 80d and like a big part of 80d is just like overwhelmed all the time so for me intentionality started very early on and for me it was like mental intentionality it's like what are you going to focus on and I found very quickly that what would help me is to design my space the space is around me and the less there was the easier it was for me you know it wasn't it wasn't natural but that bit of discipline like when the desk was clear the room was clear the things were in order like it made it easier because I wouldn't have to think about doing that you know like when you when you're easily distracted or you think of where you focus on many things at the same time like any action that can be taken can be distractions like oh you know I'll clean up my desk and then I'll do my thing or like I'll do my homework after I do this so intentionality at a very early age was an incredible challenge and as I got older and older it just always came back to focus how can I help myself focus and a big part of intentionality for me or living intentionally is focus is part of it but also meaning is much more helpful like what why do you want to do something and then then it's much easier to focus you know like if you focus on something you don't care about chances are it's going to be really hard and I found that to be the case in school a lot and you know I think education is incredibly important but at the same time a lot of times we're subjected to things that add no value to our lives and we have to focus on it and it's very counterintuitive for me and like that that spilled out into my space and then something also kind of wonderfully traumatic happened to me as well when I first moved to New York my apartment flooded yeah so I lived in a shared of basement apartment I was in the ground floor I was in the basement more or less was a finished basement and at the time I moved to New York to actually start like this apprenticeship with like my dream company like led by the guy who show remain nameless but a huge inspiration to me and I showed up and somehow they had forgotten tell like I moved everything I had to New York and I showed up from a first day of work and they're like didn't nobody get in touch with you like yeah we downsized and blah blah blah so yeah fuck yeah yeah it was one of those and I was like wow I just moved into this apartment like every I just I'm here now so I was just like another unemployed art student in New York like in 2002 which was a really really bad time you know the downsides because of that time so anyway I spent months just like you're going to places when I like all I had was my graphic design portfolio like I wasn't into didn't well I wasn't into web stuff yet you know that's that's what that other terrible job helped me to do and to at least get into it yeah you know that was the inspiration for that so anyway all I had really was physical goods right like you actually had a portfolio I had to bring in my artwork and show even my graphic designs that I had done some graphic novels and album covers and posters and book jackets and you know things that either I had written or done for friends and that was the only thing that I had to set me apart and so it snowed very heavily and the day before and I woke up I was I think it was like a futon mattress I got it in I had my money for a furniture and I woke up and I literally saw my portfolio floating by my bed I was like because you know you like wake up it's like this weird sound and like what what's that movement in your eyes are all unfocused and like wow like I didn't even know like I thought it's still dreaming and it's funny my first thought is like well at least I have a back to help on my computer you know and then I look back and I see like my computer flickering in the back as it was sitting on the floor yeah so in that moment I lost most things like most things over the night somehow the snow had just melted directly through the foundation and was like perfectly captured by the floor and my part of the apartment and so yeah I like lost almost everything I had it's devastating it's not only the stuff but the work and what went into that work oh yeah I mean getting a lot of those stuff printed was or dealing itself like if the printers on campus the nice ones were broken I had like go to kinkos and and figure out how to get these high-end prints you know from printers that aren't designed to do that kind of stuff and so yeah it was it was in some ways very devastating and in some ways very liberating because I had to move out instantly landlord wasn't going to do anything about it so I had very few things and I kind of like that you know losing it was hard but wasn't that hard I was okay you know and you understand that it's not the end of the world no you lose everything you had but as long as you're okay and you're safe although if I lost all my work through that would be devastating I would take me a bit to get over that to be honest well that's that's kind of where it pulls into focus what actually matters you know so yeah I would have given all my stuff five times over if I could have saved that work you know because like your unemployed this is this is your ticket is your meal ticket and you show up with literally warped books and like you know some like molding it's like I try to save it and like the ended up being even worse to bring it in they're like who's this guy you show you know put like whole bunch of messed up words all like yeah but you know I it worked out I think the I mean we can talk at length about materialism but I feel like one thing that's underestimated is tools you know like I value my tools there's I took this with time for a little story yeah absolutely so I've always been interested in like learning more about making furniture I built some of it completely randomly on my own I have like zero skills or experience but I just love the idea of like fashioning and so I took that stuff that right there see behind you the coffee table you built up yeah yeah yeah I mean I didn't like like well the steel I just bought some steel legs but that was this probably the only thing I've built in the past five years and it was a lot of fun like very rarely today do these do people actually create stuff with their hands that's exactly why I love this stuff like school there's a lot of sculpture and I got a lot of satisfaction out that I really like working with my hands so anyway I took this Japanese joinery class the other day it was just like a workshop to walk through it and the guy had this tool he the I forget what it's called but basically it has like a blade on the front and he used it to smooth out wood and he took this blade out I don't know it's like five six inches long and I had a handle on it and then he took another another tool out I had the same handle and then it was like a one inch you know blade on it so this is like steel just five six inches of steel he's like can anybody tell me the difference between these two tools and they just both and I assume that it was for a different purpose and everybody like gave their guess on what the difference was between the application of these two tools and he's like nothing and he raised the smaller blade up he's like this was this long this is the one I started with so for 40 years he used this tool it's just sharpening and taking care of it and it was exactly as effective as it was back in the beginning and I don't know I just love that metaphor it's like yeah I'm sure if he lost it it wouldn't be a big deal but the fact that he also took care of it and that he like had become a master in the meantime and like had that that thing that tool that he still used to remind him I I really love that and you know unfortunately the digital age of very few tools that allow that have that kind of longevity you know like yeah the cameras were shooting this with they're going to be completely outmoded in two three years you know these microphones these things but that being said you know I think there's something to be said for being to respect your tools and yeah I guess some objects as well generally speaking I try to find things that will last a long time you know but if they're gone it's like as long as I'm okay it's all right you know like there's there's other things there uh there's more experience I don't know yeah I tend to do that too I do the the bite once philosophy but the only problem I have with it is that I will buy some nice things and things that are usually more expensive because they're higher quality and I'll buy this once I'll buy this nice wool hat I'll spend $80 on it and then I lose it and I do have sunglasses and then I lose my sunglasses or they get scratched and then I'm like damn it this is why we can't have nice things but I think that the the intentionality behind that is what's important and just because I'm forgetful doesn't mean it's not a good philosophy but it's okay then it's not the end of the world it's like all right well since I don't have 10 hats I can actually you know make that investment it's something nice and if I lose it then I can get a new one never invest in umbrellas especially if you don't do umbrellas or a tough one I actually did invest in a good umbrella I think what's good for me is that like working from home or from the co-working space close by I often if it's raining out maybe I'll just stay at home lower from home I don't even have to go outside but yeah dude it's the thing is when you get those cheap umbrellas they just get destroyed so easily that you can only get one use out of them like the $5 umbrellas and we'll serve it yeah umbrellas I have one now that's like that I probably I don't know it's not like 40 bucks on it's like a nicer umbrella and it's it's certainly well for the past year and a half it hasn't broken yet but I have you had bad experiences with well umbrellas I feel like it's the object that I lose the most but I also feel a large part of that is where we live I feel like it's the one thing that people just feel free to take thank you so true if it's a umbrella or not in New York they're like it's raining I'm just going to take this umbrella and I've seen people do it all the time and you're like I know that's not your umbrella because that's my umbrella no shit really like right at a bar like this grab it yeah I just feel like it's a it's an unspoken thing that not everybody's on board with yeah yeah that's true it's like calling it's an umbrella exactly that's where you spend $3 on it because it you know you lost your last one or somebody stole it on that note you want to do quick questions sure this is a segment I call quick questions it's the only segment I have on this show at this point it's quick questions not exactly quick answers but you you can answer them in whatever manner you decide but it's just a way for me to ask a little bit more pointed questions as opposed to the conversation of tone we've been having so you've done a lot of traveling is that right you're you're you're in the traveling as we were talking before the show what's the one place that you keep going back to I actually try to go to new places as much as possible I'm originally from Vienna Austria so fortunately I get to go back there quite a bit hmm what one skill should people learn today that will come in handy in the future say 5 10 years to write and has to like what what about writing I think that whether you use writing professionally well I think everybody uses writing professionally one performer another I think the practice of clarifying your thought can apply to every single thing in your life I think that's that's an important one even if you're not a writer if you're not good with words it's just like the exercise of getting your thoughts out on screen paper whatever it is you know like I found that that's added to tremendous amount of value to my life and also is probably one of the best avenues for you to learn more about yourself like you know people always suspect that I mean I can't speak for all authors and all writers but in my personal experience as somebody who writes a fair amount of content is that I'll come in with an idea where I'll come in with a notion and leave with an idea you know like I actually really start to understand what it is that I have this concept about and then like that process allows me to actually believe in that idea or not you know maybe like I had this notion or this concept and it didn't work out or on the other hands like bam now I know exactly what I want to say and that's kind of a really wonderful transition you talk a lot about writing it's probably not going to be an important answer but I'm curious what kind of pennies my usual answer is whatever's there you know it's like cameras like the best cameras and when you have on you but I find myself using a fine liner a lot more for bullet journaling and there's a very specific reason for that it slows me down like when I write I write slower with this I I don't know why but I actually have five or six different very different types of handwriting always have really interesting and the split personalities and there's so much I don't know I think a lot of it just has to do with the quality of like the actual tool itself and I find that with a fine liner I have to write like all caps and so I write a lot slower and it's a lot more legible after the fact so I use the tool that's best suited for that purpose but if I do long form journaling which I also do do I will use a pen that I can write a lot faster with what's your favorite thing you have besides I'm your umbrella obviously that's my least favorite thing because I don't own one anymore I don't like three that all don't belong to me what is my favorite thing has to be a thing yeah you can't dodge it no no I'm not gonna dodge the question yeah that's hard because I think it depends on the context like the simple answer is my notebook because it really adds values in my life I would say another one is my camera like when I travel like I love taking pictures I just I guess it's a sliding scale depending on the use case yeah how do you deal with criticism it depends on the source and it depends on the intention of the criticism like if somebody criticizes my work and their intention is right then I accept it and I try to see if there's something that's workable there but I also feel like a lot of criticism comes from a really bad place one of the other fear sadness or hurt you know it's and then I dismiss it as best I can and it's hard it's definitely hard especially when you're online you know so I used to do one thing to read listen to or watch before you go to bed but lately I've dropped the two of them and it's just read because I feel like as we discussed today reading is so important it's something people don't do enough of and for the sake of simplicity and minimalism I think especially with this interview we should do something more pointed so one thing is somebody should read or at least start to read before they go to bed tonight I guess specific book or type of book could be a book could be a blog post it could be anything that's that you think would be impactful but books the subjective answer is read what you wrote throughout the day in my mind that's like the big thing that's like the evening reflection like that's the way for me to kind of unload my mind one more time that chance and I kind of just can go to sleep knowing that things are okay or in order being dealt with so that would be one thing and I feel people don't do that like a big part of bullet journaling and I know it sounds like a plug but a big part is getting rid of things you know it's it's about really editing what it is that you're spending your time and energy pursuing so there's that and I think it's really important part at least it's something that's been tremendously helpful to me and then the other part is I would say something that's fun it's something that's fun like personally when I start reading like I have to do a lot of research for what I do and I just cannot manage it when I'm tired at the end of the day and I just like want to get lost in a story and get exposed to ideas that don't necessarily serve a purpose other than experiencing them and I really like reading books that serve no purpose other than my entertainment when I go to bed yeah I think we get too much caught up on achievement and you can read a thousand books on on self development and improving your life and entrepreneurial ventures but you at some point need to stop actually reading these books and put that into action and and do the actual work and then at the same time you do have to enjoy and find time to do things that are fun and I think yeah you're completely right that's something that I come in and out of sometimes every like biographical books sometimes I I read hunger games or some like popcorn novel that's just fun to read just I think that's that's a great reminder to continue to seek out those things something or something fun or something beautiful yeah I love reading things that are beautiful like either beautifully written or about something just go away for it you know all right so one final question before we wrap up here how should people connect with you online if they're interested in bullet journal you can go to bullet journal.com on Instagram or at bullet journal to the hashtag bullet journal to see what the community does there's a lot of content out there I'm at writer Carol on Twitter and then writer Carol.com you want to know more about me cool man thanks for coming on the show thanks so much for having me really appreciate it thanks for tuning in to the ground up show I'm giving away access to two hours worth of extended interviews to anyone who reviews the ground up show on iTunes these interviews with the producers of minimalism give a never-before-seen look at how we created the film from nothing simply send a screenshot of your review to hello at mattheevila.com and I'll send you the private links to watch the interviews thanks for watching
