# Ground Up 005 - Leaving Corporate w/ Jacob Sokol
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lA24iOssQKs
http://www.groundupshow.com

I sat down with Jacob Sokol of sensophy.com and host of the WTF Should I Do W/ My Life podcast. We talk about his story of leaving the corporate world to follow a more uncertain path of self-development and life coaching.

Subscribe to this podcast on iTunes:  https://itunes.apple.com/us/podcast/the-ground-up-show/id1203518464?mt=2

More from me:

Website:  https://www.mattdavella.com
Twitter: https://www.twitter.com/mattdavella
Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/mattdavella
Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/matthewdavella

Thanks for watching! I'm grateful for your support.
**Keywords:** self-development, film, ground up, podcast, ground up show, Matt D'Avella, Jacob Sokol, life coach, coach, strategy, mindfulness, simple living, essential, 
**Date:** 2017-03-10

## Transcript
 You can't think your way out of overthinking, and that's what all of us try to do. That's Jacob Sokol, and he's trying to help you figure out what the fuck you should do with your life. Jacob's a friend in neighbor here in Brooklyn. I met him on the internet back in 2013, and no, it wasn't on grinder. We met on Twitter. He runs a website called SenseFeed.com, and his host of the WTF should I do with my life podcast. Or he mentors millennials struggling to find their path in life. You know, I'm on this self-knowledge quest to figure out more and more, what's possible with life. In our conversation, we talk about how he got started out, and some of his early struggles in break-throughs. Who will be shit? Dude, that was like some of the hand in me a briefcase of the million dollars. We talk about everything from personal finance to my sex life. If I were to say Matt, think about when you and your girlfriend had that epic sex, right? It was like the best 20 seconds of my life. My name's Matt Diavella, and you're listening to The Ground Up Show. You are a life coach. Is that the term you would use or is that it's kind of seen as, I'm a Jedi mind trick master, right? You know, I actually want to start using a different term, because life coach, I think a lot of people look at that, like something is wrong with their life. But if I say success accelerator, or peak performance coach, like there's a different connotation, like, oh, fuck, you know, sign me up for that. But what I must say is that I'm really enjoying drinking this beer while it's good. Dude, it's really nice. You know, I am very interested in a niche that I do not believe exists in the market, which is drunk life coaching. Oh, drunk life coaching. And that drunk podcasting. Drunk podcast. This will be an extension of it. Yeah. What does the beer do to us, or what does the whiskey do to us, it gets us out of our head, right? It changes our level of consciousness. Now, too much of that will change it in a negative way, right? When you're puking on a toilet, that's not the positive, or that's not an empowering, or even helpful way to change their level of consciousness. But essentially, what I've been geeking out on so much in the past year or two is working with states. And what I mean by working with states is the mood that you're in, how you feel. I realize that for the last five or ten years, a big insight for me was that our thoughts create our feelings. So, if I were to tell you Matt, think about, I don't want to knock on wood here, right? But think about someone who you really love dying, right? Think about your mom, suddenly passing away, again, knock on wood here. Suddenly, if you were to really think about that, your feelings would change. Your body would tense up, you'd feel sad, right? And that's all created by your thoughts. If I were to say Matt, think about when you and your girlfriend had that epic sex, right? And the peak of that experience, like, how did you feel? And you just imagine, like, a tiny detail about it, right? It's like the best 20 seconds of my life. Right? And you think about that. That's your thoughts. Those thoughts are going to create such a great feeling inside of you. So, most of us live life thinking that external events create our experience of how we feel. When really it's the meaning that we assign to the events, the story that we tell ourselves, the thoughts that we have, which give us the feeling, ultimately. And so that's really ninja to be able to kind of take a step back and disconnect from the experience that I am my thoughts. But what I've also realized is that your state creates your thoughts. So, when you exercise, when you finish a run, when you get a good workout in, you feel like a beast. Like, as amazing and suddenly you're super inspired, you're super creative. You can think of all these new connections that you couldn't, like, possibly make if you were over caffeinated and trying to force something out of you when the flow is just not there. And so, so much of my work that I do as a coach and in my own life is about state regulation. So, would you say, focus on the state first? Totally. And then that's going to shift totally your thinking. You can't think your way out of overthinking. And that's what all of us try to do. You can't overanalyze your way out of, like, you know, overthinking about a problem. And so, instead of trying to fight fire with fire, you bring in a different element to change your state. You go for a run. You, you know, tap into a different part of yourself. And I don't mean sound, oh, woo woo, you know, but just to connect to something other than the neurotic, control, control, seeking, safety, craving, fucking monkey mind as the Buddhists will call it without all the cursing. Well, let's, let's go back to, I guess, the beginning. We've known each other for a little while now. And I don't, I don't really know your story from, you know, entering the workforce, climbing the corporate ladder and all that. Mm-hmm. Okay. I can take you there as you can feel my, my eagerness to do so in my, and even through the, as I'm about taking you there. It's a dark place. Yeah. So, you know, the, the short of it is we're in Brooklyn. I'll quote Biggie. You know, he says, I grew up a fucking screw up. And that is something that I really do very much. Not because I was an evil little bastard, but because my parents got divorced when I was five. I come from an experience where they were addicted to some stuff. And I quickly realized that the life that society and school and the world said was how things worked wasn't actually true. And so I remember very distinctly being in, like, first grade, having, like, my teacher tell me to do something because it mattered. And I'm, like, fuck you. You don't know what matters. You don't know how life actually works. And, like, there was, like, an ethos that I had inside of me of, like, this, you guys are all lying. Well, actually, I believe any of this bullshit. Like, I know the world doesn't work this way. You can't fool me. And it made it very hard to get through school. And I did a lot of drugs. I wrote a ton of graffiti. I had a lot of unprocessed pain emotions, crazy thoughts, et cetera, et cetera. So fast forward. I don't know my, my sister. She works in finance and the company that service to our computers, one of the technicians left. And she just did, like, the heartfelt sister thing. And didn't even tell me, and, and emailed the company. And I was like, hey, my brother, he's, like, pretty good with computers. And is the spot open for an interview. So I got the job. And that job taught me so much. Like, that job taught me that anything is figure outable. Because we're a small shop. We're four people in the shop. And we would, and we were consultants and outsourced. So we would walk in, like, I had worked in, like, 50 different companies in that three and a half years that I was there. All different environments. And I literally just learned so much about, about life, about how to interact with people, about figuring shit out. I learned that no matter if you use a Mac or you use Windows or you use a Chromebook that it's all the same. Email is email is email, no matter what program you use for emails still works the same way. FTP servers are the same, no matter which FTP protocol program you use to connect to the server. Help me understand principles. And that you didn't need to know the specific details. If you understood the principles about how something worked, you could go into any environment and figure it out. So you learn a lot from this job. How long were you there for? We're just three and a half years. Did you like it? I loved it. Like, dude, I worked for the dopest dude. Like, he's one of my best friends now. This is mentor and, like, just schooled me to the game of life. Like, such a amazing dude. But I liked it. Yet at the same time. So here it was. I had a great job of great mentor who really cared about me. You know, it's just awesome. But I had a mind that was out of control. I had some crazy thoughts. I felt really uncomfortable in my skin. I didn't realize that I was so disconnected from, like, my, like, this is going to sound like a bumper sticker. Like, authentic self expression. Right? Like, I was conforming to a role of who I was supposed to be. An IT guy does this acts this way. Looks that way. Speaks in this manner. And all that confined the self expression that I was really craving on the inside. And my identity became, I'm, I'm Jacob this person. And, and I just, it's strange because on, on paper, it's like, I had a good job. Nice car. Like, we, you've shot videos for me before, right? So, like, we've done work together. So, you know, you know, that part of the story. Like, I had a lot of great shit. But, and, and I simultaneously had a lot of guilt about, like, why aren't I happier? I know I've got a good wine, aren't I happier? It was there a particular moment when you decided that that particular path wasn't for you. So, I didn't know what to do, but I knew that I wanted to take a trip to Europe by the time I was 25. And I was 24 then. And it was one of those, I don't even know what Europe is. I don't know any places in Europe. I don't know anything about Europe. All I know is that I heard I should go there and, like, I really get excited when I think about it. I'm going to plan to trip to Europe and we'll see what happens from there. That first trip that you took, kind of, changed your life, right? Totally. Yeah, there was really three big insights that I had on that trip. The first insight was that I'm not my role. And I didn't realize that. I didn't realize I was playing a role, like who I'm supposed to be. And we, oh, fucking play roles. You play a role when you see your mom. You play a role when you see your sister. You put play a role when you work for that client. You play a role when you work for that other client. You're, we're constantly conforming to who we think we're supposed to be. And so I had become Jacob the IT guy. I couldn't, you know, express the parts of myself that I was, like, curious about expressing. The other thing was that I didn't know that other lifestyles were possible. The lifestyle design is thrown everywhere. Like, oh, create your idea of life. blah, blah, blah, blah. But we're talking about 10 years ago. I didn't know what it was like to live in Barcelona where they take Cesta. I didn't know you could work remotely from a beach in Thailand or whatever. I just knew the New York grind. And I was like, oh, shit, like, a different life is possible. And then I can reduce my expenses. I started thinking I could reduce my expenses and really have more of my time back. And with my time, I could do these things that I really want to do. But I tell you, the biggest, most life-changing insight that I had was that I am not my thoughts. And conceptually, I could say that right now. And you're listening to podcasts. You're like, oh, I fucking know that. I'm not, or like, what does that mean? I'm not my thoughts, right? But I had, like, an experienced understanding. I would wake up every day when I was working. And I would have the same crazy thoughts go through my head. Months after months after months after months after months. And I took the trip. And a week later, I woke up. And I didn't have that crazy, those crazy thoughts going through my head. And I was like, what the fuck? Like, holy shit. Like, that was like, do that was like, someone handed me a briefcase of the million dollars. Yeah, yeah. It was just like, like, I had been like tortured by these thoughts in my head over and over and over, waking up every morning. And then I, and then I go on this trip. And I, and these seven days into it, I realize I'm having those thoughts. What the fuck? And I just got on such a deep level that, oh, if I change my circumstances, my thoughts start to change. Like, we're a product of our, of our circumstances. Our thoughts adapt to the places that we're in. And when I really got that, I was like, oh my God, if I could change my thoughts, I could change my life, I could change my life. I could do whatever. And, and that was a start of something really special. That's led me here. Yeah. And then I guess at that point when you come home, you start to hatch this plan for how am I going to actually create the life that I'm doing this no matter what. That's where it starts. That's where it starts. There's like, you know, that feeling of getting a million dollars in a briefcase. We obviously, none of us know that. But like, I'm not feeling it. But I'm feeling it. But I'm feeling it. But it's like, then imagine having to give that back. And it's like, no, just kidding, you can't really have it. You had it for three weeks. But now I'm taking it back. There's no way I was giving that feeling back. Yeah. I would do whatever I needed to do. And that was the mindset. It was like, I'm going to figure this out. No matter what it takes. And I started, I've reduced my expenses. I sold my car. So my motorcycle. I stopped going out on the weekend. Stop lying to clothing. Started packing lunches. I was living the math budget. All right. I was going to get out of that budget. Totally. I lived with the math budget. And I saved a little money. And I figured out how to make it work. And I rented my six months later. I left my job. And I rented out my apartment. And I was able to sleep on a friend's floor in Hawaii. An old roommate of mine moved to Hawaii. And I'm like, can I sleep on your floor, some shit? Life became a series. And kind of a constellation of figuring out where to jump to from one place to the next in order to make this work. And I had no idea what it even meant to make it work. It was just to like be alive. Not in that job. It seems like you approached it in a way that was rather smart. You didn't just drop everything right away. You kind of got your finances in order. And you had a little bit of a game plan. But then you do have to make money. Oh, right. I had so many panic attacks. And I didn't know they were panic attacks. Which makes it like a million times worse. And you don't know that you're experienced. Because you just think like the world is ending versus like I have some objective awareness that I'm freaking out right now. And yeah, there became a point maybe like a year and a half into it where it was just super overwhelming. And it's like, what do I do? How did you get through that? What you had mentors? Yeah. So I had a lot of mentors. But the thing about having like crazy thoughts in your head is like you don't want to share that shit with anyone. All right. You're like, I'm not like I'm working real hard to make sure no one finds out about this shit. Like you actually even like yourself. You don't even want to admit it to yourself to have that shit. Especially people you look up to your mentors. You're like, I don't want to tell you about this shit. So in short, like what I did was I put my resume out on the market. I got a call from headhunter. I went through a series of four interviews with the same company and they offered me a job making nearly $100,000 a year. This is after me being out of IT for two years, not touching anything. And when I was in IT, I made 50 grand a year. I was set on a path to like really crush it. And I got the call. And they're like, so we'd like you start on Monday. And it was Thursday. And I had that realization of like, again, I think for the last two years I've been living like a fucking like Tarzan. Like the jungle, like swinging from buying to buying my cock out. Like it was like amazing, you know? And then I just thought about going back to like you know what I perceived as hell. And I was like, there's no way you can offer me any amount of money. And I wasn't thinking about going back permanently. I was thinking about going back for like three months to stack some cake. And then ultimately continue with what I was doing. But even the thought of that, which was just like I'd rather go to Southeast Asia, live dirt cheap, work on my business, and figure it out some other way. And that's what I did. That's crazy. Yeah. That's a hard thing to turn down for I think most people. I think most people's dream is to say like if I could get a six figure salary, I'd be set. I feel like you can't go down that road because it's very easy to get stuck and get trapped. And then you're back to where you start. You had these amazing transformative moments in your life. And then all of a sudden you're kind of hitting the reset button and go back to square one. Yeah. And listen, I'm not a gift. Someone's listening to the podcast. I'm not against that. I'm not against people's going back for three months. You're going back for a year or figuring out how to go back in a way that aligns with their values more. So they have more of the things that actually matter to them. That maybe they weren't conscious about when they initially said I need to get out of this job. Because listen, two to six years out of working for somebody else. And I really admire people who work for somebody else. I really admire people who have a job. I'm like, that's fucking awesome that you have a job. You've got to check every two weeks. You get health insurance, possibly dental. Like, simply dental. Like, that's amazing. Yeah. I really envy that. I don't get that, you know? I got to make it work for myself. And I do. And it comes with the really challenging times. And it comes with a really big wins. It's like, I don't get the health insurance. I don't get to check every two weeks. But you know what? I get the freedom to say, you know what? Fucking, I think I'm going to rush for a month. Why not? Yeah. What are some of the, what were some of the early wins for you in terms of building sensitivity? Early win. I remember being on a group coaching call from a teacher who I was really inspired by named Brian Johnson. And he wrote him a letter. The letter was like, thank you so much, you changed my life. When I'm in weird situations and then they're fine. I'm challenging. I'm like, I ask myself, Jesus, what Brian Johnson do? And like, he made him believe it was like cracking up. And he's like, I'd love to offer you a scholarship into a group coaching program that I'm doing. And I'd love for you to join for free. There's only 10 people who are allowed in. I remember I got on that call and I had a conversation with him he coached me. And fucking after the call, dude, I stomped around my apartment doing NFL, touched down dances like a raging gorilla who's like just on fire. I was so stoked that like I had connected with this mentor. Like guy who I really looked up to and I was such a huge win for me. Just having a conversation with someone who I looked up to was like, Earthshattering for me is just blew me out of the park. So that was a huge one. And then one of the ones that I think is how you got introduced to my work was I reached out and I figured out how to get Gary Vaynerchuk, who is an author and speaker and kind of social media agency owner, or whatever, to take me to the Jets game. And he said he's going to own the Jets, right? And so here's the guys. I really liked his work. I really liked his book. And I was really inspired by Tim Ferris talking about most people aim for what they think is realistic. And because 99% of people are aiming for what they think is possible, counterintuitively it makes that 1% of things that most people are never willing to go for actually easier if you're willing to approach it a different way because most people don't have the hood split to go for it. And I was so inspired by that thinking that mindset led me to say, I want to take this guy Gary Vaynerchuk. I want him to take me to a Jets game. And his guy has got a million followers on Twitter. I started my blog for about five weeks ago. I literally had no cloud and nobody in the industry. It was just some random. And so I like reverse engineered it. I'm like, what would really tug at his heart? How do I figure out our commonalities? I can put them in the email? How do I like? You know, when I do this in coaching, I figure out what matters so much to someone and then I show them how they're living out of alignment with that, even though they think they're actually living in alignment with that. So if someone's like, oh, like, my kids matter more to me than anything in the world. And like, they're sacrificing their happiness in order to, like, get a check in order to, like, keep going with the same shit in life. Well, I can often show them how, like, listen, your kids aren't going to do what you say, your kids are going to do what you do when they grow up. And so with Gary, it was kind of a similar thing. It was like, what is this guy about? And how do I, like, socially engineer it so that, authentically from my heart that I'm communicating in a way that really tugs it is at his heart's cords? And that was it? Yeah, he said yes. And like, that was, like, my street cred. Oh, yeah. This guy Jacob is for real. So how did you actually get a hold of Gary? What's the story there? I just emailed him. The title of my email was Gary. Do you give a fuck? Because that's what he was saying. Really mattered. He was giving a fuck about people. Like, that was what he was renting about at that point. In 2010 or 11 was 2010. It was like, you have to give a fuck about your community. You have to give a fuck, right? And I was Gary. Do you give a fuck? Do you give a fuck? Yes or no? Do you give a fuck dude? Take me to the jetz game. Yeah. And he took you to a jetz game. And he took me to a jetz game. And he never told, I never heard him tell that story ever. So it wasn't like he did it till he could go, like, talk about it and, like, be like, what I did. Like, he's never heard him mention that ever. So that's incredible. Yeah, it speaks a lot to his character. Good feelings, good vibes last a week, two weeks. And then it's over, and you're like, well, what now? Yeah, you have you felt that way with, like, any big projects that you've work on? Yeah, for sure. I have. And, you know, happiness is kind of like, png in the sense that it's more of, like, like, like, like, like, like, like, go like a accomplishment a goal, is more like png. It's like, it's a sense of relief. It's like, ah, finally, ah, this is good. But it doesn't necessarily make you happy when you achieve a goal. It's just, like, it's temporary state of, like, oh my god, it's amazing. And then what? Right? And so, yeah, so I've definitely felt that before. What have you been working on lately? Since I last talked to you. So, for me, you know, one of the, one of the things I've been working on this year was the intention was, like, how do I create the most transformative program that I've ever created in my entire life? And the, you know, with these kind of questions, people who can be like, oh my fucking god, how would you answer that? That's insane. And it can just stress people out. But for me, the question is something to live into. It's not something to answer. So, as a coach, that's what I do. I help people upgrade their questions, not so that they can solve them and get answers. Questions define our life. If you're, if the main question of your life is, why am I so stupid, right? Like, that's going to lead to a pretty shitty life. If your main question is like, you know, how can I grow and learn? That's going to, way fucking different than why am I so stupid? So, my question was, like, how do I create the most transformative program on my life? And everything that I could think of that would help somebody transform. I mean, you know, we didn't get them to go do mushrooms or anything like that. And like, that's for the round two. That's a VIP program. You know, one of the main things people say that they're really craving is clarity, right? As we're talking about a little bit now. And also, the courage to go for what it is that they actually want. And so, I strategically designed exercises in the program to help people get clarity from not their head, but from their gut, from their heart, from like this deeper source of wisdom that society disconnects us from. Same thing with courage. Like, I intentionally created experiences where I'd be like, all right, your homework, your goal for the week is to go out there and high five, 15 strangers, right? And you might be like, yeah, that's fucking crazy. Like, what do you like? Some like, flat boy at a bar, like high-fiving people? But we're intentionally systematically building courage within people so that when it actually matters for them to go for what it is that they really want. That muscle and that discipline and that skill is built there. So that was a 10 week program. It's like, so stoked about it. I'm kind of looking at 2017 and saying, okay, I'm going to run this again. How do I get it four times the size of last time, which I'm excited about? That's cool. So you have your next thing lined up, or you know at least an idea of where you're heading. Yeah, I've got my gym carry goal. Is that the check that you're writing yourself? Yeah, that's funny. We were actually talking about this beforehand. Yeah, this is the secret. Well, kind of. I mean, yeah, very much rooted in that kind of ideology. So five or six years ago, I watched that interview, where Jim Carrey talks about like, you know, I just moved Hollywood from Canada. I didn't know shit. And late one night, I drove up to the Hollywood sign. And there was this kind of struggling actor, and I wrote myself a check for $10 million or something like that. And he's like, I had no idea how this would come to fruition. But fast forward two years later, he gets a check for $10 million. And I'm butchering the numbers in the dates a little bit, but something like that. So I'm like, ah, it's cool to shit. Like, I want to do something like that. So take us back to August 2011, and I write myself a check for $60,000. And at that point, you know, I don't know anything about business. I had just started my business sensitivity, and maybe I made six thousand bucks at that point. So making 16 grand was like, you tell me I'm gonna hang out with Elon Musk tomorrow. It's just like, and then what? I'm gonna go to space with him too. Like, what's gonna happen? But fast forward two years from that, and he came true. And I had made about 60 grand that year, two years later, right? And I was like, oh fuck, I should do this for a much larger number. I have to write what was I thinking. Yeah, so I did. So then I wrote another check for six times that amount, 360 grand. And I dated it, you know, August 2013. And I just was kind of going through my office two days ago, and I came across that check. And I saw it was almost exactly three years to the day. It was one day off, three years, and I'm like, holy fuck, this fucking Jim Carigo, man. I gotta get back on this. And so I sat down, and I like strategically mapped it out, and like, oh, I got my plan. I see how, like, from executing it will be different than the strategy, the execution versus strategy, but I have the strategy. Oh my god, I see how I see how to do this. So that's 2017, is like, playing with possibility. And, you know, one thing that's been really helpful for me is the barbell strategy, barbell strategies, basically like you want to be simultaneously conservative and aggressive at the same time in your goals. So conservative, if you're always doing conservative shit, it gets boring. It's like, oh, I could pay the rent, that's great, but like, where the hell is my sense of possibility? And if you're constantly going for home runs, which I have been for quite some time, and you start missing a few, it's like, fuck, I gotta get on base. Like, we're good, like, yeah. Right? But if the simultaneously go for the conservative goals to make sure that you are covering your rent paying your bills, and doing all that, while taking the big home runs swings and going for what it is that you really want. Right, to actually feel challenged. Yeah. I think that's... Yeah, I think that's something that we've talked about before, especially financially, where I think I'm super conservative financially. It probably comes from the fact that I graduated with a hundred thousand dollars in the student loan debt, and for the longest time, I just didn't want to think about my finances. You're a true American dude. Yeah. You're a true American flag on your shirt. I know, right? And then, once I started to actually look at my finances and understand the problem and the predicament that I was able to change my perspective to where I didn't see that money as mine, and then I continued to just hammer at it and pay off my student loans. When you say you didn't see that money as yours, you meant the money you were making or the money that you owed. The money that I owed and the money that I was making. So if I did a big project and I made a couple thousand dollars, I would automatically take that money. You would be a little bit conservative and say some of it for rent or whatever you need to do, but everything on top of that went to my student loans. At least from previous conversations that we've had, I feel like I've been more on the conservative side when it comes to finances. I think that it comes from my background of being in that massive overwhelming amount of debt and getting really into personal finance books and like digesting everything and brainwashing myself into everything that they say. Like cut up all your credit cards. Now I start to find ways where I can kind of spend money and actually enjoy the money that I'm making and kind of regaining control and saying, this is my money. I made this money. I worked hard for it. I should invest it in myself and do cool things. Dude, it's like you lived in China or something. They totally brainwashing you. Yeah, exactly. This was the internet. This is the internet. And I still have so much of that. And I have about 401k, Roth IRA and all this stuff. And then when I talk to you about this stuff, the personal finance, you kind of laugh. Because you're alive, man. You just got to enjoy it now in the moment. Do you still feel that way? Do you have 401k? Do you have 401k? Do you have 401k at all? Yeah. Both. Like so I'm 31 now and I'm looking around and like my boys are like gearing up to buy houses. And these are guys who don't work for themselves. They're getting a check. And it's inspiring. I'm like, what the fucking fuck did you start playing about a house? You motherfuck what? Where are we talking about? Like a different person? Why weren't we talking about that? Yeah. And so there's a little bit of that. And also now I live in Brooklyn. And like I'm so stoked to do like I know what my budget is. It's like I'm late. Like I know you have a budget. I fucking have a budget. I know how much my business needs to bring in in order to pay me a salary. And then that salary is based on my cost of living in Brooklyn. Like I got fucking Excel sheets up the Kazoo. Really? With formulas and shit. Yeah, it's amazing. Yeah. And you probably sounds like you're talking to somebody different now than you did two years ago. And part of that was because you know I'm on this. Entrepreneurial slash self knowledge. Fucking Quest to figure out more and more. What's what's possible with life? And that'll be like a never ending thing. Right? Like what's what's possible? And so I started off like I said I made $6,000. Like my first year in business. And then I made 25,000 and then close sort of 50 or 60,000. And then 200,000. And I'm like when we were speaking around that time 200,000. I was like dude, like I'm ready. I'm gonna be buying the house tomorrow. I'm ready. Like I'm ready. Like I'm gonna quadruple again. I'm gonna have a million or whatever. And then fucking the universe throws you some shit. And you dance with it. And it's like I didn't go how I hoped it went. And so for me it's a balance of knowing that I can make money. And this is a game. And just because there's a number on a screen. Doesn't mean that it needs to change my experience of life. Like the reality is is like dude, we live in America. Like we end for people living in a first world country. Like this is all just perceived danger. There's no actual danger in any of this money conversation that we're having. Right? Like oh but I won't get hired. Like so what you'll be all right. Like you will sleep on someone's couch or live in a homeless shelter or whatever. Like you'll get fed. So really it's just like it's mindset. And it's what power are we giving to the thoughts and fears that come in when we're in a low state or a bad mood or a place of fear. And being willing to just objectively witness those without kind of buy into those fears and stories and let them run our life. One more question. I've never hired a life coach, people who perform as coach or mentor or whatever you want to call it. What would be the case for somebody who hasn't thought about it. Maybe who's thinking about it. Why is it important to have somebody like a coach in your life? Well it's not something that I can say you should do. It's something that you kind of need to have that already curiosity inside of you of like I think there's something more out there. And that might be in your profession. That might be in your romantic relationship. That might be in any capacity of your life where there's a craving for more to go from good to great. You know coaching isn't about solving people's problems. It's not about pathology. Like therapy is about fixing people. Coaching is about taking people who are already good. And how do we go to great? How do we live a more fulfillment, more excitement, more of the things that matter to you. And so if that's something that someone is interested in, particularly who I love to support are people who've already achieved a lot in life. They'd be considered successful, but they know that more is possible for them. And it's not more of the same. So it's not another $20,000 on their paycheck. It's something deeper, something more fulfilling. And they don't exactly know what the hell it is. But that's for me that should is so much fun. Because I do a least amount of work and they get the most amount of results. Right. But I just find there's so much leverage working with people who are already on their game. You can create so much so quickly. Right. Thank you so much for being on the podcast. Sure. It's been a pleasure. Maybe I'll have you back on when this is actually a real podcast. Once you start figuring out what they're doing. I know. What the fuck should I do with my life? That's it for this episode of The Ground Up Show. Thanks so much for listening. If you liked it, then want to hear more. Subscribe on iTunes or anywhere else that you listen to your podcasts.
