# Making Minimalism - Episode 2
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lFi-Ca_BKAw
Take a look behind the scenes to see what it took to make Minimalism: A Documentary About The Important Things. Creating it was simple, but not easy. Get exclusive videos at http://www.mattdavella.com.

A few years back I joined Josh & Ryan from The Minimalists to travel across the country and interview people about how simple living had changed their lives. It was a long road to get here. In episode 2 of Making Minimalism we travel the country speaking with minimalist's and capturing Josh & Ryan's tour. What did we learn from our time on the road? Would we gather everything we needed to make a film?

Subscribe for more videos on simple living.

More from me:
Website:  https://www.mattdavella.com
Podcast:  https://www.mattdavella.com/podcast
Twitter: https://www.twitter.com/mattdavella
Instagram: https://www.instagram.com/mattdavella
Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/matthewdavella

Featuring
The Minimalists:  http://www.theminimalists.com
SPYR:  https://spyr.me/

Music Credits:
Background Hip Hop Beat by BerryDeep
Hackbeat by Kevin MacLeod (http://incompetech.com/)
That Hip-Hop by Trendsound
Hip-Hop by Cosmonkey
Clean Soul Calming by Kevin MacLeo (http://incompetech.com/)
Calm Ambient Technology Background by BlueFoxMusic
About That Oldie by Vibe Tracks

Thanks for watching! I'm grateful for your support.
**Keywords:** minimalism, making minimalism, simple living, production, documentary, 
**Date:** 2017-03-23

## Transcript
 Did you guys learn anything new about minimalism? Did you learn anything new about yourselves and creating this film? I don't know, but looking over a Ryan, like, what in the hell have we gotten ourselves in? Like, we have 96 more of these labs. All right, so to recap, episode one, we had our idea to create a documentary about simple living and to start by filming Josh and Ryan's 100-city book tour. We had a team, and I had all of my gear. From there, we hit the road. Three of us went out on tour, but in reality it was actually four of us. There was somebody named sweeter coals on the trip. When you're on the road for long enough, you develop mechanisms to help pass the time. One of Ryan's was an alter ego named sweeter coals. It obnoxious, loud mouth that interjects in conversation when you least expect him to. Hey, what's on the other side of that camera? Hey, here we're recording right now. I'll think this documentary's going great. It'll blow your mind. It's everything that Ryan wouldn't ever say. Yeah. All right, enough fun and games. We had a movie to make. So we had two goals for a road trip across the country. The first was the document and captured Josh and Ryan's book tour, including their events, speaking engagements, and television appearances. Ready? I was born, ready. Nice. Hello. Thanks for coming out. My name is Ryan Nakedemus. And this is the Joshua Field's Melbourne. And together, we run a website called theminimalists.com. Things started off pretty slow. Our second goal was to film minimalist in many of the cities we visited. I thought this would be our biggest hurdle, but Josh and Ryan had it figured out. How did you land those interviews? It was really about developing relationships before shooting the film. And I found the best way to establish those relationships is to offer value first, not ask for something, right? Like with Sam Harris, hey, we have four million readers on our blog. You have a book coming out. I've got a lot of value from your other books in the past. I would love to interview you and introduce that to our audience, no strings attached. And he said yes. And so when it came time that if we ever did want to ask them for something like to be in a film, it was a win-win for everybody. Instead of us just reaching out and saying, hey, let us interview you without developing any rapport. It'd be a lot harder. From there, we started conducting the interviews. I'm your recruiter. It's my name is Monty Shaker. So, I'm Tammy Strobel. My name is Joshua Becker and I am a pretty anxious one. We first start the interviews. In the beginning, I'm unsure if we'll get what we need. Then after a few interviews, I start wondering how the hell I'm going to tie all this together. At first, I started looking for commonalities. What ideas and habits for these people developing, they help them to live happier lives. And then I had this big realization that it was the differences that would be most interesting. It'll be once to watch an 80-minute film that just repeats the same exact ideas over and over again. One of the earliest interviews that stood out to me was with AJ Leon. My name is AJ Leon. I'm a writer. I write enough. We only sat down with him for 15 minutes at the back of a bookstore, but it was just so powerful. He talks about the realization he had moments before quitting his job on Wall Street. When you recognize that this life is yours, and that it is your one and only, and one that ceases to be a esoteric bullshit. When that's not hippy poetry anymore, when the pragmatism of that statement seeks directly in your bones, and you recognize that this is it. Everything changes. You know, and you make these wildly different decisions. So that was the moment that it just struck me and I thought, I got to go. Every time I watch that clip, I want to quit a job, I don't have. This is a message based on that. He has a big camera work. We continued on the road filming nearly every day, because I did early on that we wanted to be open about the experience. We didn't know what footage would become important, which interviews necessary. One of my favorite interviews, and I think a story of being open and being open to anything that may come in our way was with Frank Mercier, the architect. Well, I'm Frank Mercier, I'm an architect and two son here as well, no? Yeah, so we were in two son, and we gave our talk, and Frank was the moderator. Hi guys, I'm your moderator. Hello, I'm a hugger. I'm a Joshua. Okay, I want to give you a hugger. Nice to meet you. Frank, what's up, man? Me too. Huggers? Yeah, nice to meet you, man. Nice to meet you, guys. Yeah. Thanks for showing up early. Cours? Yes. We're living our life depending on the space we've got rather than creating our space to fit our lives. When we question the wrong way, we come up with wrong answers. I think a lot of it is, we don't really understand how it is we're living. Towards the end of production, I got advice from another filmmaker. He said, if your story doesn't change along the way, then you're not listening. I thought I had minimalism figured out before heading into this project, but I realized I still had a lot to learn. Did you guys learn anything new about minimalism? Did you learn anything new about yourselves and creating this film? In terms of minimalism, I learned about how flexible it was. I think I knew that intellectually before going into filming this, but I didn't understand it as much emotionally viscerally until we hit the road and started talking to all of these different people, whether it's Leo and his six kids or Joshua Becker and the suburbs or Jay and his tiny house or Tammy and Logan and their tiny house or Graham and a micro apartment and all of these people, they have different preferences. They have different desires. They have different interests, but they're all minimalists, right? They found this thing to work for them so they could live more deliberately. In the first episode, I talked about our music composers Drew and Nate. But up until this point in the process, we actually hadn't met them yet, and we didn't know what we wanted to do in terms of the score. Licensing music can be tricky and expensive. You've got to deal with separate rights for film festivals, theatrical release, online release and streaming. We weighed the pros and cons and eventually decided to create an original score. While we were in California, Josh reached out to Drew Kaper. He wanted to interview him, but I think secretly he also had this plan to ask him to score the film. Sure. My name's Andrew Clifford Capiner. I'm a designer, musician, creator. It was just after our tour that we officially got them on board. We're starting to spend a little bit of money at this point. By the end of production, which includes new interviews we haven't gotten to yet, we'd spend $4,894 in 20 cents. This doesn't include travel and lodging while we're on tour. I was simply tagging along with Josh and Ryan, so we didn't classify that as a film expense. And to be fair, I had a lot of camera gear heading into this project. The total cost of gear for production was just under $30,000. Much of this gear is now cheaper today, and for the filmmaker looking to make their first feature, it could be done with much less. To give you a beautifully tragic example of how the industry is changing, I just purchased my Canon C300 at the start of the film for $14,000. About a year later, Canon dropped the price by almost $6,000. It's depressing for me, but good news for the aspiring filmmaker. After I finished filming on tour with Josh and Ryan, we had plenty of footage to keep me busy. When we had several what thousand hours worth of footage, if you count all the sunrises that you were trying to film. And so many failed sunrises. Yeah, all those time-lapse scenes. And I remember Ryan just sort of looking at you when you're dropping off of the airport like, good luck with that, man. On the next episode, I entered the editing suite, also known as my bedroom. I ended a version of the film, everyone loves. And then two days before our first screening, I recut the entire thing. My first reaction was, no, what is the no man? No, don't change it! I remember watching me be far real cut, and then maybe if you were to see the next episode and to watch more videos on simple living, go to my website, matthewvela.com.
