# The True Cost of Buying a House
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LHRnUUN8Dns
Go to https://squarespace.com/mattdavella to save 10% off your first purchase of a website or domain using code MATTDAVELLA. Thanks to Squarespace for sponsoring this video ✌️

Hi there 👋 If you're new to my videos my name is Matt D'Avella. I'm a documentary filmmaker, entrepreneur and YouTuber. I've made a couple documentaries for Netflix. I also teach courses on everything from filmmaking to habit change. If you like to nerd out about self-development as much as I do, you can subscribe for weekly videos.

🔗 LINKS
Enroll in my habit's course:  https://slowgrowth.com/simplehabits
Enroll in my YouTube course:  https://slowgrowth.com/masteryoutube
Get my weekly newsletters:  http://slowgrowth.com/newsletter
Follow me on Instagram:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Follow me on Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella

🎬 Credits
Directed by Matt D'Avella
Edited by Zach Mayfield & Matt D’Avella
Animation by Spencer Torok
**Keywords:** Matt D'Avella, matt davella, self-development, creativity, health, wellness, lifestyle design, lifestyle, advice, 
**Date:** 2023-01-25

## Transcript
 Alright, so we've got a little bit of a problem here. This little hole right here is going to cost us about $6,000 to fix. Historically, home ownership has been a symbol of the American dream. If you had a good job, 2.5 kids and a white pick events, you were considered successful. The home has represented financial stability, physical security, and upward mobility. Many of us want a home that we can call our own. If it's just a teller, landlor, it's to f**k off. I can give you half. But it's not so easy anymore. In recent decades, the rising cost of homes has outpaced inflation and median household income. Moody's analytics says more than half of America's largest regional markets are significantly overvalued by 25% or more. As a result, home ownership rates have trended downwards, specifically among younger Americans who are already crippled with student debt. Despite these challenges, home ownership continues to be a goal for many. But when you really do the math, things might not add up. This video is brought to you by Squarespace, more on them in a minute. After renting for over a decade, Nat and I decided to buy our first house. So we searched, found, lost, tried again, and eventually purchased the home of our dreams. But three months after moving in, and we're starting to face the reality of what it means to be homeowners. And it's not all it's cracked up to be. We've run into so many unexpected costs, headaches, and dramas in moving into our first house that it's forced us to ask the question, did we make a big mistake? When it comes to answering this question and determining whether it's a good idea to buy a home, the internet has a lot of opinions. And it can all make your head spin. The housing market is rebalancing. Currently, rental prices are extremely stable. 2023 could be a very happy new year for buyers. There's less ability to purchase because people don't want to pay 7% and there should be more opportunities for buyers. To help me make sense of it all, I turn to personal finance expert, remeade, to get his take. Is it better to rent or buy? Okay, great question. So just so everyone knows, I've lived in San Francisco, New York and LA. These are all very high cost of living cities. In each of those cities, it made no financial sense for me to buy. Now, this is people hear this, it's blowing their mind. They go, what are you talking about? If you live in Oklahoma, it might make a lot of financial sense to buy. There's not a lot of rental options and the house prices are fairly modest. In Manhattan, the place I was renting, there was a unit basically next door. Same size, same view. It would have cost me over two times to buy when you factor in insurance taxes, maintenance and a variety of other fees. According to remeade, it's not as simple as buying is always better or renting is a waste of money. It comes down to your own specific set of circumstances. So just to give you an example, let's say the rent was $3,000, where I was, it would have been over $6,000 there. You know what I did? I took the $3,000 difference and I invested it in the market. And the market has returned way better than what I could have gotten by buying a place. If that's the case, why would anyone want to buy? For starters, there are a lot of emotional decisions wrapped up in home ownership. People feel a sense of security, stability, and control from owning a home. But when it comes down to it, most of us just think it's a better financial decision. And that's because of a little thing called equity. When you buy a house, you are investing in a asset that can appreciate and value over time. So instead of paying rent each month, you're throwing that money at your mortgage. As you pay down your mortgage and the value of your property increases, you build equity in the home. As a result, in the future, you'll probably be able to sell your house for a profit. For this to work in your favor, the numbers need to add up. If you overspend on your house, buy in a bad market, or run into unexpected problems, you could end up losing money. So if you're thinking about buying a house, how do you make the best decision possible? You have to run the numbers on a rent versus buy calculator. Well, thanks for me. Let's do it. Alright, so I've found myself a buy versus rent calculator. Let's run the numbers on what it looks like to buy a house where I live in Sydney. Now, this calculator is intended for people buying a home in the US, but I think it'll help us paint a close enough picture. Alright, so the first thing that they want to know is the price of the home. So let's plug in the median home cost in Sydney, which is 1.25 million dollars. And I know you might be thinking, Matt, that's a lot of f***ing money, and you'd be right. That's exactly why young people aren't buying houses, especially not in major cities. And now the calculator asks some pretty obvious questions. How long do you plan to live here? What's your mortgage rate? What's your down payment? What's the length of your mortgage? Now, we need to rub our crystal ball to predict our likely investment returns. And the best way to do this is to look at the historical trends over the past 30 to 50 years. These are some of the most important factors to consider when buying a home. So what's the annual growth rate of your home? Sydney houses historically grow at a rate of 6.5% per year. Now, there's always going to be variation to that number, but this trend gives us the closest picture. What's your investment return rate? So this is what you think you'd make if you put your money in the stock market instead of investing into a house. And according to the S&P 500, the average annual return over the past 90 years has been around 10%. And from here, we dive into the not so obvious, adding the average rate of inflation, taxes, closing costs, selling costs, maintenance, renovations, insurance utilities, and HOA fees. That's just to name a few. And now after plugging in these numbers, this calculator is telling us that if you can rent a similar home for less than $1,000 and $48 a month, then it's better to rent. And having looked myself, I can promise you that there are no homes for rent in Sydney for $1,000 per month. So that makes buying the best decision. Now, you just need to save up a small upfront cost of $300,000 to afford the down payment in stamp duty. And you've got yourself a stunning one-bedroom condo with no natural sunlight and one of the most beautiful cities in the world. One thing is for sure. These numbers is so much more complicated than you might have realized. And there are a lot of hidden costs to buying a house that hopeful homeowners usually brush aside. And even if you do your best to calculate potential costs, you may get it completely wrong. And that's what happened to us. Before we go on, a quick word about my sponsor, Squarespace. If you're anything like me, you don't know the first thing about coding. You freeze up when presented with too many choices. And you've got below average design skills. Maybe you want to create a blog, open up an online shop, or start your first consulting business. But you just don't know where to start. We'll check this out. With Squarespace, you can find the perfect template with their search tool. Taking the paradox out of your choice. Then you can get right to work. Add your brand colors, logo, web copy, and videos. I just read my website and I'm so happy with how it turned out. I've got links to all my things from my newsletter to my documentaries. And it's all thanks to Squarespace. Ta-da! Buying a real home might not be such a straightforward decision, but getting an internet home is a no-brainer. If you want to get started for yourself, visit squarespace.com today for a free trial. And when you're ready to launch, go to squarespace.com slash Matt Vivaola to save 10% off your first purchase of the website or domain. The brands that I partner with on this channel help to support my work, so I can make the best videos that I can for you guys. And I only choose to work with companies that I actually use and give value from. So if you want to build a website, use the link in the description below. So to get the most of what we wanted from a home, Matt and I bought an old house, a very old house. It was built back in 1890 on the listing they called it Charming. To give you a reference point, that was around the same time that cars were invented. Also the ice cream cone, which apparently has a patent. So yeah, it's old. And as with all old things, it requires upkeep, maintenance and repairs in order to keep it standing. Even in the best case scenario, this can be time-consuming and expensive. In the worst case scenario, it can become a money pit, especially if the previous owners cut corners. This was our rootest awakening when it came to homeownership. We had prepared for higher interest rates, new furniture, and some small renovations, but we just weren't prepared for how much the bills went at up. We thought, hey, we'll add a little bit of paint, polish the floors, maybe do some cosmetic work on the bathroom. Next minute, our house turned into a construction site. For every problem that we tried to fix, we'd find five more in its place. Take the floors, for example. So these floors are beautiful. We really love the way that they turned out. But they cost 15 times what we budgeted for. It's a lot of dough. When we bought the house, the entire first floor and most of the second floor were covered in carpet. So we thought, no sweat, let's remove the carpet and reveal the beautiful hardwood floors underneath. Because surely there are beautiful, pristine hardwood floors underneath. Right? Incorrect. What you find under the carpet is a complete mess. And the floor is quite dramatically sloped to one side. No worries, though. Let's pull up that subfloor and redo it. Easy fix, right? Incorrect again. What you find under the subfloor is that the bears and joys are installed poorly and they are rotting from termed damage. You also learn what a bearer and joist is, which is cool. They're basically the thing that separates your floor from the ground. Unfortunately, the floor is weren't done betraying us yet. Yeah. So this little hole needs directly down into our subfloor. So whenever it rains, it floods the bottom of our house. With no drainage system here, there's really nothing we can do to stop it. This wouldn't have been a crazy fix, but when they looked at our connected storm drain, they found tree roots had broken through and filled half the pipe. So you fix everything from scratch. Doing it right this time. And in the process, discover why the previous homeowners cut so many corners. Doing it the right way is expensive as hell. When you factor in everything, a $2,800 job just turned into a $50,000 job. These are just some of the expenses that we faced within the first three months of owning our home. While these costs might be extreme because our house is 130 years old, most homeowners fail to accurately account for all the additional costs that add up. And if this is starting to give you pause as to whether or not you should buy a home, it should. But it doesn't mean that you should rule it out completely. My message is not you should only rent. That's not my message. My message is for the biggest purchase of your life. You better run the numbers. You should decide if renting versus buying makes sense. You should decide on when you would buy and can you afford it. And you should have certain parameters like your housing cost should be less than 28% of your gross. Ideally, these are things you need to know before you go out and make the biggest purchase of your life. All of this means that you can't and shouldn't make home ownership a purely emotional decision. Which lets be honest can definitely happen as you're touring homes, scrolling, zillow, and falling in love with houses that are just outside of your price range. It's easy to keep compromising financially as you get caught up in the dreams of what your future might look like in any of these homes. But to make sure that you're making the best decision for your future, you need to be realistic with how much it's actually going to cost. After running the numbers for ourselves, Net and I found out that it in fact does make financial sense for us to buy as opposed to rent, which is great because that would have been really awkward if we invested all that money into a house and realized that the numbers that we initially calculated were off because we didn't do a thorough enough job. Now, we might have underestimated how much it would cost to fix our house and also how stressful it would be in the process. But we still don't regret the decision. Since we didn't sink our entire life savings into this purchase, and since we had plenty of money saved up to cover all of the additional renovations and repairs that we didn't foresee, we weren't really financially stretched through this process. Which means that we can really lean into all the joy and excitement that comes with owning our first home. As soon as we get that drainage fixed. Subscribe for more and click the little bell to get notified about my next video.
