# Ground Up 053 - Freelance w/ Ryan Bowles
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LRxcLOMM0S8
Get my podcast 👉 http://groundupshow.com

Ryan Bowls wants to help creatives & freelancers push themselves further & grow their businesses. In this episode we learn about how Ryan went from failing art classes to becoming a designer.

We also break down the three biggest points of struggle for freelancers: How do you get clients? How do you build a strong relationship with clients? What do you charge?

Find out more about Ryan here: https://www.idesignxyz.com/workshop

New videos every week! New podcast every Wednesday!

Subscribe:  https://goo.gl/nzS5ri
Instagram:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella/
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella/

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** behind the scenes, creator, creators, documentary, film, filmmaker, filmmaking, create, get started, ground up, make, matt davella, matt d'avella, podcast, podcasting, start, the ground up show, freelancer (job title), social media, freelance, freelancing, freelancer, freelancers, 
**Date:** 2018-04-04

## Transcript
 What would happen if you doubled your rates? Great challenge to throw up some of what would you what would happen and I sat back and I was like I had to think I'm not the smartest tool in the shame when it comes that I might double my rates her 10 clients let's see if I double my rates to $200 hmm I'm not only get half the clients like not everyone might take me up on that offer but I'd still be earning the same amount but working half the time and I was like like judging me in a light bulb moment I was like I'm gonna try that. Welcome back to the podcast this week I chat with designer and entrepreneur Ryan Bowles. He wants to help creatives and freelancers push themselves a little bit further and grow their businesses. In this podcast we learned about how Ryan went from failing art school to becoming a designer and we also break down the three biggest points of struggle for freelancers. That's how to get clients. How do you build and develop relationships with those clients and what do you charge? We cover that and a whole lot more as well as his entire story and background on this podcast it's a great one but real quick before we get into that. Have you been enjoying this podcast? If so there are a couple ways that you guys can help support the show to keep this thing going. Share your favorite episode with a fellow creative a friend a family member somebody who you think can get value from it. The word of mouth certainly helps the most. You can also leave a review on iTunes. If you go on iTunes search the ground up show you can leave a review rating. Those really help to get the word out there. It helps to boost our visibility on iTunes and I appreciate every single one. Also if you want to send a big bag of money the 720 will show now I'm just kidding you. Unless you want maybe I don't know maybe I should do that. Big bags of money is not there. That's don't do that. That would be. That's inappropriate. Is it? I don't know. Sorry. Last thing. Do you have any questions for the podcast? Is there something that's been on your mind? Something that you've wanted me to ask a guest? Something that you yourself are struggling with. If so, record a video of said question. Keep it under two minutes and send it to hello at matdevella.com. If you do that and your question is thoughtful and it fits the guests that I'm having on for that show. I will. I got to get new XLR cables. These things are garbage. Yeah. So send in your video to hello at matdevella.com. I'm going to bring it on and my guest and I will talk about it. Break it down. Tell you about what we've learned about that specific topic. So do that and I look forward to hearing from you. I've gotten some really great questions since we started doing it earlier this year. All right. That's about it. Let's get to the podcast. This is Lion Bowls. You're listening to the ground up show. A podcast that inspires creatives to make meaningful content and pursue their passions. My name is Matdevella and I'm a filmmaker best known for the Netflix documentary minimalism. And I'm sitting down with creators to talk about their process, the lessons they've learned and how to make an impact. Well, I think there's almost like a differentiation now because you have, you know, the Casey nice sets and the Gary Vaynerchucks and I love these guys. They're amazing. They're super inspiring and like that path worked for them which was just the create, create, put out, create, put out, but I don't know if that's going to work anymore now that everybody's doing that. Interesting. Right. If everybody's just doing jumps. Here's my day. Here is this is what I'm doing every single day all the time. It's just going to become oversaturated. There's going to be a lot of people doing it. So my approach has been what if like we just kind of slow down and we're just really thoughtful about the stuff that we make and we're just everything is at a really high level. So it's like you don't have the jumping in and out of focus or using autofocus. But I think that there's like there's a balance, right? Like I don't think it's terrible to have like if you're one shot to have a focus or if you do, you know, if you're running around and you have some more like varitay moments where it's like in the moment. But overall, I think that that's going to be the way to differentiate yourself is to just focus on the quality. Hmm. Yeah. I mean, I'm in an interesting place with it as well. I mean, following those guys and then I, you know, went on that road as well as just content content content. But it overloaded you, especially as a creative. You can get very easily overwhelmed, right? And that can then deteriorate a whole bunch of things. It's just like the top of the iceberg that just like just starts breaking it all down when you feel the pressure of put it out, put it out, put it out, put it out, put it out. Hey, that's why I stopped vlogging myself because I just couldn't film edit. I'm going to maintain hard to maintain. Yeah, hard to maintain. So yeah, so that's you kind of, you stepped into that role yourself of just kind of create, create, create, create. I think that you actually do have to create, just keep creating. Hmm. I just don't think we should be releasing everything that we make. Agreed. I think that's probably the the the big point of differentiation because consistency is important. Yeah. Uh, I feel like it's important for a number of reasons. Like one, you're just going to be getting better at what you do because you're making stuff all the time. And then, too, obviously, like, as you build an audience, they're going to come to expect to hear from you. And if yes, you know, if you build up a big audience and then you stop talking to them, it's not going to take long for them to forget. I see you later. Yeah. I guess that thing, hey, if consistency is crap all the time, like there's no point in being consistent, like you have to, you have to better yourself at your art continually. And that sometimes that does take post. I mean, we've got work online that we're not proud of. You know, that's from that just happens as you grow and change and better yourself. But it comes to a point when you start to hit your mark and you start to realize, you know, where the level is or where the bars out for yourself. And then you have to keep that and then grow. You can't, it can't start slipping under that just for the sake of consistency. Yeah. I think that like, I think the main thing is like you have to take pride in what you do and pride in work. And you have to, I think it does, like you said, it takes some kind of tinkering and figuring out, like, oh, is this good? Is this, you know, worth sharing? Is it not? And I think that's actually the key from what I found. Is that even when it comes to, you know, I could talk about making meaningful content, it's not necessarily, it's not that you have to make everything be top, not just amazing. Everything is great. But it's the fact that you have to ask those questions and you have to be like, is this clickbait, is this show? Am I being disingenuous with this title or this thumbnail or like, is this thing really good? And I think the act of actually asking those questions is, is all you can really do and then just be honest with yourself with the answer. I'm with you on that hundred percent. Cool man. So anyway, we just kind of hopped into it there, but thanks so much for coming on the podcast. I appreciate you being here. My pleasure. I'm excited. You just got to town recently, right? Monday. So it's just been five days. Yeah. Four days. That's a quick US trip. So far. Yeah. This one's only two weeks. So yeah. It's a quick, it's a quick one. I mean, I guess two weeks is pretty long. I mean, it's how long can you? Last one was six weeks. Oh, really? So this for me feels extremely short. Yeah. But minus all the travel of the last trip, which was California, Texas, New York, and back, those just crazy. I'm always curious about like Australians and people who come to the states like where they decide to go. Because I mean, you have 50 states. I mean, Australia, love it. But like, you know, if most people are like it's Sydney, Melbourne, Melbourne, and gold coast. Like, there's there's some usual suspects, but it's in relatively small country. It is. It's slower. Yeah. Yeah. Well, we've got like 10 percent of your population. But that's sort of similar landmass, which is crazy. Yeah, it's not. We've just got nothing in the middle. There's nothing there. You got the out. Have you done it out back? Yeah. I got to do that next time. Yeah. It's a big place. Yeah. What would you? What's like, did you enjoy it? Yeah. I mean, I haven't done like the airs rock, which is the pinnacle of the outback. We've just got this giant rock. It really bad. Actually, it's not very, that's like, you got to look at this. Yeah. And I was like, yeah, no, it's a rock. It's cool. Yeah. People like climate. Yeah, you can climb it. Yeah. Yeah. And that's, it's a very sacred place for the indigenous of our country as well. So there's a whole bunch of history that's situated out there that I need to go and see. Right. Some point for sure. Has travel has been important to you? Yeah. I've been, yeah, blessed. I guess to travel with my family growing up. And so I guess it's sort of just been a continuation ever since then. Absolutely. What was, uh, I know like Australian's tend to do the, is it called leap year? Sure. Is that not a thing here? No. Now, it's get to work, man. You're here nine to five jobs. You guys don't climb in that corporate ladder. We don't have time for travel. Fun. No, it's not. I mean, I think for Americans, it's usually we will travel during college. I mean, maybe 40% I think of college students will do the study abroad. It might not even be that high. That might be higher. I might be giving more credit to us than we deserve. I didn't do that. My sisters did that. Yeah. It's definitely, uh, it's something I wish I had done just because I feel like we're always so anxious and eager to, uh, at least here. But I know I think most people kind of have this feeling and drive to want to get started and like the fear of missing out on this career path and, you know, totally. Yeah. So, so you call it study abroad. Which we've got as well. I think we've got gap year or leap or not leap. You're gap year year. Yeah, in our situation like most people are encouraged to do something with that time. It's not just like holiday for a year. Sort of like work overseas or like, you know, do something with that time, but not necessarily jump straight into your career choice or. Right. I think that's probably the best way to look at it. Yes. I mean, holiday for a year. I think that might be it. It's not stretching. And nobody, I don't know. Maybe, maybe that's just me. But I just don't like travel alone. You know what I mean? Like, I feel like I'm a pretty ambitious person and I love creating. Yeah. So, if I was just traveling and going to the beach and hiking and like, I don't know, I think that I wouldn't be as fulfilled as I would be if I was like actually, you know, creating, making stuff. Totally. Why not leverage it? If you're going to just travel anyway. Yeah. Like, what was your, your state's trip this time around? Why'd you come? This time I'm over in Orlando as of Monday for a huge marketing event conference with Russell Bronson, who's part of, uh, he's, he's grown the company ClickFunnels, which is a, uh, a start-up software, and non VC backed fast that's growing non venture capital company. Oh, cool. Yeah. So what are you doing there? So he's just bringing in everyone from all over the world. I'm just attending and networking, having fun learning and up, up skilling, really. Yeah. Has this always been a part of your process, like kind of that self-development, learning, learning yourself? I think it, like, it tends to come naturally for entrepreneurs, but not necessarily for everybody else. Yeah, for sure. Definitely they are like a nurtured thing, you know, growing up. My parents spoke a lot. They, you know, managed and led teams and we're always, I was always in conferences seeing them and seeing how they handled and, you know, talked and conversed with people. And so, for me, yeah, it was always, uh, just, I guess, a progression from that. My dad's bookshelf, which is full of every book that everyone's ever heard of. Yeah. So today you're a designer, you're an entrepreneur, you've done a lot of stuff, you were in a metal band. There's a lot that I want to unpack and talk about. Um, when did you, when did you like, when did your story start? When did you realize that you wanted to, to be creative and kind of pursue that path? Yeah, interesting. So my story goes back to high school and coming out of my final year of high school, I took all the fun subjects. I've always been sporty, so I took physical ed, I took music, I took art. And when I came to the end of that year, I was given an F, uh, for art. I failed it. Um, and not many people believe me. They're like, how can you fail art? It's like, it's like, seriously, that at least, you know, you'll be alright. We'll give you a, a past, but failed. And so coming out of school, it was like, no encouragement. I didn't think that there was any creative in me because it was just sort of killed. Um, but I always wanted to be in a band at the same time. So we formed, or I joined a band, first of all, uh, and I was the drummer of that band, and sort of just started creating a few things. My first designs were a Microsoft Word, which is wow, super embarrassed. How do you design in Microsoft Word? I mean, you just get impact bold, you know, you say, impact ball set, set that out. I got devil going. That's it. Yeah, drop a few images and then you're good to go. And I'm sure I'm sure Al, my, my print guy, I'm sure he just went and read the whole thing behind, you know, behind closed doors for me. This is not great. Yeah. And so that's how it started. Um, that's, and I was kind of like, it was sort of a place where I had to, I had to create. I was forced to, um, because we just didn't have money to pay anybody else. It's like, we're not going to pay someone in America or pay, you know, to design for us. I just put my hand up and got to it. What was the, tell me about the band? What was, what was this about? It was a metal band? Yeah. So we weren't talking about the first band. Uh, was this a different band? Yes. Yeah. Total, like, total garbage. Like, absolutely garbage. So we split that up and then formed a band called Prepared Like a Bride. So that was the band that we, we put our focus into completely different members, friends from school. And, um, and we took that. Yeah, for a ride. Yeah. And how did that progress? Because I know you traveled around a bear and we're performing and playing music. Yeah. So formed in no nine and started playing local shows. We ran all the shows ourselves, um, you know, from everything from bringing on bands, the hiring the sounds, hiring the event. So it was just all us. The whole show was us, which is really cool. Um, which just gave us a head start straight away into the industry. And then my guitarist remand hacked Photoshop for me. And I was just like, oh, I guess I'll just play around on this, you know, in this software. I think it was CS4. I don't know, 4 or 5. Yeah, long time ago. Um, and then from there, we just progressed. We obviously he wrote awesome music. Um, I was the vocalist. So I wrote the lyrics. We teamed up on that. Uh, and then between the both of us as well, we just designed everything for the band from show posters to merchandise to album art work. Everything imaginable. Just it came straight up. It was like an in-house agency, you know, studio. Yeah. Right. That's great experience, though, to as like, you know, somebody who doesn't have any entrepreneurial experience that felt designed or art class in high school. I feel like that's like the best way to learn. It's like you can read a book about it. You can take a class on it. Yeah. But then to actually experience that. And um, I don't think you're probably stepping into it. You didn't realize how much work would actually be involved. And I've had this experience before where like we just shot a special that was a 5-camera special in downtown LA here. It's going to be like a follow-up to minimalism. Josh and Ryan who were in the film. It's kind of their story. And then talking about it in front of this, uh, it was an audience of like 250 people. But then we did two shows back to back. Just in case anything screwed up. Things messed up. So I'm very glad that we actually did record two and back to back. But you're like, you don't realize what it takes to put on an event, let alone film it and be in it. And yeah, and to be in it. And like, dude, we legit. We uh, you had the higher security. You had to get usures. You had to, the one thing we overlooked was bathrooms. With their virtual bathrooms there. But apparently that's not enough for 300 or 200 people in a night. So they were, uh, they like, before the show, we had each show was delayed by 20 minutes because there was a line wrapped around the block through the bathroom. I did that. Yeah. But you know what I mean? These are these things that you don't think about. And like, you don't plan for you don't expect. You don't plan for it. And like, then, but then just for me, it gives, I give so much more respect for people who put on these kind of things and, and that manage the, the background stuff. It's like, because for what people see, like, say a podcast or something like this or they listen to it. And all you see is that final product. Yeah. And I guess that's what I'm trying to do with this show, too, is like, to show, hey, what's behind the curtain? Like, how does this whole thing come together? And there's about a thousand steps it takes to get to the point where you're actually, you know, clicking submit and uploading it online. Yeah. Um, it's funny. It shouldn't like the hacked Photoshop. I, I feel like most creatives, uh, start out by stealing. Totally. But I'm trying to, I had a hacked final cut pro. I just wonder, like, how, I feel like there's, I guess, are there any free applications now for, for people that are just getting started out? Because it's like, I think it's becoming harder for people to hack, uh, the applications. Because, well, now it's easier with subscriptions, but it's awesome. I don't know. I haven't tried to do it in a while, but it just seems like there. It would be tough. Yeah. I mean, to be honest, the iPad is, is incredible. I mean, you can get apps on there for like five, ten bucks, and they just mind blowing software. Right. So that's the root. I always, you know, set it down. Do you, like, for designing, you can actually design pretty well on an iPad? Oh, yeah. Because I guess it's, it's maybe just different fields, but like, I remember I did consulting for, this was like a while ago where I feel like I was so young. I was like, how was I consulting at like 22 years old? But this, uh, this VC hired me to go through this app. It was like, like, an after effects type app for the iPad, and I like animating, creating 3D animations and stuff, and like, so it was like a training app, or it was the software. It was like the software, and actually creating the animations and animating text and doing all the stuff. And like, you know, I went through it took me a couple of days to really learn it and understand it. And I'm like, this is, they were trying to market it to professional animators. And I was like, not a chance. We're like, for so many reasons, it's not powerful enough to do. And like, what if I went to texture, I can't just easily pull it from an iPad and download it. And like, for me, I was like, I could never see a future where the animators would be working from an iPad. But yeah, design, I guess, is a bit different. Yeah, I'm not sure about animators or even design necessarily. I'm, I guess, my thought process was more illustration typography. Yeah. That element of the creative will definitely definitely iPad. Because it's, it's more like the hand drawn type stuff, 100% yeah, people doing that. Use a welcome for a lot of your design. Yeah, I do have a welcome as well. Yeah. I'm very grateful that they looked after me and worked with them for a number of years. So, oh, cool. Really cool products over there. Yeah. You, in terms of your design now, like, what is, what kind of work do you do? And I guess how did you get into it and how did that evolve? Because like, it was after the, the music and you kind of stepped into the role as a designer. Yeah, there's a few parts to that to that answer. So with the band, I started designing for us obviously and then more important as it, as it happens in any business, you know, people, you start just getting word of mouth referrals, other bands, managers, record labels, just started building out that thing and friends, well, you should start a business and I was like, no, this isn't a, this isn't a thing. Eventually, I was like, this is a thing, like, you know, if you're providing service and getting paid for it, you're going to business. Yeah. So I started growing that freelance element as we grew the band and then brought on a few of the guys to work for me and sort of just not knowing what I was doing, you know, playing around with the right. And so the band finished 2015 and so ever since way back, I've just been designing the whole time, freelance myself in the most recent six to 12 months. I've been transitioning and playing around with a few things because now I've found this passion like yourself, which is, that's why I'm glad we're talking. Yeah, to add value and to take people on the journey themselves, you know, because we all started at A and we all want to get to Z, you know, that's just the progression. So I'm now on a journey to impact and help as many creatives as possible in the freelance space to not go down the path that I went down for a long time or the mistakes, you know, just help them hack that because, yeah, something shared with me recently was that, you know, a smart person learns from their own mistakes, but a genius will learn from somebody else's. So that's sort of my mentality in things more recent times. Yeah, I found that through two ways for myself when I was starting out, one I had my sister who was a graphic designer, an illustrator at the time and whenever I had a client problem, I had some shit, like, I don't know what to do in this situation. I would go to her and then we would talk it out and like to have somebody that you could kind of throw those ideas around with somebody who's been through it before and then she could be like, oh, actually, I've been through that same thing but totally and then you can learn from that mistake. But like, these days it happens in a number of different ways and like it can happen like through reading books, you can get advice and I think really kind of having some guiding principles about which direction you should take your business because, you know, not all businesses are created equal and like you have to set your intentions from the beginning and really like keep your integrity throughout because you lose that once, it's gone forever. Yeah. And then it's, you know, it's to be able to have that kind of advice that you can go to I feel like is so important. So important. I'm grateful for everything that's led me on that path for sure. And then I feel like it's, it's also though, I'm curious about what you've learned about teaching freelancers because that's something that's, you know, it takes a little bit of a different mindset to be able to step back and look at what you've done and the mistakes you've made and to actually kind of package it up and be able to tell other people about it and actually turn into a story because that might not be so straightforward. No, it's not so straightforward, but I guess it wasn't like an intentional, I'm going to, you know, in five years time be at this space where I'll be helping people on the same journey. I had no idea that this was coming about to start a boiling up thankfully with my mentor and I every day we're in touch sharing gratitude, learnings and and their intention for the day. So I had all these learnings that were all documented daily for the like the last few years and I could just go back through there and just start working out what the common threads were in the process that I'd gone through and the, you know, steps that I'd take taken basically. And then I basically just asked my audience, you know, what, what, what is the number one thing you're struggling with as a freelancer? If you could ask me one question, you know, what would it be? Excuse me, and from there, I took 100 responses to get to get a sample of that and it just kept coming back in six, six, you know, particular questions every single time. And so I started to just realize that there was a very common thread in what people were struggling with. And then I said about, you know, working out how I could provide value in that area. What were some of those, those thing that people were struggling with? Number one, how do I get clients? Yeah. Like number one, I get that message like 20 times a week, 30 times a week. How do I get clients? How do I charge? You know, what do I, what should I charge for my work, for my skillset, for my experience? How do I charge? What on a second? We're going to go through some of these. Yeah, I have some thoughts too, but I definitely want to know what you think. So it get clients? What do I charge? Yeah. What else do we have? You know, your revision process? Like revision process. That's for like, just your, you're putting content. Yeah, you're also your process working with a client. Yeah. How does that process, you know, get revised? There's not a thousand revisions. Yeah. And you're just taking down a dark, dark hole. Yeah. Oh my god. That's actually a great point. It's been a while since I've, I mean, it's maybe three, four months since I've had a client project, but it's like, whoa, the V7 8 9 20 30. Oh, 100 trend email and you're like, can't find that one in the thread. Do you use an vision? No, I don't. Do you have your item? I have, but no idea. Yeah, it's like a prototyping design tool. It's, it's, it's collaborative. So you can comment on the design that way. It's not like through email and it's like, you know, you have to kind of shuffle back and find where the feedback was. I was lucky to get them as a client. When they first started out, you know, a clerk started the company and I made a video with them as a client testimonial for another client. And then just that connection just drove through and then the company blew up another. They're like going to be like a billion dollar company soon, but they actually funded a feature like documentary that I, that I filmed such a cool company. But anyway, um, do you have any more that you want to go through? I don't know, that was three. Yeah. Let's, let's start at that three, because I feel like that's at those top three, um, I think those can really help people. For sure. So from your experience, how, how did, how do you get that client and how do you advise people? What can I tell a story? Yeah, absolutely. So um, this is when like, this is when things really shifted. You know, when you have those like paradigm moments and you're like, everything just is like, whoa, I can't believe I didn't see that before. I was walking through shopping center back home. You guys call them malls. You know, yeah, you know, you know, we're shopping center. I don't know what I was doing. Go into the movies, you know, shopping, whatever I was doing. And I was just stopped for a moment and I was looking down this aisle and you have all the retail stores, you know, lining the sides. You've got all these, like, you know, you might have, you know, your closed store, all these shops, right? You know, technology so any but whatever. And then through the middle, you've got to like these like pop up booths, you know, these little islands that people are working at as well. So you've got the stores on the outside and these islands on the middle. And I noticed something, I just, I was like, sat there for a minute. I noticed something crazy. I saw the retail stores, you know, lining the walls. Their doors were open. But I couldn't see anyone. I couldn't see any of their staff members. Like, I didn't know what was going on inside the stores. And then I noticed these booths in the middle. I could see who was working for them. I could see, you know, that they were interacting nowhere outshaking hands, smiling, even giving away samples or taste test or whatever it was. They were making like, you know, just connecting that as people walked through the shops. But in the retail, like, in the stores that lines the mall, I couldn't see their employees. I couldn't see their staff. They were just sitting back waiting for people to come through their doors before there was any interaction, before there was any connection. And I was like, ah, the thing I noticed about the booths was even if they didn't make a sale, even if they didn't win a customer. That person then had an experience with that brand. They'd seen something and they could, you know, if they went and checked out 10 more stores, they could always come back because they knew exactly what they'd seen there. And I was like, ah, something's going on here that relates to, you know, my business was that as a freelancer for the longest time, I'd just been sitting back waiting for emails. You know, my, there's my work. It's all up online. My shop's ready. There's my email. There's my phone number waiting for people to come into my store, right? Essentially. My doors were open, ready for them coming in. And I think a lot of people, you know, you might relate to that. I'm not sure. But these guys in the middle, they were out on the front foot. They were out, you know, making, making moves. And I was like, ah, what if I flip that in my business instead of waiting, you know, presenting work and waiting? What if I went to people well and truly before? Even if they didn't take me up on a, on a potential idea, if they started thinking they needed an artist down the track, I would pop to mind front of, you know, front of mind every single time. So I started implementing that. And it started working. I was like, what? Like, you know, not immediate results. But then people would come back and say, hey, like, you know, you presented that idea to us, you know, a year ago last month when it was, do you still want to like work together on that? Should we, should we team up? And that's, that's how I just started going started winning business. Yeah. I actually did not do that route. But I'm curious though, and I'll tell you what my route was, but I, I feel like that's a delicate conversation because it's, it's kind of the, the cold email or the cold phone call or a cold approach walking to a business, whatever it is. Yeah. You're doing it cold. How did you go about doing that? Where you can kind of, you can present yourself in a way that's not good to spread. Because I think that's probably the mistake that most creatives are going to make. And that's what I see. It's like, if people message me and they ask me, hey, you know, I'd love to be, you know, help you out and film with you or whatever it is. It's very eager. But then there's also like a desperation totally where people aren't going to hire you if they feel like, well, what, like, is this guy not getting work? Why is this guy coming in my door and like asking me to pay him money to design something? Totally. I think, I, on that, I think it's a numbers game. And I think you got to be prepared to sort of build a thick skin, not not tiny sure reputation or your business or anything, but especially the freelancers and the creatives that I'm sort of helping a lot of them don't have that experience just yet. And so helping them build a relationship with that person before the ask, you know, before that ask comes is massive. Like, you've got to, you got to build report. And if that's on social media, that's like, that's being around and being involved in that businesses, you know, that world that's free for some time, sometimes, before actually, you know, asking. But I think it comes about providing value first. You know, I haven't found a business yet that has said no to free work. You know, I've said, hey, like, I think your logo is fantastic, but I feel that I might have an idea if you were to implement it. It might make, you know, it might make, I don't know, your mark, like the mums that comes to your cafe feel a little bit more welcome. You're welcome to try it. And if it doesn't work, that's totally cool. What do you think about that? You know, it might provide value. If it doesn't, hey, that's totally cool. And I've never found someone yet to say, you know, like, no, that's, I don't, I don't want to hear your idea. Right. You know, yeah, that's a really good point. It reminds me of, you know, a remit, Sadie. He doesn't. He doesn't. I will teach you to be rich. No. It's kind of like, it's personal finance is how we first tapped into it, but then now it's more like living a rich life. But yeah, he had this thing called the briefcase technique that I learned very early on when I was freelancing. And essentially he would, you know, who go to one of these meetings or like, you know, whether it's a cold call or it's like a formal meeting that they have prepped and like they know are expecting them. Actually, like most people don't prepare as much as they should for a job interview for a client meeting for whatever it is. And I've actually used this technique and it's worked really well. But basically, you know, you don't have a briefcase. You don't have a briefcase, but I'd back back, whatever it was, I had a bag for it. And then, you know, at some point during the meeting, you know, I brought some ideas. I, you know, I had a few concepts that I thought would work really well for you. And like, instead of, you know, sending them the email, you actually take out this piece of paper and it's almost like a gift. And you're like, here's, it's an outline of, you know, three pieces of content we could create as well as what a content strategy would look like over the next three months. It's like, because you're trying to differentiate yourself from everybody else that might come through that door and offer a picture. And like, how can you step yourself apart? And, you know, down the road, it can evolve to where you have like a presentation, you have like a PDF and you have, you know, fully fleshed concepts. It really depends on the scope of the business. And yes, what you think you can get out of it with the investments worth. But to be really prepared and like, you set to offer value first. It's a really just give them something and not expecting any time. That's because that's the thing. I think that's the thing, is that and people expect, okay, well, now, where's my money? You know what I mean? Like, no, just, you give it to them. And you say, by, and then you will, like, you, you know, and the conversation, exactly. It's similar, because it comes from a place like, I need clients, I need clients, I need clients, and is that desperation? You need it, like, just pull back, just pull back from that, just take a moment and go, like, I'm just going to, you know, it doesn't matter. We go to, sure, like, I might need some bills to pay, et cetera, but to go out then, do your due diligence on who you want to work with and just throw them value. Absolutely throw them value, because you want to build a partnership. They're not just a client and you're the, you're the designer. Like, you want to become friends with this company, like, that's where it should be at, you know, this level where you can sit down and have a coffee with them. There's no, like, you know, yeah. And that's what you want to get to the point where it's just like, you're working, because eventually you get to the point where you are choosing the clients. You are saying, actually, you know what, I had that meeting with that person, or I called that person up on the phone, because I really wanted his business. Yeah. But no, I'm like, I don't know. Yeah. I don't know if I want to work with this guy, because you, you're dedicating your time in your energy, like, they become essentially your co-workers for a significant time. So you have to weigh that for me. And, you know, that, that, your approach, I think is the, the right approach to go about when you, when you really need to start getting clients, you're starting from ground zero, you have nothing. I think I was fortunate, because I started my business in college. I got, you know, where I, I was living off of my student loans, which was in the best idea in the world, but it was still, it gave me some runway and some opportunity. Like, I didn't have to pay my bills. I didn't have to, like, I wasn't stressing out about getting clients, and, and I didn't have to hustle that much. Although I did, I did hustle, but it was like, started out doing some free to, to cheap work with people that I respected, people that I really like to work with. And then it was, it's like, it becomes a snowball effect when, and this is what's going to happen naturally. If, like, you go out in hustle and you get, no matter which way you get clients, totally. As you start to get them in, they're going to talk about you. If you're putting out amazing work, if you're doing great, and like, it could be just the fact, a lot of people who just think about, like, oh, my quality is not up to par. Like, it's not that great. It's not only that. It's like, also, are you great to work with? Do people really enjoy your company? Like, are you easy to work with? Do you deliver shit on time? Totally. Are you, do you overcommunicate and just make sure they know exactly when the delivery is going to happen? Those kind of things, I feel like are invaluable. And those clients, the first three that you get are going to talk about you. Maybe one of them leads to another client. Do I can trace back my clients to like, the first three? You know what I mean? It's kind of crazy. They just web out and like, you know, every once in a while, you get a new one that pops up. It's like a family tree. And then all of a sudden, there's like a distant cousin you didn't know about. And then it spreads out into like 20 more different clients. But it really starts just no ball. If you're delivering high quality work. And like, because everybody's always worried, it's as freelancers, you have those roles. Right. We are like, it's the roller coaster. Right. The most people are like, shit. I didn't get a new work this month. Am I going to get a work next month? And that's hard to grapple with. But then when you've been in the game for long enough, and you've got so many of these different people that know about your work, then all of a sudden, you can start to build a business. And then also like relax and say, back into like, it's going to be okay. Yeah. I'm going to be able to to make a living this week. Absolutely. Yeah. I love that the idea of the the the mall and kind of how you present yourself, because that's how I felt for a long time with my freelance stuff. Yeah. And actually, I never really got to a point like it seems like you do where you've built up an audience, which I think will probably help to channel that and will potentially get clients through that, because my like website and my real was only there for when I sent it to people. You know, which I think it works. There's some value in that. But then if you're actually getting people coming to your website, maybe for the additional value, additional content, whatever it is you're creating. Yeah. And then they might want to hire you separately for another project. Yeah. Is that work after you know? Well, like I had a website set up for a long time in the same same thing. You know, just sitting there and people, you know, would land on that and contact. And yeah, absolutely. Absolutely. So what do I charge? Oh, that's the next question. Yeah. It's a big one. Yeah. It is a big question. Yeah. It's a big question. Because I think it's one of those questions where you're like, well, depends. Right. What are you making? How long you've been doing it? How much talent and skill do you have? How do you answer that question if you I answer that by saying, you know, it doesn't matter what anyone else thinks. It's the value that you provide. It's like, I mean, the way I look at it. Again, with another, with another story is like, if you had a car, and I'm using things that necessarily don't relate, but you can put, you can piece the piece, like, put the piece together. Right. If you had a car and you're trying to sell this car, and you said to your friends, like, I'm selling this and they're like, how much for, and you're like, $10,000, they're like, it's not worth $10,000. Everywhere online, they're worth $5,000. What are you, what are you doing? You happen to sell it for $10,000. It doesn't matter what anybody else thought, what anybody else said about what the value was of that car. The person that bought it, that was what they invested in $10,000. That's the value that they saw in the car. So, I believe the value provide for somebody is like, is exponential. Depending on that service and what it fulfills to that company, okay? And so I don't think there's a written law, but for me, I struggled making band posters for $20, $30, and I was spending six to eight hours on them, and it was like the most painful, painful, painful thing. And so I had to say, I sort of, like, it was a long period of time, refining that. As you know, refining your process and increasing your value that you add, it's not just a poster. You know, you might add some assets in on top of that whole bunch of stuff to, to eventually increase that value that you're giving to that customer. Obviously, the quality like we've spoken has to be hard. It has to be top-notch, which makes sense. But again, I was challenged by my mentor, and it's not an uncommon thing to be challenged by that what would happen if you doubled your rates? Yeah, I love that. Great challenge to throw it somewhere. What would you, what would happen? And I sat back and I was like, I had to think, I'm not the smartest tool in the ship when it comes to, I'm like, double my rates, huh? 10 clients, let's see, $100, that's a thousand. Okay. I might get, if I double my rates to $200, I'm not only getting half the clients, like, not everyone might take me up on that offer, but I'd still be earning the same amount, but working half the time. And I was like, clean, like, judging me at a light bulb moment, I was like, I'm going to try that. And then it's just that trial and error. You know, it's trial and error. Some, some, you'll win, some, some you lose, but it's a, it's a great challenging question at any level in your business. What if you doubled what you were charging? It's like, a bit of a lump in the throat. Like, yeah, I was, I was, I was every single answer to a question on the AMA podcast. And somebody was asking like, how to start to make more money? And it's like, well, yeah, you got to charge more money. And I said, well, you got to, you're going to be, you know, you're going to go from a place where you're doing $400 for a video to $4,000 to $40,000 and at the time, if you're at that $400 video, you're not going to feel like, you're going to, it's going to seem impossible. Like, $4,000, you're like, holy shit, that's all the money. That's all the money. How am I going to get all that? Am I going to get them to pay me that money? And somebody actually asked me in a comment. They said, I'm at $400 right now. How do what's the difference between, I, he's like, I don't even know the difference between $400 video and $4,000 video. And I said, it's literally just the amount you charge of. You're giving them the same exact thing. And like, we were saying before people pay for certain things. Like, you're paying the fact that you're going to deliver. And like, you know what I mean? If you're going to 10x your rate, you need to make sure that you can deliver and make sure that the quality and the content. It's all there. But like, you know, in this world, it's, it's, it's, it's very, it's strange in that you can literally just charge whatever you want. That's always a providing value. And as long as that person appreciates the value, yeah, then people are going to be willing to pay for it. And I mean, the thing, I, 100% it's like the craziest thing. Because then you're like, in this open space of like, huh, so what, what should I value my, my time at? You know, what, what, if I could do anything, what should I value it out? Because we just start at the bottom of the chain. Yeah. I was like, huh, 20 bucks. That's where I should start for a poster. You know, but that company is bringing in, you know, hundreds of people to their event making thousands of dollars. And here I am sweating, you know, in my bedroom, for eight hours a day with 30 revisions on this poster, making nothing for it. One of my students Kendall, she's, she's super cool. She was graduating design, you know, last year. And she went to her lecturers, right? She went to her lecturers. She's like, how, like, what, what should I charge for my, my work? And like, they had no response. They had literally had no answer. Nothing. Not this conversation that we're having, I am nothing. And she came to me and I was just like, I was just so frustrated. I felt for her. I'm like, we're going to do something about this. And so that's what like fires me up. I'm like, we need to help that, you know, we need to help solve those questions and solve those problems with people because like then we're spending money, something like, and I believe in university, I believe in designs got 100%. It wasn't for me, but it is for people. But it's not where you get all of the answers. And sometimes the crucial ones. Well, that's the thing is, if I followed my syllabus and that was it, when I was in college, where would you be now? Yeah. And honestly, you know, what there were a lot of people that I was in school with, that that's all they did. But then like, I just love making videos and doing sketches and trying to be funny and goof around. So like, I just, you know, saved up my money. I bought a Sony handy cam and like, I just started making videos and just started doing it outside of the class work. More like, I put so much extra time into the videos I was making for class that like, it didn't matter about the grade. And even there was some projects where I got like a beyond. But I'm like, I busted my ass on it. Like, I just didn't matter because I like, I'm proud of what I created. Did, was the hand cam? So I don't know. Was it, was it like a type? Yep. Yeah, dude. This was like, it's funny because I was talking to Sarah Dichy and you know, she's, uh, she's like early 20s now. And she's like, my dad had like a panasonic, whatever. So it was like, I was like, oh my god, that's like, that's a camera that came out three years ago because that's when she started. It was like four years ago. Yeah. Three years ago when she started filmmaking. And I was like, I'm, I'm now one of those people. I'm like that guy back in my day. We like actually, dude, my dad had one of the on the shoulder. Yeah, my my parents did as well. And that was like, we made horror movies back in the day with you know, like literally a big VHS tape until it burnt out and died. But now it's you made horror movies like the theme horror all like the video process was horrible. No, no, it was we actually made like horror horror movies. Yeah, like where I like I was wearing the mask was like, oh god, I wish we had those still. Wouldn't that be so cool? And that's the one thing that I like about like Gary Vee and then it's like just document everything and like dude, it would be so cool to be able to look back at some of the experiences. And like even right now, like this is going to be the moment that you look back on you. Like, hey, that was back in the day when I was just getting started out or I was, you know, it would be on the internet forever. Yeah, exactly. The one thing about making those leaps with the 400 to 4,000 is that it requires risk, right? You have to be willing to sacrifice potential money. And that's the thing is that when you get, it's like an exciting rush when you get that email in and you're like, oh, this is money. Like this is this very soon, it wants to hire me and like they want to, they want to talk more about it and like you get really excited. But like when you're going to go and actually charge more money for something, it comes at a high risk because you're more than likely going to, you know, they're going to say no more times than that. Although a lot of times it's like, the best thing to do is like, when you get so busy, I say if you fill up all this 400 hour projects, you're making enough money, then it's like, well, I'm actually so busy right now that it would be hard to take another project on. All right, let me 10x my rate. Let me just like kind of just throw it out there. And that's when I started to make those bumps up bump ups. Because I was like, wait, they're saying, yes, totally. And it's so interesting. You touch on risk because like it's those that risk it in business that, you know, risk it to get the biscuit, you know. It's a good one. I never heard that. That's going to be the name of this podcast. There you go, risk it. It's so much like that. And you know, I don't believe in necessarily discounting your rate, you know, giving someone a discount per se because it's not a nice way to look at your service and what you provide. However, when you risk it, you've got the opportunity if they say that's outside of our budget. Just to pair it back and say, cool, what is inside your budget? And that might land higher than what you were going to originally charge anyway. Yeah, you know what? Another good piece of advice is I never like telling people my rate on the phone because like, I'm maybe I'm not confident enough. But I just know that like, I always use soft language. Like, maybe we can do that. I don't know. You know what I mean? But like, so I always and worry that I'm going to just say, you know, my rate for this is like 10,000. But like, you know, if you can't make it work, I'm like, and then it's like, I'm like, well, shit, like, you're so weak. Why can't you just say, it's 10 grand? That's about to take it early. It's very hard to do that on person. So I will never tell somebody my rate over the phone and they try so hard. Like, you know, just give us a ballpark. Just give us a ballpark. Ah, sorry. I'm going to have to really think about it and then put it together in an estimate. And that's what I've always done is then I'll take a step back and then, you know, I'll just, I will think about, all right, what is it actually going to take to make? Yeah. But then, and then I will send them an estimate in the email, which is it's so much easier. It's like, boom, here it is. It's official. It's in a document that looks professional. You're going to get this. You're going to get this. I'm going to send you this way. Yeah. You can you can clearly lay it out. But then also another way to do it is like, if you're worried about losing their business, so give them two or three options. It's a big one. Yeah. And then you're like, well, I'm definitely not going to do it for below 400, but like if they want a $400 or $440 or $4,000 and like $10,000 option, I can just kind of scale it in either direction to make that work. Give them the choice is powerful too. Yeah. If your client's making a choice, they're in control. Yeah. And they love that. Yeah. So it's win-win. Take some time. Yes. That's the thing, right? And I think you have to weigh that because like, I've definitely been there where I'm like, I don't like writing together three, you know what I mean? Because it takes time to write these briefs. Yeah. Because you know, if it's potentially, and you've got to just weigh that, right? If it's potentially going to be a high earning client, then you're like, all right, put some time and put some extra time in. Yeah. What do we got? Oh, the last one. Actually, you know what? There's one more thing that I wanted to do about that of the money thing. Because sometimes, especially early on, you might get into a place where you're too focused on, I did work, I get money. I did work, I get money and also get paid per hour, which I don't think is like the best way to go about it. I think you should do a project based. Yeah. But with that, if you're doing project based, you're starting to charge more money for it and like you're moving into the higher and tier, 10,000 more, whatever it is, per project, you want to make sure that you're not being stingy. And you're not saying like, you know what I mean? Say, it's so many times, I put it in my contracts to estimate are two revisions or three revisions included in cost. Yes. So many times, it's gone over three, four, five, six revisions. Yeah. I'm not being like, hey, I need a little bit of money. I need it. Especially if it's like, oh, just change a title, swap this out that out. It's like, these clients are building relationships with. And if you're being really stingy about every dollar, then it's not going to enjoy working with you. Yeah. Yeah, we do. All right, revision process. Yeah. Well, very similar to what I guess we're sort of just like segue into that. Yeah. Naturally, I guess allowing, you know, a certain amount of revisions and just document make, let's go to be clearly stated, you know, in the beginning, yes, but without being stingy. And that's a great way that you can actually extend past those revisions to show that you really care about that client, that customer. And that really shows and builds so much trust. When you're like, hey, like, we have reached the revisions that we set out, but I'm happy to push through this because I want it in a result, you know, to win for you and for me. And so I think yeah, going back that revision process has been like for 10 years, like, it's such a crazy process. It's the most that you've had if you could. Oh, man, like honestly, one client haven't had many do this. Only maybe one or two that I can actually think of, just disappear off the face of the earth. Yeah, I've had that before. Yeah. Yeah. Did they not pay you? No, they would they put the deposit down. Yeah. We'd done some work together. And then just crickets. And I was like, so weird, man. Weird. They came back a year later. A year later. And now I don't know if there had been something going in there in their team, someone had gotten kicked, someone knew it coming, but they came back and, hey, can we continue the project? I was like, what? Dude, that is the worst I've had that before, like projects that should only last two months, but then they ended blasting three years because they keep pushing it back. Three years, big. Yeah, it was, yeah, it was that was my first $10,000 project. Yeah, so I was like, I'm going to stick at that point. Honestly, when I got that project, I was like, this is, I don't have enough to work again. I was like, this is it. I'm good. I'm good for the year. I'm good for like, but you know, there's definitely a lot more that comes with that. And then, you know, looking back on it, I was like three years, probably wasn't worth it. Totally. I mean, at the time it was just because it made me realize what was possible. Yeah, and you have to go through that learning as well. Yeah, because before dude, before I was like, I think it was $1,500. It was my biggest project. And it was for so much more work. Yeah. And then I was like, you know, I had learned through somebody at the company that a new he was like, hey, other people are pitching and they're just pitching at. And then I was like, really? Are you serious? We're going to stop right there. Like, everyone's going to be listening to this right now. Like, that is like a ground breaking. Like, when that happens in your career, that's ground breaking. Like, and you need to be challenged by someone outside, because you don't know what's possible. Yeah. We get stuck as creative. Like, in this, like, just this track. And there's not a lot of sharing from what I don't know if it's, I don't know. I've found that there's not a lot of sharing these sorts of conversations and ideas around it. Sort of like, really kept close. And so I'm really trying to break that open. But that right there, I reckon that'll change who, like, someone listening to this podcast is watching on YouTube wherever they're, you know, that's going to be groundbreaking for them. Like, what? You charge $1500. I've been charging $50. Yeah. Like, that's all it takes. Yeah. Honestly, that's, that's really it's funny because looking back on it, you don't, I mean, in the moment, there, it's huge jumps. And in the moment, it's a huge deal for you. Yeah. But then, like, obviously time goes by. And that's what, even these conversations are helpful for me, remember, and to to understand where I've been and be like, you know, now it may not be a big deal for me to charge five figures for a project. But there's people who are like, that is, like, if I could get that and like, I don't need to do two projects a year, you know? That's a lot. Yeah. But like, it's definitely like a learning process. But you have to commit to learning and kind of digging in and learning about yourself. And then, like, you said, taking risks and big time, kind of being cut out with it. Yeah. It's funny. Like, now that I don't do as much, I don't do any client work now, really. So I don't have to go through the revision process. How do you, that's the same as me now? Right. Do you, do you not do any design work anymore? I'm currently working with my, I guess I'll take on projects in the future that I'm, you know, passionate about or a friend and whatnot. But I'm currently working with a client, you know, who's become becoming a friend in Gothenburg, Sweden. And I've let him know, this is going to be my last project. He's, he's like, dude, thank you so much. Oh, my God. We're currently working on a monogram for him. And that will probably be, be doors closed. And then I just want to help others. Yeah. That's exciting. Yes. Did that three, three months ago is always took my last client project. It was, you know, like, you have some build up to it. You want to make sure you got some run way, you want to show that, like, the transition to smooth, because I'm all about risk, but it definitely calculated risk. Of course. And being smart about it. Yeah. You know, because you don't, if you don't do it, if you don't, if you're not thinking about it properly, and you just like, I think Colin Wright said, you know, it's, you don't want to just jump off the clip cliff and then put your parachute together when you're on the way down. You want to make sure your parachute is ready to go. So that way, anything goes wrong, you can, you can really, you can be ready for it in a gap, because I think that's, you're going to come to those places in that roller coaster where you're kind of at the bottom. You're not feeling like you're, you made the right decision and you're feeling, yeah, I'll go back to the client. Yeah. But, and that's the thing is that it's nice to know that it's always still there. Yes. And you can always go back, that's the thing about developing and building skills. Isn't that you have this skill? It's a tool belt. You have you both from the entrepreneurial perspective of running a business as well as the design. It's like, if you ever get into a pinch, and you're like, you know, I need to make some more money, yeah, pick up a couple of client works, and then you can move forward. I feel like that's, because a lot of people have this notion that idea about job security, right? They might say in their nine to five job because they think it's going to, it's somehow secure. Like, they can't lose that job. That's super empathetic to those who have families and, you know, also, you know, things that you've got it, you've, like, that stuff is crucial that you have to look after them. So I get that risk as well. No, I just let it be fine. Kids are really resourceful these days. They will be fun. You know, yeah. No, I completely agree. And that's like the hard part, and that's why I think people shouldn't wait. I know a lot of people in college that I was friends with that were filmmakers, and they were like, yeah, you know, I think eventually I'm going to do my own thing, like, eventually that's where my heart's at and what I want to do. They were like, all right, I'm just going to get some experience in the industry. I'm going to do 15, 20 years. It's a treptle. Yeah. Like, in the industry, just to build some relationships and, like, network and all it's definitely a treptle. You're never going to get out. You're going to do to imagine that 20 years down the road. You got three kids and a wife and you're trying to figure out how do I leave this to build something myself, because the first couple years, you're not going to make a lot of money, probably. You know what I mean? Yeah. My first year, I made eight grand baby for the entire year. Sounds better, right? Yeah. I was so yep. I can't leave it. Oh my god. I wouldn't have made that much bro. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Now, it was, um, but it's, it's, it's, you got to start now. And then you're, you're kind of, you're a long way. And it's never too late. So if you are the person with, you know, three kids and a husband, you want to leave it and pursue your passion, you can still do that. And that's 24 hours in a day. It's amazing what we can do in 24 hours. Yeah. Like how many of us sleeping 10 hours, you know? It's like how many of us sitting in front of binge watching Netflix. Like how I'm guilty. I, I watch a bit of Netflix, but it's like, you got to, you know, what you want, you know, should determine what your actions are going to be. You know, right? If you, if you're saying you want this thing and your actions don't match up to that, I don't want to hear about it. It's got a line. It's got a line. So what are your days look like these days? Like how do you, you know, do you have them love that question? Yes. How does it work? Have you read the morning miracle? Yeah. That's so funny. Well, I haven't read it. I don't know anybody else have read that one. Right. My friends make fun of me all the time. Like they were just, they'll text me like, my miracle morning. Like whenever they wake up early. Because I'm, I'm, I'm, I've got a soft spot for for corny, uh, self-help books. And that's basically like, I saw you read, you know, listen to every cheesy, tiny robins. Oh, yeah. Like love it. But I think the world's made that cheese, but it's, there's so much power in it. Like far out. Dude, what's the thing is that once you start, when you start to take these risks and you leave your, your corporate job, you need to help. Yeah. Yeah. All of a sudden, now you're like, wow, I'm, I'm feeling very vulnerable right now. I need, I need some Tony. I need some Tony Robbins. So Tony is going to be closing at the last session of this marketing conference that I'm at next week. Oh, that's wild. And it's a buck at least tomato to connect with him. Oh, shit. I've never seen him live. Just run up and bear hug him. I will. Maybe on his back. It's only. Yeah. Well, Instagram's story. I don't think. So the miracle morning, wake up or what time you wake up? Um, in Australia, the sun is up at 435 in summer. So it's, it shifts a little winter to summer here. I like woke up this morning at 6 and it was still dark out. And I was like, oh, I don't want to get up because just happens away. But usually five, five, thirty has been currently. I shifted around. I like a bit of variety, a bit of change, five, thirty, and that'll be like quick, you know, work out and shower. Then it's like, uh, you know, protein shake and some reading and that'll be, you know, either, uh, I'm always reading some form of book where that's, you know, a self-help marketing something to to learn and grow. And then I'll read my Bible. Um, that's my start to the day. And then it's pretty much, be get grateful before the day starts. I'll contact, you know, reach out to my mentor and we share three gratitude, a couple of learnings and our top intention or our top win for the day that we're, we're looking to achieve, make my lunch, get to the office. But is it? But I like eight, eight, thirty. I love that. I, I need to start developing, uh, a morning routine like that, uh, because what I love about it, and I think this is, this was, this was part of, um, what the miracle morning was about. It was kind of like setting time for yourself and not jumping straight into email. I think a lot of us do that, wake up or social. Pop it up on email. Oh, yeah. What happened on Instagram last night? How many likes did I get? I'm a deal. I did. I did it. I did it this morning. And like that's the thing is that, but there's a balance and there's definitely kind of an ideal where I'm like, you know what? I actually don't feel good when I do that all the time. Yeah. Um, but we don't know that we're not feeling good unless we become aware of it. Hey, yeah, self-awareness thing. Yeah. But like, I think I want to start developing a better morning routine, uh, where, whether it's 30 minutes or an hour to just take some time to myself, to meditate, to read, to kind of, and I, I do that from time to time, but I feel like it can be more, uh, concrete. Because then it, it grounds you and it, it also, sometimes it can feel like when you're an entrepreneur that everything is about work. And it's just like, and it can, you don't want it to be as much as there can be a grind to it and you have to grind to put in the work and also all that, you don't want it to, your life to become a grind. No, you gotta find that balance somewhere. Some time where we have to just get it done and get it out to get to a point, you know, just where we can, you know, back at status quo, we're back at grounds zero. Yeah. Um, but yeah, it's a constant wrestle. Hey, working that thing out. I've got awesome a morning mantra as well that I've got in there. Yeah. That I'll read in front of the mirror, you know, proclaim who I am, who I'm serving, you know, what my goals are for the year and, you know, where I want to be, um, and make sure that that vision is, is front of mind every day, and just make sure that I can be empowered by that. Love it. You want to get to quite questions. Yeah. Quite a question. It's not quick answer. So feel free to elaborate. Cool. Um, let's see here. Yeah. We'll, we'll go through about five or six of these and then we'll wrap up the podcast. Awesome, man. Uh, and then we'll get you back to where you from. You're from the Gold Coast, born in Sydney. The Gold Coast. All right. I'm going to be back in Sydney in, we've got two weddings this year. Oh, it's going to be back in November and December. I'll fill it. You know, and I'm definitely coming through town. How fun are weddings? So much fun. So much fun. I love it. Dude. Yeah. Yeah. Because I used to film weddings. I filmed like 40 weddings in my day. Are you glad you don't film weddings? Yeah. But I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't know how people for doing it. No, I got friends. Yeah. Incredible. If you love it, I don't do whatever you want. And like, I actually did love it. And at the beginning, it was, it was exciting. It was fun. It was great to be around money. It was good. That's like the the easiest way to build up a business. So that's one of those things. And what a mouth is wild. Yeah. If you do a crap job, it's wild. If you do a great job. It's fun. It's like extremes. Yeah. And now people do people go over, they got the drones. They got, you know, it's next level now. But you can, um, that's like one of the the easiest ways to build up your business. The trouble with it is that if you don't, if you're not passionate about it, you're kind of stuck with it for a year. Once you want to quit, because you book weddings out a year in advance. So there you go. When I wanted to quit, I was like, oh, I got to do that whole next summer. I got 10 weddings. I got to shoot, but it's good money. It's good commitment. Yeah, man. What book has made the biggest impact on your life? Hmm, there's a couple. Can I answer really a couple? Absolutely. Um, definitely. So think and grow rich. Napoleon Hill. Massive for me. What was your takeaway? The morning mantra out of that book is one that I've customized, but I love the basic essence of where that comes from. So a huge book there, think and grow rich. Um, oh, definitely in morning miracles, it's just been cool practical stuff. Really practical book. Good, fine one to implement that sort of stuff. And you can see it's on that same path, right, of just setting yourself before the day starts. And then finally, probably the alchemist is one of my favorites as well. Hmm. Yeah, that's a good one. I didn't get that one. It's funny, just like the certain books that impact people at certain times. I mean, I didn't I didn't read the alchemist until later in life when I kind of had gone through some of that stuff before. Sure. Like one of my favorite books is the power of now, because I haven't read that. Classic book, classic. But you know, it may not have the same impact on you, because you probably asked a lot of these questions of yourself already and kind of explored meditation and spirituality. So it's like these, it really matters when these ideas come across. Yeah, exactly. What would you say drives you? Hmm. A love of people. Love of people. So like this conversation right now is just filling me up. Naturally introverted, naturally introverted, which people don't believe, but I am. Last night hanging out with Kenny who connected us, just filled me right up. I love meeting people, connecting with people and then seeing real change, you know, come about through a conversation through something worked on. I don't know. That might sound a bit esoterical, but it's just, yeah, I love it. It drives me. That's what you got to focus on. Because if you're, if all your focusing on is the money or is the business, then yeah, I found myself in this, this trap early on, which is like I kept asking, what can I get? Sure. What can I get out of this? Yeah, like, you know, what is in it for me? And then eventually you get to a point where you're like, well, I keep getting everything I want, but I still, like, that doesn't, there's no end to that. Yeah. But then when you can ask, like, what can I give? How can I help? Those kind of questions? I feel like, it just, it takes some stress away and you're like, wow, okay, now my vision is much more clear. Yeah, 100%. I'm curious about your tattoos, because I just went to an exhibit in the, oh, if you, if you're around and you want to see that, you should go check it out. It's at the Natural History Museum. Uh-huh. They have a dinosaurs and shit, which is, yeah, yeah, I went to the New York. Are you the actual, yeah. See, oh, you can't get enough of dinosaurs. I've got to go back to those, not enough. People forget about the dinosaurs, but holy shit, how cool is it to just see how massive they are? But lots of cool stuff there. It's really an amazing exhibit, but now that there's a new exhibit there, I don't know if it's still going on, but it probably is, because I saw about two weeks ago. Tato exhibit. It's a tattoo exhibit, and it's about like the history of tattoos when it came out, like tattooing from all over the world. It's been going on for thousands of years. Like, very, there's lots of tribes that obviously tattoo, like, every culture on the planet throughout the history of time have used tattooing and ink their skin. And there's also like the history of Los Angeles tattooing, which was super interesting, because it started that what's called a black and gray. It's a certain style. It's really smooth. The lighting is very natural fade and actually started in prison, because all they had was black ink and staples to create tattoos. So then they would just kind of water down the ink to create the black to like the black and gray to kind of create amazing tattoos, and then just kind of took off throughout the culture around LA, super fascinating. So tell me about the tattoos that you got. So this one here was, I think my first on this lower arm, and it's native American girl, got it in Riverside, California, by Josh Marx, and I wanted something to represent why we were touring quite a few of these band tattoos related. So I wanted something to represent, just being here in the time and remembering where I was, and that, so he came up with that. Was that the first one? Down, down this part, down. And then my friend back home, Mitch up on the Sunshine Coast, he did this eagle, and this one represents, it's a tattoo in memory of my dad, and the eagle is an incredible incredible bird that when it's being attacked, which isn't very often, but when it is, it flies directly towards the sun, because it can handle with its eyes. It just flies directly at the sun, which is just phenomenal. I sort of take strength from that, and then this one here on the inside is one, all of us in the band got tattooed in Japan. One late night, you know, we were the tour was ending. We were sitting in this hotel room that was literally the size of your dining room here. Like one single bed, we're all sitting on it. Our tour manager, he had, you know, contact his friend from up north, he's got the train down, and he's open up his little tattoo bag, and he's in the hotel room, we're all getting tattooed. And it was called the Brotherhood Tour. So it's got the great wave and Mount Fuji and it says Brotherhood there. This is the most recent one. Yes, I think, I think I maybe saw the design that you posted on the screen. Yeah, yeah, so I had this design for a while, and same guy, Mitch, on this arm, it says Odeth, where is thy sting, and so that for me is a resemblance, it's a button to the scripture from the Bible, but for me I don't fear death, and I've seen it come about in my family so many times, lost my dad, a whole bunch of long story short, but I don't fear death because in, yeah, what I believe I know where, where I'm going, what's a dime, I'm confident in that. Yeah, I love the idea behind it. I also love the design. All right, let's see here, what you got? Where do you go when you're feeling doubt? Doubt or down? Doubt. Oh, doubt when I'm feeling doubt. Well, for me, being Christian, I go to Jesus, that's my rock. He's like, you know, when I can't trust anybody else, like, that's who I go to. That's where I seek wisdom, that's where I seek answers, and so definitely, that's where I go in first point of call, and then apart from that, you know, I'm close, I'm so tight with my family, you know, but you know, that thing when you can't, sometimes just reach out to the family, you know, that sort of thing. And then I go to really close few bunch of friends, count them on one hand, trust for my life as well, so for sure. What's the simplest advice that's the most important to follow? Simpleest advice that's the most important to follow. I think be yourself. Yeah, be yourself. Be, be real. No one wants to follow someone, you know, or align with someone who's not following that path. So how do you, in a lot of people talk about that, like, be authentic, be yourself. How do you achieve that? Because sometimes it can be challenging, especially when we're trying to push the best version of ourselves out there online, it needs to have to actually let the guard down. Well, I think we've got two years and one mouth for a reason, and so it comes back to that, which is, which comes back to patience, just taking a humble approach, and that's more easier to achieve when you listen 10 times more, you know, than you speak. Yeah. You take it in, you think about what you're going to say, and then you choose to say it or not. Great. And two more questions. One thing that people should read, watch, or listen to before they go to bed tonight, what's like the one thing that would really change their day. First thing that comes to mind is like just type in Will Smith motivation on YouTube, and it's like there's nine minute cliff just to pull these cut-up stuff, and it's got like 3 million views. That's, yeah. Did you tell me about that earlier today, or I feel like, no. Dude, that, I think that's literally what Q said yesterday. See, yeah, that's bizarre. See, wave length. I got to watch this, because I heard about it, like some of the end of together, this inspirational Will Smith video. I got to check it out. Yeah. Now people are definitely going to, I guarantee people are going to go check it out. Well, Will can take me later, you know, just adding to his fanbase story. Yeah, that's where I heard about the alchemist in that video. Oh, really. Yeah. I was going to read that because we'll do. Great man. And to wrap up, what's the best way for people to find you online? Where should we send it? Brian L. Bowls. That's Instagram, Google at Facebook. I don't know whatever. Instagram is Instagram's a cool place to hang out. Yeah, cool. Brian L. Bowls. All right, man. Thanks for doing this. Man. Thanks, Matt appreciate it. All right. All right. And that's the show for today. I hope you guys learned a few things about freelancing, how to level up your business, how to grow it, how to make more money by working less what better combination. I don't think there is one. As always, if you want to support this podcast, I would love to hear from you in the form of an iTunes review or rating head over to iTunes search the ground up show. And yeah, just to drop a line in there, leave a rating. They really help. They help to promote the show. They help get the word out there. It makes makes us rank a little bit better on the iTunes ratings or the charts there. And yeah, I mean, just trying to grow this thing, trying to help as many people as we can. So if you've gotten value out of it, that would mean a whole lot. All right. See you next week.
