# A Minimalist Approach to Business
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lzfUPslRRHw
Get the full interview: http://patreon.com/mattdavella

I highly recommend Paul's newsletter: http://pjrvs.com

🙊 Here are the goods I mention in this video:
(Some are affiliate links. All are my genuine recommendations): 
Paul's Book, Company of One: https://amzn.to/2vBENFW

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** 
**Date:** 2019-06-04

## Transcript
 As a culture we've come to believe that when building a business bigger is always better. More revenue, more employees, more followers, more square feet, more locations, those are the metrics that impress people. But can this relentless pursuit of more backfire? Today I'm sitting down with Paul Jarvis, author of Company of One, why staying small is the next big thing for business. If we're chasing goals for the sake of chasing goals or chasing goals because we think, while this will make me like a legitimate business if I like open an office or if I have employees or if I make like X amount of money. It's like, are you writing your business for yourself or are you writing your business for the way it looks for other people? He shares why you might want to rethink growth as the status quo, how social media has changed the way we think about success, and the three questions you should ask yourself before working towards any goal. Get access to the full 55-minute interview at patreon.com slash Matt Diabella. Paul, thanks so much for being here. No worries. It's really cool to meet you in person because we have over the past year, been bumping into each other online through Twitter, email. I think what's unique about your story is that you really started to apply the minimalism to your business. And the whole book company of wine, it's this idea that more isn't better. Growth isn't always good. And that's the stock template, it's the stock path that every company thinks they need to go down. That they need to just continually grow and grow and grow. And I love that you're pushing back on this idea. So tell me a little bit about what it means to be a company of one. Yeah, so it first doesn't mean you're literally a one person business. And I think that's actually very hard to just be a one person business because you'd have to be good at everything. I'm not good at everything. So that doesn't work out for me. But the point of a company of one is that business success doesn't mean that the next step after you see some success is that you grow bigger. It's that you can determine whether or not it makes sense to grow bigger or not, which I think having a bit of critical thought in any area of life or work is a good thing. So yeah, it's just about questioning the idea that growth is always good because it's not like there's a million examples in the book of when businesses try to grow really fast or just went really hard on rapid growth and just completely failed. Whereas a lot of businesses that are smaller or that don't care about growth or that don't have growth is like their key metric can kind of keep going. I think the average life of a business on the SMP 500 is 15 years. I've been in business 20 years. Like I don't make nearly as much as those businesses but I make enough to live well and to keep my business going. And for me I don't want like an exit strategy or an IPO or even a higher managed people. Like for me I just want as little responsibility as possible with profit. Like that to me is like I'm doing my business well if I have the freedom from responsibility and stress and work. Like I still work hard but I don't want to like I don't want to manage people man and like that's like yeah that would just be bad. I have so suck at managing people. So like I just like that's not interesting to me. Like I think like the track in business right it's like if you do well at your job you get promoted into managing other people who were doing your job. I don't like that doesn't like I love my job like I don't want to get I don't want to grow my business. And when I was doing web design it was like well you should like grow into an agency like you have a six month waiting list like higher bunch of designers and developers and whatnot. And it's like but I like the design. I like the development. I like the writing. I like the working directly with clients. So like I don't want to promote myself out of a job I love and a job I don't like. And this is something that everybody pushes on us like not I was a lot of people. Most people are pushing this idea. This idea that I have a really successful noodle shop and there's a line out the door and I love making noodles and people tell me. Not I don't actually make noodles but. This is an example. But then they say oh wow you should scale up. Oh you should open a location in New York. Oh you should do one of Vancouver and it's like if you like building businesses. If you like building the business more than you like the actual art and the practice of making the thing. And I think that that's a question that a lot of people aren't really asking and being intentional. And like you said really questioning what's enough for me like when am I actually going to be happy and where do I find that balance in life. Yeah and I mean for me it's the it is exactly that it's like what is enough. How will I know when I've got there and what will change if I do. And if I don't have a good answer to the third one then there's no point. It's like when I was in my early 20s I was like oh would it be a legitimate business person like I need to make like a million dollars a year. And I was like this is my goal like I want a million dollars a year. And then after a couple months and I was like the logic was so sound it was like well I only get paid when I'm working. So therefore I should work more hours and then I get paid more and then I'll make more than I'll make a million dollars. And if I had like this logic is like so sound and then I did that for like two months and I was like fuck. This is like I'm burning out and stressed out. I'm working like 16 hour days like not enjoying myself. I'm making some money but like I can't even enjoy the money because I'm just too busy working. And I was like why do I need a million dollars a year and there was no good answer like I still don't have I also don't make a million dollars a year. But like I don't have a good answer for that like I don't know why I would need to. And it's like if we're chasing goals for the sake of chasing goals or chasing goals because we think. Well this will make me like a legitimate business if I like open an office or if I have employees or if I make like X amount of money. It's like are you writing your business for yourself or are you writing your business for like the way it looks for other people. And like I would rather just run my business for myself. So as consumers it's very easy for us to say that you can fall into this trap of comparison. But the same thing happens with creators with filmmakers business owners and entrepreneurs. We look at the size and the scale of other businesses. We look at the output, the amount of stuff that they're making or the products that we're making. And it can feel like we aren't creating enough or aren't doing enough. We're not making enough money. How do you pull yourself away from that and prevent yourself from falling into these negative comparisons? In the past it used to be like comparison used to be like physical and direct. Like we would compare ourselves to our neighbors. We compare ourselves to the Joneses, right? And they'd be the people living on either side of us or in our neighborhood with like, is there car as good as mine? Is there TV house as good as mine? And like that's obviously that's not good, but it's just like a direct comparison of just like people around you. Whereas nowadays it's like we compare ourselves to the internet. And the internet is just like this huge place. And like we look on Instagram when we see like people taking like selfies and like private jets that they've just rented on the runway. Like we see everybody living their blessed like best lives and stuff like that. And it's like it's hard because like it can make us feel like shit. Like it's like even like I'm not even on Instagram anymore because it was just like I felt like I was boring. Like every time I looked at Instagram I was like boring. Like all of these people have these exciting lives and like I'm sitting in my sweatpants in my home office like working kind of thing. And so we compare ourselves to others because it's so easy now. Like every time we refresh a social feed, we're seeing what other people are doing. But we're seeing what other people want us to see that they're doing. Like I could probably make myself sing really interesting on social media. And I'm not really interesting in real life. And so it becomes difficult. And that same happens in business. Like you don't see that many people writing like income reports if they're making like 100 bucks a month. Like all of the income reports that I've seen. I don't even think income reports are bad. I think that they can be really helpful or informative. But like all the income reports I see from bloggers are in the six figures. And it's like, well, I don't make six figures a month. So it's like, it's like, it's like, I'm being helpful. But this is just like you showing you that I'm doing really, really well. And so like we see that like this is how business works now is. We're all trying to be like transparent or open or share and all of those things aren't necessarily bad. But if we internalize them and we compare ourselves to people's like outward version of themselves or their business. And we're going to run into running in problems. Growth isn't inherently a bad thing. But are there potentially downfalls about growing and growing too quickly? Because it's easy to look at subscriber count revenue and see everything more and more. And that the fact that increasing all of this across the board would be always a good thing. Are there times when it actually isn't? Yeah, I mean like even looking at like my own mailing list. Like it's at a size now where it gives me enough income to live comfortably. It's also at a size now where I can like stand at an email blast on Sundays. And I'll get by a hundred or two hundred replies and like I can read them all. I can reply to people. I can build connections with those people. And in that way I can learn more about like what my audience wants. I can see and that's how I make products. I just listen like my the secret sauce for making any of the things I've ever made has just been like. What are the people who are paying attention to me want? And I'm going to go build that. And so if I was just focused on growth for something like that, it wouldn't be able to pay. I would be paying more attention to acquisition instead of retention. I'd be paying more attention to putting my time into getting higher and higher numbers. And then not being able to like communicate with the people who are already paying attention. And like these are the most important people to any business that people who are already paying attention. The people who are already buying stuff. And I mean that to me makes so much sense. And I mean in the beginning you need growth because you got to go from like zero to something. You got to go from zero to some amount of revenue. You were zero to some amount of customers. And then if we don't ever question that or if we don't ever question like maybe I've reached enough growth. Then we're just going to keep going at it. And it's just going to be chasing more. And like I don't know how to reach more. Like it doesn't it that like there's no it's like running towards the horizon. It's like I can see it there in the distance. And like I'm sweating and I'm going full out. And it's like I'm not getting there. Like it feels like I'm making progress. But I'm just I'm not going to reach the horizon. Like I'm moving forward. But I'm not hitting that goal because that goal isn't defined. So I found that with growth if you start to think about things like upper limits or like what Enough is in that different for everybody. Then you can be you can ease off the throttle a bit. Like you can say like okay if I know I need my business to make enough money. To be profitable and support my life if I'm like an owner operator of a business. And it's like if I reach that that I can ease off the throttle a bit. I can pay more attention to the audience that I have. I can maybe take a break. Maybe like recharge my batteries. I can maybe not work 60 hours a day but work four or five. And then find other things in my life that I don't have to monetize that I can just like enjoy doing. There was one practical example that you gave in the book which I think it was a consultant that was working for or doing a job for magazine dot com. I believe it was. Oh kid or nearly. Yeah and then it was this idea that they thought that they needed to optimize everything for new customers. Bring a new people in and what she found out was that actually that wasn't the problem at all. It was the fact that they could actually spend less money. Yeah. And actually see I think increased revenue if they just focused on retention instead. Yeah. She just helped them plug the turn that they had. Just like if somebody subscribe to the magazine. It takes a lot less time effort and money to just keep them subscribe. Like just make those people happy instead of trying to find new people. And those are kind of like that's the option business. Like in order to keep making money you need to keep selling something to the same group of people. Or you need to keep going after new people. And for me I like the idea of having a customer for a lifetime or having a customer that I can get to know and understand. And then be like okay if this customer buys this product from me then what else can I make them? Because I like I know them. I talked to them like if I see a sale come in in my inbox and like I look at the email address. Nine times out of ten I know who that person is because I talk to them on social or they're on my newsletter or I've had a conversation with them in a Slack channel or something. Like I know my customers so I know what I can build them that's valuable to them. And then they don't have to focus on the like more and more and more and more and more. It's like I know what I need to make. I know the people who I like to serve. I know the people who pay attention. Like let's just keep making them stuff or make stuff that they can keep buying. It sounds like that would give you a lot more confidence in building a business to versus looking out into the void and not really fully understanding your client or as these large added agencies often do creating profiles and bundling bundling together 20,000 people and say this is Jane. This is Bob but you actually have a Jane and a Bob. Yeah like I know Jane and Bob. Like we talk on the internet all the time. So the death of a business is obviously not good and reverse growth and losing clients and customers is not good. So how do we prevent that? How do we make sure that our business while it doesn't have exponential growth? Not that that's a bad thing all the time. How do we make sure we create a sustainable business? Not focusing on growth doesn't mean stagnation. It means that you think about ways to keep the business going long term. And in order for a business to keep going long term it needs profit. Like profitable businesses don't go out of business. All of the businesses that are in headlines or in tech crunch or whatever. They've just taken more money than they're making and they can never balance their books. And they eventually just run out of like VC money or something. Whereas kind of I guess the company of one method is to like get to profitability and then work to maintain that. And sometimes that will mean periods of growth. Sometimes that will mean focusing really hard on retention and keeping your customers happy or developing new products. Like that that not focusing on growth doesn't mean that you just kind of like coaxing. Because you let up the throttle and like I'm going downhill now guys. But it's it's that you just keep trying to serve your audience and keep trying to make your audience happy and keep trying it. Like I'm always making like every year I probably launch a new product or I very heavily revamp an existing product. And that to me is really fun. Like I really like making things for other people. So it's not so much a stagnation as more of like I would rather focus on the retention and then I don't have to focus on the growth but the growth does happen like my mailing list does grow. It doesn't grow exponentially but if I focus on keeping my subscribers happy and writing content that I know they're going to enjoy because I have conversations with them every Sunday and Monday after I said any mail. Then I know that I don't have to pay attention to growth. But I know that it's going to happen because other people if they like my writing then they're going to share that and they're going to share that with their audience who's going to share that with their audience. So if I don't focus on growth and I focus on making and serving my audience in the best way possible then growth will happen. It may not be like 10x like month over month but like it is going to happen. For somebody who's looking to build a company of one or maintain a company of one do you have any final words any last bit of advice for them as they pursue this. Yeah, I think the three questions that have kind of guided me are the three questions and I like to tell people like the book has no answers just as questions like it literally has questions at the end of every chapter. Instead of excited it was like you should have like directives at the end of every chapter and I was like doesn't really feel like me and like what if I have questions for people because like I don't know what works for other people. I just know what works for me or what has worked in the data. So I think asking yourself questions is probably the best way to be a company of one and the three that I always kind of go back to for myself is like how much is enough. How will I know what I've got there and what will change if I do and if you can answer this question solidly then. Perhaps growth makes sense and whatever area of growth you're thinking about but to be a company of one if the question grows so if the answers don't make sense then it's like. Maybe a stay where you're at like maybe maybe you're breached enough and like maybe enough means like I said you can kind of ease off the throttle a little bit and kind of like dig into the people. You're already reaching who are already paying attention and really get to know them and get to learn from them. Well, dude, I love the book company of one if people want to get the book or find out more about you where should we send them. My site pjrbs.com or Google Paul Jarvis and then sending dispatches is my newsletter and that's pretty much where people pay attention to the things that I do. Go man, thanks for doing this. Thanks. Thanks for watching. If you like to revisit this video in audio form or get additional podcast episodes that aren't filmed go to groundupshow.com or search ground up show in your podcast app. See you next time.
