# My Minimalist Workout Routine
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MEuNVEFPCu8
My Simple Habits Course is now enrolling! https://slowgrowth.com/simple-habits
☝️🚀

http://patreon.com/mattdavella
☝Get my secret podcast & exclusive videos!

Lots of people have asked about my workout routine over the past year so I decided to break it down the best I could in this video. Does minimalism inspire my workout? Yes and no.

The simplicity of my workout has come with time, especially as my days have gotten more filled. I try to focus on the little things everyday rather than trying to catch up one or two days a week.

Hope you enjoy the video. Here are some more links you might want to check out...

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching! Go hit the gym :)
**Keywords:** 
**Date:** 2018-09-03

## Transcript
 All right, so I've got a question here from a viewer. I've gotten this question quite a bit over the past couple months So I figured that I just dedicate an entire video to it. They ask does minimalism have an effect on your workout routine because your biceps aren't very minimalist Okay, I added the last part that wasn't nobody I just I added that in there All right, so the answer to this question has minimalism had an impact on my workout routine It's kind of hard to say either directly or indirectly. It has I have noticed that over the years my Since I've started working out in college my workouts have gotten much simpler and they have become more focused So in this video I'm gonna talk about how that has happened and also some of the things that I've learned While going to the gym for the past many years So when you first go to the gym it can be kind of intimidating it can be a little bit scary You can feel a little bit pressured. It's like you're 18 years old and you've never felt the touch of a woman before That's a weird metaphor. It's like you're 21 years old and you're getting your wisdom teeth taken out that doesn't make any sense It's like your 34 years old and you're going fishing for the very first time I'm not gonna use a metaphor. So you go to the gym Your nervous you're intimidated you don't want to look stupid and you also don't want to appear weak So what's the first thing you do you reach for the heaviest weight that you could possibly lift you you lift it And you're trying your best you're swinging your back and you're just doing a little bit too much When you try to push yourself too quickly the best case scenario is that you're just gonna look like an idiot Swinging your back and trying to lift up this ridiculously heavy weight But at the worst case scenario you can actually get her so my suggestion is to have a little bit of humility Take things slow start with those five pound ten pound weights and work your way up over a period of time Don't try to do everything in one gym session Before you even head to the gym you should be thinking about your goals and why you're actually going are you training for a marathon Are you trying to make your biceps look not so minimalist are you training for a tough mother each of these scenarios May need different training and Whether you're trying to build muscle mass or strength the work at routine is going to be drastically different for each Work out with intention figure out where you want to head and then devise a plan either with the aid of the internet or a personal trainer to help get you there Okay, so I found this stop footage clip while starting to work on this video of a guy doing a bicep curl in the middle of the forest with a tree And I could not use it so I'm just gonna have this the like a transition clip I guess So my work every teen lately has gotten quite simple So you have six major muscle groups in your body and What I do is I work out one muscle group on each day. So my weeks generally look like this Monday biceps Tuesday biceps Wednesday biceps Okay, I'm just kidding. That's not I don't do biceps every day This is what my work-a-routine looks like Monday biceps Tuesday chest Wednesday back Thursday triceps Friday shoulders Saturday legs Sunday rest So what I do is usually two to three workouts per muscle group the exercises It will include anything from squats to deadlift to Bicep curls of course bench press and I mix it up a little bit I do things a little bit differently as the months go by but generally I use all three weights when I'm working out Now keeping my workout routine simple like this allows me to get my workout in in about 30 minutes per day I found that it's much more important what you do every single day as opposed to what you do every once in a while So I would much rather keep up a consistent 30 minute workout every single day Then a three and a half hour or three hour workout on the weekend Now a lot of people make fun of CrossFit That's I don't have anything else to add to that. I just wanted to say that sentence as you progress and as you get stronger You're gonna be able to lift more and more weights and you have to just remind yourself to continue to take it slow and steady and look for that long-term approach versus trying to lift the heaviest what you possibly could today Take your rap slow, take your set slow, and push yourself to failure But don't push yourself to the point where you get injured. All right, that's it for this video Thank you guys for watching and I will see you next week Hey, I don't know if you guys know this, but I started a vlog It's called the secret vlog It gives you an intimate look at my work life and my personal life. I'm not perfect This man, but it's perfect and it's for Patreon subscribers only This is one of the ways that viewers are helping to keep this channel Advertisement and sponsor free you can check it out at patreon.com slash Matt B. Evela
