# Letting Go
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MpYN3U7PLcU
http://www.groundupshow.com

A conversation about letting go of your identity & finding your voice. 

Luke Broadlick is a dancer choreographer known for his work on the Magic Mike films. He's toured & performed with some of the biggest acts in the world including Justin Bieber, Britney Spears, Demi Lovato & Justin Derulo.

Find more about Luke here:  http://www.lukebroadlick.com
**Keywords:** luke broadlick, dance, choreography, britney spears, demi lovato, justin bieber, matt davella, Matt D'Avella, film, filmmaking, podcast, the ground up show, ground up, interview, self help, how to, learn, education, conversation, 
**Date:** 2017-12-27

## Transcript
 It's fascinating because in a lot of ways, in this podcast, we're talking to people that are trying to build something from nothing that are just getting started out. But there are people that are well established that others would look at as successful, but they need to restart themselves. If they really want to pursue the passion and the stuff that they really enjoy and the art that they really want to create, they're going to have to unplug from the image that they've created to do something new. And then I think that's actually in a lot of ways harder because then people, you get the criticism. There's going to be so many people from the start that are going to be like, this is stupid. This doesn't work. You're not being you. Yeah. That's actually really funny that you're saying that because I sort of myself went through something like that through dance. I sort of, I kind of created my own image, I guess, in that sense of especially with social media and stuff and seeing the rise of it a couple of years back. And I was becoming what I thought I wanted to be instead of truly deep down. I knew I shouldn't be doing like A, B and C, but yeah, I was still doing them. And so I had to like, I had to literally stop who I was and I just shut down. I prayed. I did a whole like restart, literally a restart, stop getting followers. I stopped doing all these things, but I'm more happy and more genuine than I was. Like I had this whole facade down like and made that look real, but it really wasn't. And I had to stop restarting now. I'm actually happier doing what I'm doing and now presenting myself in the way that I actually truly wanted to be. It could be exhausting. Yeah. And it's, it's, it's like heartbreaking in a way because you think you have it and you want it so bad, but then realistically you don't need it, you know, you don't need a lot of the things that you think that you need. Like all my friends left me, you know, like all my friends weren't my friends anymore. They just thought that I was doing weird things. And I was like, actually, I'm being more genuine than I ever have been. I've like been more real with you guys now than I am than I was. Like who I was was still cool, but it wasn't real even to myself. I was doing things and you guys weren't encouraging me. And then now that I'm actually choosing not to do that, then they leave and then you are left alone. And so you're heartbroken, but you're, but you're content with the fact that you made that decision to be genuine. And I think that's a huge, a huge thing. And I mean, that's like what people industry and everything you have to be as genuine as possible. How did you come to that realization? Was it, it was, was there like this moment in a piffy, where you're like, oh shit. Like this doesn't feel right, or is it kind of an accumulation of everything happens over time? I mean, there's, there's always like life-changing moments, but it was a gradual, a gradual thing, like if it was really over time. Like I, I just would do one thing that I knew I wouldn't do. I really, I really wouldn't do, but Luke was doing, and so I had to like step back. Like within the, the person who I am and the person who I was making, I had to look at the person who I'm making and be like, all right, be who I am and cut that out. But I wouldn't, because this guy, this guy's getting all the love. You know, this guy's getting all the love and the recognition and the, and the people talking to him and liking him and thinking he's, he's this, but realistically, I wasn't that. And I was just putting on a facade. And then it was just time and time until you start to break. I mean, the, the, the straw that breaks the chemicals back pretty much, like, it's just how far deep down can you dig till you're like, I'm stuck in this hole now. And I got to like, get the dirt back into climb out.
