# Getting Better
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=na1-v7KN2SI
http://www.groundupshow.com

What does it take to get better? Matt D'Avella (director) & Chris Newhard (director of photography) talk about their feature-length documentary DESIGN DISRUPTORS & what they learned from interviewing 59 design leaders over two years.
**Keywords:** design disruptors, film, filmmaking, director of photography, learn, getting better, the ground up show, matt davella, chris newhard, Matt D'Avella, 
**Date:** 2018-01-06

## Transcript
 I have another thing here, I want to show you. So we've recently worked on design disruptors. Oh my god, what a project. What an incredible project. That was such a dream, man. That was great. Great client. We started, they're envisioned. I love those people. That's like what you want when you're trying to build up a client base is people who are like, here's the idea, run with it. And that was pretty much it. And then they gave feedback and input. And we had people that we collaborated with there. But it was very much a collaboration. It was like unlimited resources. Unlimited resources is like literally. So it started out very small. It started out as a 20 minute film about product design and how companies like Facebook, Twitter, Airbnb, though we didn't get those companies early on. It was more smaller companies. How are companies designing products today that we use every single day? It began with experience. In vision and you guys asking companies to be in the documentary. And it ended with companies asking to be in our documentary. Yeah, that's actually a great point. In the beginning, it was very hard to get these companies to buy into it. Especially big companies like Facebook and Google. We couldn't even get that in that conversation, go. So we had to prove that we could actually make something that was legitimate. And we started to build this thing. And it was very small in the beginning. But then it ballooned to be this massive project. Yeah. Over the course of two years where it started out with about five interviews. We actually ended up with 59 interviews. We filmed with 25 companies. Just a massive amount of interviews. I've never done a project quite as big. So what I did. We learned a lot over this shoot. And doing 59 interviews over the course of two years. From the very first one to the last one. Dramaticly different. So what I've done. I've got the first one. This is every interview. Going to be playing back to back four seconds for each interview. And I actually flipped them so they're on the same side. So it's a little bit easier to track. But I want to kind of go through this. And see where he looks rough. Yeah, right. You can see some of these things. We're like, wow, man. What were we thinking? Yeah. With that day was tough because we were having audio issues out the WASO. Yeah, we were almost good. Yeah, like, you know what's funny is that I see. It's kind of that step forward. You see a couple interviews. We were like, wow, we actually killed that. We know that. I think the thing with these is a lot of times it's based on circumstances. It's based on circumstance. Yeah. The location we're shooting is so big that if it's a shitty location, if we're putting some side closet somewhere, then it's going to be more difficult to turn into something nice. Like, that looks really great. Look at a hair light. You see that hair light? Oh, man. I love his interview. It's nice. The thing that for me when I look at it is the thing about it for me was listening to other people's suggestions when I shouldn't. And that's when my bullheadedness is very great for what I do. And when there's times when it's important to listen. And there's times where it's really important to know exactly what the fuck you're doing and tell everybody what to do. Here was where we started to change things. Yeah. And dude, you can just see these interviews are so much more dynamic. Yeah. Look at the shape on the face. Yeah. There's a consistency now from here on out that we didn't have before. Yeah. We had to develop. Tell me about this. What we had done differently. We had done a side light the first half of the film. And then we did overhead by the remainder remainder. Like you should sort of like learn as you go. But kind of keep a theme. And when you're making a video like at all times you're just like Tetris, like building anything you can make better you can. Okay. We didn't do this last time. And that's like really hard to maintain consistency. Especially when you're growing getting better in that two years. I did Delco. I did probably about 15 music videos. I did probably 30 corporate videos. And that changed a lot of things. Massive learning experience. So like by the year two of this. You know, it wasn't necessarily about lighting these people. It was about creating the characters that they were. And like the making them look like these fucking gods of design. You know what I'll say is that in the beginning. We were so much a product of our circumstance and our environment. Yeah. We would go into a room and we're like, well, this is what we got. If it was a great location to shoot, we got a great interview and it looked great. But by the end of it. Oh my god. We didn't matter if we were put in the closet. We would be able to. Yeah. We had a just. That's when we put our foot down. Oh, dude, man, this one. It was like a vacant office of everything in the background. It's often we added like we that's a little bicycle. All these props. Everything we put in there. We put that poster up on the wall. We put this little this like sigh. We redesigned the interior of where we went to moving forward. We did that almost every single time. Yeah. And I don't think people really noticed like the small details. But you and I. Pick up hard. Every single frame. Every single element on the screen. And I think that's like becomes important as you get better. Yeah. Is that it's no longer about the big things. You start to those things. Sorry, the background. You already got that. That's like boom. I think there's in the details. Yeah. People will say, is it important? Is it like on minimalism? I went through. And I did sound effects for every single frame. There's a flag flapping. All right. For flag sure. You know how long that took me? It was literally two weeks straight of me in doing nothing but sound design. Because that's not my main. I'm sure somebody who's like better at sound design than me can do this. And they might have a library. They have a library they can pull up and whatever. But I'm going on YouTube and I'm downloading. Yeah. Flag flapping sound effects. And I'm putting it on here. And then somebody asked me, like, is that necessary? Is it important to you? And I'm like, I think it is. I think it is more necessary than anything that people realize. Because if you give up on that one detail, you're giving up on a thousand other. And the bringing all of these tiny details together. That's what makes your film or your project distinctly you. Sure. I think that's what made design disruptors when we saw the premiere of it very successful because the sound design was truly incredible. Man, they killed it with the sound design. They were incredible. Oh, that was the fact of it. Yeah, you know them. Well, actually they were at the. Oh, master's emotions. Yeah. The audio spawn. They've a podcast now too. You realize, okay, it's important to hire people that are way better than you at Specific thing. Sure. And it's going to just elevate and bring the quality of your project up so much. So just phenomenal. Dude, just where we went from in the beginning to the end. It's just phenomenal. It's funny in the very beginning. I thought we were the shit. I thought we were amazing. And I think we were pretty good. We've had a lot of experience going into this project. But I'm just amazed at what we were able to learn. And it just makes me continue to realize that I'm like not done. I'm not even close to mastering this craft. There's so much more yet to learn. And this is part of the podcast is like I feel like I want to share these experiences with people and I want to learn with other people and learn from people like you who really have different experiences that I have. Well, the funny thing is, you know, actually the perspective of that's that's super intriguing is, you know, ground up, right? You're talking about the origins, the creation of you to get from A to you know, A might be when you started and Z is now. Yeah. But the timeline is ever growing. So you're talking about how did you get from the beginning till now. And in 10 years now is the beginning. Let's talk about what you've done since then. So like next time you come on the podcast, it'll be, let's talk about, Yeah. How have you grown since then? And like, if you feel like now you're like, well, I've like grown. I'm at my peak, whatever it might be. But like this is still the origin chapter of like the life of Matt. Dude, the ground up show. This is the very beginning. Talking about, and this is actually an like 14 documentary. I remember in that like a couple of year period where we did like this and that. That was, that was, yeah. We don't realize it now. We feel like we've come so far. Like we're like, we're at the end of the book. But like this is just the end of chapter one of like a 50 chapter book.
