# I’m done with this.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NKYFNJMjtEM
Check out my habits course: https://slowgrowth.com/simplehabits (now with 56 countries in the Universal Pricing Program).

🎬 Credits
Animations by Carly Berry: https://www.instagram.com/itsnotthatweird

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** 
**Date:** 2021-02-10

## Transcript
 So shortly after moving to Australia, I noticed something interesting. Yes, the toilets, they do flush in reverse. Honestly, I'm unsettled by the whole thing. I don't know what to make of it, but that's another story. The other thing that I noticed, as I was browsing my phone, yes, on the toilet, looking at Instagram, going through photos, I realized that something was missing. Likes. Back in 2019, Instagram decided to make a design change. They've removed likes from feeds and countries like Canada and Australia. To be sure, you can still see your own likes by clicking through to see your account insights. But nobody else can see your likes, but you. Which, by the way, makes it really difficult for me to brag about the number of likes that I got in this cute photo of me in front of a rock. Luckily, I made an excuse to talk about it in this video. So it was 36.8000. Who would have thought? Something powerful happens by removing the ability to see how many likes other people are getting. You stop comparing yourself to others so much. You even stop comparing yourself to your own previous posts. Even though I can see the amount of likes a particular photo has gotten, I've found that I rarely take the extra step to check. It's probably less likely that it's because I have an iron will, and more likely the fact that there's no longer a baseline to compare it to. Me and garlic, the director of public policy for Facebook and Instagram in Australia and New Zealand, is a name entitled that took me 30 minutes to memorize, and is also the person that said the decision to make this change came about to improve user's experience. We want to make sure that people are not feeling like they should like a particular post because it's getting a lot of likes, and that they shouldn't feel like they're sharing solely to get likes. This sounds like an experiment for Instagram, and like all experiments conducted by big businesses, the final decision will likely come down to whether this keeps users engaged in the platform, which just so happens to directly correlate to the amount of money they earn through advertising. Don't be fooled into thinking that any of these social media companies actually care about your mental health. At the first sign of it affecting their bottom line, they're going to flip faster than a vegan at a barbecue. Whether or not this is a feature that sticks, I did start to think about my own relationship with technology. And this is something that I've given a lot of thought to over the past few years. As many of you know, I've quit social media, I've talked about the rules and boundaries that I like to place on my own use of technology, even as recently as a couple months ago, I quit my smartphone completely and use a flip phone for 30 days, which was insanely difficult. But when you look at this narrow problem within technology, a number on a screen, the kind of value that we place on it. Whether it's likes, subscribers, comments, or views, these numbers bring out a real range of emotions from anxiety to stress, shame, and excitement. So it was really only just a few years ago that I myself started making a full-time living online as a YouTuber and content creator. And I can tell you that when your views are directly correlated to how much money you make is very easy to let numbers run your life. And that can eventually really tax you mentally. I can tell you that my mental health. I've had so many ups and downs and many, many downs that I've talked about on this channel from the amount of pressure that that often takes. And I know some people deal with it better than I do, but I've talked to dozens of creators and regardless of how many views or subscribers or likes you get, so many people are going through this. I think a large part of it is this idea of the hedonic treadmill, this idea that you chase after the things that you want in life. And when you get them, you have this expectation that it's going to solve everything and fix all your problems, but eventually it's going to flatline. And that's your baseline then. And you get used to the house and the car. You get used to the amount of views and likes that you get on Instagram. And so it no longer is fulfilling. Now this is one of those problems that I have grappled with since the very early days of being on YouTube. And it's logging into your dashboard and the insane amount of anxiety that you get to check on the performance of your last video. To see if this is the video where everything falls apart. Regardless of the number of subscribers that you have or the number of views that you've gotten used to, whether you're racking in millions or just a few thousand every week, we all feel this obsessive pole for more. YouTube Studio, the dashboard you log into when you upload a video, seems to be solely designed to stress you out and engineer your habits and getting people to stay on the platform for longer. Let's be real. That's no accident. Your last video gets ranked, compared to your previous nine videos, and there's absolutely no chance you'll continue to grow indefinitely. So you get rewarded with a blast of confetti, a digital adaboy when you make a video that's a hit, and you get a bunch of red arrows pointing down when your videos aren't performing well. Now with all the experiments that I've done about mindfulness and technology, the one area that I really haven't solved yet is figuring out how to avoid these numbers. Because if the platforms don't change, like Instagram taking away the likes, if YouTube doesn't do something to fix this, then it's up to us, it's up to creators and people who are trying to make a full time living online to figure out how to create this mental health and mental awareness through our own work. So earlier this year, just in January, I decided that enough was enough. And what would happen if I tried to avoid all metrics at all cost? And so that's what I've done. As I've pulled back from looking at these metrics over the past month, I've noticed something amazing. I'm much more willing to take risks. I don't worry as much what other people are saying. I focus on the fulfillment that I get from my work, and not simply trying to feed the funnel or one up my last video each time. And most importantly, I find that I'm much less anxious, much less stressed, and overall I'm more content with what I have. I think that the one thing that I'm really, I'm concerned with, and I'm worried about most is making sure that I still get feedback, because I think feedback is a gift. I think it's so important. I look at the comments of every single video that I get. And I try to dial in and understand what people are saying, what you guys are saying, what you think of my videos, I often get ideas and inspiration from seeing what you're saying. And so I think that's going to be the big thing for anybody who's trying to, you know, mindfully bring metrics into their lives. Is like, how do you make a full time living doing this without looking at the numbers? And if you completely ignore them, will everything fall apart? Yeah, so that's where the anxiety comes back. So whether you're a professional content creator, you're an amateur or you're somebody who just simply gets too distracted with the number of likes you get on Instagram, the one thing that I've found, if you're trying to make a change in your life, is that it helps to first say it out loud. And so you guys can say it with me right now. I'm done with this. So real quick, speaking of feedback, I wanted to talk about the pricing of my first course, simple habits on slowgrowth.com. So last year, I released this first course. It's 145 US dollars. And we heard from so many people all over the world that said that it just wasn't affordable in their country, because of the conversion and the power of their dollar. Some people were saying that the course even cost up to a month's rant or a month's salary, just for this course. And so that that I felt was completely unacceptable. I wanted to make this course accessible to everyone, and I never want somebody to have to pay an entire month's rant for one of my courses. And so I got to work with my team, and we put together a new program called The Universal Pricing Program. Our universal pricing program works to make pricing equal and fair across countries with significant disparities in economic wealth. This means that one of our courses can now be priced at $145 in America, $42 US dollars in India, and $61 US dollars in Mexico. So if you're somebody that has wanted to enroll in my simple habits course, but couldn't because it was too expensive in your country, you can now go to slowgrowth.com slash simple habits to enroll in the Universal Pricing program. Can't wait to see you guys in there. And by the way, exciting news. It's a secret. I can't really talk much about it, but I'm starting a new course. Again, the details are under wraps. It's a YouTube course, and it's about how to grow an audience with intention. And it's going to be pretty great. I'm really excited about it. And you will hear more about it in the coming months. Until then, I'll see you next time.
