# I wore the same shirt every day for 3 years.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NlcBA8s22BA
Go to http://squarespace.com for a free trial, and when you’re ready to launch, go to http://squarespace.com/mattdavella to save 10% off your first purchase of a website or domain. Thanks to Squarespace for sponsoring this video :)

You can see my Squarespace website here: http://mattdavella.com

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** 
**Date:** 2020-10-15

## Transcript
 For the past three years, I've woken up in the morning, walked two steps to my dresser, and picked out the same exact shirt, nearly every single day. There were of course some exceptions, weddings, kinsinietas, nice dinners out with my wife, but by and large, I've stuck with this simple wardrobe day after day, year after year, which begs the question. Who is inviting me to their kinsinieta? Actually, nobody is, and it's pretty disappointing to be honest. I thought at this point we were close enough, I thought maybe I would see that invite come in the mail, but you know, is what it is, I guess. The real question that you're probably wondering right now is why do I wear the same shirt every single day? And there's actually a very practical explanation for it, and it's not because I have a terrible sense of fashion. Okay, that's at least one of the reasons why I wear the same shirt every day. This video is brought to you by Squarespace. I'll talk more about them at the end of the video. My experiments in simple living began back in 2010. One of the easiest places that I was able to start decluttering was my closet. I went through each item, one by one, figuring out what to hold on to and what to get rid of. As I started to work through my clothes, I noticed all the handy downs, all the brand new clothes still with tags on them. All these things that I had never even worn, were never planned to wear again, unless I got invited to the right king's in the air. And so this was really the first time that I started to look at my stuff and really question, I was like holding on to it if I wasn't getting any use out of it at all. This stuff was just sitting there collecting dust. And so I decided to get rid of everything that I hadn't worn in the past year. And that ended up amounting to over 90% of my clothes. When the dust settled and I donated and sold all the things that I could, I was left with just a few t-shirts and a pair of jeans. And that was it. These were my favorite clothes, these were the things that I wore all the time. And going forward, I committed to only buying new clothes if I absolutely was certain that I'd use them. I wanted to reduce my waist, but I also wanted to reduce the amount of time wasted. Shopping through catalogs, browsing stores, and swiping through options online. And apart from a few unfortunate fedoras, I kept that promise to myself. Then just a few years ago, many years after my initial minimalist decluttering experiment, I started to realize that every time I went to my dresser to pull out my clothes for the day, I would always go for my one favorite shirt if it was clean. And at that moment, I decided, why not just get nothing but my favorite shirts? Just by 10 of my favorite shirts and wear that every single day. And so that's what I did. For the record, I actually bought 10 charcoal and 10 gray shirts. And I know what question you want to ask right now because for the past three years, as I've made YouTube videos, about so many different topics from self-development, productivity, and habits, the one question that I get above everything else is Matt, where do you get your shirts? And so to save you a bunch of time, the answer to that question is Jay Crew. That's where I get my shirts from. Although, this color, the charcoal color that everybody now knows me for, because I wear all the time on this channel, has been discontinued. They don't make it anymore. I was looking everywhere online. It's just nowhere to be found. I know. I am just as disappointed as you. Just when you thought 2020 couldn't get any worse. It's gone. I don't know what I'm going to do. I don't know. Like my whole identity is wrapped around a dark, charcoal, snugly fit t-shirt. I might wear a pink shirt tomorrow. I don't know. What am I going to do? I honestly actually don't know. I'm actually kind of disappointed. I'm not even kind of. This is, this is shattering news. Okay, back to the video. I learned a few things from radically simplifying my wardrobe. First, no adult gives a shit about what you're wearing, unless you're literally wearing people rarely notice that you wear the same thing two or three times in a row. They will notice if you smell though, so definitely get that under control. Most people spend so much time thinking about themselves that they don't have the time to think about what you're wearing, or if you wore the same shirt a few days in a row. Now, did nobody notice what I was wearing because I work from home? Probably, but I do make a lot of YouTube videos here. And I found that nobody seemed to care what I was wearing. In fact, because I wore this same shirt every day, people started to expect it. And then when I wore gray shirt or sweater, people, they actually took it upset. And who care is though? I mean, that's the main point. And I think this is the point that you should really get from this is you can wear the same thing every day. It just requires you to not give a shit. Now, most people, like I said, aren't going to notice that you're wearing the same thing every day. And so you're not even going to have to worry about it. But if somebody does, oh my god, hey, did you look at that blouse yesterday? That's weird. That's when you just tell them, go fuck yourself. And you get on with your day. The major benefit I found from embracing this new simple wardrobe was that it freed up my mornings and gave me one less thing to think about each day. I know there are some people not mentioning any names, my wife. That's spent hours each morning figuring out what they're going to wear. That's my wife. Sometimes these people change their outfits four or five times in one morning. And by these people, I mean my wife. 30 to 40 minutes every morning. This is before 2020 when she still went into the office. She would spend trying on multiple different outfits going in and out of the bedroom, coming out with a different outfit on, trying to find the best one that's going to be the perfect fit for her presentation that morning. And that works for her. She enjoys that the attributes of it. It doesn't seem to get her down and so that's great. For me, I just don't value wearing different and interesting clothing every day. And so keeping things simple works for me. And one of the biggest practical benefits that I found from that was that it freed up that 30 to 40 minutes to really get to work or to get to my day and to reduce the amount of decision fatigue. Decision fatigue in psychology refers to the deteriorating quality of decision making after lots and lots of decisions are made back to back. The more decisions that you make in a day, the worse decisions you will make over time, sometimes leading to irrational trade-offs. And a couple who has decided to furnish their apartment by going to IKEA knows exactly what I'm talking about. Should we buy the Echro or the Echropt? Should we get the Nordmela or the Jorks Nass? The Sodor Home or the Orlando? And that even joking, IKEA should have a relationship counselor next to the checkout aisle because I don't think I've ever gone through more stress going through that maze of a building, picking out different throw pillows and toilet cushions. We don't have any toilet cushions. I got to set the record clear. That's a weird thing. It's the thing that I had growing up that I don't have anymore. We would have like the Santa Claus toilet seat coverings. And it was very ill. Honestly, I'm actually grossed out of thinking about it. Anyway, the main point is you really want to try to reduce the amount of decisions you make every single day. And that's where simplicity comes in. You make one decision, one time, and stick to that choice over the long run. When you do this with lots of things in your life, it has a compound effect. You decide that you're going to wake up at 7am every day, where the same shirt and pants, eat the same breakfast, follow the same routine. If you had to remake those decisions each day, it will begin to wear away at some of the other really important decisions you need to make in your life. Adveriety and spontaneity, where it matters to you. When you try to reinvent your routines and daily decisions over and over again, you're doing a lot of work for very little return. When you batch all these tiny decisions upfront, you're making room and mental clarity for the really important decisions in life. Instead of choosing which outfit goes best with which pair of shoes, you've already had breakfast and you're out the door. Now you can spend your limited time and attention on the things that really matter. Maybe even your side projects, passions, and hobbies. You might even use that time to build a new website with Squarespace. If that wasn't the most seamless transition to talk about my sponsor for this video Squarespace, I don't know what is. I've decided a partner with Squarespace all year because I've gotten so much value from their platforms since I started using them many years ago. Here's why I love them so much. Whether you're building a personal brand, starting a podcast, or creating a blog, they make it effortless to create a beautiful and professionally designed website. You can use their tools for blogging, to get powerful analytics, to connect your social media accounts, and so much more. Personally, I like to keep things simple. So my website is pretty much an email sign-up form for my newsletter, as well as an about page. If you've got an idea of burning desire to bring something to life, I highly recommend you check out Squarespace. You will not regret it. Go to Squarespace.com for a free trial. When you're ready to launch, go to squarespace.com slash matte diavilla. I found so many benefits from simplifying my wardrobe, taking a step back, and really questioning the things that I add to my closet and add to my wardrobe. Now, of course, this shirt is not discontinued, so am I going to be changing things up in the future? Almost certainly, I will. But if it was really good now to know that I'm wearing something that I'm comfortable in, that I'm confident in every morning, I don't have to make these decisions over and over again. I don't have to doubt myself in question whether I look good in this thing or not. I'm confident in it, I'm happy in it, and that's all that matters. And that's all that should matter to you. Whether you like bright, crazy colors, whether you like wearing dresses covered in meat, that doesn't matter. That is up to you to decide whether you feel comfortable in it or not. Now, if you're somebody who is interested in trying more of a simpler wardrobe, you might begin by taking a look in your closet and asking yourself, what you haven't used over the past year. It might just be 90%. It might be less. The idea is to start to ask these questions of yourself and to figure out what you can use, what you don't use, and what you can donate and give to somebody who might find even more value in it than you can. Thanks so much for watching, and I'll see you next time.
