# How to Avoid a Mediocre Life
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OfJgFljmDQg
Get the podcast 👉 http://groundupshow.com

There's only one way to avoid a mediocre life and that's to step into the uncertain & uncomfortable. How many opportunities are you avoiding because it feels icky?

This episode includes an excerpt from my episode with Sierra Katow. Get it at http://mattdavella.com/056

New videos every week! New podcast every Wednesday!

Subscribe:  https://goo.gl/nzS5ri
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com
Instagram:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella/
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella/

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** behind the scenes, creative, creator, creators, documentary, film, filmmaker, filmmaking, freelance, freelance life, freelancer, hustle, create, get started, ground up, make, matt davella, matt d'avella, podcast, podcasting, start, the ground up show, motivation, inspiration, mediocrity, mediocre, motivational speech, motivational video, inspirational video, inspirational speeches, lifestyle, life hacks, lifestyle design, 
**Date:** 2018-04-30

## Transcript
 As a freelancer or someone following an untraditional path, the best thing you can do is learn how to live with uncertainty. When I was a freelance filmmaker, this is how my life usually looked month to month. Busy, busy, busy. I wish I wasn't always so busy. No work. I'm going to starve. No work. Well, that was a good run. And repeat. Anytime you are following an untraditional path, whether you're creative, a freelancer, filmmaker, whatever, you are going to be faced with a lot of resistance, and a lot of doubt, a lot of uncertainty, and really a lot of pain. And really how you face that is going to be the only thing that measures whether you're able to succeed and keep going and accomplish what you want to achieve in your specific industry or on your path. Versus those that give up and don't make it. It's really how we deal with those emotions. Sierra Cotto is a very funny comedian and writer who's appeared on last comic standing, as well as my podcast. Thank you so much for coming on the podcast. That's for having me. Should we just like cooperate and do it? And on the show, we talk about uncertainty. One day, you have no prospects, and the next day, you're already working. Like that does happen, but with this job too. I got an email, like 10pm one night, and they're like, can you come in tomorrow to like interview? And then it was like, okay, you're going to start in two days. So, you know, I mean, obviously the Monday of that week, I was like, oh, this is, I don't know. Maybe I should leave this all together. You know, like, you just kind of lose a lot of hope. And then by, and then I just have to remember by, like, the end of that week, I was already like, oh, I have my next thing. You never know when it's just going to click and things are going to start happening. Yeah, complete. Yeah, surprise. There's no gradual build in the same way that maybe I thought life would be like, you know? Oh, my God. Right. It's crazy, because I've been doing the podcast and creating original content for a year. Sweet. And then it was two months ago. I started to release like more minimalism videos, and then my channel just started to grow like crazy. Awesome. And then YouTube featured me as a creator on the rise. Oh, well. Literally in two months, I got 70,000 subscribers. Oh, gosh. It was so, yeah. Unreal. But it was the day before like things started to grow. I would have, I remember talking and not being like, this is tough. This is tough. I've been doing this for a year. I feel like I'm putting out good content, good material. But nobody's watching it. Like, I don't have nothing is growing in the way that I would expect it. But then it's just next minute. I'm like, oh, shit. Okay. Things are happening now. Now what? Not what I do. That's awesome. And I mean, obviously, like, that's cool because it's like, even when you didn't think you were building like you were right. So I guess it's sort of keeping in mind like, okay, it doesn't feel like anything is externally like the feedbacks not coming right now that I would want. But just know that, like, then at least it'll be ready when that thing hits, you know. The reason we go down this path, the reason we pursue a career as a filmmaker and artist or an entrepreneur is not because it's guaranteed. It's not because it's certain. It's because we want to avoid looking back with your regret saying I should have done that or I should have worked harder. Facing uncertainty. That's the cost of avoiding a mediocre life.
