# Ground Up 058 - Storytelling w/ Joe Beshenkovsky
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ognr48HSZXg
Get the podcast 👉 http://groundupshow.com

Joe Beshenkovsky (http://shablabs.com) is the Emmy award-winning editor behind This American Life. His film’s include Objectified, Cobain: Montage of Heck & Judd Apatow’s The Zen Diaries of Garry Shandling.

On this episode we go deep into what it takes to tell a great story. Every creative can get something out of this, but if you’re a filmmaker specifically you need to stick around for the entire episode because there are at least a dozen gems that will improve your storytelling abilities from:  Why it’s important to have subjects that speak from authority, trimming out the fat, never repeating yourself, organizing your projects & keeping an audience guessing but not confused.

New videos every week! New podcast every Wednesday!

Subscribe:  https://goo.gl/nzS5ri
Instagram:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella/
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella/

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** behind the scenes, creative, creator, creators, documentary, film, filmmaker, filmmaking, freelance, freelance life, freelancer, hustle, create, get started, ground up, make, matt davella, matt d'avella, podcast, podcasting, start, the ground up show, joe beshenkovsky, editor, editing, story, storytelling, story telling, film theory, ira glass, judd apatow, the zen diaries of gary shandling, set life, 
**Date:** 2018-05-09

## Transcript
 The fact of the matter is that storytelling is really really hard. People do not say that enough. I don't care who it is if it's Judd, or if it's Ira, or if it's anybody I work with. At some point you're in the room and you're just sitting there like this and you're like, I don't know how to solve this thing, you know what I mean? And that happens all the time. And I think the difference is that the good people just keep fighting through it. Joe Beschenkovsky is the Emmy Award-winning editor behind this American life. His films include Objectified, Cobain, Montage of Heck, and Judd Apatows, the Zen Diaries of Gary Shandling. On this episode we go deep into what it takes to tell a great story. Every creative can get something out of this, but specifically I want all you filmmakers out there to stick around and listen to this entire episode. There are dozens of takeaways and gems that you can start implementing today. Some of these storytelling techniques that we cover. Why it's important to have subjects speak from a place of authority? Why it's important to trim out the fat to never repeat yourself. Organizing in your projects and keeping your audience guessing, but not confused. There's a very fine line and a very fine balance that you have to go down as a filmmaker and as an editor. And Joe is a true master. If you watch any of his documentaries, you can see in the editing. Now it may take a professional to be able to see the nuances. But his style just carries you through. And he pulls you through the film in a way that's not so obvious. And it's a true art. And I don't think we give enough credit to editors for the work that they do on both films, TV shows across the board. So again, not just for filmmakers, storytellers in general. I think you're going to love it. And it's just cool to see behind the scenes at some great films and documentaries. To see that other people are struggling with the same shit that you're going through. It's always encouraging to see. One quick thing before we get into it. I hope you've been enjoying the podcast. I hope you've been getting some value out of it. And finding things that you can implement into your own creative journey, your own creative hustle. If you have been getting some value, I would love it if you could do me one small favor. Head over to iTunes, leave a quick rating. Tell me a little bit about why you like the show, the value you've gotten out of it. And that's it. That to me, it means a lot, but it also helps to increase the awareness of our show and the visibility to make sure that we're ranking on iTunes. So then more people see the show, more people get value out of it. And we can hopefully help others on their own ground up story. All right. What do you say? We get to this week's podcast. This is the great and talented Joe Beschenkoffsky. You're listening to the ground up show. A podcast that inspires creatives to make meaningful content and pursue their passions. My name is Matthew Evela, and I'm a filmmaker best known for the Netflix documentary Minimalism. And I'm sitting down with creators to talk about their process, the lessons they've learned and how to make an impact. Check, check, check, check, check, check. You just see you just finished up a little doc, little doc. Four and a half hour, little doc. Do you normally do big projects, is it like one big one to the next? Are you talking about high profile or physical scale? In terms of like the length of how immersed you are on a project? I mean, I don't think we ever went into that project saying, hey, it's going to be two parts and four and a half hours. I think initially we're like, well, this is going to be a two hour film about Gary. And then in the process, it just... I don't know if it ballooned, but I certainly, you know, I was like, well, there's no way I can keep it under two and a half. And it's going to be a shitty two and a half hours. It's not really going to do the job that we needed to do. And so that's when we kind of opened up to the idea of doing a two-parter. The Zen Diaries of Gary Shandling. I guess what point did you realize that it was going to be this, like... And I guess you can't... You could have just put out a four and a half hour doc though, right? Or do you think that would just really turn people off? They're like, there's no way. I'm going to... To do it in one sitting? Yeah. I mean, you're asking a lot of people and certainly you're asking HBO to program a four and a half hour block for one film. That's tricky. And there's something fun about doing it and then having the cliffhanger and then coming back the next night, you know? Yeah. But, you know, in this day and age where people are banging out, you know, eight hours and one sitting. And you have, you know, I would venture to say that Netflix insists on having, you know, more episodes and not. That if you're talking about that example, I think people are willing to kind of spend more time. Regardless of how much they bitch about it, you know? Right. Yeah. I think that there's that weird double as sort where people, sometimes what people say isn't always how they feel. And a lot of times they'll say, like, oh, I don't have the time for it. And I think, but once somebody clicks play and once they sit down to watch something, it's a whole different story. Yeah. Because even like sitting down to watch this one, it was like two hours. I was like, oh, that's really long. But then boom, you're in it. And then, like, credit to the editor, credit to the production and everything that goes into it. It's good. It'll pull you through and it doesn't matter how long it is. Well, you know, I mean, I think in this case, it's kind of a nice immersive experience. And I mean, just from what I can lean from the responses, people get sucked in. They're sucked into his story. And perhaps that's just because he's a relatable figure. I think the reason that so many people were attracted to him, his friends, is that his struggle was right on the surface. And I think that's something you can connect to, you know? Right. Very relatable. I want to go more into detail with that. But like the whole, sorry. I'm getting a little bit of extra feedback here. Here. Check, check, check, check. Give me one more check. Check, check. Check. Cool. Yeah. It's like, when I start to hear that echo, it's like, Shows my brain down. Is it the echo or the boom? The boominess? I think it's more of like the bouncing off the, It's when it's when they're not totally level. And I can come a little bit loud here. Gotcha. Find my phone. Check, check, check, check, check, check. Check. Cool. Can you hear yourself? Okay. Cool. I'm going to cut this out. That's all right. Maybe that's what people want to see. Gary would say, keep it all in. Keep it all in. This is the real shit. Yeah, man. So I do want to talk more into detail about this film, because I think it hits on. Like when I watch it, I'm just like, Oh, shit. Like how did you, how did you do that? How do you take all these interviews and make it compelling? And kind of cover the same topics and the same ideas. But not beating it to death. Where it's like, each, I feel like you don't want to say the same thing twice. So each thing is subtly brought to you in a different way that that seems like a different angle that you haven't seen before, goes a little bit deeper. But anyway, all that said, I'm going to hold that for later. Because it's the ground up show. It's really about your story and about how you got started. And I like to talk with people from like all different backgrounds, whether it's entrepreneurs or rappers or filmmakers, to see how they were able to like really get started and actually make a living in the creative arts. Because it's, I think in a lot of ways, very scary to get into. I think now with like how the media so fragmented, it's a little bit easier these days to like, see a path where it may work for you, but at the same time it's, I think something that's challenging to get into. So when did you first start to take an interest in filmmaking? That was probably in high school. At least, I mean, honestly, I remember I was 13 and my mother got me a video camera and it kind of started there. Was it like a, like a VHS? What are you, what are you working with? It was a VHS, yeah. Like some sharp camcorder back then. And that was the thing. I would just mess around and do goofy videos, and I would do incuts, you know, in the camera, you know. So you just kind of like shoot and stop the camera, and then flip it around and shoot. And so that was the editing that I was doing back then. So it started then, and then I was a AV kid in high school. And then, yeah, and that proceeded to college. What did high school look like in terms of, and you know, what years are these? And then what did the programs look like? Was there editing classes? No, no, no, no. So I went to, I went to LaGuardia High School, which is a performing arts high school or the fame school. If people remember that. So they had a little AV department we would shoot the performances that type of thing. And I remember there was a three-quarter dex system there. That was, you know, not being used. And so I dusted that off. So this is way before, or just at the precipice of computer editing. Like, Abbott had just started putting stuff out. At that point. And what they did have were these giant optical discs. You know, they didn't use hard drives at all. It was very rudimentary, you know. And it's, I think like at that time, it'd probably be even more challenging to see like, how is this going to work? Because you can't necessarily do everything yourself, at least not at a high quality. Like shooting at it in a VHS tape, and live editing is a little bit different than a full production and what people was capable of. It is, but I mean, all that stuff is great training. And you know, when Vine was still around, that's essentially what people were doing with Vine, what they were doing in camera edits, you know, or if you're messing around with Instagram and doing that stuff, you know. Right. Like the same thing. The Instagram stories. It's like you have to be very thoughtful and intentional. Yeah, and people are doing straight-up TV shows within now. You know, they're like cooking shows on Instagram stories. And they're great. Wow. You know. And so then you take this kind of passion for filmmaking, and you knew that that's what you wanted to do in college. It felt that way. Yeah. Or television or something like that. I never knew. And it seemed like I always done some form of editing somewhere or another, you know. And it was the thing I was definitely interested in. When I graduated was kind of the height of the.com boom, the first one, I guess. And so a lot of people in myself included kind of found ourselves getting sucked into that, you know. So my my whatever, my career as it stands right now was delayed a few years, because I was doing that. And I kind of realized that I had lost my focus if you want to call it that. And just quit and had to do a whole reset. Did you start a company? Were you working with a startup? I was working with a few. I think I started working at MTV. I had MTV online and then you know, I mean, there was so much money and they were giving people so much money who didn't know what the fuck they were doing. Myself included. So I was like a like a art designer and I was doing code, but I didn't really know how to do any of that stuff. But I was getting paid well, you know. Which is the trap, I guess. Right. And that's, I mean, you were only in it for a couple of years. Was it the.com boom, the crash that got you to rethink? No, I quit right before the crash. Wow. Yeah. And maybe I saw it happen. I doubt it. But I just, I knew that I wasn't satisfied doing what I was doing. So I just kind of, you know, didn't work for six months. And I had the luxury to do that. And then I just took a internship and started paying at this little place that had to have it in one of the rooms. And I started messing around with it. I feel like it's not easy to say no to money, especially early on when you don't have any money. I was starting out on a career path. Yeah. What was it about like, well, I guess what inspired you to actually be like, even a couple years and be like, this isn't worth it. Was it like the work life crazy in terms of hours you're putting in or it just wasn't connected to it? I just wasn't creatively doing what I was supposed to do. You know, I really think that's what it comes down to. You know, if you're fortunate enough to have an idea of what you want to do with your life, then you can always have that as kind of your north star and always position yourself in relation to that. So I'm sure if I was working at this place and I was able to kind of do online videos or explore that side of things, then I would have, you know, maybe stayed on a bit longer because I could say, well, this is pushing me towards the thing that I want to do. Right. Like, you kind of, now they would say you kind of create that side hustle first while you're working the full-time jobs. So then you might be able to transition out of it. Yeah. But then there was no opportunity like that around where you just had to, you know, I mean, in a way is good. I mean, when we were talking about then, you know, there wasn't a ton of online video. It was very kind of, I think, pseudo.com had just kind of, was just around at that point, which people don't even know. You know, it was like a real player. But it's the stuff that we are using back then. So people can Google that if they want. Or there's a great film about pseudo.com called, we live in public, which I recommend. It's a great doc, which is all about the insanity of that time. And then, so at this point when you leave your job was there, what was the dream? You know, what was the, like, if I could do this for a living, that would, that would be enough. I don't know if I knew. I just felt like editing was the best way to learn. I had a few experiences when I was in college and I was p.a. and working at some places where I'd be on set. And they would say, here, I mean, I literally remember this, this one time where this, the KPA or whatever you call it, had me guarding a traffic cone. And that was my job. And I mean, I think at that point, I realized that was not something that, you know, I was not going to learn if I was going to be on set. It's not going to happen. You know, my experience editing has kind of borne that out. I learned much more just being in this weird room and looking at the footage. I learned so much about all aspects of the production and not just being on set. You know, and other experiences, like I remember, I was a P.A. on some. They were shooting a trailer and I thought the D.P. was amazing. And he seemed so on it. And then when he saw the footage, it looked like shit. You know? And that's the thing. It's, I mean, it's all about what the result is, you know? So you saw this D.P. that was like, in the moment he had a shit together, but then it didn't translate to actually good product. Yeah. It was terrible. You know? So, I mean, you can be on set and certainly you can learn things. You know, of course you can. But you can learn those same things in the edit room, and even more so, I think. And also you're learning about storytelling, which it's hard to get a sense of that on the set. Would it start out with smaller projects? Yeah. Like short or cut. I was doing E.P.K.s, which were like press kits for Britain Spears and in sync and people like that. So I was doing a lot of that, and then concurrently I was doing a lot of news pieces. Like that were funded by the UN or different organizations like that. That would err on CNN. Mm-hmm. And that, like, gives you some grounding, like, in how to actually edit. And like, you know, the quickness, the shortcut, it's all that stuff. And that's probably like the best way to learn that stuff. It's just doing small projects beginning to end. It's almost like a, yeah, a microcosm of what a longer form project might be. Well, especially that stuff, because I was, you have to do all the finishing work. So you're doing the color correcting, you're doing the sound work. But you're learning how to do, I mean, one of the reasons that I'm good at music editing now is because of those, that E.P.K. work I was doing. Mm-hmm. And, you know, and just learning how to chop it up and do music edits, which is a real skill and not terribly easy for a lot of people. What's challenging about doing a music edit? I mean, exactly. Is that like, like, the E.P.K. where you're, you're, you're cutting to a song or, yeah, or, you know, I'm making a song that's three minutes. I just wanted to last for 45 seconds, you know, and you have to do, you have to find a way to chop it up. Oh, yeah, the magic of taking that final sting and then bringing it up a little bit closer. Exactly. Or looping something, you know, and that comes into play all the time. Do you work with, what is it called, the, the full stems a lot? Do you do a lot of the music editing these days? Or is it, yeah? Mm-hmm. And then you're working with, like, all the stems, like, each instrument as you're going through. I mean, it depends. Yeah. If you have access to that stuff, you know? Um, the shambling thing. That was the first time I had access to a music editor, you know? But generally in the offline, I'm doing all the music editing, and it was nice having a music editor because we could play with the stems and kind of increase the levels of a particular instrument, that type of thing, you know? Yeah. Is there much of a difference between when you're just doing it solo by yourself, and you're doing everything yourself, versus then when you have to scale up to a team, and then you have to, in many ways, learn how to direct and tell people what you want, which isn't always the most straightforward thing to do. I think that, yeah, I mean, it's challenging. I enjoy being in the, I certainly enjoy being in the mix. But there's, I don't know, there's this aspect where the whole thing is a marathon, you know what I mean? And you just have to keep pushing at every point. And when you get to a stage like the mix or the online, you know, you're so exhausted from the experience that you have, you run the risk of kind of letting go a little bit, and these aren't, in some cases, people who are not necessarily like married to the project or, you know, they don't. They're not living and dying at, you know what I mean? And so you have to be that person that's doing that. And sometimes, you know, you have to push and potentially be an asshole, which is, you know, I don't, I'm not terribly comfortable doing that. But if you have to do it, you just keep pushing. What, how, how does that, how do you achieve that art of, telling people what you want? And especially because, it's easy if they just listen to you. But when they start pushing back, then you're like, nah, well, I'm a girly thing, it's easy because it's like, this is a legit, just want to like this. Yeah, you know? So that's, that's, I think probably the importance of that relationship between the editor and the director, right? Where? And there's a trust there, because at the end of the day, whatever the director wants is the way it's going to, yeah, play out, exactly. So, was there a first project that was truly intimidating? You know, I'm sure, like obviously, maybe the first EPKs were a little bit challenging just because it's something new, but then when you're stepping up to the next level, doing something longer form, what was the first project that was like, long format, this is intimidating, where do I start? There's certainly, you know, a lot of cases where I come in and I'm a little scared, which I think is a good thing. that generally means that you're doing you're out of your comfort zone and you're pushing yourself, which I think you probably endeavored to do that with every project, you know what I mean? I don't know, I was doing EPKs and these new things and I decided that, I needed to push myself, and you know, this is very early on, and so I did one of those A&E biographies, if you remember those shows, and that's probably the first long-form thing I did. And how do you approach it? Like, how, and you say, starting out any long-form documentary, like, what's the first step? Like, what do you do when you're looking at? Well, if you're talking about documentary, I mean, I wouldn't qualify that as a documentary, you know? So, that's primarily what you do now, right? It's documentaries. When did that transition start? When did you sort of find that niche? That really came off of, well, I had done some, you know, new things that I guess, ostensibly, were documentaries, but not in the same, but it was kind of journalism, it's not in the same vein of the type of thing I'm trying to do now. So when I did this American life, they had a TV show, and I had been doing, I was in a place, and they were doing reality stuff, and I heard that they kind of, they got that project, which was huge, and I told them I wanted to do it. And so I pushed to get on that show, and I did, and that's, I mean, that was kind of the turning point for me. Hmm. Why was it a turning point? It was, because I was doing the kind of work I wanted to do, and I was working with the kind of people I wanted to work with, people who were, you know, real storytellers, you know what I mean? And I feel like, you know, that was an exciting show at the time. I think it had, not a ton of people watched it, but it had a lot of impact at the time, just creatively, and you know, people who were in that creative world. Well, I feel like, what you were saying before was like, you know, it's a marathon, and you just got to keep pushing through. At the same time, you can only push through if you really care about it. Like, if you don't like running marathon, then you're going to have a terrible time, and you're probably going to give up. And most projects that get started, aren't finished. Most people that attempt to say, create their first feature doc, most of the time they don't complete it. Yeah. How important was it for you to find work that was fulfilling, and also like, how did you define what that meant? Like, what excited you about, like, this American life and those kind of projects? I guess first and foremost, like, you want to do something that you feel like you don't have to apologize for afterwards, you know? And so I was doing these reality things, which was great training for me, because you're cutting scenes, and you're trying to make the footage do, things that it doesn't want to do, you know, and you're just getting better. But I felt like I had done what I wanted to do in that, and I had learned what I was going to learn from that stuff. And when this American life came around, that is a perfect example. this is worthwhile, I mean, it's not disposable television. And there's certainly a place where reality stuff, I'm not shooting on it. People get a lot of enjoyment from it, and a lot of good people work on that stuff, but it wasn't for me, you know? Yeah. Honestly, my girlfriend, she's big into the bachelor. Yeah. And since she's Australian, she's got the Australian version, and the American version. It's a problem. But sometimes I'll watch it with her, and I'm like, first of all, hat tip to the producers and the filmmaker, everybody that works on those shows, like there are some truly talented individuals. I don't hate on that show. My wife makes me watch it, such as you. And, you know, and you realize very quickly, oh, they hate everybody who's on the show, and they're making fun of them, and they seem to be having fun with it. So, yeah, that's not, that shows fun. Right, right, they get past. No, it's so bizarre though, because then you watch like the final three episodes, and it's the same conversation over and over and over again. Like, I don't know. Do I love her? Do I love her? I don't know. And it's just a way that they cut it, and they tie it together, and I'm like, maybe me coming from having a background of editing, and filmmaking, I see it more than Natalie does. But I still, I'm like, just in all at how they're able to keep the story going, right? And I think that's, you may disagree, but I think that that's like, when you're not working with anything, when you're not working with material, that's the hardest thing to be like, how do we just keep this thing going? And stretch it out. Yeah, I guess so. Well, you have some like Rando, boyfriend come in, and you've changed it. It keeps it for eight weeks apparently. Right, yeah, that's the, I mean, I totally see that. That's more on the, I don't know. The whole thing is like popcorn, right? It's not like, I stand to my death that the bachelor this year was garbage. It's back casting, like I was lame. Yeah, it was, it was bad from the beginning. I can't believe I was forced to watch it. You know, it's funny, this episode, this is going to turn into just a batch of bricks. I don't know, let's not do that. Yeah, you know, no offense, but I think they're better podcast for that. To each their own, as long as you're enjoying the work you're doing, and it's adding value, and people are enjoying creating your family. Right. I mean, that's the thing we didn't really talk about, like, that's an important part of it. And the transition to this, like, to be able to tie this American life where you actually get paid, to do something you really love, it's like an amazing connection. But before that was working on projects, and probably like an element of finding, where you are and finding what you want to do, but also making money. Yeah. Yeah. And like, does that factor into your decision making these days? Is it like a delicate balance between the two, between, do I love this project? Is there a budget? I want a budget because you want resources to do the things you want to do. You know, and it just so stands, there's a lot of archival, there are things like that. So there has to be, if I'm doing an archival-based film, it's probably going to have a sizable budget. You know? The archival stuff is expensive. Yeah. And that is effort, is it archivist? Archivalist? The person who gets the footage, who finds it in the researcher, is that where a lot of the money is, or is it the actual purchasing of this? It's the licensing that's where the money is. Yeah. The light is so expensive. Yeah. Well, you know, at least on the Gary thing, Judd had relationships with so many people that, you know, it wasn't as cumbersome for us, I think. Right. You know? music is a thing that will just get you, you know? Yeah. Especially if you're using like a well-known song, yeah. That's it. Are these things that you have to worry about, as an editor? Yeah. You know, to my point about kind of learning all facets, like if you're dealing with archival, you're constantly thinking about how much is this photo cost, and do I have a photo that's similar that, you know, that's just an example, but you are thinking about it. Right. You know? What happened after this American life, and your transition into more docu-style? I think after this American life, that's when I said, well, this is the type of thing I want to do. And I was pretty, you know, cemented in that. I was trying to do documentaries off of that experience. Mm-hmm. And so I did a film called Objectified, which was done by Gary Hustwood. He did Hellvatica and he did urbanized. Did you feel going into, was that one of your bigger films early on? That, That's the first feature documentary I did. Yeah. And by the way, this American life is very good. People should watch it. That's it. The episode John Smith is like, I mean, I feel like that's easily one of the best things I've done. I don't know. It's great. So Objectives going to suck myself off. Yeah. Please go for it. The Objectified was, I did a documentary on design, called Design Disrectors, which was like about the product design today, how like Facebook, Twitter, Airbnb, they're all designing experiences in the mobile. Like challenging topics to cover, like design and making that interesting, but then also like having a story. Like how did that film specifically? How did you approach it? How did you create? How did you know what the center of the story was? That one was really tricky, because if you want to compare it to something like Hellvatica, Hellvatica started with like, I'm going to tell a film about this very specific little thing, which is his font, and then I'm going to blow up from that. If you're doing a film about industrial design, that encompasses everything. If it's about chairs, and it's also about cars, and it's also about abstract design, that's kind of a very bloated subject. So I think the trick was trying to create an arc where you started with a small, where you start with a chair essentially, and then you go to larger concepts where people were doing experimental stuff with robots, but it's still considered industrial design. With any documentary, with objectified, but really any film, like, is it seen by scene? Do you start with like, okay, this is how the film's going to open up, and that's how I start cutting? No, I mean, oftentimes you don't know what the opening or ending of the film is going to be. I think you need to, my process is I screen everything, and then you start to lock in on little things, and that film is different than an archival film, where you're really trying to figure out, how do you take all these dispara things and tell a cohesive story, but the films that are about ideas rather than characters are particularly tricky, because you're trying to create an emotional response, and finding ways to do that with, when people are just speaking in the abstract, that can be really tricky. Do you, I guess at the same time, do you kind of want characters in a way, like you want people to have personality, that are a little bit quirky, that are a little bit interesting, and often times when you get, like say a lot of these docs are interview heavy, talking head heavy, how often might you have an interview where you're like, I don't think there's going to be anything in this one. I don't think I can use any of this interview. I mean, it happens. You just don't use it. Yeah, you know. How many interviews, like, on average, do you generally need, I guess that's probably a tough question, but like, for one doc I did, we did it 20 interviews, and another one there was like, it was crazy. It was like 60 or something like that. We interviewed like five people at each company. It was just madness. Yeah. What have you looked like for you? And, yeah, is there a sweet spot? I mean, you know, my ideals that you don't have an interviews at all, you know. But the Gary film that it was not going to be that way, you know? And so if we're using that as an example, he is, you want people to speak about authority about the thing. Like, I'm not going to have Kevin Neil in talking about Gary's childhood, because he wasn't there, and he doesn't know what he's talking about, And it would just be kind of secondhand information. So that's why the cousin's speaking about it, because he was there. So along the way, you're trying to, the people that you have speaking, they're speaking from a place of authority, you know? And you're trying to be as concise as humanly possible, you know? And if there's any sign of repetition, you have to kill it. Right, and that's what we're talking about with the Gary's channeling.2, is because there's themes, like finding yourself, being your true self, and, you know, comedy, challenge yourself, and also like switching your path. And there's just so many elements that might come back into it, that tie back to a previous idea, but it wasn't quite the same thing. And like how, so this is a two and a half out, let's say the first one is two and a half out, or is the whole thing is four and a half, or two hours for the first one. How long is it, like a rough cut? How long was the rough cut? Because you have to start kind of trimming down, or is it this, if you mean, honestly, I don't think, I'm trying to think, I don't think our first rough cut was dramatically different. I mean, certainly different, and we moved some stuff around as we got notes and feedback from people, but although people were kind of very positive after that first pass, I generally don't have blooded cuts for some reason. And maybe that's just because I'm like, maniacal about it, and I try to, I'm trying to make a very tight cut on my first pass. Like I don't want to give, it's almost like I don't want to give people the opportunity to tear it apart, and I'm trying to express all my ideas as quickly as possible in that first pass. Because once after I do the first pass, I kind of lose control of putting my voice into it if that makes sense. That was not the case with Judd, by the way. It does happen in other cases. Right. No, people start to get married to what that first cut is, whether it... Well, no, not that, but they're like, you know, the first pass feels like, it feels like that's where I have solo authorship to some degree. Of course, you're having conversations, but it's like, I'm trying to put all my ideas in there. And I won't get all of them because it's, it's, you know, it's a fluid thing. And you get new ideas. Certainly after you get reactions, that type of thing. But, you know, I'm trying to get my expression out. And once you get first, beyond that, then you kind of say, I did what I thought works. And then you get into a reactive state where you're trying to address other people's comments. Right. It's almost like that that original cut is the purest form of what you're going to be able to create. Or the shittiest form. Yeah. You're going to have to go back, you know? But yeah. So, like, working with Jud Appetite on this one, are you in constant contact with seeing the room? Are you, are we just saying, like, have a couple conversations up front? And then let's see what this first pass looks like? Yeah. I mean, you know, I think initially it wasn't placed anywhere, and it was kind of a germ of idea. And he called me and he said, I'm doing this thing, and I said, okay, well, let's look at the footage and see if there's a thing. You know? And I did, and I said, yes, there's definitely something. And I had not even seen journalists or anything like that at that point. And that only came a little bit later that he started feeding me some of that stuff. So, I think the first thing I did was I kind of did a proof of concept, like the first eight minutes, which was the childhood essentially. And I think based off of that, we said, you know, it seemed like we were in line, aesthetically, in terms of how we wanted to tell the story, and that gave us a good footing to proceed and keep pushing forward. Was that all, you know, when you said, you looked at all the footage? Was that the interviews that were already done? No, those came kind of kept coming along during the process. And even archival, you know, a lot of the Larry Sanders stuff, all those daily, that we found, that came later in the process. So, it was kind of an interesting process where archival will come, and then I would just re-cut, you know, and keep working in layers. Same with interviews. You know, we would say, we need somebody to speak a bit more about this, you know? Mm-hmm. Are there moments that are serendipitous where you're like, somebody talks about a joke? And then you're like, oh, I know where that joke is. Or like, you happen to find that joke being said. There's tons of that. I mean, yeah, I mean, a real focus in just in terms of telling the jokes, I wanted it to be autobiographical, you know? And there's a lot of that stuff in Gary. So, you know, like he tells the joke about his mother flying in, and he's doing this. okay, that's going to go into that sequence where you're kind of revisiting this idea of the overbearing mother, who's suffocating him, you know? Mm-hmm. And there are a lot of little gyms like that. There's a great one during it's Gary Showning Show, where he's kind of, he's riffing on a jog joke. This weird thing. And then he tells the audience that he's about to do. It's about to host the tonight show. And a few days. And that, and that was a transition point to launch us into this whole tonight show. Gary Showning sequence, you know? Right. So you're always looking for organic ways to kind of make these transitions happen. Mm-hmm. Or convey information. Right. I guess, just being open to catching those. And, you know, because obviously you may have at least broad strokes idea what we want to go from this, so that this is just how his path and his life goes. Yeah. And then to be able to find those moments, we're like, holy shit, like that is an amazing transition. Well, just to like, yeah, and to let things naturally unfold, you know, I'm trying to cut as much as humanly possible without the benefit of a talking head, or somebody telling you what to think, you know? I think the reason, the space known what I've heard, that people really respond to the film and the journals and stuff is because when you're reading the journals, you're in your own head, you're internalizing it, you know? I think it's the same experience with the co-being film, where you're just, you're kind of in your head, you're saying those words in your head, you're having a visceral experience with the material. Um, and so, but in terms of like being open to things, that's a constant, you know? I think a mistake that a lot of people make is they say, the film is this, you know? And then the film is going to tell you what it wants to be, you know, at a certain point, and you can't try and force it, or, you know, force your, this idea that you had on day one, if on day 20, it really wants to be something else. I've had a lot of experiences. Even Ira, you know, Ira Glass on this American life, we have this story about a boy who's kind of, he's kind of trapped in his body, like his, he has complete like muscular atrophy, and initially the idea was, I was going to be like this little ten minute vignette, and it was about, it was going to be about this kid who's on the precipice of death all the time. But part of the story was that he had a girlfriend, and his girlfriend broke up with him because he lived at home with his mom. And so, I, you know, I think once we keyed on that, that's a much more human story, you know? But you have to be open to kind of changing midstream and allowing that to happen. Is it oftentimes that you're finding the film and specifically a documentary? Or is it all the time that you're finding it in post-production? Like, that's where the story comes out, or sometimes it is involved in the actual capturing of the film. Well, when you're doing an archival film, yeah, everything is happening in post. You know, it's not like you're out there, and the stories unfolding before your eyes, as you're shooting it, you're not filming a primary or something like that. So there's a different discipline, and there's a lot more work. If you're shooting something, and you're doing a verite film, you know, you constantly have to have an idea of what the film is, and you know, and that's what you're pursuing. Things can obviously change in the edit, you know? But you have to determine, you have to figure out what you're going to shoot, and what's more important, that type of thing, you know? I think you said that you don't prefer to do all talking head. Would you prefer a verite film? Like is that more interesting to you? No, I like the archival films. Yeah, it's much, much harder. Yeah. But I enjoy verite as well, you know? So it all depends. I mean, I think it's really the subject matter. There's something nice about having these stories about these icons, and really getting into their creative process. And I don't know. Sometimes it's just that's the project that comes to me, and it's the best project at the time, and so I'm going to go after it. Right? With the Gary Shandling doc, are there things about his story that connected with you, and you felt resonated with your own story or journey? Yeah, for sure. I think if you're a creative person, I think it connects with any creative person. I'd be shocked if it didn't, because he's dealing with the same kind of self doubts, and the same. But I mean, with Gary, this idea of kind of constantly digging for truth is something I certainly connected with. This idea of never wanting to repeat yourself, and constantly pushing yourself is something I connected with. And beyond that, just trying not to be an asshole. You know? It's certainly a connect with. You know, trying to, you know? Yeah, it was amazing to see. Just the way it's put together is you see the inner workings of his mind while he's having these amazing accomplishments, where from the outside people just see, and that's one of the reasons why I like doing this podcast is because then we get to just kind of talk about what's going on underneath and behind the scenes, because you see a final film, and then everything seems obvious. Or you see somebody hosting a late night show and you're like, wow, they were born for this. But then to be able to see him sketching in his notes over and over again, like, encouraging himself to keep going to be yourself, be yourself, and like, where, in a way, it's like, it's sat in a way, but it's so real that like, these are things you're always going to be dealing with, and you're going to be struggling with, sometimes they may fade, but, oh no, you're going to be facing these, if you keep pushing yourself. Yeah. With the journals, when you're talking about letting them speak for themselves, like, how did you go about that specific decision? Because like, I don't think that's intuitive to just say, like, all right, we're just going to have people, and like, for good. That's enough. People read them. Yeah, to have people read them, and not have, some of them there were voiceovers. I think it was like, for some of them, and then some of them there was no voiceover. I mean, I personally, I remember initially, I was like, well, we're never going to have any voiceover, and I think it was judge's idea to do the Michael Sara thing, and that was kind of, that was a very inspired decision, because you have so much fun with that, but I will say that the journals and Michael Sara's, that he's reading for the most part with the exception of the last one, they're kind of very surface, you know, and it's kind of, do this, do this, I'm, I'm doing great, I'm traveling here, so that was kind of, almost for pace and excitement in a section where we didn't have a ton of archival, you know, and it just had to be layered and fun, so that, I think that was the motivation for a lot of that, because he's not, his Vio is not covering a ton of a film, if you think about it. No, it's, it was noticeable to me, just because I'd seen that you had not used it in certain portions, and I was curious about that, but that is an interesting point. And when you get very intimate, it didn't feel right, you know, yeah, if it was something that was a really deep thought, or something that was profound, like, yeah, I mean, if it's like fear of death, or something like that, it didn't feel right, yeah, but somehow with the barrier letter at the very end, and a people see this, and they'll know what I'm talking about, or you can step away for four and a half hours, and we'll be here when you come back. Great. Yeah, with that one, that felt right, you know, and he did a great read on all that stuff. Yeah. Yeah. What is your, you're dealing with massive, massive footage, like how many hours of broad strokes, like interviews, and archival footage you're going through, and the big question for me is, how do you keep it all organized? Like, what does that system look like? Well, on the Gary thing, I remember at some point as my, kind of, just give us an idea, and I think we had, and this is, with the, this is not accounting, and Larry Sanders show her any of the shows. I think it was around 300 hours. My process is just, I pull selects, and I have selects rules. And I try and break those down as, much as possible. as I'm screening, I'm making selects. And then when I start cutting, then I, you know, if I go into a scene, I'm saying I'm going to be accessing this material. I pair it down, I create kind of a second sequence, which is a pair down sequence. So you're just whittling it down, and you push forward. But the nice thing about the, sequence is, you can just toggle through it very quickly. You know, what do you mean? I'm just going to the next edit. So I'm, I know people use markers, that for me, I, I really don't like those, and I don't like to use them. For one, because I don't want to have 7,000 bins open, and I don't want to do a lot of clicking. But also, it just, it doesn't feel as, as streamlined to me. You know, is it like when you're creating these selects, is it like, time era per, for a certain show that is on, how do you organize it? it would be, it's Gary Shambling Show, selects, and, or childhood selects, super rate, childhood selects, you know, and I'm trying to break it down, is clean when he is possible, so that you can access a quickly, you know what it is, and you don't have to do a lot of guesswork. You know, and are you doing, when you're going through, and where it's not just, you're all where it may be, you know, you need to be listening, are you doing two times speed, when you're playing it back, or is it? Sometimes you need to. A lot of the time, yeah. And then, is it premier? This is avid. Avid? Is that standard for most, for most topics? I know Pete, I mean, if we were to, you know, if you want to get into that, that stuff, I understand that people use it for narrative films, and I think that there is a manageable amount of material when you're doing those. And certainly for shorter projects, especially if you're doing, you know, stuff that has a lot of graphics in it, then it's a great tool. I don't think for, certainly, someone like Gary, I think it would have been a nightmare. Yeah. What's the difference? I guess from a layman, from somebody who, I mean, I don't know anything about avid, I've never used it. So, actually, I did use try to, they teach it in college, and then you try, and then I was like, as not working out. Like, you know, it's a very, the fundamentals of it are just like anything else. Especially if you map your keyboard, there's no, I can, I can move from one to the other pretty cleanly, because, I don't know, I remember one of the first things I did, and this is from watching another editor, who actually, he, this is why it's Smith, and he's now doing a bunch of Marvel stuff, like he did, Dr. Strange, but he happened to be kind of doing some pre stuff when I was working out the same little office, and I remember looking at his settings, and I was like, oh, I'm going to steal that, because he just, yeah, no buttons, and everything was the keyboard, so that's one of the things I definitely jumped on, really quickly, just to get fast, and take off the training wheels. Mm-hmm. So that was a process, that was like, I'm going to learn these shortcuts. Yeah, you just map it, and through memorization, pretty quickly, you've got it down, yeah. But I feel like it has to be very intentional, to make that decision, because like, I know primary shortcuts, but like, nah, I couldn't just edit all keyboard. That's like, I remember. I recommend it, especially if you have a client behind you, and you're sitting there like, click, they're going to fucking bash your head, you know, speed is, you want to, I don't know, I endeavor to try and move as speed, you know, at the speed of thought almost, you know, I want to be able to execute it very quickly, you know, when I'm trying to grapple with structure, and stuff like that, it's not that fast, and I'm just standing, staring at a wall, and trying to figure out how I want to do something, but if I know what I want to do, and where I want to go with it, I can, I can chop up a bite really fast, because I'm just executing. I think, like, that is hugely important, but without the, storytelling ability, like, if an editor was dependent upon a director to cue every edit or every scene, and, and, you know, edit for them, it wouldn't work, right? it would just be too cumbersome, where, like, you have to have that storytelling, in you. I think with docs, it's necessary, you're basically a storyteller in the room, you know, you should be, that's the fun of it. You don't want to be sitting there waiting for somebody to tell you what button to press, you know what I mean? Then you're just, you're just pressing buttons, and you're not a filmmaker. What do you think is the biggest mistake that, like, young filmmakers make, or inexperienced editors make, when telling a long project? Oh, God, I don't know. Like, when you're watching a film, what stands out to you, where you're like, maybe I would have done it differently, or maybe like, they just totally lost the plot. I mean, that happens all the time. The, the fact of the matter is, this storytelling is really, really hard, and people don't, people do not say that enough, I don't care who it is, you know, if it's Judd, or if it's Ira, or if it's anybody I work with, at some point you're in the room, and you've had, you're just sitting there like this, and you're like, I don't know how to solve this thing, you know what I mean? And that happens all the time. And I think the difference is, that the good people just keep fighting through it, you know, like you need to know what's good enough. That's the hard part. And it takes a long time, you have to do a lot of shitty work before you get good enough, you know, it's just about getting your reps in, you know, the first, I don't know, the first jump shot, LeBron ever made, probably claimed off the top of, you know, the clock, you know, but he kept shooting. This is a stupid. No, I think that's great. Dude, you know what I'm saying? You just have to put your reps in. Yeah, I mean, that's the thing, and you have to work. Yeah. I mean, and you have to be hungry, and you just have to ask for opportunities. Right, nobody's going to do it for you. Yeah, and it's really hard for A, because you are just loading, you know, and doing tasks, and it's not like it used to be where you share the room, and you're kind of actively helping the editor, and I don't really know a solution for that, other than to say, give me a scene. I want to try this, you know, and ask questions, you know, that's really what it comes down to. A lot of people, a lot of creatives, entrepreneurs that would say, don't be a perfectionist, but I think the beauty is in trying to find that balance, where like you are a perfectionist in so many ways, because like, if you weren't a perfectionist, if you really didn't want to get the story right, and just kill it and knock it out of the park, then I don't think you're going to deliver your best work. Yeah, that's what deadlines are for. like a certain point, it's got to be done, you know what I mean? So, but until you have to hand it over, you just go crazy trying to make it, just like, pull every drop of blood out of that thing that you can, you know, producers and directors, how do we know how to set appropriate deadlines? How long are some of these films that you're working on? How long are you in post on? It's interesting because, you know, we talked about length and stuff like that. Like Jane is a 90-minute film, you know, all told that that process was like two years, you know, and I'm myself like I had to, I towards the very end of the process, we kind of finish the film, there are a couple scenes I need to be massaged, and I had to, I had to leave to have a baby, you know, so that process continued, and the finishing on that film is extensive, you know, if you just think about the sound work and all of that. So anyway, that's a 90-minute film, took all that time, um, a Gary is four and a half hours, and I had that, we cut that in under a year, you know, so, every situation is different. Like when you're talking about some of the talking head documentaries, what's a unique challenge to that and making that interesting, versus the Veritei stuff? Well, I mean, you can have talking heads in Veritei films, I do all the time. I think, you know, the danger of talking heads is that they can become, it's, they're overwhelmed. The film is overwhelmed by the talking heads, you know, and it's really about having specificity, and, you know, there are these films where you're setting up a subject, and I'm sure there are a million cases of this, and they always have this, opening sequence where you're introducing, um, people to this character, you know, let's say it's Kennedy, uh, it's JFK, and you have these generic comments where JFK was really the greatest man of his generation, and it's coming from, I don't know, or some shit like that. Um, like that's an example of, uh, a bad use of talking heads for me, you know? Hmm, where some person talking about how this great icon affected them, but they're not, it's not from a personal place. They didn't know them. They can't speak with authority about that person. I'm not getting to know this person through this person through this talking heads comments, you know? Hmm, like you have to, like you said before, have the person speak from authority. Like that, that person needs to be, an intimate, you know? Right. As best as possible. I'm, you know, in the Gary thing, I mean, there are cases where they aren't, like Conan talks about, it's Gary shambling show, but then he had this very close relationship with Gary, you know, at a pivotal point, you know? So I feel like he can speak from a place of authority. I think everybody in that film can. Sure. Yeah, like, there's probably some people that can overlap with that, but then there's going to be, uh, it's just going to, I guess the idea is going to land stronger. There's going to be more of an emotional connection to that story when it's being told from somebody, like you said that's in an intimate place to be able to speak from that. Yeah. I mean, I think the, one of the big challenges when you're entering a film is just discovering like, who's voice is it, you know? And how, what's the voice that's telling this story? You know? Um, and in some cases, it's, you could say, I'm just going to use Gary's voice, and he's going to tell the whole story, and I'm not going to have anybody else talk. or you say, well, I don't know, it's just going to, a general this stuff together and do the best we can. You know, um, Are there any other, so you talk about, like speaking from authority, or are there anything else that stands out to you? Uh, that is just critical for you when you're telling a story and, and certain things that you have to keep top of mind or like, it's almost like an unwritten rule. It's like a rule that can be bent. It's not like, you have to do that. But other things like that that, that come to mind that help you through the editing process. Um, and the only thing, um, I'm just trying to find the thing I'm trying to do is find the most interesting solution for a poem. And I'm trying to create a scenario where the audience is doing as much work as possible. You know, I have, I have little hard rules. I don't use those, I don't believe in dissolves. Yeah, visual dissolves. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I remember when I was in AE and there's, uh, in the room, in some other editor, and it was like a history channel show, which, you know, whatever. and it was right at the end of the project, right? There were about to, spit out the cut, and uh, she was like, well, let me clean up these edits and uh, and just like dissolve dissolved dissolve. And then she said, uh, her phrase was, some editor told her, I said, if there's a cut, you can't resolve dissolve. Oh, my God. And I immediately said, well, I'm never going to do that. Absolutely bullshit. You know, I don't think there's a cut you can't make. You can always find a way to make a work. Yeah. You know, and I think, in terms of taking off the training wheels, like that's another thing that I've done early on. you know, I'm going to make these cuts work. And you find tricks to do that. Right. I love those ideas, though, too, that it simplifies everything. When, because you don't need to add fancy transitions, you know what I mean? if you can just do a straight cut for everything, that's just so many other decisions that you don't have to make. You know, Well, I'm going to fade it back here, and then I'm going to fade it up and then. Well, listen, you know, the reason for part of the reason for that is that a dissolve is telling the audience what's happening before it's happening. You know, and you're stripping their ability to kind of do the work. You know what I mean? A dissolve says, we're transitioning to something else. And I would much prefer, and I feel like an edit is true. You know what I mean? I'm doing an edit, and I'm cutting from this to this, and in your mind, you're making the connection, and you're doing the time travel, you know? You said you want to make the audience work. I feel like that's like counterintuitive, where I feel like I, you would want to hold the audience's hand, and take them on the story. And then I don't, you don't want the audience to be confused, but you never want to hold their hand, especially now, like people are watching Game of Thrones, and you're dealing with like 100 story lines, and you're expected to remember something from season one and how it impacts season five. I mean, you're very sophisticated, you don't have to do a lot. You don't have to hold their hands. You just, I mean, you don't want them to be sitting around confused, and saying, I don't understand what's going on, you know? But, no, I think in the Gary thing, I think the reason is rewarding is because people are doing the work. You know, you're reading those journals, and you're making connections, and so when you are at the end, and you're getting that letter, there's a huge payoff, I hope, and I think people are emotionally affected, because for one, you've lived his entire life. Like a case in point, at the very end, in the credit sequence, we have footage of the memorial and Kevin Nillon is telling jokes, related to Gary, and related to this film that you've seen, and he tells that palette, kind of joke, and I feel like it's a, you know, people laugh, and they think it's hysterical, and they have this cathartic experience, but it's only because you've lived his life with him, you know? And you've had the experience and you've made those connections, you know? That's the only reason that joke works. How do you, make sure you don't hold the audiences hand? Like how do you give enough a way that you're guiding them on a story without revealing too much, and like also like saving stuff for later? I think, yeah, that's part of the way that you're laying things out, you know? I think, if you think about in narrative terms, it's just like a big slow reveal, you know? How do you enter a scene? Do you enter in a master shot? Where you can see everything at once? Or are you starting on this little thing? And you're constantly saying, what is that? What's happening? You know? Like ideally, even in these docs, I'm trying to, when I enter a scene, I think initially you should say, where am I? What's happening? And then it reveals itself to you, you know? And that's the kind of thing where I'm talking about doing the work. Even in these edits, and the reason you want that is because every, the accumulation of, it's like a little rewards, you know, and you're constantly being rewarded for being an attentive viewer, you know? Right. Like if you stop paying attention for a minute, if you take your eyes off the screen, you might miss something that's going to be necessary. necessary, or you know, if you miss it, it won't ruin your experience, but you'd have a richer experience if you paid attention, right? You know? What advice would you give? Directors, filmmakers, camera operators, that are going out in the field, starting a documentary of their own, like what are practical advice that any editor would thank them for? Well, one of the best shooters I ever worked with he or early on, he was a great shooter, and he came from a news background and he was expected to cut his own pieces. And he was a really good shooter as a result, because he knew the pitfalls of things he would do, you know? He knew how to cover a scene. He knew how to hold his shots. So he could tell a story. I think a lot of people don't have the experience of cutting their own footage. I would definitely recommend that. You know, you will become instantly better, because you will know all the mistakes. I think most editors would say, count to 10, you know what I mean? And get coverage, you know, and get good sound. People always mess that up. If we're talking about practical things. Yeah, those are those two things, but I think you're right with, when I first started shooting and editing, it's like, you're yelling at yourself in the editing room. You're like, why am I zooming? Yeah. Why am I zooming now? Like, you get, you set only on a shot, and then you pull back and zoom, and then move it all right. if I was talking to shooters, I would say, you know what? Because you can watch footage, and the footage is an expression of the person that's shooting it, you know? whoa, heat that dude is having a bad day, because he's so skittish, you know? Like I know, I've seen footage from, and it's just crazy, and it constantly moves, and then I meet the person is like, this guy is jumping around, like he just did a pound of crack, you know? Right. So, I don't know, meditate, if you're a shooter, it would help, just to like be present and feel the scene, you know? And just chill out, take your time with it, yeah. Yeah. And make sure you have enough time for B-roll, right? Don't just run in there, shoot the interview and get out. Make sure you can actually establish a scene. Yeah, exactly. How about interviews and interviewing? What are some things that you see in watching full interviews, unedited? What can you tell about what makes a good interview? It depends, you know? I mean, that's another case where I don't know. It's, I think one thing is to like, not make yourself the subject of the interview. You know, ask questions, allow people to respond, don't jump all over them. You know, the stuff in the shambling film is very different because those are conversations. They're not interviews per se. It's about the back and forth and we embrace that. if I had to use it as just a strictly talking head, it would have been complicated. because Judd is, you know, having a conversation with people. So, but in terms of straight talking heads, I think it's really just allowing that person to respond. And, you know, there's this thing that Gary said that I also connected with, where he kind of emphasized the importance of silence. You know, and I think that that's an important thing. I'm just in my, myself when I've done interviews with people, just the act of like not coaxing another comment from them, and allowing them to sit in an uncomfortable silence. They will, something will come out. They'll open up to fill that silence with something that you would never expect. And that's kind of a rich, you know, that's something that I, at least I personally experience. I've seen it sometimes. You know, but, you know, some people are just really good in interviews. You know, I request is really good. When Brett was interviewing Jane, good all, they kind of had a little bit of a contentious relationship, initially, and that kind of bore a lot of fruit. It was kind of a fun interview, because of that. And I think it brought out a side of her that you don't see a lot. You know, so it just depends on the situation. I think it was supposed to leave a long silence. and then I'll tell you about my childhood. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. It all began. When you're editing, I know for me when I first started, and sometimes I fall into it, just because it's like the, like the details and the fine touches and the polish is like, what's sometimes fun to work on, because it's a little bit mindless. It's just easy. You can kind of tweak sound effects and transitions and all this stuff, and it's really easy. Do you focus on any of that polish up front, or are you just like going, I'm just as quick as I can, trying to get something cohesive together, and then do that at the end. I'm trying to build out structure initially, but you know, like anybody else, I have an audience that I have to show it to, and so I'm trying to convey my ideas. That's really what it comes down to. I'm not trying to do the best sound pass. Well, I want it to be good, because the slot here it is, the harder it is to really see through all that muck, if that makes sense, you know? So to my point about trying to make a tight cut, even in a rough cut, that's because I want people to make intelligent responses to what they're seeing, and then to get good feedback, and sometimes it's hard to see that through very, very rough cuts. I can only say that from, you know, from my own experience, like watching some people's stuff, you know? I don't know. Sometimes I will get very in the weeds, doing sound work and graphics work, but that's only to convey the what I want the audience to feel. And speaking of feedback, how do you know what feedback to listen to? I obviously listen to the director, but like when you guys are starting to do screenings, and starting to see how people react to something, or showing into those who are close to you, and those who you trust, how do you know what advice to take in, and actually implement and which to say, oh, interesting, but not for this film. Yeah, I mean sometimes that happens, where you just say, well, that's not the film we're doing, or you just, you know, this, I believe in what I'm doing, and I'm going to stick to it, but generally you're looking for consensus, you know? And if 10 people have a comment about something, well, that's a problem, and you have to address it, you know? If James Brooks is giving you feedback on a cut, you're going to listen to it. That's just the way it is, but yeah, I mean, that's the way I feel about it. I'm just kind of looking for consensus, and there are some things that will just jog you, and you say, oh, I never saw that way, that's a problem, and you want to fix it. Right, yeah, having fresh eyes on it. That's always, it's all, I mean, the screenings are about getting perspective, because you're so in it, and that's one of the biggest challenges when you're working on something, and you're feverishly working on it, is that you don't have perspective on it. I try to build in time to step away from it, like at least for a week or some like that, and not look at the cut, and then come back and see it with fresh eyes. When you're, I imagine you're in screening rooms with multiple people watching your film, do you feel their reaction sometimes? Is there, what kind of, a bit of comedy, obviously, the laughter, but then there's kind of some kind of presence where you can tell if an audience is engaged, is really in tune with it? My thing is just watching it with people I instantly start to see things, that I wasn't seeing. That's in terms of perspective, like just seeing it in a different environment, everything shifts, and you see problems, or you don't, or you're just like, man, this thing is fucking awesome. Is it tough to be able to, look back on old projects, or you, for me sometimes when I finish a project, I look back at it two years later, and I'm like, I don't know, I can't, it's hard for me to even watch old projects, and I don't, but the times that I have, or if I'm going to a screening, it's like damn, I would do so much differently now, having two, three, four years plus experience. Only, I would only feel, I don't watch my stuff really, I don't have opportunities to, and it would be weird if I just set a home watching old films. Right, like, I'm good. I've had, some random experiences to see stuff, because I don't know, asked to speak to a class or something like that. But no, because, I think, you just want to feel that you didn't, that there wasn't a missed opportunity. that's the biggest fear when I'm doing these things. the Kobe in film, for instance, or the shaming thing. It's like, you want to do, this is the last time that film is going to be done. The Kobe in film, that artwork is never, it's going to get auctioned off. It would never be available. You're not going to have the rights to all the music, so we had to do the best job we could with that film, and the pressure was on, you know, and the same with shambling, like nobody's going to make another shambling film. That's the one, so you want to, you want to make it as good as it can possibly be, and do right by that person, but also make a work of art that stands on its own. So I don't know. I mean, if I had a lot of regrets about the experience, you know, or what it came out to be, and that certainly happens, but it is, that's a document of its time, and that's it. There's no going back. How do he, because it seems like you're obviously very passionate about these films, and you put a lot of time and energy into it. I can't imagine the hours that it takes to put these films together. How do you maintain a balance? When you're, like with your personal life, you know, you've got a kid now, like how do you balance the two of them, and make sure that you're, you're giving yourself the, the personal space and time that you need, while also being incredibly driven and passionate about the films you're making? Um, well, you know, it wasn't, I will say when I was working with jazz, those guys were great, you know, my son was born when we started that film, and they gave me time to be with him. But in general, you know, I mean, what I do now is I, I have the mornings with my son, again, to the edit at around 10 o'clock. I'll generally work till around 8. which I think, that length of time, I don't think you're going to be terribly productive after that. everybody works differently. Um, you know, but I think if you're doing 12, 13 hours every day, you're at a certain point it's all going to be crap, you know? Um, so that seems to work for me, and then I come home and just spend some time with my wife and do a reset, you know? Um, I don't know. I, I feel like I'm fortunate where I'm not completely consumed by the work. You're always thinking about it, you know? It's always part of you. Um, but I think giving yourself space is actually, helps to work. To that point about perspective, you know what I mean? Like usually your best ideas come when you're taking a walk or you're in the shower, that type of thing. Like that's when the breakthroughs happen. Hmm. Great, man. You want to do a couple quick questions here, and then we'll wrap up just her podcast. Um, you read much. Uh, I try to, but not as much as I used to. Yeah. Has there been a book or a film that you've seen that has, made the biggest impact on your life that maybe set things in perspective for you? Um, I can, there, there's a book called City of God, which was, uh, written by E.L. Doctoral, which is not by any means one of his best books, but, it didn't form my work. I remember, um, because the, maybe the first third or the first half of it. It's, it tells a story through scraps of paper, and news clipings, and, little bits of work that somebody's doing to profile somebody else, and that strangely enough somehow that hadn't impression on me. It's, certainly part of what I'm doing now, where I'm working with scraps of minutiae, and things like that. So that's a book, the liney. Do you ever see that? Mm-hmm. It's a silvered film. Um, just from editorial standpoint. It's amazing. You know, and super weird, that's a good film. What makes it, great. Um, because it's a time is disjointed. Um, you know, he'll have conversations that, go on for 20 minutes, you know, as other, other actions happening. so they're, they're kind of flashbacks within flashbacks. I'm not doing a good job explaining it. Mm-hmm. But there is this other thing he does, where he has one conversation, take place in multiple setups. So like this conversation we're having right here. We'd be talking, and then that same dialogue would take place in a park. And we're just, and he's just jumping between those, and somehow that made an impression on me as well. Mm-hmm. It's almost like, a lot of times we think that there's certain rules about how a film needs to be put together. Mm-hmm. And you can kind of just break that. Yeah. It was kind of like the Gary Shanley. It's the Gary Shanley show. Like how he breaks the, the wall, and he talks to the audience. And like, I was watching, I was like, that must have been groundbreaking at the time. Like nobody else must have even thought of that idea. Well, the thing that, you know, I think it had been done before. Yeah. What the hell is this name? Uh, It's like guy from old, oh god, remember? Yeah, the cigars. And I can't remember his name right now. Yeah, it was a comedian. But uh, and somebody's going to be really mad at me for not remembering his name, because he's like a legend. Yeah. But that show, that kind of idea had existed before. you know, there's this weird thing. I don't think there are, there are not necessarily original ideas. It's, it's how you're packaging those ideas. You know what I mean? Right. It's, it's got to be nearly impossible to have something that's purely original. And if it, if it is, it's probably so abstract. It won't make any sense. And it won't be interesting. Um, So I think that's what it is about. It's always about like, maybe taking what other people have done and doing your own doing it your own way. Yeah. Um, let's see here. What drives you? Like what pushes you from one project to the next? What keeps you going with these projects that you work on? Um, I'm just trying to do interesting work. You know, I think there are aesthetic challenges. And I'm trying to like jump at, you know? So if something kind of excites me aesthetically, or if I feel like it's an opportunity to do something different and do something new, those are usually cases where I'll jump at it. Or if I have, you know, if I can work with somebody that I'm excited to work with, you know, there's also that. What one skill have you leveraged in a way that you think others have it? It's like an interview question. What's like, I guess, like what, what do you think that you've been able to, to hold on to that's been critical to your success? I don't know. I just work hard, you know, maybe there's, you know, I think some, there's a certain level of arrogance I must have, you know, that probably benefits me. there's something to, like I've worked with, you know, the people I work with, and you have to be able to tell that person, no, I think that's a bad idea. You know, the only way you can help your director, as an editor, is to be able to push back. if you're just a facilitator, I don't necessarily agree with that. certainly in the work we do, you know, it needs to be a conversation, you know, if you're only as good as the director is, then what are you really doing there? You know, you have to be able to bring your own ideas, and be able to push back, and that does take a certain level of arrogance. or confidence to, just being confident in, and the work that you've done, and like, trusting your gut, right? Yeah. but it all goes into play, you know, the director was a very humble guy, but clearly he had arrogance, you're going, people are going to tell you you suck along the way, you know? Yeah. and people are just going to question you, like every time, there was a point where I would go into a room, and I was like, these people don't believe in me, and, you know, and I'm going to show them, and that was the thing that really drove me a lot, you know, I would go into a place, and they thought that I wasn't going to work out, and I was kind of very intent on showing them that they didn't know what they were talking about, proving yourself. Yeah. When are you happiest? Uh, oh no, it's when I'm with my son. Let's see here. A couple more questions. What's my wife? And my wife can't forget that, shit. Um, what one thing should people read watch or listen to before they go to bed tonight? What's, besides John Smith, this American life? Um, before they go to bed tonight? Uh, I've been watching Legion. I enjoy that show a lot. Mm-hmm. I don't know. But unfortunately, not able to watch a ton of stuff recently. Sorry to watch when you're cutting so much. Yeah. But it's important to kind of consume stuff, so it's like a thing that I'm concerned about, to be honest. I feel like I'm not doing a good job, just reading and consuming. Mm-hmm. So, yeah, dude, I'm like completely in the same boat as you. And when you're in the creation mode, uh, all you want to do is get back to the thing you were making, you know, to keep going, and to keep pushing yourself. But then, and part of me is like, maybe I should just take one day a week, or like maybe mornings on Sunday, to create, or to, to consume, to watch something, to listen to a podcast. Um, It's just hard, because you have to do the work before that moment, to find out what you're actually going to consume. Because you'll do that, and it's way into your, like, I mean, to use the shambling thing, as an example, there's that sequence where it's him and Leno, and they're kind of facing off, and I do that stupid split screen thing. But that, I ripped that off from Fargo, because I was watching Fargo, and I was like, oh, this is an interesting way to do this sequence. I love that. I thought that worked really well. But it's like, yeah, that's cool. And I was actually talking to Joel West, who's a composer, and he, uh, he was kind of saying the same thing, where he's like, constantly trying to pull inspiration, but I just want to know where it came from. People show watch fast cheap and not a control. There you go. Fast cheap and not a control. Which is an error more as film. And I feel, on some weird level, like everything I'm doing, I'm trying to achieve what's going on in that movie. Yeah. Awesome. And last question, what's the best place for people to find you online? If they would see your work, or if they wanted to connect with you and say, I have a website, which is shablabs.com. Shablabs.com. Yeah. Which is, it's not a good website, but. That's it. It works. It does. Yeah. It does what it's supposed to do. Yeah. Thanks so much for doing the podcast. Thank you. And that's this week's podcast. Thank you so much for listening. Thank you for watching. Appreciate you tuning in. That's it. I got nothing else to say. I got nothing else to add. Uh, but. I'll see you next week. See you next week.
