# What I learned from every book I read last year.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OIBN3inGkog
Try Canva Pro free 45 days by going to https://canva.me/mattdavella. Thanks for Canva for sponsoring this video ✌️

Here's a little lesson from every book I read last year. Pick these books up for yourself here at the links below. Some are affiliate links but all are genuine recommendations!

📚 NON-FICTION
The War of Art: https://amzn.to/3IiqZ3M
Good to Great: https://amzn.to/358thnO
The Barefoot Investor: https://amzn.to/3IqjqYM
Willpower: https://amzn.to/3K1DEJ3
Shoe Dog: https://amzn.to/3vijxly
The Ultimate Guide to Real Estate: I don't think this one is sold anymore! It's an old book that my in-laws gave me!
Effortless: https://amzn.to/3Iishf8

📜 Biographies
One Bright Moon: https://amzn.to/3IgZJTj
In Order To Live: https://amzn.to/3JU3nTn
Traction: https://amzn.to/35BwOuR
The Bomber Mafia: https://amzn.to/3t7lbUt
Memorial Drive: https://amzn.to/3tgzM02
Will: https://amzn.to/3piXAin

🧙 FICTION
Where the Crawdads Sing: https://amzn.to/3LZTq8V
The Law of Innocence: https://amzn.to/3pgQMly
Fair Warning: https://amzn.to/3JWGhvv


Hi there 👋 If you're new to my videos my name is Matt D'Avella. I'm a documentary filmmaker, entrepreneur and YouTuber. I've made a couple documentaries for Netflix. I also teach courses on everything from filmmaking to habit change. If you like to nerd out about self-development as much as I do, you can subscribe for weekly videos.

🔗 LINKS
Enroll in my habit's course:  https://slowgrowth.com/simplehabits
Enroll in my YouTube course:  https://slowgrowth.com/masteryoutube
Get my weekly newsletters:  http://slowgrowth.com/newsletter
Follow me on Instagram:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Follow me on Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
**Keywords:** Matt D'Avella, matt davella, self-development, creativity, health, wellness, lifestyle design, lifestyle, advice, 
**Date:** 2022-02-28

## Transcript
 So, you might remember a video I made last year about one habit that I wanted to build for 2021. It was a really simple habit, but it was one that was super important to me. I wanted to read more. Growing up, I hated reading. I hated it so much that when I was in middle school, instead of doing my required reading, I'd just pretend to read. I'd scan my fingers over the words and blankly stare at the pages. And I just hope to God that I wouldn't get tested on it later. You know, looking back maybe it was undiagnosed ADD or maybe I just didn't like being told what to care about. All I know is that I didn't pick up the habit of reading until well into college. But once my curiosity sparked, it was impossible to stop. I read books on personal finance, meditation and fitness. I read fiction and nonfiction by geographies and crime dramas. These books taught me so many lessons that I applied to my creative work, my business and my life. But then, as quickly as I started, I stopped. I got busy in the same way that we all get busy. I was working on my career. I was making my first feature documentary. I was hanging out with some Australian girl that I was sure was just a fling, reading took a back seat in my life. That isn't till early last year when I decided to pick it back up again. And so in this video, I want to talk about all the new lessons I've learned over the past year of reading. But first, this video is brought to you by Canva. So if you haven't heard of Canva before, it's an amazing design platform that makes designing anything really easy. So I first started using them about six years ago back in my freelance filmmaking days to help me build really beautiful pitch decks that helped me to land some of my biggest clients. Since then, they've added so many amazing features to Canva Pro that makes it super intuitive to bring any of your designs to life. If you're creating social posts, their magic resize tool makes it easy to format your designs to fit natively for any social platform. Their background removal tool really comes in handy. Just one click and backgrounds are gone. It's even got a content planner so you can load your social content ahead of time and schedule to post directly to Instagram, Facebook, and other platforms. You can team up and save with Canva Pro for just 1295 per month for up to five people. You and your team can unlock everything Pro has to offer. Plus, you can get a free 45-day extended trial by going to Canva.News slash Matthew Vela. Click the link down in the description below to get started. So I had the goal to read 24 books last year and I read a total of 16. I failed. I'm a total failure. What can I say? Now in the past, I definitely would have been discouraged by this. I would have considered myself a failure. But I'm stoked about the amount of books that I read because it's 16 more books than I read in 2020. And goal is aside. The fact that I've been able to rebuild this habit of reading is amazing because I've gotten so much and I've learned so much that I want to share with you in this video. And so let's get into some of these books. I'm going to save my very favorite book of the year until the very end. Because then you have to stick around and watch the whole video. Unless you skip ahead. Don't do that. The War of Art by Stephen Presfield. I started out the year reading one of my favorite books, the War of Art by Stephen Presfield. I was in a bit of a creative slump at the beginning of the year. I was getting a bit burnt out making videos and courses and all the other stuff that I do. And I was losing some of the excitement for my work. And this is the exact book that I needed. If you want to create anything meaningful in life, you need to overcome that voice in your head. It's the voice that tells you that you're not good enough that you'll never amount to anything. It's the voice that says, who are you to start a YouTube channel? Presfield calls it the resistance as he writes in his book. The more scary we are of a work or calling, the more sure we can be that we have to do it. The big takeaway that I got from this book is that you always have to have your go to pick me up. This book is one that I've read five, maybe six times. And whenever I'm in a slump, I read this book to get inspired. And it was definitely the right book for me to read at the beginning of the year. Good to great by Jim Collins. So this is a book about how some businesses thrive while others remain stagnant. And I got two takeaways from this book. First, focus on hiring the right people first. When you hire the right people, so many other things will fall into place. If you don't find the right people, then things can completely go astray. And I learn something else as well. I pick this book up because I'm growing my own business at slow growth. But I realize the reading this book that I don't want to have one of the biggest or most profitable companies in the world. Like, yeah, I want a profitable company. I want to company that people love the content we make and the course is the products, all that stuff. But that's not as important as building a really small dedicated team that's super passionate about what they do. He does talk about this at the end of the book. It's this idea that you don't have to be big to be great and you can apply these processes and these ideas to it. The Barefoot Investor by Scott Pape. This is a book by an Aussie. It's called the Barefoot Investor. I don't know what the Barefoot part is. He didn't explain that in the book. At least not that I can remember. There's feet everywhere. Maybe he's got a foot thing. That's cool. I'm not judging. I mean, kids say that. I'm going to say it. I think the biggest takeaway I got from this book came in the form of a question and it's why retire. Now, it's one thing to retire from a job that you hate. But if you're lucky enough to find something that fulfills you and that keeps your mind active, it's not such a bad idea to work by choice when you're older. And that's something that he questions in this book that I think is something worth considering. Will Tower by John Tierney and Roy Balmister. Will Power is the thing that gets us off our ass or restrains our impulses from grabbing that next donut. While recent studies have called into questions some of the claims in the book about Will Power specifically, the fact that it operates like a muscle, it did give me a greater awareness for how my own mind works. You have a finite amount of Will Power every day. And both stress and fatigue play a large role in how much will power you'll have in each moment. It's the reason you might be more likely to get into an argument with your partner after a really stressful day at work. By understanding when we're likely to have our Will Power drained, we can do a better job at staying committed to our goals for the long run. Where the crawl dad sing by Delia Owens. I can say that this book definitely renewed my love for fiction. I read fiction mostly to escape. It's really the one place that I can get away from a screen and get immersed into a story. Oftentimes when I'm reading nonfiction, it feels like work. My mind is active. I'm thinking about all the ways that I might apply this new thinking to my life for business. But fiction is totally different. I can slow down. I can read for an hour or two before bed. And I can forget about all my tasks, my priorities and deadlines and just get lost in a great book. And this is one that I certainly got lost in. And if you're looking for a great fiction book, I definitely recommend it. Shooter by Phil Knight. This book chronicles the early struggles and eventual rise of Nike. I've probably read shoe dog faster than any other book that I read this year and there were just so many lessons that I pulled from its pages. My favorite don't tell people how to do things, tell them what to do, and let them surprise you with their results. Now I know what some of you might be thinking, oh my god, a minimalist reading a book about Nike, that's not cool. I thought we didn't like companies. And that's stupid. I think to think nothing wrong with reading a book about a Nike. Obviously Nike is not a perfect company, but this book is really more about like the origin story. How Nike started and the many lessons that were learned by Phil Knight and their team along the way. And I think there are many lessons that any entrepreneur business owner can pull from this super inspiring highly recommended. The ultimate guide to real estate by John McGrath. Aussies are serious about two things. Coffee and real estate. Australia has one of the highest rates of home ownership in the world at around 66 to 67% since my mother-in-law and father-in-law keep pressuring us to buy a house. I thought, hey, let me just let me read this book. Let me learn about it. And then maybe Lynn and Bill, you can just let me go. I'm kidding. You guys are amazing. Love you. You know, we're gonna buy a house. It's okay. It's gonna take a minute. I'm gonna get in trouble. When you're going to buy a house almost all homes in Australia are sold via auction. So you literally walk into a home, I think they give you like a paddle and you're with a bunch of other potential home buyers, and you start bidding until the bidding stops. If we get to the point and we're throwing up that paddle at one of these auctions, yeah, I'll have panic attack in order to live by John McPark. So this book tells the story of John McPark who grew up in North Korea in the 90s and faced famine, poverty and fear while living under communist control. It's really a heartbreaking story, but it's also a hopeful story of how she was able to escape from North Korea and eventually make her way to South Korea in the United States. One passage in the book stands out to me more than anything else. In the free world, children dream about what they want to be when they grow up and how they can use their talents. When I was four and five years old, my only adult ambition was to buy as much bread as I liked and eat all of it. There were many points throughout this book that had me in tears. It gave me a greater appreciation for all the things that we take for granted. And as we often get caught up in trivial problems, it helped me to put my own troubles into perspective. I definitely recommend that you check this one out. Traction by Gabrielle Weinberg and Justin Morris. So this book was recommended by your favorite British YouTuber Ali Abdul and, you know, when somebody that I respected and admire recommends a book, I will always write it down and I will always get it. For me, this book was a good reminder of the balance between when it comes to business, product and marketing. Traction makes the case that most companies fail because they focus too much time on the product and not enough time on marketing. And in this book, there's a collection of a bunch of different tactics and strategies to increase your own customer growth. Definitely a great resource. And while I'll be coming back to in the future to get different ideas for marketing in different channels and platforms as my business grows. The law of innocence and fair warning by Michael Connell. So I'm going to group these two books together because I'm going to be quite honest. I don't remember the difference between them. And that's not a bad thing. I actually love Michael Connelly. I find his books really easy to read. They're even easier to get into, which is great. I think the takeaway here for you is that you shouldn't be pretentious about the books that you read. You shouldn't read a book because of what other people will think of you when they see you holding that book. You shouldn't read a book because you enjoy it because you truly find it fulfilling or you find some value from it. It's a personal connection between you, the book and the author, and don't let anybody else get in between that. The bomber mafia by Malcolm Gladwell. I love history and I love Malcolm Gladwell, so this was a perfect combination. I can't say that I took away any lessons about precision bombing versus fire bombing that I could apply to my own life, but Gladwell is an inspiring author, creator, and podcaster. And to me, this was really a reminder that the best stories are those rarely told. And the best insights come only after you start looking for answers. Memorial Drive by Natasha Trethaway. Like a few other books that I read this year, definitely had me in tears throughout. The book retraces Natasha's life from the moment everything changed when at 19 years old her mother was killed by her stepfather. It talks about racism, abuse, and how one moment can have a ripple effect on the rest of your life. If you're looking for a really good book by Pulitzer Prize winning poet, this is the one. Will, by Will Smith. You know that YouTuber Will Smith, apparently before he started his channel, he was not only a movie star. He had a television show and a music career. I mean, it's crazy. Like if I didn't read this book, I never would have known all that. My big takeaway from this book is that what you see on this surface is only a glimpse into the reality. The greatest artist in the world struggle with anxiety, fear, and failure like the rest of us. But their flaws are much greater. As Will Smith's grandmother told him as he went off for his first music tour, be careful how you treat people on your way up because you might have to pass them again on your way down. Effortless by Greg MacQin. So Greg's new book argues that sometimes we make life harder than it needs to be. As a culture at large, we've conflated difficult and hard with being good and better. But that's not always the case. And he begs us to ask the question, what if this was effortless? This thing that I'm grinding it out, I'm working so hard at what if there was an easier way to get this done. And there are so many great stories and anecdotes and examples of how other people have achieved the effortless life. Definitely great book. I actually just did an interview with Greg and so I'm going to be releasing that in the coming weeks. So if you haven't subscribed, subscribe to this channel and then you'll get that video as well, which is very good. My favorite quote from the book that I just thought was fantastic is a rule and it goes like this. Do not do more today than you can completely recover from by tomorrow. Great rule, something to live by. So all the books that I mentioned in this video are fantastic and worth reading. But there's one that really pulled me in more than any of their, and it is my favorite book of the year. That book is One Bright Moon by Andrew Kwam. While we were living in Australia last year, I walked into a bookstore near my gym and browse through the auto biography section. And I didn't know what it was about this book that caught my attention, but I grabbed it and I'm glad I did. This again was a very heavy book, but a really important Andrew was only seven years old when he witnessed his first execution. The book follows his life as he lived through famine and fear and propaganda in China during the middle of the 20th century. How his father was banished to a re-education camp and how his family was pulled apart again and again throughout his life and adolescence. It's one of those books that stays with you for weeks, months after reading it. And while I recommend every single book in this pile here, if you're going to get started on just one, if you really love biographies, I definitely recommend you read One Bright Moon. And so that is everything I learned from everything I read last year. I'm going to keep this reading habit alive this year. And so let me know down in the comments below if you have any recommendations for books that you think I should read. I can't wait to hear from you down there in the comments. Thanks for watching and I'll see you on next time.
