# Ground Up 020 - Becoming a Comedian w/ Josh Rabinowitz
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Oihcy1nvDBs
You've seen Josh Rabinowitz in Mike Birbiglia’s Don’t Think Twice, TruTV’s Friends of The People & Adam Devine’s House Party. He’s a writer for The Carmichael Show & Broad City. We talk about how he got into comedy and his future dreams of opening a bagel shop.

Josh on Twitter:  https://www.twitter.com/josh_rabinowitz/
Josh on Instagram:  https://www.instagram.com/josh_rabinowitz/
**Keywords:** ground up, podcast, film, comedy, stand up, joshua rabinowitz, josh rabinowitz, matt davella, Matt D'Avella, filmmaking, directing, self development, the ground up show, 
**Date:** 2017-08-16

## Transcript
 So I'm going to do just introduce you after this and then look at we'll get gone cool Oh, damn it Now it's such an exciting build. Yeah, that was a good start. That's it. I actually would like that as an intro You do this really intense music and then you always fuck it up It's like, oh, damn it and then it just like starts again. It's like I'm gonna do that again. Okay, cool All right, my guest today is Joshua Rubinowitz. You've seen him in Mike Berbigley as don't think twice True TV's friends of the people and Adam Divine's house party as well as a bunch of other places He's a writer of the most recent seasons of the car Michael show and broad city Thanks for coming on the show. Thank you for having me. You've been busy lately. Oh, yeah, yeah, it's been good. Yeah All's been good. Um, just got you. I'm good, man. I'm good. I'm I'm you just got back from LA Yeah, yeah, I was in LA from like October to May Working at at the Carmichael show. Yeah, and that I've been here for you know back for a couple of months Do you which do you prefer is it? Do you like one versus the other is New York your your home? I grew up like outside New York, so I've always like I feel more comfortable there I've not I've like spend time in LA. That was the longest I've spent by I grew to like a lot more when I was there for a like that extended period of time And also the job was really fun. I think if I was doing something that I didn't like then I would just like a place But yeah, the work was really fun. So I really like yeah I think that's the thing is that a lot of people will criticize LA and say The traffic the people like those are the common things that people say are shitty about the city But I think it does matter like are you making enough money to sustain yourself in a city like New York or LA? Totally and are you doing a work that you actually enjoy completely? Yeah, it's like that really Let's me know if I'm happy I'm like I'm liking where I'm going during the day and you work most of the day We know where you're working on a like a long schedule like that, so if that's fun then everything feels fun I was it was it pretty intensive of a schedule There was like you know long hours, but like a fun way. It's like you know It was live audience taping so it's like the week leading up to shooting. It's like you're rewriting stuff Leading up to that so it's like you know it has to get done by that date. It's like a hard deadline So yeah, so in that way it can be like the hours can be later, but all and like a really always like fun way It's like exciting. Yeah, totally. Yeah So tell me a little bit about what I guess what are you doing right now since you just finished up that show You're over here in New York. Yeah, and then we'll kind of go back and talk about how you got started out Okay, cool. Yeah, so we've wrapped that up be here doing stand-up and we're gonna do some like stuff on the road this fall and then broad city will come out the fall So you worked. Did you just work on that's already written? Yeah, but I'd say we were the writing was actually last year and then they shot this Like I think it was like from February to April or May it was while we were working on the Carmichael show and then it'll come out I think it's sometimes this fall like late summer fall. Yeah, I think the the tough thing is and something that I'm realizing Having just started to do bigger Scope projects that really take up Six 12 months sometimes longer. Yeah, you have to be very careful about those projects that you get into because You have to make sure that you really love it and that this is really something you want to execute on because yeah By saying yes to that you're saying no to literally everything else Yeah, no, it's like I really have always tried to have that be like a guiding Principle with everything. It's like if you don't like it, you know, you have to really be sure that there's some sort of End to those means because otherwise it's like I know a lot people who just if you're going from Thing to think it can be really hard not to take those opportunities but sometimes the things that you did let go Can end up being really valuable because two weeks later somebody to ask you to do something that you really like So it can be really hard to yeah let those opportunities, you know come and go and one Yeah, so the Carmichael show and Brad see we're both things. I was like so excited about because they're both things that I was like a fan of and really really enjoyed and felt like really Excited to like get to be a part of it. Yeah, and then you know Try to always have that be the bar of like oh, this is something that would be so cool and I'd be really proud To have people see because there's so much stuff that's not good. It's like the last thing you want to do is like make your friends and family Go see something that you made that's terrible You know that it's terrible and you're like, but you should please watch it. Yeah, please support me. Yeah That's like Derek Sever is he founded the company CD baby.com if you remember back in the day Yeah, and he wrote a book and his main thing in it one of the things that at least stuck out to me was that when you're making a decision It has to either be a hell yes or a no if it's not a hell yes If you're not 100% into this project or idea then it's a no that's I mean that makes less sense But it's it's very hard and practices. Well, you know what I would say is that in the in the beginning That practice doesn't really hold up that well because you have zero opportunities and you're just getting started out I would say say yes to everything like when well except for like things that maybe question your morals Right, of course, right like when I first started out tons of wedding videos Yeah, dude. I did like the bar mitzfit intro videos like where I would film kids playing basketball Yeah, I create this like we used like like Dr. Dre or some like yeah, I'm in M music in the background. This kid runs out Like that was and but do it. It's good money and like that's why I said yes And also because I didn't have anything else to do and it helped me to hone my craft But now I would not do a bar mitzfit intro video Do a point of course. I'm not against going back. Yeah, I don't want you to say that because you don't know What if you get some huge bar mitzfit opportunities? Yeah, yeah, that's actually a really good point There are some artistic 13 year old, you know Hit out there who has like some incredible vision. He's like this is gonna be like a Sundance hit They can let me execute as well Of course That's fun. So so yeah, let's then let's go back and and talk about Kind of those early days for you. Yeah, when did you first start it start to get interested in comedy? Yeah Well the first time I did stand-up was actually I was so I started as doing stand-up and the first time I did it was right before I graduated high school I'd heard about open mics and I really want to do it. I grew up like an hour from New York And I researched one was at the comic strip in New York and so I like a few months out like Booked to do it and came down and I was like pet like so nervous and I actually I Barfed in the bathroom. Yeah, yeah, I really did my friend. I went with a friend and we were both gonna do it for the first time He went up and he was doing like okay, and then I was watching people go up and I'll do really Having it was you know if you never been to an open mic before it's a weird experience I mean it's you you have a vision of it and then you go and it's like oh, it's quiet Most people aren't getting any laughs So I was like, oh, that's gonna be me. This is gonna be the worst thing that's ever happened So I actually left during my friend set. I didn't even see it because I would just went and puked Wow, so I barfed and then then they actually I guess while I was puking they Skip my name so then I got back and it was like 30 people at this mic and I remember The woman's hosting it was just really nice lady named Gladys and she she was like okay We have one person left and then she called someone who wasn't me. Oh, no, I was like oh shit So I then I had to go and be like oh you think you forgot me so then that guy finished and then she got back I'm and she's like there's actually one more in the whole audience And I was like still it could taste like barf in my mouth and I went up I would blacked out and that was like I don't think I'm ever gonna do this again But then it was like one of those things where you know once that was so horrifying I was like well, I got tried it again when I'm a little less freaked out and so then I did it a few more times and then Sort of like in and out. I was really enjoyed the idea of it rather than the Performing of it at that time and then when I got to college I started doing it a lot more where we met and Philly and then and that's where I started my senior year of college I was like oh You know, I was like okay, I'm gonna really try to do this. I started doing stand-up instead of doing it like once every couple of months And making it a hobby. I was like I'm gonna really do it and so I started to do all the mics every week that year and then moved to New York after that year Essentially I think there is something about stand-up that kind of It kind of draws you back in especially when you first get a taste and you first do it. Yeah Were you writing for a long time before you did it? Yeah, I was like writing down a bunch is probably like a year and a half Just like yeah, I did the same thing. Yeah, it was like because I love the commie central presents I would always watch those and I remember there's these one night stands that came out on HBO It was like pretty so-called billbird and Louis C. K and I had never heard of any of them at that point And so I was like 16 17 and I watched those and I was like these were like I thought it was like incredible and so cool and then So I wrote all these things that were pride. I mean, they're right I know they were really horrible and I did them to an audience of People who probably didn't enjoy them But then yeah, it was just sort of the repetition of doing it. It's like you get more comfortable with it and you have more fun with it Yeah, it's it's funny that I was I just had Nathan Jaila on the show A couple weeks ago because his story is funny because he did comedy and Philly right and then then he instead of going to New York Like most Philly comedians. He went to Vietnam and Cambodia. Oh, man. That's great. I didn't know that Yeah, so he he basically made that While he didn't go over just for the comedy Many people go to Cambodia Like this is how I'm gonna make my big break. Yeah, of course But he went over to do one of those teaching things where you can teach English and then he saw Like a flyer heard somebody talking about stand-up comedy and he's like oh, okay, and then they just somehow pulled him back into it It's hard to quit. I mean, it is like a thing that I feel like whenever I picture like not doing it. I would still I'm like, oh, it's like Well, if I wasn't doing stand-up then when I have more time to think about stand-up It's like a weird thing. It's like it's like I would write more something. You know, it's like It's sort of like built in. You were always jarring stuff down. It's it is really fun Getting a new joke to work is like still like the most exhilarating feeling because it's like, you know You write jokes and it's like when you have a new one and it hits that first time you're like, oh, I got one to work again That's like I find that so inspiring because it's like this feeling of like taking Literally something that you just shot in your phone and then you said it and people laughed and then you feel like Okay, I'm still funny Sometimes that's how it starts. I think is that it starts in just conversation with people you tell somebody a story about yourself and you get this reaction. Yeah, you're like, oh, that's cool. I like that reaction Totally like I said something funny and like for me I feel like I have a good sense of humor but growing up. I was never the there's some people that are just hilarious of course naturally funny. Yeah, and that was in me I feel like I could have detected it and then every once in a while I would say something funny I do this So that was me too and I did it. I wrote for like a year You weren't even did it before I ever did stand up. It's just like filled up a journal with jokes And that's one of the things it's like for people who are just starting out in any of these these fields Yeah, keep it the the old stuff because yeah imagine. Do you still have some of the old notebooks? Yeah, I have all I've never thrown them away Some of them I go I actually will look back at them sometimes because sometimes you'll find like Especially if you wrote something down when you were like 20 or 21 and it's about Something in that time period the specifics in that story that you wrote down or so much better than if you were to like Oh, I'm gonna write a scene where it's like a 20-year-old in this feeling But sometimes those specifics that you have like even just like if it was like a small thing that you wouldn't even remember about your dorm Or if it was like a small thing that the way you would talk in college a lot of that stuff I find that my personality was the same back then but sort of like the point of view On certain things as evolved because as you get older, but the purity of those thoughts are still like there's something really like Sort of ignorant to like what life really is but is really how a 20-year-old will review the world or something like that Yeah, that's so true. It actually reminds me of I know you used to do some like writing for college humor Yeah, I remember one like article that you wrote on like I think it was finding places to imagine Like like things that you wouldn't write about now or even think about now Yeah, it was like that was like I was like, oh, this is like my opus You know, I was like Yeah, I remember I There was person there helped me draw cartoons that would compliment and I was like this is gonna be like a And that was really fun like I got to intern there so they would let you write these articles and like putting stuff out there like that was cool because it was a way to like To actually put work out in a way and we'll get seen by like a lot of people But it was like Yeah, it was like that's not something I would 100% make right the second, but it's something that you know In the right context would maybe make sense for a character to think of or something like right so you So I guess give me some perspective to We met during this comedy competition. Yeah. Yeah, I had a really good stick at the time where I wore like an ugly sweater And like you saw I remember that competition it went Nathan was in that too. Nathan was in it and then we had a couple other people from from Philly and right Yeah, and then on your team I remember it was you and then David Agicum Agicum. Yeah, that's right He's still he's a New York guy. He's in the art house. Yeah. Yeah, he's really funny. Yeah, so What where does it go from there and like what are I was there? You know people talk about big breaks And obviously people think I think people have a misunderstanding of what a big break is Yeah, and what it will do for your career, but I guess instead of saying big break what were some of the early like sighting opportunities that you had Well, it's like So I was doing it there in that year. I started to do after we did that around the time we did that competition Probably I started to do like the old mics at the Raven lounge and stuff like that which are really like a great place to go Was like a sense of first time. I mean like a sense of comedy community outside of college and stuff like that and like seeing the other comics and Philly and like just Really actually pursuing it and so from there I started to get like a couple of random opening opportunities that would come out of that like a helium was the comedy club there I remember actually like the big a big moment was like there is a three-minute and a five-minute list I've the open mic at helium and one day I got on the five minutes And that was like legitimately like I could have cried. I was like a big deal There was this sense of I mean for us coming into that the Philly comedy scene There are where the comedians that just seemed like they were always there and that were really sharp and really great And they all got the five minutes The host at the club and stuff like that. So then So an early thing was gained a host at helium right after I graduate college that was like really For me, you know, it was a really like meaningful thing and then so I was doing stamp there. I had had a good opportunity in that a a Manager for comedy had come who had I was doing stamp in this comedy group a college and he had found it at like years previous and so he came to See a show at our college and saw me there and he was like, oh, you know, you could do this Professionally I think if you really like focused on it, which was like a good encouragement I was always very hesitant to really go there But he was somebody who I would like email for advice and stuff and so When I decided to like really do it We started to work together when I moved to New York and he helped me with like a couple of early opportunities like he got me on a It was like this competition thing at Carolines and so I did pretty good in that and I started to get some spots at Carolines Which was sort of in that same vibe of like the helium thing where it was like, oh, okay So I only have one show this month, but it felt like I had a like a show that I could go do while I was doing open mics and stuff So those were like early things that like gave me some hope of doing it And then From there I got An audition for Comedy Central's comics to watch which is like this Stand-up showcase for the New York Comedy Festival and that went well and then I got on that List Which was like a felt like a really good accomplishment and then had a couple of small random I hadn't like set out to be an actor necessarily, but I would get these auditions sometimes from stand-up And so I got like a one line part in Louie was my first one That's right, but it got cut Yeah, I mean because I remember watching it and I think I heard about that you were gonna be on the show And then I watch it. I don't think I saw either It was like so that was like really exciting I was like it was like a random audition and I was like oh man I got it like a part in this like literally with the time Like I couldn't even fathom something like that I was like this is so cool was one my favorite shows and It was like one line and I got the call was this is and then I was in it I was like I didn't understand how things work with that like it was like it was all like a line at the end of a scene It didn't have a lot of like value necessarily to the scene Or maybe I did it horrible. I don't know if I remember like I was it in it and like my grandpa Is like you can't see or hear that great. He's not like you know He's older dude, but he He called everyone else knew that was cut But my name was still in the credits and I think he assumed that I must have stolen in it and he saw me and he called them or like send me a text or you know Be like you were incredible Literally wasn't You weren't even in it so that was like a moment of like you know you talk about these things at the time I was like okay, well, that's the end you know probably your career. You're acting career. It was like I was like oh man This is I'm I must have been so bad that they had to be like this line can't possibly be in this thing Yeah, and you think there's the worst case in total. So those were like that was like my first couple of years in New York was like doing open mics The Comedy Central Comics to watch and that one line and then I got like this little part also and um I just want my pants back which was like an MTV sitcom first season and so there were these There was lots of like I mean really the drive was like do stand up come up with ideas and then I would take the sort of where we were saying to saying yes to like any audition that anybody would have me out. I would go do and So those were like the earliest stuff that I did and then sort of the goal for I think a lot of like People when they started it Mike's my goal was like do the Montreal Comedy Festival like to do new faces there and so I was trying to do that and then got that maybe Couple years after moved in New York maybe two or three years or so that was kind of like the peak for you Yeah, that was like what am I goal was as like my moved in New York. I was like I wanted trying to do that festival. Yeah, and then So that was the you know that was sort of just going to open mics working on what that six minute set would be And waiting for the auditions to roll around and In between all this so these are kind of like the the big peaks. Yeah, yeah, and then like in in the valleys It's just a lot of stand up a lot of writing yeah, yeah, just pure like open mics every day and then meeting like moving to New York It was like meeting a whole group of new comedians like the open mics at the time where there was this one called the wood shed That was really like consider like the hardest mic. It was really great like the people there were really funny Some of them had already done stand up on TV and stuff like that. It was really strong That Dan St. Germain and Mike Lawrence hosted that was on Saturdays and then the pit on Tuesdays that Jay Welch hosts Which was really like another place where everybody would go and you would just try and keep up and have a Good set at those and so that was really yeah, it was but it was that same feeling of trying to get that new joke to work every night and just sort of feeling like you're building Just your own growth comedically because the you know the actual Stuff that you would be capable of booking or somebody be willing to give you Doesn't completely all exist at that point. You're really just trying to cultivate as much stuff as you could have So if someone ever was like oh, I do have an idea you have something or if someone's like hey, come do Come open for me and do 15 minutes. You have those 15 minutes or something. You have to be ready for it You have to work your ass off so then once you get lucky you're ready for it Yeah, yeah, and I think that the the big thing here is that you kind of you have this this Gole or at least You know the direction where you want to go right because they're in terms of like the self development world There's some people there's little about to who will say that You don't need goals to actually achieve anything you can if you just focus on your work and you enjoy what you're doing right now That's all that matters. Yeah, then there's other people like Tim Ferris who are goals are the most important thing That you can set in terms of Understanding where you want to go But no matter what either two of those paths you take What's most important is that you're you're just focusing on the work that you're doing and you're like you're just crafting each of those jokes and you're just trying It's a very micro view of it. You're not each time you go do stand up You're not thinking big picture necessarily, right? You're thinking about this five minutes. Yeah, though that and trying to always come up with jokes That you're like oh, this is really funny to me and feels like very personal to me That was sort of the way that I want about it was always like just it's still due to this day Is always trying to like figure out like what is a joke that would be something that I really care about and really want to say and some of them I'm really excited to tell that feels personal to me and feels like you know obviously it's like everybody has some something that they you know You need to them, but trying to figure out what's the most unique thing that you could say that's personal to you And sometimes you succeed that sometimes you don't but it's like you try and you know that sort of micro goal But in the bigger picture I knew like I had done screenwriting in college and I knew I wanted to write Like screenwriting and write for TV and write for movies and stuff like that where like those big goals like that You're talking about like so I knew in the distance of those things that I would really like to do and still would like to do And then so starting out was like knowing that those existed But taking these very micro step of like well if I get good stand up then someone might ask me to do this or someone might ask me to do that And just having some level of hope that would happen right, but but I think a lot of it too It's just surrounding yourself with like funny people and meeting people and like the comedians and that I met early in New York Some of them were so good or or even were just new and just naturally so good and sharp That you know and motivates you to get better at it when do you meet Kevin Barnett? I met Kevin Like he had been living here maybe you're I met him like a few months Living here and then I started to do stand up a lot together A lot of our random first little writing jobs at the same time and then We worked together on friends of the people and then have gone on to work together a lot since then Did you guys like become friends right away? Yeah, we we became friends Like pretty quickly. We were both about the same age and head similar sort of We were just sort of doing like working in similar places or doing sand with similar spots and then a lot of like literally the first Random first like MTV to writing job day or job. It was like the two of us and then it was we went on the road a lot together early on and so Just yeah ended up just being around each other a lot and then found that we Like working together a lot too And then you guys end up doing friends of the people. Yeah, so that that must be insane You guys literally it's like a billboard with your face on it Yeah, so that was like sign that came out of like a lot of people So that was seven people on that show who I'll created it or and all were executive producers and writers on it And that came out of essentially like partly doing Montreal also Some friends your main fowler Will well how are you who I didn't know at that's this point and Jim Bartels Had done there was like an in-living color reboot that didn't go forward that they had done and then when we were all at Montreal doing new faces We were like talking about we had been talking about doing a sketch show together and then had put together a pitch together That was Kevin in addition of those three myself Kevin and the Lucas brothers And then we did that for everybody was right around that we did that for two two two seasons ended up being two seasons on true and that's got to be like Pretty high achievement like kind of yeah, I think that's what a lot of people when they get into comedy And when you start writing and you're trying to figure out a show to get a show picked up is pretty damn big Yeah, it was cool. We it went through a couple of like processes. It was like a lot of take like from the pride the day that you Pitch it to I'm trying to even think like I'm trying to think of dates It's probably like from the day that you pitch it to the day that was actually on TV was like a year and a half You know, it's like it takes a long time for those things so I think like You know, I don't know if people have an assumption that would happen really fast, but it takes takes a while But yeah, that was like really cool. It was a great way to like make a bunch of stuff and Feel like you know, it was definitely like a A great way to feel like you were building towards doing other stuff and everyone's going on to do really cool things from it and What were some of the things that you you learned about Working on was that your first like long-term project like yeah, we're writing and you're acting and you're doing all this stuff What are some of the things that you learn like what worked and what didn't It's a variety stuff. So it's like you I think that A lot of it I think is sometimes confirming certain instincts. It's like if some of everyone's really Excited about a certain idea even if it's not fully cracking right away It's worth staying on that one because like very anything that somebody has like a real personal connection to Once you find what it is or how to write it It's always going to be some of the best work as opposed to something that Maybe instantly is just funny that can be really great too, but I think at least when we were figuring out sketches my favorite ones always tended to like come from somebody who had like a really specific Personal connection to what they were pitching and then With filming and writing it was always like you know the best stuff tends to be where That person who's driving it has like you know the vision for it comes through in the sketch You know what I mean? It's like they're like even if it's a small thing They're like oh the shirt has to be red because of this reason like those those end up being so funny because you can tell How much they care about it? I think if one thing I would draw out of this and from all the things It's like the more somebody you know when they really have a vision for what they want something to feel like and It's someone that you believe in that always ends up being like I feel like the best work or the best sketches we made on the show and stuff like that So what advice would you give to somebody who's just starting out and Because I think it's it's kind of difficult But I mean everybody's looking for like a life hack for every thing and like you can't life hack I think Comedy being successful in comedy and and and the hard work that is required out of it but at the same time You have thousands of people likely in New York that are aspiring stand-up comedian that are trying to kind of make a name for themselves Can they do anything else it's like worthwhile for I mean everybody can mediums got a podcast now Because I think you like what advice would you give somebody who doesn't know I feel like the truth is that I you know I don't know it's like a weird thing to say but I really don't know like To say like oh this you succeed at comedy like I'm somebody who's I've gotten to do a lot of things I hope to do and I have a lot of things I would hope to do that I hope I get a chance to do it's always like you're always Building towards something yeah, so like the broad strokes advice I think is You know it depends what you're trying to do in comedy, but I think Writing like making things like if you're if you're in a place where you're like I don't if you if you're doing stand-up you should be doing stand-up as much as you can in meeting other comedians and building that community People you know and then also just making sure you're doing jokes that you like and not that you're just like Hoping people would like or something like that. You know just like even if it takes a little while to find your footing with it like to really Tap into what you think is funny and hopefully people connect to it and then the You know if you have an idea for something find people if if you can't shoot it and you can't make it Try and find somebody who knows how to do that and see if they're down to help you with it and just really push through and Make it and even if it comes out terrible you tried or something like that I think Is that some of the sketches that we worked on early? Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, those were like early Yeah, not it's showing these to anybody. Yeah, but that was that was only due to me and to I Oh, those were me and Kevin. Yeah, that your work was flawless on those of course Obviously, no um there was the just friends one. Yeah, yeah, that was really fun. Yeah Yeah, that that that one had some good parts in it, but I was just I think also at that point I was just Speaking to like the self-consciousness. I felt at the comic strip, you know, that was a few years after that But like right I was always so nervous about I wanted everything to be perfect. Yeah, and there is like an expectation with stand-up Which is nice which is like it can't be perfect when you go doing open mic and there's an expectation it won't be But with those things those first things I filmed those like if this wasn't a full-out master piece I was like I don't want to put it out. I'll be like everyone's getting terrible But stand-ups also iterative so it's like if it doesn't work tonight, you can switch it up tomorrow Totally or you can literally do three open mic nights and in one night to craft something and make sure it's better When you put something on the internet and this is actually why I don't think many comedians and comedians are hesitant To put their work online especially a stand-up set. Oh, yeah, because it's always a work in progress Completely. Yeah, I really have hesitate to have much online. I've never participate too much in point stuff online Until I was like working on stuff that would go online in general like sketches from the show or things in general But yeah, I was always very protective of like not putting anything out there in a larger sense other than the 20 people were there until I was like Truly truly proud of it. Yeah, but I think that can work for different people like some people like that Just as me it's more like a personal comfort thing But some people just put stuff out and it can be really great I've seen people who like started Twitter and they just put out like 20 tweets a day and they're all kind of not great But then they get really good at it because they just did it and they were just through caution to the win Yeah, and you know, I think that's something that I would recommend. I think with stand-up. It's a little bit different In terms of like putting your actual sets online, but with the sketch stuff I felt that same apprehension in even doing this podcast because I have never up until this point Besides like a couple YouTube videos. I'd never done anything where it's like me putting myself out there Which is like it's just it's just terrifying Panic attacks like I can't do this. I can't like somebody please help me I can tell me that this is the right thing to do right? I just need like a encouragement and paths on the back Yeah, no, it's a real leap of faith. It's like but I think that's like kind of what you have to do to some extent Yeah, yeah, I think you have to just put your stuff out of it. It worked out for you anyway though You didn't did you put out many sketches like independent stuff? I know some short films But yeah, eventually I put out a short film that was like Sort of like a thing that I knew I'd always want to make movies like as I was like doing samples stuff like that And so I But I was in a director and didn't know how to do it or anything like that. So it was always like A thing where I was like oh I you know at some point if I had enough money to fund something and then as I started to see people make stuff friends of mine I was like oh somebody's it doesn't take A million dollars to make something if you have enough people willing to do you a favor who are willing to shoot this or do this So it was like actually right when friends of the people got picked up I had had this script it was like a 20 minute movie I really wanted to make and I had met this guy who was like down to do it and I really liked his work He had sent me a short film of his at one point and I was like thought it was very similar aesthetically to what I would want to make So when friends of people got picked up I was like okay, I'm gonna use some of this money towards shooting this So it was like right as we started the writers room my shot the short film on like four different days of the weekend And on this favor of these two directors who are really like Matt Porter and Matt Kazman and they Brought in Friends of theirs who were were like Incredible what they do. There's a deep-ename Ryan Who was just awesome and it's gone through a bunch of stuff for vise and stuff and so they were just all down to do this on very Limited But that was sort of like a leap of faith thing that was like I Didn't know how it would come out, but I had seen them make movies of similar length and they were good So I put a lot of trust in them and We just made it and it was just that was like one of the most satisfying experiences was just this short film that I made that Yeah, you know, I got into a couple of film festivals with it and then put it out on Vimeo had really liked it made it like a staff pick so I got so no way to get him out. What's it called? It was called hustle of Easter and it was just like that was like A story that came out of a stand-up bit that I want to convey in like a 20-minute movie and that was it was really it was really fun to make that was like a literally Not like no budget four or five days of shooting and it's not really all what four or five days for 20 minutes Yeah, that's a lot of work in the show Yeah, it's a lot of locations It was a lot of also like you know sneaking into places or shooting on the subway as it's moving and almost you know Ryan almost died a couple times Yeah, it was like because it would like turn and we're like trying to do all these shots Having friends actors come and do stuff Dan St. Germain played a part in a play-to-a homeless guy in it and he had to like sing in front of all these people But it was like real people and we had to do it a couple times because like the camp We would hit us up and he was just like god damn it, please don't make me a bear Doing it as like but he was just doing it as a friend it was just so appreciative Yeah, I was just so appreciative that he would do it and all my friends who were in it would come and do it Well, that's the thing I think sometimes I have this idea that people are only motivated by money and then I have to pay people for a project that that May I'm not getting paid for myself or to pass in project of my own and the truth is that a lot of people just want to be a part of Something that they believe in and if you believe in something enough you can inspire other people to want to Totally and I think that's sort of like Sometimes I really am would wait for somebody to affirm something that I wanted to do I'd be like why I have to run this by like 100 people to make sure they think this is a good idea, but eventually it's like If you have something you're really excited about You get the advice of some people that you respect who could be like, you know your friends I think it's always important to keep friends who are honest with you who could be like listen man That is one of the worst ideas I've ever heard Yeah, you're like no, it's not and then they explain to you why and you're like, okay, actually that's a great point It is to sleep on it. I think sometimes you just need a couple days to come back to it Yeah, of course, and then there's other times where you're just like You know if you if those couple of people that you run a bi or even just in yourself you're like I know this I feel like this would be good You have to take a shot on it. Maybe it'll be terrible. I have no idea But but at least then you'll know that it was a bad idea But I think sometimes the most frustrated I feel is when I have a bunch of ideas in my computer where I'm like I mean, I should finish this and I haven't but sometimes when you just do it you feel a lot better Yeah, you find and you learn when you do it too. Yeah, I think it's easier when you It's less stress and less pressure when you working on a project that's just a passion project and there's no money and Yeah, of course when you have people funding projects and it's like there's producers there and the clients there and you're like I have almost like a different I felt more nervous on the Passion project because I was like no one's my game If this is terrible everyone just wasted their time. I was like starting to feel I was like I was just like this is gonna be really embarrassing for them and then I have to like I kept picturing having to email everyone Eventually and be like look this just is horrible. I made a huge mistake So sorry, you're never gonna see it. Yeah, like send people like an Amazon gift certificate as it could don't like as a Consolation of like I so sorry that this is terrible Yeah, take everybody at the coffee individually. Yeah, and those things like the things where you're being funded to do it There's a pressure there that Exist too, but I think there's at least I've felt more like Okay, this is I've Somebody gave me a good advice once Where it was like when you get those things if you feel comfortable doing them You know you don't have to be if you're ever like holy shit I can't believe this is happening. It's usually a bad like a bad moment You're like but when you get something and you're like okay. Yeah, I think I know what to do here But I think all those experience of making the short film doing these random things all like make it so that when you get a real opportunity That you're getting paid for and finance you're like okay. Well, I'm just They gave us to you because of something that you did well don't change who you are how you go about making your work Just do with that again, but it's just in a different place. Yeah, I think it takes actually which is hard to do to it's like These things are like really it's like stay true to yourself. It's like that's fucking impossible But yeah, but yeah, but I think you have to do that. I think you learn that stuff through experience too And it's like you said the more you do it the more confidence you get in it, right? But still to this day like if I land a big client project And it's a bigger budget than I expected I'm like well shit. Am I actually like ready for yeah actually? It is in my worth that. I don't think that I don't think I'm actually going to make something that's good But then it's like I think you have doubts before any project like that Any time you're pushing yourself out of your comfort zone or doing something you haven't done before yeah No, it's exactly that you just kind of go in a little bit you're flying a little bit You just have to be like why I believe that I could do this. I think a lot of it, too It's just like watching stuff and being like well, I'm really I always felt like I'm never gonna quit doing this So I have to just take these things because I'm gonna not stop doing this so it'd be weird to never stop but also be afraid to take an opportunity So it's like you just do it because you're just like okay. Well if this goes terrible I'll just try again like it just is that sort of feeling and that's sort of what doing stand-up early on Is it's like every night it would be up and down of how well you did and if a new joke work or didn't but like I think that feeling has always just been true. I'm just like even if it's like went horribly I'm like why would just try another thing and if it goes well I'm just gonna try another thing so it's like I'm just gonna either eventually Sexy or just have wasted my time There's like kind of a feeling there's kind of two like roads But I'm already pretty far down the road of like I'm just gonna keep doing this so I You know, so hopefully it works out and if it doesn't then it's like okay. Well, I you know It didn't work out. Yeah That's how I feel I forget I think maybe I was talking about this with Nate But I was like if I ever gave like a motivational speech. Yeah, it would finish with or I don't know No exactly because I really don't know like you guy could you know We could all listen to this in 20 years and be like oh, man. That was he really that was horrible Yeah, that's why he stuck with it all these years and even though it wasn't working Yeah, what's it working? So it was committed. Yeah, like you don't want to be that person who inspires people with How you continue to go on despite it ever seeming like a good idea But that is like I think you have to go into it You have to go into it understand that it may just not work out I think that still going full throttle and because I think it's really hard to do these things when you have one foot in and one foot out Like the sooner that you're just like all right I'm going for it Even though I'm terrified and I barfed in a bathroom I'm just gonna go for it and I'll either succeed or I won't but I you know You have to just like take that leap because otherwise It's I feel like I get more done when I'm just like all right I really believe in this. I'm gonna go for it and Rather than when I'm like well, I don't know yeah, there's a lot of attention today with the self-development self-help world Focusing on the positive you've got the secret have you heard of the secret? I've heard of it. I haven't I haven't read a lot of those sounds Yeah, okay I think I I think I I think I watch the movie and then just halfway through like rolling my eyes because it's like It's an extreme point of view in terms of the the positive thinking stuff where they're basically saying that if you Think positively about getting a parking spot when you come home the parking spot will appear Like that's like okay, that's obviously not true But I think there's probably an aspect to positive thinking and being positive Outcomes that is helpful, but at the same time what I think people ignore is just imagining the absolute worst case scenario That's my favorite Like that's my entire life and that's what I do with every single thing Is that worst case scenario and then you realize that it it's really not gonna get that back Well, that's almost like the good part of Stand up is like when you've done stamp you have bombed in a way that you left feeling like you Embarrassed yourself in like a public way that you can't even like comprehend and like you don't even want to I've had sets like that where I leave being like oh my god, I hope I never see anyone there And those people think I'm a fool and just so you have this feeling of like bottoming out So when you do it again, and it goes while you're like okay I've had the experience of standing in a place in a cafeteria and no one listening to me and Embarrassing myself completely and then so all this other stuff. It's like You have to kind of go into it being like well, there's a world where this is the worst thing That's ever been made like I always picture there's uh, there's that famous movie that uh What's his face made that he refuses to release he plays like a clown in the Holocaust He's like one of the most famous comedies of all time That's embarrassing that to remember it's the old school or like a new old school and he didn't let it be released So that was like I always thought that story was so interesting it stuck with me as a kid And I was like You know that you could have something that you just wouldn't want anyone to ever see even at the height of success And Maybe it was I think might be Jerry Lewis and so I was like if it's wrong Then wrong and we'll head it out And so it's always weird to say how this is like been an impactful story that you can't remember the name of the person Yeah, like did you head into that story like fuck I'm gonna screw this up Yeah, as I started I regretted it, but you can leave it Yeah, but see this isn't an experience. This is a being an example of failing small failures Life is built on these small but just that idea. It's like people make I want to watch stuff all the time Like very how often do you actually see a movie and you're like that was the greatest movie I've ever seen it's very rare I mean it's like people put out a lot of stuff and some of it's really good and some of it Maybe isn't for you or is good to other people and it's like You just have to go for it because nobody knows nobody has any idea what it you know people have you listen to people who you respect Some of his friends of mine who haven't made a lot of stuff, but just have a really great taste or really good integrity Can give you the best advice even then over people who have made a million things it can be you know I think a balance of like Having those instincts and listening to people with lots of experience give you advice But at the end of the day, it's like you just kind of have to do what you want because I I don't know I don't know what I would tell somebody to you know how to do stuff necessarily other than Work hard and make things that you genuinely like when do you know when to to take risks and then maybe it's like Telling a joke that's a little bit maybe risky or working on a project that you're like I'm probably crossing the line here. Um, yeah, I guess it's Various I feel like stand up is an easy way to find out with that stuff because you get sort of that immediate reaction I feel like with When you're writing a movie script or something like that takes so many it takes so long that You want to feel pretty committed to the idea not too many doubts about it But I don't know I feel like my opinion on that stuff is always like if you Regardless what it is even if you're worried it might Irritate somebody or find somebody if it's something that you really like you should just do it and then Because either way somebody no matter what you make somebody's gonna hate it and somebody's gonna like it It's very rare that anyone makes anything that is universally loved so it's like, you know I think going into it with a healthy idea of like oh, there is a world where somebody's gonna say that they hate this and being okay with that I think it's probably the most important thing you can do because that's gonna happen no matter what even if you Shirk the thing that you thought would be the thing that they'd hate they'll hate some There's no way to you have to just accept that like the idea that you would ever make anything I expect that everyone will love it is like too naive. Yeah, it's not gonna happen But I think I think you're a great example because you are like one of the nicest people that I know Like I feel like you're just a very genuine person and you always want the best for other people But so you start putting stuff out there And then like you put enough content enough work out there that there are a lot of people that I've probably just like said really mean things about you online. Oh, I'm sure. Yeah, I don't like you don't look at it I mean there's probably comments on like videos that are like this sucks or whatever And you're just like but if there's also a bunch of comments that like this is good and you're just like that's fine, you know It also it's like I don't know it's like it is sort of just that acceptance of like Not everybody's gonna like everything. It's just a weird feeling to have but I think it's an Orton know that like even like I remember Experience I want to see fish in the dark which was Larry David's play. Oh, okay, and I remember I was in the lobby afterwards And Larry David's like one of my favorite Riders comedians ever like I love Kirby enthusiasm and sci-filer You know two of my favorite if not my favorite shows and so We're staying in the lobby and I remember hearing a lady turned her friend and it was at intermission And she was like yeah, it's you know, it's Larry David But it's okay, you know, it's okay, and she was like yeah, it's okay And that was just like even Larry David people are gonna be like, yeah, it's fine And it's like he's the greatest one of the greatest convenience of all time and think what you want about the play It's fine by I've met people who hate Kirby enthusiasm I say it's the worst show of all time and to me it's the greatest show of all time I've met people who don't I what remember showing time fell to a friend and college and they didn't get it And I'm just like well, if there's someone out there who's not gonna get that then who am I to be like oh man this guy I thought this video I made so David can't make everyone happy. Yeah, of course. It's like so I think you just have to be Cool at that and even if you put out something that's truly horrible There's so many stories of people you can I used to read people's Wikipedia's comedian Wikipedia's or writer Wikipedia's so often it's very rare that anyone has a a perfect is throwing a perfect game where everything they've ever made was Something that they were proud of or good with you know what I mean? It's like everybody's got a poody time That's something so it's like I don't know I don't fear it too much and then I'm like well If I made the worst thing of all time then I would just have to not do comedy anymore, which would suck and that would just But I would probably still make other things maybe it would be liberating Yeah, the next thing ever and be like well, he made the worst thing of all time So this next thing actually was not that bad. It was like a better. Yeah, it was better worse Thing but that's what I think is so funny about Creating putting your heart and soul into something working so hard on something and then somebody just like Yeah, yeah, it was all right. Yeah, no, and then you just have to be cool with that You know what I yeah, that's I mean if you get scared of but if anybody thinks that what you did is amazing That's pretty cool if you get one person. That's pretty that's a lot. I don't know. I mean you know We're all you have to be someone I guess narcissistic to do any of this that you think your ideas are good To tell people all the time, but but you also have to be willing to just realize like that if one person likes it That's pretty good and then you hope more than that obviously Yeah, if you want to make a sustainable living off of what exactly More than one person's really rich Then you're fine. Yeah Yeah, I think that you tend to get more Empathy once you start creating stuff and putting it out there and you have your name on it. I think then you start to realize That and an understanding what that person went through to make something and I think it's okay to criticize ideas criticize maybe people that That's the balance that I have that that I that I struggle with because I do think you know Say if you're in an open forum and you're debating an idea with somebody Yeah, and a lot of ways you're criticizing that person and what they stand for I don't do it much, but it's like you see it a lot especially now with politics and how everything is totally on fire But I guess where do you stand on that in terms of of Criticizing work. Do you I mean, I guess you probably don't have much space for it. Yeah, I mean I try not to like I only would Think you watch things in your critical of them only in the way of like well if I were to get opportunity like this Maybe I would do it like this. I wouldn't do that. It's not my taste But try not to be like Just slamming something for the sake of it. It's you know, I tried Critical when I watch things like feel like very critical a lot But but only in so much as like thinking of like how I could Could have made it better or how I could be better or recognizing something that you know You could learn from and I mean, I think that's a lot of even watching like Everything that you make you would like if I did it again. I would do it differently. Yeah, and it's like I don't know it's it you can't take too high of a ground. Be like this is terrible because of you You know you probably will make something that someone will feel that way about Yeah, it's like totally but I think the goal is just always like if you can argue on it's behalf like Like like we were going to time out like offending people or something if you If you feel like if someone you could picture even just somebody being like this is terrible If you feel like you would be comfortable being like no you're wrong Then I think you should always say or work on those projects and even if even if it's not necessarily offensive But just saying that you're have like an emotional attachment to Some of the recent projects he worked on the Carmichael show in broad city. Yeah, pretty amazing to have those opportunities to right for these shows Yeah, it was us was broad city first broad city was first. Yeah. Yeah, that came being Kevin did a After friends with people and we did a we pitched an idea to NBC and done a script with them together and then After that we went it was like probably a couple months after that we started working on a Broad city and I'm curious like take me into that that that process and that experience Obviously you've you had a little bit of experience writing for a show. I mean yeah two seasons at friends with people right So what was that like It was I mean it was it was it was it was just great because it was like you're coming into it You're like a very awesome opportunity coming into a show. It's and it was this is going to be the fourth season So it was like they had made a lot of incredible work So you're coming into this thing that like they know what they know what the show is and like it was this You know both that and the Carmichael show were cool experiences because they're Comedians who created the show and have a really clear voice and like have It makes it just so fun to right for because you just know like you know that it's being guided by these people who really have a vision for what they want those are always like Think we've been proven in time to be the best shows always sort of like last time out earlier like when someone it's based on this Happened to me or this is something I really care about and I want to convey that emotion and Some sort of a scene. It's like those things are always so authentic and I mean it's cool to watching these shows and being fans of them And then and being like I really like this show and these are people that I've known People have made these shows are people I knew before they had these shows You know just from doing stand up and stuff like that so you have this relationship with the with them as just like Appeared to and stand up or whatever and then to just when you get in the room You're like oh the reason this is great is because they're great and they are really really awesome at this and they know exactly with it So it's just cool to glean on that and Help where you can be a part of it. So when so I'm curious about the actual dynamic of like in the room How many writers are on the show and how does the process it was brought to a smaller smaller room And the car Michael show is a larger room. So like Think bratsy would be anywhere from like Sort of varied over the time where there was like five to eight people and then the car Michael show was about 12 maybe about 12 and Obviously very different because one's a single cam and one's a multi cam show So the production schedule. We weren't there for the production on bratsy. We're just there for the Right and that that's pretty intimate though five to eight people. Yeah. Oh, yeah, it's super intimate. Yeah, it was really Yeah, it was like you get to know everybody. It's just like a very it's just really fun. It was like you know You're basically you know boarding ideas or boarding episodes or pitching ideas in the beginning where it's more just like open We're talking about and then as things get whittled down to like okay, this is going to be an episode and Populating it with how the story is gonna be structured and how it's gonna work those are sort of like the You know the arc of writing right yeah, actually I am curious about that process too So it obviously starts out big ideas and you go into it. I imagine With do you go into it with so this is probably episode one two three four five six like this is the structure of it Nothing like well, it's I think you know This is you know you're working for them towards a vision that they want to have so it's like they may come in with that sort of idea of like This is gonna be how the seasons gonna be arced or something like that, but you're there to just sort of You know Came in with episode ideas or topics that thought would be cool for the show Kevin. I had like met we worked on these shows together And wrote episodes together So we had met up before both Room started where we'd be like okay, let's just talk about like ideas that we think would be cool So that we could come and prepare it with ideas and just even you know Not necessarily pitch them all on day one or something like that, but as it like organically came up He like oh well, we actually had thought about this thing that you know because tend to be over prepares for stuff and want to you know A lot of great ideas end up coming up organically in the room But sometimes it's nice to like those jumping off points and both rooms were really cool about Like the idea of in the beginning, you know coming in with You know being open to lots of ideas and hearing everything and then you know the people who were You know running the show whittling down to the things that they're most passionate about or and then you start to Design episodes out of that. Yeah, I think that's actually amazing advice is go into a project Or going never go into a project or a meeting or a client call or anything without being Extremely prepared and having a couple ideas. Yeah, for that. I think it's always good to have them But also be don't try and jam them in that's always like game estate too that I feel like In early writers rooms you learn of like if you came in too much with like all right I'm gonna pitch this today and then you're just sitting there waiting to pitch that thing in the right moment You'll miss other things that if you're just like listening and just talking you may come up with something really cool or There's a day where it's like oh we're talking about this this would actually make sense here as opposed to like Trying to like be like oh you're talking about dogs. I had this idea about it Not a dog but a person who would be you know, and it's just like everyone's like oh, it's not what we're talking Yeah, that's not on the same stream. I thought yeah, that's a really good point is that You have these kind of in your arsenal and you're ready to go with them But you have to listen and and a lot of times if you're just getting started on a project That's probably the most important thing that you could do to really understand What the the creators and or the client is actually looking for yeah, and no because You know on these two particular shows that's driven by these like incredibly talented people who could write like you know Have amazing ideas that they already know would be great. Yeah, so you just want to like you don't want to be like You know you want to hear what that we're but both were like very like oh this is like a blues guy We just say whatever you want to say and I just thought I mean both were just awesome. They were truly like I feel very lucky to work on both I just thought the saddest thing ever where you're saying like don't go into something and just say I have to say this because I told myself I would yeah, and like I had a flashback to like eighth grade dance Like I was like gonna ask this girl that was my friend dance with me and I was like I was gonna ask her out And I told other people that I was gonna ask her out. You put yourself in the corner. Yeah, and then like I Like I went up to go ask her to dance with me and then she ran away Yeah, I had a tough childhood. Yeah, and then she I was just like through my hands out like okay I guess I guess that's not gonna work out and then she ended up I guess she felt bad and then she came back and danced with me Well, that's great guilt and I still asked her out Yeah, no, it's you got yeah, you got to be able to audible. Yeah, you know you changed the plan Yeah, you don't want to beat too much like I did another one where I you I had a similar situation where I was like kept asking this girl like can you ask your friend if she likes me Like trying to go through her and then the report back was like she doesn't feel that way about you and then I was like Well, I'll just ask her again and she's like I'm giving you the report and I was like, you know what Other people are telling me that you probably around even those prisoners are their best friend You know what I'm not gonna be afraid and then I did it and was like oh no, it's huge right The intelligence was exactly Yeah, the toe was very good that I just blew right through it. This might explain Our lives right now or some of this childhood regret. Yeah, we just bury these these horrible things, but yeah, I think that's those are sort of how those rooms Worked, you know, they were like asking a girl out of the dance Exactly So what are you most excited about moving forward and Kind of future projects. Yeah, you know the one big thing about stand up Uh From from what I know is that everybody's trying to somehow Tell their story or bring a part of themselves and their experience into a project and Trying less and less to be Stand up Jokes as opposed to being yourself or a reflection of that is that something you look for as you continue to create projects and and what are some of the big things you're looking to Yeah, I mean for me person is like I really I'm really excited. I really like working with Friends I've been fortunate to get to work with people who are my friends a lot of time And I think that there's some real comfort in those projects because there's sort of like you know You know what their style is or what they would feel compelled to so I think sort of building those projects with like Kevin and I work on a couple of projects together and Work on other projects with friends and we're just trying to You know, I've always wanted to create my own stuff like create shows movies and stand up Obviously is in and of itself clearly like you're creating your stand up So uh take opportunities to Pitch and work on stuff while you know taking opportunities to write for shows or people that I Really really enjoy right I think that's what it is right. It's just Continuing me to enjoy the work you do and like creating those alliances and those friendships Yeah, because if you were doing this stuff by yourself It wouldn't be as as fun. Yeah, I think it's I always like it's fun to work Stand up obviously is always an outlet to have completely by yourself, you know But in other stuff, it's I find it you know it's always gonna be protective of the tone of something I feel like that's always the you know when you have too many people Collaboring it's harder to hold on to like the tone is like a little more finer point But like I think always having when you agree on that and everybody's an agreement. It's always fun to be there and pitch with people and You know, so those are sort of like the broader strokes things I hope to do is you know create projects and Continue to get to hopefully write for things that I feel really good about you know I guess that my goals are to have it go good and not be at the end being like oh fuck That's all I want. I just don't want to I've always picture just not dying being like oh my god What a huge wow this was such yeah I don't know hold your last words. Oh, no. Yeah. Oh, no. This is so Fuck, you know, so like that's really the major goal is to avoid that emotion and so that's sort of driving all of it As much as like there's been all these flowery things of like you know, I really want to create things that make me It really is I just don't want to die being like oh fuck That's really it that's actually a great point because that's like you said you're gonna have these moments where you Maybe fucked up you did fuck up you had a bad experience this project and work out the way you thought But you're dedicated to keep going and not and don't a fuck up Yeah, you don't want to end on the oh fuck and maybe I will maybe and we'll talk again I'll be like let's actually realize when you fail this big it's better to just Just delete everything it just go into the sunset that would be like a beautiful ending though in a lot of ways Totally no, I mean that was a movie that would actually be a pretty good ending. I think oh, yeah, that's not bad Yeah, I mean my backup plan has always been that I would go to a place that had very I like bagels a lot You know, so I would go to a town that has very low bagel density like we're on a good bagel store And I would just open I'd be like the bagel guy in that town and then I just everyone There's nowhere else to get a bagel so they would just come to me and I'd be like the guy with the bagels That's It's smart that's always what I think about so that would be my that would be after the oh fuck Is the bagel store and then if the bagel store plummets then it's like you'll just never see me That's genius that's I that's kind of like the worst case scenario, too It's like worst case scenario. I'll just open up a bagel store right which I've sounds a lot Sounds nice and theory, but it's really hard to make a good bagel and I you know, I read about it a lot Do you yeah, there is I really want to I really want to I do want to do it at some point genuinely But do I love bagels you got to let me know because I'm a big bagel fan There's a bagel smith right here. Oh great, man do it, but yeah, no, that's a very successful bagel store Yeah, they're doing great. Yeah, they're like a chain now. They got a bunch of ones. I know I would love to you know have my bagels smith at some point But I don't know if that'll happen. What what's your favorite bagel in New York? It's a good question. I really like this one by my apartments called Montague Street Bagels They really good esbeagles are obviously very good in famous bagels smith makes good bagels my favorite one historically is the My hometown is probably it's called the Harrison bagels. Yeah, they have a great bagel the Harrison bagels. They make a great bagel. Wait have you ever have you ever been to Where is it what's that Canada? It's not Toronto. Oh, what's the the French version. Oh Montreal yeah, but was it Montreal? What do you that the one that's right up here that they do bagels very differently? Oh Maybe your time at black seed bagels. I think that's I think so is it in Montreal? Montreal is the one where they speak French. Yes, okay. Let me start that over. I have not been in the black seed bagels. I heard that it's a different take on a bagel. Yeah, well, they like a rosemary bagel. Yeah, that's a very thin It's definitely a different it's a different take. It's not it's not like a New York bagel. Sure. It's not the same experience. Yeah, it's still pretty No, I'd be great. I think I would have all sorts of options at my bagel store. There's a lot of big hopes and a lot of big dreams But it's going to be in a very low bagel density place like it won't be you'll really have to because I don't I want to go It's probably very hard to launch a bagel store in New York. It's probably the most competitive bagel market very I would probably go to it like literally a place where there's no competitors because I just wouldn't the idea of opening the bagel store and closing it would be tough I feel like eventually you're going to make a movie about a bagel store It's going to be called the bagel store. That'd be fine. All right. You want to do quick questions Okay, no quick questions. Okay sure. Yeah, it's a segment I have to answer quickly now. I went out really like it's more so The questions are quick. Oh, then the answers are just as long as you want them to be okay. There's really no It's not like well, it's things we have to answer like a millisecond after it's said because you're trying to get like the raw Yeah, the yeah, like a raw track test. Yeah, those are always really What one skill should people learn today that will help them in five years? Um, I guess like you know like a serious answer would be I guess like being cool with failing I think I think that's like I really I feel like for me has been an asset is how Much I accept and embrace the idea that things don't go well sometimes. So I think that that's really helpful Because that a lot of weird like with work. I think inevitably like a lot of things have gone right and wrong But like those moments where you're like oh, this is kind of this kind of sucks, but Finding that those moments even funnier is like for me it's been a helpful thing Do you try to create a work life balance Um, yeah, yeah, I do I was always a little pretty conscious that I Wanted to I think that there's Sometimes like being outside of work is where you can find new ideas that excite you because you're you know When you first start you are a person in a world that has no You're not in the world of the work that you're doing at all and you had all these ideas So sometimes it's nice to be outside of it because then you have you you have both authentic experiences where you're like Emersed with people who don't do what you do. I think that's really nice to be around so I've always been motivated to I I'm in a happy relationship, so that's good and So I'll I think so yes No, no, no, I mean there's a chance that you should just put yourself only into your work because there's also people There's really good examples of people who have no social life and are far more success Well, you know, I think it's probably like it's a it's a case by case basis and maybe some people Just aren't good with relationships right better just to work. Yeah, it's so there's a real chance that you shouldn't do that But there's also a chance that you should really it just you should do what you know Makes you not be completely miserable, but then also I would say there's some people who seem to push themselves towards misery And it does wonders for them. So I know yeah, but that's interesting thing is that I feel like there's a lot of Comedians I don't know if this is a stereotype that comedians are all like unsatisfactory Be miserable people. I think that's agree. I mean, I think unsatisfied is probably right because I think that there is this like It's this continual chair and like stand up especially is like this thing that feels like this life long You're like you're never done. It's like you put out this and it's like building You got to put out that and you're trying to always put out new things So there is sort of an unsatisfied feeling whereas Which I'm sure exists with which exists with filmmaking to filmmaking is a little more like a project ends And you put it out where stand of a sort of this never ending thing where you do put out stuff at times, but Yeah, I would say that unsatisfaction probably is a helpful thing, but you know being happy at moments could be good or not be I don't you know just don't It's funny because there's a question in here that's how do you face doubt and I feel like that was our whole episode It's talking about Overcome doubt. I think you over come. Yeah, you're just embraced the idea that you don't know and also be really just I think it's fun to fail sometimes in a funny way Like I mean, there's obviously versions of it that have been like terrible and you're like, oh, this is horrible But as long as you keep going the only way that you don't Sexy and what you're doing is if you stop right after a major failure then you so as long as you keep going You could find like a higher point to leave on probably yeah, and it makes good stories Totally like some of my biggest failures are some of my favorite stories Completely yeah, it's the little it's like the little things like you talk about this a lot in your standup Like being awkward and and stuff and it's like the cringe things though like the smaller moments are the ones I don't like to look back on it. I just don't ever want to remember that incident ever again Yeah, no What's your if you had like a thing that was your favorite material possession or most I would say what's your favorite thing material possession. Yeah, you're favorite thing He's looking around the man. I don't know. I don't know I don't know amazing that I like no Try to think yeah, you have these like I have this I have this hat. It's my hogs hat It's actually a Arkansas Razor backs hat that I wore every day from like eighth grade through 12th grade and it's Disgusting and has a huge holes in it and but I've kept it And it's been in every word that I've lived and it just I like having it like on my desk when I work Because I just remember that used to wear this horrible hat everything I thought it would change everything like I really thought like when I put this hat on I was like, okay, now I'm the coolest guy in the world But that doesn't that doesn't how it works So it's a nice reminder to know that this hat still continues to exist to remind me of that I'm just an idiot who has no idea what to do That's great All right last Question one name one thing that people should read before they go to bed tonight. Ooh Man, that's tough You know because you can don't want people to waste their time You know You know that's they start reading. They don't finish the whole book. Yeah, I just start reading I think what I read recently. I really liked There's a couple things I really I've just I don't didn't understand it but it was fun to read was A brief history of time by Stephen Hawking Is they didn't understand it? I mean I understood parts of it but it was fun to read because it it's like that right level of like Oh, man, I'm getting this and then there's something where you're like, oh, I don't get that Yeah, I don't know but it was I'd say read that because it's important to remember that The universe is expanding and that we don't really know a lot of stuff and that there's something kind of I find that kind of fun to remember That you're just on a rock and a big thing. Yeah, you don't know why and you forget and especially in New York like you can't really look up and see the stars So you forget but I remember growing up is like looking up at the stars and realizing like oh Yeah, like this problem I have right now is not a big deal Yeah, nobody cares about this problem. Yeah, like the earth won't exist eventually. Yeah, I think oh, it's a good thing to know Yeah, you know, I think that is reassuring in some ways Yeah, it'll help you like this sleep. Yeah, it's okay. Yeah, if you're like oh man, but I can't get the financing it's like Poet Earth is not good. There won't even be an Earth There's gonna be no Earth in the next or maybe they'll figure out a way to keep it, but I think it's gonna go. Yeah, I think it's gonna I think we have like I mean we're gonna be here I think While with the global warming stuff. We're not really. Yeah, we don't know That's the whole thing. You know, all right guys, so thanks for listening Good luck out there Well, how should people connect with you online? You could connect with me Twitter. I just started doing Instagram actually like two months ago I think I like Instagram I've never been a big social media person, but yeah, if you won't go on your first post. Oh, yeah, that's another impossession I really like that Honestly, that's got to be an all-time high video. Oh, yeah. No, that was really cool I will Smith autographed tell me to stay jiggy. That's important Is that something that you just always that's my life? That's been over every day. It's in my head I'm just trying to do it and every day. I don't live up to it. So I jiggy with it All right, cool, so Thanks for listening and that's the show. Thanks for being on. Thank you for having me. I hope it was good. That's great. Great
