# Instagram Strategies
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=olbLHwM8sVk
http://www.groundupshow.com

Photographer Dylan Schwartz talks with Matt D’Avella about how to optimize your Instagram feed & the small details that make a big difference.

Watch the full episode at http://www.mattdavella.com/046
Follow Dylan on Instagram: https://goo.gl/BTB79c

Thanks for watching! Please leave a review on iTunes if you got some value out of the show: https://goo.gl/c4Pvnv
**Keywords:** ground up, the ground up show, podcast, audience, influencer, dylan schwartz, matt davella, Matt D'Avella, interview, conversation, self-help, how to, instagram, 
**Date:** 2018-02-15

## Transcript
 Yeah, it's interesting watching, and I know a lot of them are friends with a lot of professional photographers who are photographers away before Instagram, and it's interesting to see how professional photographers either like embrace or kind of push away Instagram. And yeah, I think there's obviously a right way to do it. I think a lot of professionals don't necessarily want to share their finished work on Instagram a lot of times, I'm not sure exactly why, but it's okay, it's okay to, you know, if you want to be more personal, obviously that's fine too, but I think for me it becomes, you know, it's about, you know, I think it's almost like looking at like programming a channel, you know, it's like, I want, I want every piece of content to be as good as the last or better, and so I'm not necessarily looking to share anything from my personal life. It's more about a platform for my creative self. Yeah, that's what mine is turned into to where you can certainly see the evolution not too long ago, when it would just be pictures of food or like my trip to Sydney, and it's very personal, but then as I started to do this podcast and I started to get more, you know, more and more dedicated to actually trying to build this this following and trying to create something, that's where that's actually, it's become my life though, you know what I mean? Like the film itself is my life, it's a part of me, and instead of just starting over from zero followers with ground up show, I was like, you know what, I'm just going to put myself into my personal account and try to grow this thing. I'm actually doing the video now, like a majority of my posts are videos. And I'm trying, because I'm like, when I did the podcast, I was like, how can I separate myself? How can I make this a little bit different than every other podcast out there? It's 2017. It's a little bit, the market's pretty thick, and it's a little bit hard to separate yourself from the very beginning. Sure. So I was like, ah, while nobody has like really dope videos for their podcast, right? So not only can I shoot this whole thing, and you know, some of the, some of the actual long full episodes get a decent amount of views, but for the most part, the listeners tune in on iTunes. Yeah. So I don't really create this and shoot these with that thought in mind that like, oh, people are going to watch the full episode. Right. I'm thinking, I can cut together four to eight, really dope videos that I can share across my accounts that will get people excited, because to listen to an hour and a half conversation, or to watch a two hour documentary, you need a trailer for sure. You need something that's going to tell you a little bit about what you're going to get. Right. So that was my thought process, and I've been evolving the videos and kind of adding different elements of be-roll and different, like quotes upfront. Like, there's certain things, like we were talking about with the constraints that you have to keep in mind, where now a lot of the ones I start out with, like, a quote with the person on the white backdrop. Right. So I'm like, okay, that's probably going to catch somebody's attention, and if I can get in with that quote, because they're not hearing the music or the sound, then they can unclick the audio, and then the rest of the teaser will play out. It's time to tune me, but it's, well, it's what you have to do. Yeah. I think, you know, to think about, and this is what you know, just coming from, you know, the agency, not too long ago, like, everything they do, everything you do now for brand, like you have to create content for, you know, 10 different formats, 10 different platforms, right? So it's almost like you can't look at it as, like, a commercial shoot or a print shoot. You just say, everything is a, I was like, it is, like, a content event, right? And so you're creating this, whatever it is, a scene or whatever, and then you have to figure out how to create all of this content and all of these different formats out of that one sort of event. This is an event. You're going to create, you know, content for Twitter, content for Instagram, content for YouTube, content for the movie theater, whatever it is. Yeah. But it has to accommodate everything. Yeah. For, like, obviously, a big team in the agency, it's certainly easier. I had Billy Disney, who he does video content for the outline, they're amazing online publication. And when they first started out, he actually recorded, they recorded all of their videos. I think they were using Sony's, but they would shoot their videos accordingly. Genius. And like they would do the interviews like that. So it, you know, it was a full profile. Yeah. Both for Instagram stories and like Twitter and Instagram itself. Yeah. You could create square videos or vertical videos that looked really dope. And like, he's like, everybody was hitting him up because he knows all the other people in media. Right. And like, how did you do that? Like, how did you go about creating, because it was, they also shot in 4K. So for YouTube, they could crop it down. Right. Right. Right screen. Yeah. So, but he's like, they only had a team of like six people. So they're like, we, we had this big bold idea in the beginning. And eventually maybe we'll get back to it. But it's hard to maintain with such a small team. It is. It's really hard. Yeah. The whole idea about shooting vertical, something I'm really familiar with. We did a whole big, the last sort of big campaign I worked on before I left and found in my company was all about vertical video. And, you know, basically, we had, we had the sort of the briefers like, okay, 2017 is the first year where people are going to watch more content on their phones and they do on televisions. Right. And the massive percent of the content you see on your phone is vertical and all of it should be vertical honestly because that's the best format to fill your field of advice. Well, yeah. What he was saying though, too, was that for, I could be wrong. Like, you could correct me if I'm wrong. But like, more shorter form content because it's the act of turning the phone. Yeah. So if it's over two to three minutes, it's long enough that you might be inclined to share it. But most content is ingested very quickly in short bursts. Totally. Yeah. No, it makes sense. Yeah. So there, I think there's like, you know, there's a huge need to figure out, like, how do you, how do you accommodate for that, like, like we're saying earlier, you're trying to create content for all these platforms. And now you also have to create it for different, you know, aspect ratios that are like wildly different, you know, it's really hard to shoot one shot that works in both nine by 16 and 16 by nine. It's kind of challenging. Yeah. I think that's, that's uh, like, yeah. And I think you have to start small and just get started as always my first piece of advice because it's going to evolve and change over time. Yeah. And there might be some pieces really. Wow. Well, it's not going to work as a square. I'm just going to, you know, make it wide screen. Yeah. How important are those details to you as now, like an independent creator, somebody who's branched off to do your own thing? Do you find those small details to make a big difference? Yeah. I do. I do, especially with clients that, you know, I think when you have sort of educated clients, they really appreciate when, you know, they're not the ones asking you to make sure everything will, will crop right in vertical. You're the one saying, okay, I'm going to shoot this in vertical primarily. And I think, you know, they love hearing that because usually it's struggle for them to, to make sure their vendors will have their working with. They're going to be able to produce content that's going to work for all this information for them. I'd say if you're taking the lead and really like the initiative in that, I think there's, they definitely appreciate it. Yeah, actually, you're totally, especially with the client stuff. I mean, these are companies usually that have massive reaches as well. Yeah. So, like doing something is subtle and saying, all right. And then, so we'll also record alternate endings for YouTube, Twitter, Facebook, like all these different social platforms. They love that. Absolutely. And it's very thoughtful and it works for big audiences because then that makes a huge difference because if you can convert 10 percent more on YouTube, that means a whole lot to that business. Absolutely. When you're starting out, this is why I'm saying, I don't know if it's important when you're starting out. Because for me, it's like, all right, what do I get two more likes? Yeah. Or I get two more conversions. Sure. But probably just, like, in terms of best practices, it's good to think about these things. Yeah. I mean, I think on, you know, just looking at my own Instagram and other brand Instagrams that I, that I've helped, you know, sort of feed content to the vertical post. I think it's kind of on the speed just performs better. So, just like talking about in the feed, like full vertical, four by five vertical, you know, versus even a square, versus anything that's horizontal, your vertical is always going to get on a water percentage, but definitely gets better engagement. Oh, like that. Yeah. Do you do all your photos in that way? Almost very, very, very, really doing not post. You can, can you do videos in that? Absolutely. I think if you look, yeah, almost every single post I've done in the last year's vertical. Yeah, man, you might have just changed up my strategy here, because I've been doing square just because it's it's easier. Yes, sort of working. And also, yeah. Yeah, right. Exactly. It's just kind of a zoom that you go square. Yeah. It makes sense just because the phones are such a finite screen. Sure. So you have that, like, 3% extra space on the screen. Yeah, more real estate. Yeah, more real estate. I'm offering you more real estate. You should take it. Yeah. Yeah, because I haven't even been one to post like the really thin wide screen ones, right? Where you're like, shit, or even the ones where you crop it down even more. You do the end more fig chip. Yeah. Where you're like, man, is anybody actually going to look at that? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It would be great if there was a rotate your phone feature on Instagram. Maybe we'll get there one day for videos, but until then it's just, it's so hard to, to just, you know, have people get engross in the content, you know, because it's just a matter of pixels and, you know, you're just giving them less information. So fill up, you know, like, played at the platform, played at the rules that are there right now and take advantage of it. Yeah. I geek out with this stuff. I like it. Like a lot of, I mean, people, the best advice is obviously focus on the craft, focus on the story, blah, blah, blah. Yeah. That's amazing. It's nice. And I sure, I say that all the time. Yeah. If you, if you make a shitty video, but it's in, you know, that four by five aspect ratio, no, but he's going to watch it. It's not going to get traction. Yeah. It's not going to be effective. Yeah. Let's just say, that's obvious, right? That's guaranteed. So it's like, all right, what are the details that we can tweak to actually make the experience better and also gain the most traction? Yeah. Yeah.
