# Opening up to Possibility // Ground Up 071
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=or-Z_6zonVU
Find Brandin here: https://www.instagram.com/brandinlashea/

Brandin LaShea is a chef, business owner & host of an online show called POTPIE, a series where she cooks cannabis infused foods for her friends.

We talk about marijuana and its many myths, as well as knowing when to celebrate and when to put that extra cash into 401k.

💯 You can also follow me here:
Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** create, creator, get started, ground up, make, matt davella, matt d'avella, podcast, podcasting, start, the ground up show, brandin lashea, potpie, weed, marijuana, conversation, 
**Date:** 2018-08-01

## Transcript
 Welcome back to the Ground Up Show. I'm your host Matt Dihevella and today I'm sitting down with Brandon Lishay. She's a chef business owner and host of the online show pop pie. A series where she sits down and cooks. Cannabis infused foods for her guests. She actually doesn't sit down. I don't know why I said that. We do talk quite a bit about marijuana and it's many myths. The history of hip hop and how it's changed over the years as well as knowing when to celebrate and treat yourself and when to put that extra cash into a 401k. It's a fun conversation, a lively conversation. I had a great time talking with Brandon. Let's get right into it. Welcome to the podcast. Welcome. This is it. We're just gonna get into it. You have done a lot. A lot in your life. Yes. Like we do. It seems like an old life now as I get older. I'm like, okay, it's it's good that I've done a lot. Yeah, like there's the hip hop rapping groups opening up for Iggy Azalea. You are a chef. You worked at Nobu. You've done so much stuff modeling hosting. Yeah. Let's go on right now. What is your life look like? Are you are you still juggling all this stuff or are you kind of like focusing on all one or two right now my total like my heart my soul is my cooking show pot pie I feel like being given this opportunity. It's like my dream come true. So everything that I'm doing it's kind of all All the heart and soul is going into the pot pie in the cooking show right pot pie. It is a combination of two of your passions. Yes pot and pot and pot and pot and pot and pot and pot and cooking. That's that's amazing. How did this opportunity come up? Well, it's so crazy because about a I'd say two years ago I moved into a new apartment and I was like, wow, I would love it if I could come up with my own cooking show and a new snoop was just about to launch his show with Martha and I'm friends with Snoop Dogg. So one day I was in a UCLA sweet. We're watching a football game and I'm talking to him and I'm just like I love what you're doing. You know, I'm a chef like I would love to have my own show. I wish I could have a show where I kind of invite people on and we get stone and it was kind of just a dream and then Miraculously I must have manifested and created this whole thing because I get a call from a friend of mine and he's like, hey my host for one of our shows quit You should come in and meet with the team and it was basically the same premise that I wanted to do for my show but they had already had a whole season and then I was stepping in as the new chef. So for me it was like everything was already in line and I didn't even have to do anything. I just had to come in and show up. I mean, I feel like you're the dream candidate for that role, right? Well, like, you know, smoking weed I've done it a bit but not a lot and when you to be able to like actually function in smoke weed like there's a there's a a skill there, right? It's a gift. It's something that you're foreign with. It's my Jedi. So I guess we'll explain the show a little bit. Tell me like so you have some of your friends come over. So the premise of the show is I have a celebrity guest or an influencer usually it's a homey of mine. They come on and they bring ingredients to their favorite dish. I don't know what the dish is as we're kind of pulling out the ingredients. I generally get the gist because I can tell as a chef. I know food but sometimes I don't make the right thing. I have 60 minutes to figure out that dish and while we are cooking, we're also getting super baked. It starts from the very beginning. We're baking and we're getting baked. And each episode is sponsored by a different brand or company in the cannabis community. Such a clever way to bring it all together and also to be able to actually make it sustainable and monetize it. It just like it connects. I mean when did you start making it? Well, so I started smoking. Don't kill me mom when I was 14. I smoked for the first time. I didn't smoke like I wasn't a smoker. I smoked. I tried it. I wasn't really into it because I was a competitive cheerleader and it kind of just didn't go with my athleticism. So I didn't really smoke a lot. Then when I turned about 18, it became more of a thing for me. And now it's just like, I don't even think about it. People can't function when they're stone. I smoke a little bowl and I clean my house. I ride a paper. I ride a proposal. It gives me a creative flow and an upbeat sense where I guess some people don't have that. So I can smoke all the time. Yeah, I can't. I wish I could. A lot of people do. It depends the kind of weed you're smoking, right? Totally. But I used to only smoke sativas, which is like the one that keeps you up. And it's a lot more upbeat. And now I love indica. And I can smoke an indica, which, you know, stoneers. We call that in indicauch. Yeah, it puts you in the mouth. Your face. But I'm good, you know. So that's why I'm able to do my show and keep, you know, it's hilarious because my best friend actually we live together and she can't cook for shit. And whenever I'd be cooking dinner, she'd be like, what can I help you do? I'd be like, well, you know, just roll me a joint. Yeah. And so when I got the show, I actually told my producers, I was like, you guys don't understand. I've been training for this for my whole life. Yeah, no, it's no joke. And like, there's a, I don't know if you have Joe Rogan, like, he, he, they smoke quite a bit on their show. Yeah, I'm trying to get him on my show. Joe, if you're listening, come on to pop that would legit be amazing. Yeah, he's amazing. He could handle it. So, is that, do people just get totally baked when they're on the show? Like, you're friends that you have on and you do influencers? Oh, it's hilarious. It's funny, too, just to like, watch me out smoke my guest and then like, watch them get progressively sillier or like, like, it took me in Chanel, US coast two and a half hours to film our episode. Oh, my gosh. It wasn't supposed to make it because, you know, you get stoned and you don't realize, like, wow, getting baked the whole time you're actually doing something is a lot harder for most people. Probably dangerous for most people who haven't been working on it. Yeah. Like, and especially when you're dealing with high things. Yeah, if you're getting high, just order take out. Yeah. Don't turn the oven on. Post made up. You're going to forget that you turn the oven on, right? Well, if you, okay, so my first episode of my show, I had Chanel, and this is an amazing story. I'm laying in my bed. We live together. Our rooms are like separated by the kitchen of the living room. And I'm like tossing and turning in my sleep. And I can't really figure out why I've smelled something so burnt. I'm like, okay, I know she can't cook, so maybe she burnt something. And I just smell like the remnants. Six o'clock in the morning it rolls around. And I'm like, oh my God, there's like a, like, actually cloud smoke in the apartment. And I go to open my oven. She had put two different pizzas. Her and her boyfriend in the oven. One of this, like, a large disorder, and then one of personal size. So two different temperatures, two different cooked. And each pizza was like shrunken down to a little fudge. How long was it in there? All night. Wow. And the whole apartment was just hazy. Oh, man. Yes. That's dangerous. It's very dangerous. It's very dangerous. But that's what most owners do when they cook. Yeah, they just leave it in the oven and forget that they were hungry. It was easier a timer. You're just like, what is that? Yeah, I've done that before without even smoking. I remember once I like, because I was either I was poor or this is me being a minimalist. I didn't have a toaster, right? Or I was like, I'm not going to get a toaster. I'm just going to toast all my bread in the oven. It takes a very long time to toast bread in the oven. So I put in a couple slices of toast and I was just going to add some peanut butter to it. And then I forgot that I put them in there and I left to go to the gym. And then when I'm walking on the way to the gym, it's like a 15 minute walk. I swear to get a fire truck went past me, like sirens going and I was like, no, shut up. And then I was like, shit, I forgot. It wasn't the fire truck for me, but I think that was the universe reminding me that I had screwed up. And then I was full sprinted back. I almost caught my kitchen on fire, too. Oh, really? Yeah, I put a joint out on an egg carton in the trash and I thought the sword was out. Like, it was it was gone. But it slowly had just like smoked and my roommate went to open the cabinet. It was just like a huge puff of smoke and it faced luckily, nothing was on fire. I don't have to do like a fire safety episode where we should just like re-bring back smokey the bear, but like do it for stoners. I'm like paranoid when it comes to that's a great idea. You should have smokey the bear on the show. I don't know, maybe that's the brain. I feel like the branding is okay now because like there used to be a crazy stigma around weed, but now it's like, I mean, it's it's it's iffy. It's weird. We're no weird crosspoint. Yeah, we're I mean, I'm sure you have people that still think it's like a horrible thing. But I remember coming back because I was on the east coast for over the holidays and then I came back January 1st and then seeing just a line around the block for medmen down the street. Medmen is like the it's like the it's like the apple. Let's yeah, do you like it? Of cannabis. So I personally don't need like the geek squad telling me what weed and flower I should purchase because I'm a connoisseur myself. So I could understand somebody who's not very well versed in the canvas industry going in there and being like, okay, this is good. It's informative. It's a one on one experience, but for me. I don't know. Well, it's I think you'd path to pay for it too in some way or another. Like yeah, you can connect by the delivery. I used stony app.com and it's literally it's so easy. You just go on the website. You pick out the stuff you like and it's delivered right to your door. That's it. This is the future. No plus no mess. Isn't it weird now though? Was it weird for you? Because I mean, since you smoked since you were 18 years old, you always had a way to get it. Did you start buying it legally once it just became easy to deliver or absolutely. And for me when I did when I used cannabis, it is it is a medicine. I have a really hard time sleeping. I don't at all take any western medicine. It's just never been my thing. So for me, that's the thing for me when I went to Spain. I didn't have any flower to smoke. It was the first time for like a very long period where I was like, oh my god, this is making me realize like this helps me function. Like it helps me go to bed, helps me eat in the morning. Like I'm literally not hungry or things if I don't smoke. So I'm like, okay, you know, it is a medicine. It definitely works in the same ways that western medicine does. Yeah, traditional medicine. I want to talk about like your career and the stuff that you do now. But how did you get here? Like you've always been into cooking. You said you had kind of a family of really great chefs. Yeah, my grandma and my mom and my aunt. Well, I guess both of my aunt's. One of my aunt's actually became a vegan chef so that's what she does now. She used to be an esthetician. So she switched the whole flip and now is doing that. But my grandma, my aunt, my mom, my grandfather wanted to own a truck, a food truck before food trucks were even a thing. So food has always been a huge part of kind of how we come together. And so I feel like being raised in a kitchen like that. My grandma was always like, get up and help. You know what I mean? Like, you can't just sit around. So I had a young age. I was like, wow, I really like food. And there's something about it. Like, it just comes through my fingers. Like, I can't explain when I cook. It just, it works, you know. So I noticed that when I was really young and I was like, this is something that I'm going to pursue and always have in my pocket in case all of my other creative pursuits don't take off. Because you did have other creative pursuits in there. Yeah, absolutely. What were some of the first? Well, I started off as a dancer. That was like the first thing when I was seven years old. I took ballet and I was in hip-hop team. I was a caption of the drill team. I was a competitive cheerleader, varsity cheerleader at high school. So I was always performing. I was always like winning the talent shows. Like, we did spice girls. Me and Chanel was close and we were like eighth grade. We always won even though we were younger than like the other students and stuff. And like, I remember since we were kids, we would just pull all of our parents into the living room and we'd be like, hey, we just made up this whole dance. Like, we need you to sit and watch. So it's always just been like no matter where I was, I was like, you've got to stop. Everyone needs to watch me. Right. Like, let's do it. Yeah. And when did like the rap group start? You've always been a fan of hip-hop? Yeah, I grew up like super heavily involved in the hip-hop industry because of my mom. My mom has a DVD magazine, so she interviews celebrities and stuff. And I grew up literally leaving elementary school to go hang out in the studio with Snoop Dogg and DJ Poo. So since I was eight years old, like Snoop calls me a little mama, my mom's ex-boyfriend is Shub Knight. So the hip-hop community and me are like, you know, yeah, we're one in the same. And I always used to say when I was younger, like, God, I wish I wanted to be a rapper because my mom's connections are so vast in that section, but I didn't. So it kind of came to me really randomly. Like, I remember when I was younger, I was about eight years old, and I told these two girls in my apartment building, they were the manager's daughters. And they were like, yeah, like, what do you want to be when you grow up? And I was like, ah, I don't know, but I'm going to win a Grammy. And they were like, you're not going to win a Grammy. And I was like, yeah, I am. And you're going to be the first two people I'm going to think. Thank you, Palin, or as I definitely still remember your names. And I will think you when I win my first single award. Yeah. So it's always been who I was, you know, yeah. Being on stage, I come alive. Like, I love it. What does hip hop mean to LA? I mean, it's definitely, it's funny because moving to LA, you start to hear a lot of the classics on the radio, like a lot of the old school and WA, which is, you don't like the real real hip hop? Yeah, you don't hear that on the on the east coast. It's not like they're even doing throwbacks. So they're, it's almost like something about summer and like hip hop. It just kind of connects. It's always been a lifestyle. I feel like the hip hop industry has definitely changed recently. And I feel like it's a lot more socially acceptable to be African-American, to be hip hop, to be in that world. And a lot of people want to be a part of it. So I feel like now, it's important to keep playing those old school, like the biggies and the two pops and the WAs for these younger kids because I feel like the music is just, I don't know where it's going now. You're not. Well, it's, it's pretty, it's a mainstream now. Like hip hop is like on the top of the charts of this. It is, and it never, it never was like that. Which is great, and it's amazing for the community to be, to grow. But at the same time, what it's growing for, in my opinion, isn't necessarily true hip hop. Right. But I feel like there's always going to be people like you that are like, whoa, you know, it's not the way it was when I was a kid. And I hate that because when I was younger and people used to say, like, when I was younger, I was like, God, old people. Now I'm one of those old people. So things have changed. What is it now? I mean, because, well, literally, let's let me know. There's, there's not a lot of words being said in most hip hop. When you listen to things on the radio, it's a lot of like mumbling. There's not a lot of story telling like, I personally like listening to an album that takes me like on a mixed tape and like a voyage of somebody's life and what they've been through and why they're doing music and why they're where they are. I don't want to hear about how many Rolexes you have. Yes. You know, I just don't. I said, always been a part of it though. The, the, the braggadotia. It's kind of like, for sure. I'm, you know, the chains in the lifestyle. It's definitely half of the battle. I think people put on that front. But it's like, it was never the, the forefront of what made hip hop. Yeah. You know, it was really the lifestyle in the culture and like the struggle and like putting hard work into something that like you believe in and never stopping until you get to that point, you know, right, of being a self-starter. And then that was kind of the, I made it, right? And that's kind of, that's where it comes from. Because it's very easy to criticize and to be like people like running around with change and jewels and and flashing it. And when somebody has come from nothing, when they never had it and then they're finally made it, it's, it's very easy to see why they would go to that place. Yeah. I guess. But then it like, it doesn't really, it's not helping anybody. And it's also like, well, you do that in real life. Like you do like me, somebody. Like, I'm, you know, I come from nothing like a poor family. Like, and when I have money, the first thing I do is, I'm not like, oh my god, I'm going to get some grills. Like, you know, it's like, you put it in the floor. I want to hang it. Exactly. And maybe I'm a little bit different with most rapper. A little responsible. I'm a little responsible. That's my new rapper. That's a responsible. Yeah. That would be me, too. That's my number one advice is I get a 401k. I mean, listen, we should be able to celebrate. We should be able to enjoy nice things, especially yourself. Treat yourself. Absolutely. But then nowhere the line is. And like, if you've only got $5,000 in the bank, don't spend it all on Gucci. Some jewelry. Yeah, or Gucci, or whatever. It's, there's a line and I think it's crossed. And then I think it's unhelpful for whether it's rappers or anybody. Like, you see a lot with entrepreneurs, sort of founders, and especially the self-help people, who are like the Thai Lopez's who are, you know, this is my Ferrari. You know, this is one of my three Ferrari's or whatever. And we're like, I don't care. Because then you, you're, you're really inspiring the whole group of people to enter into a career or a certain path just for that stuff. Right. And to say that materialistic things equal success, to me is the wrong message to send it all. Yeah. You know, so it's kind of like, if you really want to step in and be like, especially for the self-help guys that are out there and all in their Instagrams and stuff, floss and what they have, it's like, what you're doing shouldn't be for the outcome of money. It should be for the outcome of humanity and growth. You know? Has it always been something that's resonated with you? Or is that something that you kind of happened as you grew up? I feel like, well, so I grew up very spiritual. My family was kind of very heavily involved in going to church and Christianity. And when I was 14, I was like, you know, I just kind of don't believe that there's like a man with a beard who's told us what everything is. I should have told you this isn't religious Bible podcast. No, it's not. I'm a Mormon. But so when I was 14, I was like, you know, I'm not going to go to church anymore. And I started reading a lot more spiritual books, Deepak Chopra, and getting a little bit more in tune with who I am as a person and in an individual and how I show up in the world. And to me, that's the most important thing. And I think if a lot more people took a step back and kind of just focused on bettering themselves from the inside out, this world would just be a better place. Hmm. I think we just get a little bit too caught up. We get so trusting our head. The ego, it's that it's, you know, we all as humans, we radiate from an ego-centered thought process. And everything we do, it's like there's always this little like devil on your shoulder, kind of telling you like you're not doing it right, you're not good enough. This is wrong. But it's like, no, nothing's wrong. Everything's everything you're doing at every given point is exactly right for you and your human growth or else it wouldn't be happening. Right. I think it's a, it's a constant process and a balancing act of kind of losing it sometimes. Right. Maybe you go down the wrong path a little bit and then you have to self-correct and you're like, well, you know what, you know, maybe I shouldn't be focusing on just making money here. Maybe if I was just focusing on what I loved and the money would come naturally. Well, and last year when I came into doing my cooking show, that to me was the biggest thing and the biggest change. I had a mentality where, you know, coming from a poor family and not having everything you want when you're growing up, you're kind of like, okay, like, I need to make money. I need to make money. I need to make money. And however I can do that, whether it's taking odd jobs or doing all these things, you kind of find yourself stuck and you're just like, okay, well, you're settling. And last year I was like, you know what, I'm going to stop saying, no, I'm going to say yes to everything. And I changed my whole world. It opened up everything to where now I'm getting checks for the things that I love and not checks for the crap that I'm like, oh, I just spent 40 hours last week working for somebody else to help their dream. And that was like part of your journey early on, right? I mean, you graduated from culinary school, you classically trained, and then you start working at Nobu, which I just actually went to Nobu for the first time. It's incredible. So is there only one in Malibu here and then one in New York? Lassianica, so the one that I worked in is in West Hollywood. Okay, so there's one right here, there's another one in Malibu, but it's like five star. Yeah, it's on the beach. And then there's the original like Nobu Matsuhito. It's or like, it's in the valley, was out there. Yeah, so that must be a dream job for a lot of people right out of school. We did have the the variety of the time. It did, and it doesn't. It still stands. I feel like really strong on my resume. Whenever I show people my resume, they're like, wow, you worked at Nobu immediately. After graduating culinary school, how the hell did you get that job as usually the first question? Yeah. And luckily, my best friend was the maturity. And so I already developed a relationship with the head chef while I was in culinary school. And so it kind of just got me in. And I was right online doing the salad and the appetizers straight out of school. That's crazy. Yeah. But I mean, that's just the power of relationships. And that's the power of relationships. And when people say networking is key, it is so key, and who you meet is everything. Yeah. How do you go about making connect? You know, if somebody wants to build their network, because I remember thinking about this when I was young and I didn't know anybody, it just seems like such a daunting thing to make not only friends, but professional acquaintances that could potentially help. Right. And I feel like people find, like, obviously, I think you meet a lot of connections going out and experiencing the nightlife in LA. But there's a fine line between knowing how to go out and go out for a work and go out and get caught up in partying. Because if you're going out for work, you're having one cocktail, maybe two, and you're networking. And those people who you're meeting, you're remembering who they are, and tomorrow when you wake up, you're emailing them, saying, hey, nice to meet you. And that's how you get that next lunch date, or whatever it is. If you're too sloppy and drunk to remember, you're not going to get anywhere. Yeah, you're not going to build a very good reputation. No. Yeah. Yeah, I don't go out, but what about for the people like me who don't go out much anymore? We're not going out for drinks. What can we do? I feel like social media, honestly, has driven me to a lot a lot a lot of my contacts. Now, and I'm not sure if it's because of my show and now people are more like interested in who I am and the big saying, nobody wants you until somebody wants you. It does stand. And as soon as you get your foot out there, just a little bit, the door opens and everyone's like, hey, what are you doing? What are you about? I would love to collab with you. I want to work with you. And then it's just the next thing you know, you're just completely booked and always doing something. Yeah, I think that's really where the place where you want to be is, you know, there's obviously an element of in the very beginning. You can you can hustle and try to make connections, and whatever, but you don't really have anything. You have no work to show. You have no reputation, but then if you actually are creating something, if you start your own show or podcast or blog or whatever, then you can start to build a name for yourself. And the place where you want to be is where people come to you and all you have to be is a filter. It's like, you know, I don't want to do that interview. I'll do this one. Well, I would really like to meet this person. That would be cool. And that's the position I think everybody wants to be in. That's like the golden, the golden zone. Yeah, but it's not, but then there's still like, there's still, I think you have to make it just a part of your life is like meeting people and like not always trying to get something. Exactly. And like how you show up when you meet people and I feel like I have a very personable personality. And like from afar, people are always like, oh, she's a little intimidating or you look like you'd be intimidating. And then they meet me and they're like, oh my god, you're the life of the party. I want to be your friend most importantly. And now that I like you, let's make some money. Yeah, let's make some money. Because it's fun. Like it's, it's really fun to, I like just completely infusing my personal life into my work life and, you know, a lot of people are like, you need to have a work life balance. And I think those are the people that just don't like their work. Exactly. You know? And that's, that's like the biggest thing is really finding something that you love. Like when I'm cooking, I don't look at the clock ever to think like when is my day over. I'm looking at the clock like I hope I have enough time to finish this, you know? And I'm never thinking about like, what am I going to be doing after? I'm just so immersed in what I'm doing that like, like, I come into the zone and everything is closed out. Yeah, I don't think a lot of people can say that about what they do. No, but everyone can find that, you know? And I feel like even if you're not making money doing the things that you necessarily love, you should always, always make sure that you're finding that time. Like even when I've been working in an office job, I'm trying to create a jewelry line on the side so that I can continuously be making something. Never stay stagnant and never think that like, it's the end. You know what I mean? Like, I'm 30 and I thought two years ago, I was like, oh, maybe being a creative and doing all these things that I love, really isn't going to be the thing that makes me successful. I maybe I should change my whole path. And then it's like, nope, the universe comes knocking on your door and it's like, no, you were given these gifts to continue to flourish. Where does that drive come from? Because not everybody has that kind of entrepreneurial push to make their own things and you started a catering company very early on at 22 years Yeah, where does that come from? Well, I always, I'm bossy. I prefer control. I'm bossy. I don't like being, you know, I like being the one who's running the show. So from an early age, like that for me, I was always like my first job, I managed to boutique when I was 15. So it's like, I was always in a position where I'm kind of the leader and the one creating the path. And so I feel like, for me, that's why I've always stayed, stayed true to just trying to make it on my own without anybody else. Like, I told myself two years ago, I'm never ever going to work for anyone again. I will work with people. I will be on contract as a like a cumulative group. But I'm never going to have someone as a boss. So it was even being in that position where you have a dream job for a lot of people out of college. It wasn't your dream job. No, not at all. It was at the, it's just that dynamic of having a boss, having somebody tell you what to do versus defining your own future. Exactly. And I feel like why why works super hard for somebody else's goal and their dream? If you can put 20 hours a week into somebody else, 40 hours a week into someone else, you can put 10 into yourself, you know what I mean? And that 10 is going to add up and get you to where you want to be eventually. That's what was my exact circumstance just at a college and making wedding films and making wedding films for other people's companies. And just noticing that, well, I do a wedding for that for him and then he gets this, you know, that client, you know, I go above and beyond making an amazing wedding video and then that reputation is his. It doesn't go to me. I'm not building anything myself. And then even if I were to step away and be like, you know what, eventually the money is not worth it because I can go out and try to find my own clients, build my own company, and then even if I have at one tenth of the clients' hand, I'm actually building something for myself. Exactly. Which then you just look at the long term because a lot of people are just kind of in it for the short run. They're just like, oh, I just want that check. Well, that's why I quit Nobu because I was like, you know, you're in the kitchen. I'm there 14 hours a day, making it 11, 50, barely, barely surviving and, you know, the waitresses and start for coming back and they're like, oh my god, I just got this $500 bottle of champagne as a tip. And I'm like, well dang, I'm cute. I could cook the food, change my clothes, pull the Mrs. Doubt fire, and serve it. And come back. And so I was like, no, I'm not getting that gratification of all of this hard work that I'm putting in. So I was like, I need to start my own catering company because then that's going to be me. It's going to be, I'm the face. I'm the one who's building that repertoire with my clients. You need that interpersonal. For me, I don't want anyone in between me and my I'm working with. What did you learn during that process? And was it pretty challenging to get that going? Oh, it's so hard. And again, it is all about connections. Like, I got my first, I'd say, like, big gig. I did a short film and I did all of the craft services. And so that was like, you know, me, we're the first time I'm hiring two other people. It's five days, five days a week, breakfast lunch and dinner. There's no kitchen on set. So we're filming into paying us. So I'm driving back to Venice to go to my kitchen. Like, that was the first time that I felt like I was like, wow, okay, this is going to take a lot of work, but it's so much fun. And I'm controlling the show that I don't ever want to do anything else. Wow. Yeah. So I mean, I feel like it does have to really just feel like so good to be doing that on your own for you to for it to be worth it. Because if when you don't feel the returning, you stop. Like, and I've had so many things like, I told you I started a jewelry line and I was like, okay, well, I'm not really getting this instant like return. I'm not making money. I'm not feeling very like full doing this. So I quit, you know, and then I go on to the next thing. And so to find something that keeps me and has locked me in, I'm super stoked. How did you go about finding like new clients and kind of building that? Well, it's really cool. There's a, there's a large catering world just in LA in general. There's a lot of websites like I'm on a website called Hello Chefy, which I book a lot of gigs through there. There's Instagram. I feel like the Instagram thing honestly is I wish there was Instagram when I was younger because I feel like I would almost be 10 times more successful because you can, you're the curator of your own life and what you put out there and I feel like, you know, you post really good tantalizing photos of your food and people are like, I don't want to eat that. Can you cook for me? It's also really hard being a chef because it's one of those careers where if you meet people and you're like, oh, I'm a chef. They're like, oh, can you come cook for me first? I'm like, no, it doesn't work like that. Like, if I was a hairstylist, I wouldn't give you a free haircut first and then have you pay me? Yeah. Is that um, I think a lot of times though with the social media, like, your food can speak for itself. Like, if the presentation is up there, right. And then if like, you know, I don't know if you can have reviews or anything like that on you can. And it's like hashtags, you know what I mean? It drives immediate business to you. If people are searching for your services, they're going to find you. When did you realize that like Instagram specifically would be a catalyst to be able to network and and show your work? Oh, probably like two and a half years ago, I totally kind of rebranded my whole personal Instagram, and I drove my following like, I'm almost at 10,000 followers. It's not a lot. But to start from nothing, I changed the way that I was doing everything. And there's a very specific attack on social media to get people to your page. You know what I mean? So I changed, I learned how to edit photos. I learned my hashtag game. Like, those things are all very important. How you like going in and engaging with other people on Instagram that are interested in the same things as you. It's just like there's 400 million users or something like that on Instagram daily. So it's like that world right there, just in itself is so huge. Yeah, I mean, there's so much opportunity. But then on the other side, there's a lot of competition. Yeah. So you have to do things to set yourself apart, which for me, I feel like my food speaks for itself. Every time I post something, people are just like, oh my god, that looks amazing. It looks delicious. So hopefully, I don't know, maybe just because people believe in me as a person, they think my food tastes good. Right. Well, I think there's like an element of trust. Yeah. But I think that's what you have to bring as well. It's like, like, yes, your work should be so good that it speaks for itself. And that like, you don't need to like talk it up or whatever. But I think with the same reason why I might hire a filmmaker to help me out with a shoot or an editor. It's because I want to collaborate and work with people that are very like, you know, because you get to hire essentially your coworkers. And when somebody hires a chef, they're hiring somebody that they can like have a connection right. So like, if you can somehow bring your personality out through Instagram or online, I think that's, it's not as easy as people think it is because to be able to show your personality, whether through video or photos, to show who you are, it's not so straightforward. Well, and I even have like, I love being on camera, as I said, in love performing and stuff, but I can't talk to the phone. Like, I just can't. I'm awkward. It comes off uncomfortable. Like, I don't understand how people can do that and really like captivate and audience through telling like the selfie story. So for me, that just doesn't work. So I don't do that because it's probably scared people away from my page. Yeah. And it kind of draining to try it. And I'm like, just getting cut off by the 15 second limit. Like, I got excited. And then all of a sudden, it cuts me off and I'm like, motherfucker. And then like, you know, after three times, I'm like, I'm just going to be pissed off in this thing. I'm like, all right, go swipe up. So funny. No, I don't know. You got to do, focus on what you actually enjoy doing. Yeah. Especially when it comes to the promotion and people can tell. I think even though it's the internet, people can tell what's genuine and what is dis genuine and fake. It's you, it's a feeling. It's an emotion. You know what I mean? And even though it's a photo photography speaks a million words to me. So I feel like people can tell just from your Instagram page. You know, what kind of person you are and tell if they want to fuck with you or not. Yeah. You know, I, I think it's, I was like a little bit nervous when I first started to kind of put my own stuff out there. And I think it was because I was like, oh, my friends are going to rip apart. They're going to make fun of me so much for having a podcast and talking about self development and this stuff. But then when I, you know, in my first couple of videos were a little bit corny and they maybe didn't really feel like myself. But once I got to the point where I was, I could just be self deprecating. I could find myself. I could just be myself where like my friends wouldn't be like, oh, he's pretending to be a guy like Tony Robbins or whatever. He's just being himself. Then I felt much more comfortable. But it's not so easy to be yourself. No, because you're trying to always put out like your best version of yourself, which isn't yourself. Yeah, like I almost wish I could just have like a GoPro like just strapped to my head facing forward at all times and then just like edit the things that happen because like naturally I'm very funny. Like even when I'm filming my show and I don't want to say naturally I'm very funny, but you know, we'll do like a rehearsal of kind of a walk through of what we're going to be doing. So the guest has an idea and I'm like, I don't want to talk because if I say something now, I'm not going to be able to say something like say it again because it's just I'm a genuinely I'm not an actress necessarily, I guess is what it is. Yeah, that's the same thing with this podcast where I have like, I want to just start like the podcast before they, you guys come up the stairs and I'm like, because there's like so much natural candy conversation. I think that's what people want to say. That is so cool. I don't know. Well, I think you need a little bit of rapport. We need to have like a little, hey, hi, it's nice to meet you. Maybe. I don't know. I think that might be too much. We're getting, actually, can you leave? Yeah, we're going to redo that. Yeah, I don't know. I think there's a balance to it. Yeah. Because you want people to feel comfortable. Right. And you don't like it. Like, if you just started shooting your show, like right away when people come straight through the door and you don't have a chance to say hello, it would be weird, right? Okay, what's in that bag? What are you doing? Let's go. Let's get started. Although, I guess that's what a lot of people do with the big shows. You know, Fallen, oh, no, that's a little bit more. They script that shit. Like, yeah, I mean, you know, I found out like my dreams are a little bit crushed, like all the cooking shows they're fake. Oh, what are your favorite cooking shows? Oh, my god, I love chopped chopped. There's something, but it's funny because my show kind of has that little bit of the mystery basket aspect because I don't know what the ingredients are. So, you know, it's great that I ended up doing a show that's similar. I love that. I love the element of surprise. And then I love watching to see what they come up with. I love to, I love any kid cooking competition. No, not what a kid. Because that's where I found my love for cooking. So I look at these little nuggets and I'm like, it's so wet. I feel so bad from that because I sometimes start crying. I know, but that's what's cute and sweet. It's endearing. I guess. You're like, look at these little tiny humans that are following their dreams and they have not been crushed yet by the world and the society around them. Yeah, that's right. I guess that's a positive way to look at it. Maybe not. I don't know. Just wait. Just wait. Just wait. Give it 10 years. So, what about cutthroat kitchen? You ever watch that one? No. Oh, that's a good one. No. I don't know if it's still on Netflix. I think it was at one point. But it's, oh, it's really good. So each contestant starts out with $10,000. And then I think it's $10,000. And then they can use that money to sabotage fellow people. So there will be things up for grab. Like you have to replace all of your knives with, you know, pieces of wood or spoons or whatever. Crazy. Making it crazy hard. I would do that. And then, but the judges have no idea what the people were like, well, the, I guess, the penalties or these kind of things. So they don't know the dish at the end. And they don't know that somebody just made this whole thing. Yeah, like this tortilla is like kind of wet. And it's like, that's because I had to boil it. You know what you know what I mean? Like they can only cook. And they, some of them are like tiny little pots and pans. So they have to make an egg and one of those little like, yeah, kids kitchen. I like guys grocery games too. That one's good. You just, it's like, you know, the old school show or she's like, if you could put, put everything you can in the cart, it's basically you get, you get an allowance or money. You get to go down the grocery aisles and you actually just make stuff from like, you get to shop in aisle two, three and four. And that's it. And then make a dinner dish or whatever it is. Yeah. Cool aspect. And what way are the shows fake? Because you said you found out that well, also I just was talking to someone last week and they were like, yeah, you know that they like prep everything and every like they know everything on top chef. Like it's not like they know the meal, the chefs, the judges have already tasted things. Like it's just, it's all scripted. As a chef, did you kind of suspect it? Because you're like, there's no way they can be that good. My show doesn't have it. There's no kitchen magic because we literally film from the start to finish me cooking and that's it. There's nothing prep. There's nothing. Like if I burn something, it's going to be burnt on the show because I only have ingredients for the one thing. So to me, I think that's a cooler aspect because it shows, it's realness, you know, chefs are humans too. Mm-hmm. I mean, I've worked in reality shows some like teen and kid talent show. Oh, I did a dating reality show for BuzzFeed and Facebook. Oh, you did. I last December. And you know, again, I was very excited because I'm like, wow, fat checks are rolling and I get to do things that I love. Yeah. You know, beyond camera and at the time I was single, I was like, this must be serendipitous. I'm about to find my husband. No. Wasn't great. They made me the villain of the show. What? Yeah. Wait, so was BuzzFeed. It was an online video. Yeah, BuzzFeed. It's on Facebook. How does the show play out? It's like, it's like a bachelor. There's one guy. It was five guys. What America votes in the one guy. We two girls show up to the house instead of like 30. Yeah. And each girl gets a date and then one goes home. And then two more girls come and so forth and so forth. And then I was the first two. And I stayed through 10 girls. Wow. Yeah. But you were the villain? Yeah, which I didn't know until I tried. When they were just dark music. Oh, there's like they literally, when I like look at someone, they put daggers up next to my head. Like, is if I'm looking at them like, right, right? Were you playing that or no? No. You were just like looking at someone. Like, there's times when I'm smiling and there's daggers. Like, isn't that crazy? And that's what I mean, that's what you had. What happens when you sign up for a show like that. You got to kind of, like, you know, you sign on the dotted line and it's like, you can totally mess up my character. You can do whatever you want. You're doing whatever you want. Tornish my image. But then you're like, well, I'm such a good person. There's no way you're going to be able to do that. But they did it. Even smiling just daggers. Even smiling. And like, I do have a big personality. I'm outspoken. So like, yeah, that's definitely my personality. And if something's bothering me or if there's like something I'm not feeling, I'm probably not going to be the person you keep some of my mouth shut. I'm going to tell you. So they definitely used that as like the ploy of like, okay, well, she's going to be the only one who's speaking her mind. The rest of the girls are all just kind of right. We're going to focus on her. Yeah. With the only one that was like interesting on the chair. Yeah. Yeah. I think there's always going to be those shows out there. People that that enjoy binge watching. Like, I love reality show. Yeah. I haven't watched this week's Bachelor at and I'm going to go home. I did. I can fill you in because my girlfriend makes me watch it. I went to the taping of the Bachelor of the final rows. Yeah. Oh, man. That was a it's that was a crazy. That was a tense that was the one with the with Ari. That was a disc if I've ever seen a disc. Which one? I don't know. He will he proposed to one chair said I want to spend the rest of my life with you. A disc is a way to put it. Yeah, give us the background because people, I don't know if my podcast listeners are Bachelor listeners as well. Well, now you can get into it because we can watch back a come back in and get away better man than Ari. Oh, yes. She's got options now. She's got options and they're way better than the first one in the first place. It was a bad season. No one really wanted him to be the Bachelor. I was hoping it was going to be Peter. Yeah, so I don't like my memory of Bachelor doesn't go three seasons. I just erase everything. I started watching with Rachel because she was the first African American Bachelor at. So I was like, yes, I got to watch from a girl, you know. Yeah, she took them long enough. She took them long enough, 18 years. Literally. Yeah. So the one of her runners up, he should have been the Bachelor, but I don't think he wanted to. Oh, okay. Yeah, I turned it down and they gave it to Ari. Yeah, and then they got the back up and then they got a backup season. Well, the big controversy from last season was that it was, uh, it was like a 30 minute unedited him. I watched that before anybody else did. Oh, you did. How did you? And I couldn't say anything. I had a sign in NDA. Oh, damn. How did you get to see it? My friend had a friend who worked on the production. So we got to see see it all. You like this and like them in person talking when they first saw each other after not seeing each other. So he breaks her heart, proposes to the poor woman Becca Ari says, I'm going to spend the rest of my life with you and choose you. Not only does he say, from this moment on, but every day forward, he made it very clear. I will love you every single day and I won't miss a day. And then he they think that they're reach. She's like, we're reuniting. I haven't seen my fiance in a month or whatever it is. And then he's just like, so I've been thinking about the other girl. Yeah. Oops. And then they showed it unedited. Both camera angles. ABC, they kind of sabotage. They fumbled that one because people weren't very happy with them. They're like, well, this is un, this is unethical. Because they just showed Becca just crying for 30 minutes. Yeah. Great. Like, hiding in the black bathroom. Yeah. It's awful. And so with reality shows, the only place that they can't allow cameras, which is what I realized was on my show, is in the bathroom, except there's mics, I think. So you have to like, run water. There's like, oh, it's, it's a lot to be on a reality show, which I never really understood until doing it. But it makes me appreciate it almost more now. Yeah. When I watch the bachelor, because I'm like, okay, now I know what's really fake and what's real. Yeah. I think it's, I don't know. I think you can enjoy that stuff. Yeah. That's the thing. I think, so you're living by carelessly through someone else for a moment. Yeah. I think that some people take life a little bit too seriously, right? Where I will never watch a reality show. That's cool if that's for you. But everyone's, we need our guilty pleasures. Well, it's like movie elitist. Like, just, I watch anything. And then if it's bad later, I'm not going to watch it again. But like, I appreciate that a cast, a crew, a filmmaker, a director. They all got together and they made something. So I'm going to watch and I'm going to appreciate it for just that fact alone. Yeah. People, these, they signed up for it. Yeah. If you're on a, if you're on a reality show, you signed up to, you know what you're getting into and like for a lot of them. I was really naive, though. So I can understand, and like, be, I'm in the industry. I've been in the industry my whole life. I've been around at my best friends on reality television. She did love and hip-hop, which is crazy. Like, real drama. And I was like, oh my god, I'm going to find the love of my life and everything. It's going to be great. And we're going to skip off into the sunset. Yeah. It didn't work out quite like that. No. Was it a popular show? Did it get a lot of you? The previous second season. So, you know, this is, it's okay. The first two episodes, which were like mainly me, it had like some of the highest ratings. The ratings went up and down. But it's a Facebook show. So. Yeah. I know, well, this is interesting. Just in terms of distribution. Like, it was about a 30-minute show. Well, it was only supposed to be about 13 minutes. And then the first episode did so well that they decided to stretch it to 30 likes to 25 to 30. I'm curious to see where it's going. Because early on, you couldn't do a show in Facebook YouTube, whatever, because the technology wasn't there. Right. But now it's like, does it matter if it's on Netflix or Hulu or on TV? No, I actually think that digital television is going to be the next big thing. Like, I feel like people are going to ditch their spectrum and get rid of all of those things. And we're, you're going to be able to just watch everything you want on your smart TVs. Because it's like now, VH1 has an app. MTV has an app. You watch all of the things. You don't even need the cable source anymore. Yeah. It's just that shows on Facebook aren't sexy right now. Like, Netflix is sexy. Like, it's a show with sexy. Like, the, the reality show I did called relationship. Like, I walked out. I've never seen myself so well lit. Like, they did a great job. Like a lot, a lot of money must have went in. Yeah. I mean to everything. Like, the quality is there for sure. But I think to like, if you were to get your show picked up or to pick a platform, people would choose Netflix nine times out of ten. Yeah. Right. But then on my side, maybe Hulu if they pay you a little bit more. Yeah. But to have a show on Facebook right now. No. Because like, you're probably not going to get as many views as you would if you were on one of definitely definitely not. And, but I think it's going to go there. And like, even YouTube read, they have their own platform now where, um, I mean, I think if your show is good enough. I don't remember seeing my show in Netflix. Oh, yeah. I'm like, I live across the street from the next Netflix building. So I just shared it longingly every day. Like, come on. There's a lot of documentaries. And there's a lot of shit on Netflix that just is bad, right? Yeah, there's some, I mean, most of their stuff to me is pretty good. They, I feel like a lot, they're like the script to show, or like a little bit, some of them are good. I think like the new stuff and the original stuff they make is usually has a very good level of quality. All the stuff's table, chef's table. Amazing. Yeah. Incredible show. Um, like that, that there is a level of quality there. That is just, you know, not. Have you seen Evil Genius on Netflix? Is that the one about the bomber guy? Yes. No, that was fucked up. That was crazy. Blue, my mind. Literally. Like literally. Oh my god, I can't believe they showed it. So they showed this, this is plot to rob a bank and then they strapped C4 on this guy's head and then he couldn't unlock it. He had to like, you know, figure out this whole puzzle to unlock it, but then the cops stopped him. And they showed his head getting blown up. Yeah. That was well, in the most advantage is that they, because head didn't actually like, yeah, come off of him. And then you had to cut his head off to get the bomb off. Like, come on. They cut his head off. He was totally part of it, right? I think so. Yeah. He was totally part of it. Wow. Yeah, but Netflix has some good shows. Yeah. So you have some plans and ambitions to make a show? Well, so I mean, I would love it if they might, so my production company is amazing. It's prohibited media and they're one of the largest cannabis media companies. And they just got like two days ago, eight million in funding. So we're about to skyrocket. I feel like they're kind of going to be their own Netflix of sorts. And I probably won't even think about Netflix, but you know, disjointed came out. And I was just like, wow, this is, it's a, it's a good avenue in my opinion. I feel like my show pot pie as it is would fit with Netflix. Oh, my god. You know, well, it's, as we're talking, it's, the more acceptable it gets, the more a part of culture it becomes. Like it's already there. Um, but obviously we're in California, we're in a little bit of bubble compared to the rest of the country. But like once the rest of the country starts to catch up. Well, that's the thing that it's like, you know, there's all these little state laws and stuff, but it's still federally illegal. Right. So you can still get in trouble. Yeah. Like in a lot of places, like in the time period I was living in New York, it became decriminalized, which is amazing. So you can like not go to jail. Which is totally cool. This is such a funny story. So I, I lived with my best friend. She's a white Jewish girl. And we go pick up a bunch of weed and like, you know, in New York, you have to go actually go get your flower. And so we're like caring a bunch of pot. And I decided, I don't know why to wear these pants that have weed leaves. Oh, not suspicious at all. Oh, pick up our drugs. Yeah. And I just remember we were like, he's far like, is this your first time? You have a sign. Like we're trying to buy weed here. Possession. So we go into the Bridega and we're, you know, basically took a bomb hit before we left the due to us. And I just look at my best friend. I start sweating and I'm like, oh my god, make it take the weed. I can't be holding this. I cannot be holding this. They're totally going to come for me. I was so freaked out. It's a, it's a good thing though that it's, it's legal now. And we don't have to do those kind of things. Totally. I think, yeah. I mean, look, people come home. They drink two glasses of wine. I smoke a bowl. I don't, you know what I mean? It's the same in my opinion. It's the same exact thing. Well, it's just a, it's just like a smear campaign and like the 1912 for weed. And then all your brain on dope. Yeah, kids. And then it's just like this whole misrepresentation of what it does and like re-permanent. Like, I just, I got into an argument with someone when I was in Spain. And you know, I'm, I'm a little bit more well-versed, obviously, in the cannabis community and the studies that go on. And I work for a company that, that's their whole driving purpose, you know? So I understand that when I'm talking to people, there's, there's an ignorance when it comes to cannabis in the world. But it's bad. It's still really bad. And even people who smoke still have weird stigmas and don't quite understand it. You know? And so that's important. And I feel like it's really important to get knowledge out there to people so that they can understand what the effects are. All of the study, like, my friend was like, there haven't been any studies to see, like, what the damage is and dinner to us, she was like, my dad's a doctor. So he doesn't, and I'm like, well, that's a bias here. That's a doctor. Of course, he doesn't want anyone to smoke weed. Like, it cancels out the pharmaceutical company. And the only reason, in my opinion, why I think pot was ever illegal is because the government couldn't figure out ways to tax it. Because I could literally go drop a seed right now outside and grow a plant. So it's like, it's not something that they can regulate. And they're finding ways now to do so, and they're regulating dosage, and they're making everything a lot more safe, which is great. And hopefully, like, that will spread and, like, more companies like Medmen will start to come out where it's like, it's not like your hood little trap shop where you feel uncomfortable. You know, going to buy flour and going to buy pot and stuff, it shouldn't be like, oh, this is weird and sketchy and buying drugs. Yeah, I think that Medmen is definitely doing a great service to me. And their new advertising, their campaign, where it's, like, doctors and athletes. Yeah, it's like, I smoke too. Cross it out the stoner. Yeah, it's definitely shifting it quite a bit. It's fun because, like, whenever Natalie, my girlfriend has friends over from Australia, which is it's still illegal there across the board, I'll take them to Medmen to show them around and, like, whoa, so it's so exciting. Well, I was in Spain, I was in Madrid, and they have cafes where you literally go in. They serve you coffee, you smoke some hashish, you know, you chill, and it's just a world. You have to be invited and as a member, you pay for the year. So it's like, it can be a very cool, exclusive kind of thing. Like, there's a place opening up in West Hollywood, called the Atrium. And you can go in and they have, think, four dishes currently, where it's infused with cannabis. Does it actually get you high? Yeah. Yeah. And everything's regulated now. So it's all microdose. You know what I mean? No one's, you're not going to be coma toast for anything. Like, I want to start throwing cannabis dinners as well. Yeah, that's great. So with, what's your, your preference for smoking? Like, just straight up smoking out of a bowl or like eating, you don't do much, because it's all very different. Like, edibles. And then even the, um, what's it called? The, the vaping? Yeah. They're different highs. Oh, they're all different highs. Totally different. And like, and it, you literally, first smoking. It's just like anything else. Like, I don't drink whiskey, because I don't really like whiskey. You know what I mean? I love a good, glob of glass of cabernet. Like, that's my preference. It's the same thing with flour. You'll find whatever works for you and how it works. And with the microdosing, everyone can start off small. Like, it's like five milligrams in a serving. We're an edible. So you're not eating those brownies, like, in the 70s where you're like, oh, I don't know what's in here. And then you're just like, I can't move. Yeah. I bought, well, I got, I got, I got giddy because I, when I first moved here, uh, it wasn't legal yet. So I got the card. And I go in and he's like, I think that whole bad filled up with stuff. He's like, what do you throw in a fucking party? And I was like, I didn't know this was a lot. And then I still have a brownie in my fridge from like last year. It's like, it's 100 milligrams. I'm like, I'm never going to eat that. Well, now they're regulating all the edibles like in the package. They have to be a think, you know, these to put like 1,000 milligrams and things. And now it has to be 100 and then 10 milligrams or less per serving. So it's in July first. A lot of things are going to change. A lot of products you probably love are going to knock and be on the shelves anymore. It's all it's all changing. It's becoming more safe in my opinion. Yeah. No, I think that's a good thing. All right. Let's do quick questions. Yeah. And then we'll wrap up the podcast. All right. So this is just a couple questions. Kind of pointed at helping people who are just getting started out. Cool. If you could go back to college graduation, what would you do differently? I would go to college graduation. You didn't graduate. You didn't graduate. You didn't graduate. All right. So like, let's talk about the time when you left. Guy Jam, it don't give me such a hard time. I personally was just like, I don't think college is for me. I knew that I was a hyper creative and I am so thankful that I didn't go and waste four years at school. I went to Santa Monica and I got my A. When I was a keynote as long as I have my general education on lock, I'm good. But yeah, I think about it now and I'm like, maybe I would have gone to college and gotten some sort of a degree just to like, have because now that I'm older, I'm like, it wouldn't have that time period wouldn't have made any difference in my life. Do you know what I mean? If I could have just gone to school for four years, I just would have went to school come back and I'd probably be doing what I'm doing. Like, maybe have a little bit more patience back then. Exactly. Patients for like the future me. Right. Because everybody just showed, and that's actually one of the reasons why people don't travel. And then you said you just traveled out of the country for the first time a month or so ago. And it's like, I had the same thing where I just got caught up where I was like, oh, I got to start work and I got to start making it. I got to start doing this because then otherwise, you know, it's kind of foam. You're going to, you have the fear that you're going to be missing out on this growth and opportunity. But at the end of the day, you just got to like let that stuff go. Yeah, you take your time, you know. What universal skill do you think is most important for creators entrepreneurs to master? I feel like being able to put yourself in other people's shoes always. Is it a huge lifeless and then thing for me? Because it's like, you know, even if you're working like being on set, I'm like, okay, if I show up, I need to show up to my best ability because the director is and the DP is and all it. You know what I mean? It's like always, I'm always thinking about other people instead of just being like selfish. How do you get through doubt? I'm like a super positive person and I kind of live by the motive of like, I never see a problem. I'm always thinking of the solution and I feel like the period of freaking out or being doubtful within yourself is a waste of time. So I kind of always like if I'm like feeling like I'm depressed or I'm not exactly where I want to be, I kind of just shake that off and I'm like, get out of pen and paper and start making it to do list of the things that you can do to get yourself out of that. Hmm, so just start working. Yeah, just work. Yeah. Has there been any advice that you've received from mentors or, you know, throughout your time as both a business owner and chef that's like, stop with you most? Um, Baz Lerman told me once that the one with the loud the quietest roar is the biggest line in the room. And he was telling me that because I was talking to him and I was just like, you know, I feel like like I'm a little bit more and I was comparing myself kind of to a best friend of mine at the time. And I was like, I just feel like I'm a little bit more reserved and she gets more attention. Kind of that's where my I was coming from an ego driven place and he was basically just like, don't worry because you sitting over there not making a sound is speaking volumes over the person who's being the trying to be the center of attention. Hmm, I love that. Um, anything else that you want to say, I screwed up on the podcast recently where we stopped recording and she's like, oh, I really would have like to talk about that and I'm like, oh, I blew it. So we started recording again. I was like, I will do a bonus extension to the podcast. Any last words? No, just, you know, life is all about being true to yourself and I always say that like there is no one you are the new like Dr. Sue's, but it's like you are the only person who has every single thing that you have. The only thing is humans that we share that's like a similar thing is the circumference of our eyeballs. It's 2.5 centimeters for you and I've literally literally yet. Wow. So that's the only thing that we really have in common that would match another human. So be yourself, do your thing and it's always always going to work out at the end. I love that. That's great advice. I'm glad I asked you and where can people find you online? Um, you can find me on Instagram at Brandon Lashay and that's BR and D. I. N. No, L. A. S. H. E. A. And you can find me on prohibited.com, which is where you can watch my show, pop, pop. Awesome. Thank you for doing the podcast. Thank you so much for having me. This is dope. All right. And that's the podcast for this week. Thank you so much for listening. If you want to find out more about this podcast, you can go to groundupshow.com. Where you can also check out the YouTube channel. Lots of videos, excerpts, and clips from this podcast or there. That's YouTube.com slash Matthew D. Vella. All right. Thanks for listening. Thanks for watching. See you next week.
