# Our life is about to get complicated.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OtJ0oJFNiVI
A lot has changed over the past 8 months since leaving California to spend more time with our families in Australia and the U.S. And surprise, surprise our life hasn’t gotten any simpler by making that decision. As we prepare to head back to the U.S., we thought it was a good time to sit down and give you a little life update. This one’s a little longer than normal so grab a cup of coffee and enjoy.

Instagram 👉 http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Newsletter 👉 http://slowgrowth.com/newsletter

💯 You can also follow me here:
Personal Newsletter:  http://mattdavella.com
IG:  http://instagram.com/mattdavella
Twitter:  http://twitter.com/mattdavella
Podcast:  http://groundupshow.com
Course:  http://slowgrowth.com

❤️ Get more videos & support my work:
http://patreon.com/mattdavella

Thanks for watching!
**Keywords:** Our life is about to get complicated., life update q&a, life update, life update vlog, minimalist living, how we met, how to freelance, become a freelancer, productivity tips, minimalist life, matt d'avella, matt davella, minimalism, habits, self development, 
**Date:** 2021-08-19

## Transcript
 I became a minimalist because I wanted to have a simple life, and it's hard to not look at our lives right now as really complicated, and it's it's all your fault A lot has changed over the past eight months since leaving California to spend more time with our families in Australia and the U.S. And surprise, surprise, our life hasn't gotten any simpler by making that decision. As we prepare to head back to the U.S., we thought it was a good time to sit down and give a little bit of a life update. This one's a little longer than normal, so grab a cup of coffee and enjoy. So, let's get into some questions here. These questions are going to be covering everything from our personal life to business to babies. So, it's gonna be balls. You can say balls on my journey. Hey, you said you can believe it. Yeah, sure. I'll believe it. Alright, so a question number one, it starts out really deep. Are you happy? Yes. Are you? I know that there's some happiness of sliding scales. It is. I'm on the yes out of the scale. Okay, so that's good. Yeah. Am I the happiest I've ever made in my life? No. No. I'm not either. It's funny. We have at least one significant major mental breakdown every week. Oh, to know what? I saw someone out from Bray from Melbourne. Yeah. Prices going away. People call it a mentivate. Just a quick mentivate. Yes. It sounds adorable. I know. So now we're calling it a mentivate. Yeah, I think you're right. And that it's a sliding scale. And some days are better than others. I think right now we're in the middle of about a seven or eight week lockdown in Sydney. And so we're going through a lot of the same things we went through in 2020. Let's just say that. We're happy. We're happy. We're happy. What is happiness? Next question. Oh, is more talkative. I mean, you definitely. Well, look who talked first, just then. Yeah, look who's got the YouTube channel. Inside, we are equally talkative. Right. But I would say outside to new people, I'm more talkative. Yeah, I'm definitely more shy than you are. When we leave the apartment, you're the one that's like just having conversations with random people in the street. And I'm the one that's like just kind of like fighting behind your shoulder. Yeah. To get tick. Yeah. Yeah. It's avoiding all couple conflicts possible. I mean, look, if you're in a relationship when you have zero conflict, I would urge you to consider whether or not there is an unequal weight balance happening that. Like it's someone is taking lead all the time. Yeah. And that other person is doing nothing. Are you dating an inflatable doll? Good question. Because. That is a hundred percent. Because it's twenty twenty one. And hey. You've made it. I can't go there. You gotta be progressive. Yes. Let's just end it there. It's twenty one. I didn't finish it. I didn't finish it. I didn't finish it. I don't think I want to. I don't think we should go there. No, no. It's definitely not possible. And I think that we've learned conflicts are going to happen. We're going to have disagreements. It's going to continue to happen throughout our life. And it's more so like learning how do you get through them and how do you come to terms? How do you agree to disagree sometimes? And get through those arguments without necessarily agreeing all the time. I don't think there's anything wrong with conflict. Yeah. Where there might be problem is if you have problems with resolving that conflict. I think that's the real tell, tell, sign of like whether or not you're in a healthy or unhealthy relationship is how you're able to resolve, move forward, learn from it, allow each person to feel head and understood. Because you will absolutely have conflict. And it's fine. You're two different people and you're allowed to express your different opinions. And occasionally those will clash. I like the cooldown method. Not always a fan of the cooldown method. But I like taking a step away from the situation to let my ego simmer down. And then I can go back and apologize. But I feel abandoned when you do that. Because I want to talk things out. So then when Matt just shuts down and then goes from another room, then I'm kind of like, Oh, I feel disposed of. Yeah. And so that's something that we work through with how we work through our conflict. So I try to kind of... Man up. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I can't say it. What's your height? Just curious. Honestly, I swear to God, this question came up about 10 times. Let's just say short is... Yeah, we're about short. Yeah. Yeah. I think in a video, Jason's looks said that I was like 5. And there's something like that. That's what I am. Yeah. So you're 5. I'm like in between. If you round up. And I'm 5. 9. If you round up. I think I'm like barely like 5. But we do try to guess every now and then. Like what our kids will be like? And so we're like, will our kids have... Carely or straight head? It's like rolling the dice. Will our kids be smart or like an idiot? And it's like rolling the dice. But it's like, will our kids be short? And it's like, well, I mean... Yeah. Yeah. Because we're going to be short and lap. I didn't mean to call you an idiot. That's like it. Honestly, didn't even notice. I know. It's just so common. Conflict resolution. Okay. So this one is actually one that I can't read. Oh, is it pronounced data or data? I say data. I don't know what. I say data. It's been so long. You know, it only took like... I think it took like five months. Mm-hmm. Because my first job in New York happened to be working with data. So I'll say that word a lot. Yeah. I don't know if we've ever talked about this on the channel. But how do we meet? Um, three. One, two, tender. As all great 2014 love stories come about. For me, you were just one of many. Yeah. Well, that's actually true. Because Matt was hard core trying to find a friend. I was being a professional data at the time. I had literally... Like, I just talked about this in the last video. But like, I had that dating anxiety. And then once I overcame that, it was like... And like, I'm not talking... Like, I wasn't a player. I just went on a lot of first dates that were unsuccessful. And so I was trying to go on as many first dates as I could. Because it takes that first meeting to understand whether you're going to have a connection with that person or not. Because you couldn't... You can't really tell that much through chat and text. And I would find that there are some people that have great banter through text. But then when you meet them, you actually don't get along at all. And so I was like, let me just meet a bunch of people. And then I met that. And then that was the last Tinder date I ever went on. Yeah. Same for you, right? Um... Yeah, pretty much. Yeah. But we went to a VR... A brewery. And then a theater in the night. I was like, oh, I'm going to head back. And I was like, oh, you should see my place sometime. And Matt thought that was like, I should come over. Oh, he should come over. Yeah. So then he said to follow me down to some way. And then we'd both had a feed drink. So I turned around. And I was like, oh, oh. Because I wasn't expecting you to follow me. And I was like, oh, you want all of this. Like in the middle of the street. I was like, you want all of this. And he was like, yeah. Yeah. And so I thought that that was invitation. But it wasn't. It wasn't. It's been a blower to the ego. So like, following me. And then be like, oh, oh shit. I have never gone home with a girl on the first night. And so I was like, this is crazy. I was like, no, that feels right. That's what was supposed to happen. Okay. How's that business going? Go ahead. It's been busy, which is nice. But I mean, every, I try my best to balance the work that I'm accepting. As much as possible, because every, the reason I decided to go freelance to the first place was for balance. So I often find, I'm in a fortunate position where I get to exercise. The right to say no a lot, which has been really nice. But yeah, no, it's been really good. I'm finding so much fulfillment out of going freelance. And I'm really touched that someone wrote that question. That's really like thoughtful. Because I know I don't talk about it a lot. Yeah. And like, I think a lot of times, like, you're in the fun sketches and stuff. And we're being silly. Yeah. But like, when you put your like professional hat on, you're like different person. Yeah. But one, did I what? I've gotten one client from this channel. That's right. Yes. So there's one viewer out there who watched was like, I wish I said, it was weird enough to like, look, look, look, it kind of like, is he going to watch now? Oh, it was weird enough to look me off in LinkedIn, which I'm glad he did. Great chat. And be like, hey, I think we might actually have some work. Yeah. I was like, what? What is amazing is that like, you went from a place if you don't mind me saying, where, like, you took that leap. Yeah. And it was like, truly terrifying. Yeah. Like, you were going, you had years and years of experience in the industry. You had zero experience freelancing and going out on your own. Yeah. And it, two weeks, like, straight. I think you were just crying every day. Oh my god, I was crying every day. Yeah. I had, I mean, I remember sleepless nights. Like, couldn't go to sleep until 4 a.m. I don't, just, there was no other reason beside just being terrified at what I thought other people were going to think about me. Yeah. And it's terrified of failing and then being judged. That was, it was completely light. Yeah. Because, like, you were, like, entrenched in the industry and like, you, like, you had co-workers at the time and so then you're worrying about what people might say and I think about you and like, oh, just gone off the rails. Couldn't hack it, couldn't handle it. I think the distance, like, helps. Like, the further that you get away from that past job, the more that you, like, can't even, like, remember, like, why it was so hard to begin with. It was the best to, like, the best thing for me. It was so good. Yeah. Never ever look back. It's been amazing. And I want to be able to do it for wasn't for you. Oh, thanks, man. Sure. He's a lot. How do you start freelancing? So, what advice would you give somebody that is setting out to start freelancing for the first time? You should take this question because you gave me a lot of advice. That was very good. Okay. But I do want to know, kind of, like, from my perspective. Yeah, from your perspective. Because it's more recent because, like, I did this. Well, that's true because I went, you never went full time to freelance. Well, I went, you will always freelance. Yeah. I went slow and steady. I mean, I think a lot of the stuff that you just touched on is really important is, like, the mindset stuff is so important. Because I saw early on that there were a lot of people that were just as talented as me. More talented than me that weren't able to make it work. Because they didn't really line, they didn't understand that, like, you have to push through those periods of doubt and uncertainty. Those periods where, like, you may not get clients for three months, six months time. You may have to move back to live with your parents. Like, you certainly have to make sacrifices early on. But it's not all about just pure talent. It's about figuring out how do you run a, you know, business, how do you find new clients. There's so much more to it than just being really talented as, like, a filmmaking or a branch strategist. That's obviously a massive part of it. Just one of the elements that you need to develop. Yeah, I would say for me, the biggest thing is just, like, having one person in your corner that you can pester every day and ask them questions and they can be completely cool with it. Like, it doesn't need to be someone who is, like, super, successful, but it's just someone who, like, understands the path you're on either they've done themselves or they're in it in a similar, in a similar path to, you know, milestone that you're in. But having someone to soundboard off every time you, you know, the first time you get a client reach out. Like, what do I do? All the first time a client is, like, great, some of your, some of your, some of your contract and you're, like, what does that look like? Like, just having one person just to soundboard, like, you were that person for me and then your sister was that person for you. Your thoughts can kind of eat your live when you're starting your own business and you can kind of just, like, not know what the right path forward is and, like, ultimately, that steals away from the confidence that you need to be presenting every time you speak to any client. Can I make something clear? This is, uh, not on the point, half of that you're talking about, but, oh my god, this is a nightmare. Is it planning? Hmm. Hmm. Hmm. What's the name of the name? Trude. You got it. Oh, yeah. Trude. I'm, like, such a perfectionist, but before we started filming, I was, like, the, you want some coffee? I was, like, the name of the game is keep going because, like, so many times we do this. We're like, oh, I didn't like the way I answer that. Let's just go again. Uh, but with this, whether it was the lighting or it was, like, how we answered the question. Name of the game, just keep pushing through. It's true through there. So that was really great advice on freelancing. Hmm. When will there be something baking in the oven? You made me cook it? No. It's safe to say over the next two years. We're going to start trying to have little pittings and d-evales. A little pitting. And d-evales. No, little pitting. Um, but I think I want a dog for. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Dog would be nice. This is like a big debate that we've got going back and forth. Oh, we need your help. You guys need to comment below and say, what I'm going to say, who's on what team, but you need to tell us, should we get a big dog or a little dog? Because one of us wants a big dog and they have a person wants a little dog. And we cannot. Yeah. The only solution we've come up with is both. And I don't want to see any of those bullshit comments that they both. Because that doesn't help us. So just tell us, big dog, a little dog, thanks. Yeah. I became a minimalist because I wanted to have a simple life. And it's hard to not look at our lives right now as really complicated. Because we have family in both Sydney and the US. Hmm. And then when we have kids, what does that look like? How do we fly with babies and a dog? Like, it's dog. And it's all your fault. I don't know if we really knew what we were getting into. Oh, when we were 24 and we swapped right. Yes, exactly. Obviously, I think our whole model from the beginning was like, let's just take it one day at a time. And I think that's what we're doing right now. But at a certain point, you can't take it one day at a time. Because all of a sudden, you're like, let's have babies. And you're like, we're going to do this one day at a time. Yeah. Now it's forever. But you know what, to be honest, like, I think that we try to, like, use minimalism and simplicity to, to make our lives a little bit easier to take away a lot of the challenges that we might face. But like, complexity is a part of life. Question. Does your wife take your own productivity tips, LOL? LOL. Who wants that question? Daniel. Daniel already knows the answer to that question. Daniel knows what's up. Even being one productivity tip that I have taken. Well, we talk about this stuff, but it's not like, you're, like, taking notes and watching my videos. I think it's actually, do know what? I've taken away from the channel most. Mostly, it hasn't been a specific tip or a specific trick. It's been the overall mindset. I think that you and I talk a lot about the importance of rest, and balance, and not burning out, and that's so important to both of us. And I think it's the mindset that I've taken a lot away from. This is, like, one particular tip. Like, it's, like, understanding priorities and, like, yeah. What do you think? Intentionality. Intentionality and minimalism. I think you're, like, way more intentional. Just a hundred percent. One zero. What do you think is something that people don't often see from my life behind the scenes, making videos, like, running this channel for past four years? What do you think people don't see? Balls. We did promise ball talk. Full circle. Literally full circle. You actually have a really hard time with YouTube, you know? And I think, like, the, keeping up already, like, cadence, feeling like you're not burning out, finding the fine line between enjoying it. And it, making it feel like it's a chore. But, and that, you know, that's something we talk about a lot. But I also think you put that out on your YouTube as well. Like, you know, the, you know, viewers who turn up, you know, every week, every other week would know that as well. Oh, I don't know. Matt is really good at binging and gaming for several hours. Like, I'm really bad at, like, getting through an entire series, or, like, reading a book, or, like, just getting through anything, because I have, like, a restless mind. Well, it's, like, your commit. Like, you love the closure of finishing something. Like, this year's so far you've done all of it. All of it, all of the office. And then you start at the office again. Yeah, and I'm already on the season three. And I finished overcooked. I've smoked on switch. On switch, yeah. I'm certainly obsessive when it comes to completing things. But it's funny how I do that with my work. But then I also do that when I relax. I'm like, I'm going to show how to watch the office every single episode. Yeah. Okay. Any final words? Um, no, that was it. No more questions. No more questions. I know. Remember to comment below. Big dog, small dog, big dog. Big dog, small dog. Hey, you want to throw in a particular breed? Where all it is. Yeah, we are here for it. Thanks for watching. Have a great day. I'll see you soon. Bye. Bye. That's fun. Oh, again. It's bad. I think that. I know what to do. Look the other way. It's the other way. Better. It's the other way. Try again. Oh, that was, how? It's hard. It's hard. Yeah. Yeah. We keep going. Okay. Bye. If you say bye. Okay, you're going to go back to your place now. Yeah. I agree. I'll send you in. Yeah, send you check in the mail.
